Good morning. All set? Ready, Carla? Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the March 9th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 prince here fish here saltzman here here welcome everyone uh had to have you here this morning we have regular council business and uh a special thank you to someone who has served portland very well that will come in a little while um we have uh some items on the consent calendar that have been removed to the regular calendar um no i guess we don't sorry uh
 We have some items on the regular calendar that are being rescheduled. Do anyone have anything that they want to request to move from the consent calendar to the regular calendar?
 Okay, then that will stand as it is. We have some time-certain items this morning. We'll get to them hopefully pretty close to their times scheduled. If you're here to testify on a council calendar item, you just need to let our council clerk know, and she'll make sure that you're called. We typically allow three minutes for testimony, and it looks like we won't have so many people here this morning that we can't accommodate that.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, you need only give your name, not your address. And we ask that we always follow the rules of courtesy in this chamber for everyone involved. With that, let's take item 213, please. Request of Lightning Watchdog PDX to address council regarding points pertaining to freedom of speech. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX.
 One of the things I found interesting on the ruling pertaining to Joseph Walsh and Mayor Charlie Hales, basically pertaining to the Portland City Code 3.15.020B.56, which allows for a complete and indefinite ban of individuals from council meetings, that actually was considered unconstitutional, and that's what the ruling was really about.
 My position, again, is on freedom of speech, being able to speak in front of the commissioners, in front of the mayor, and not having my speech restricted. Now, when I basically filled out my form for the communication request, I wrote down, Lightning Watchdog PDX points to Federal Judge Simon pertaining to freedom of speech. Before it was put on the agenda, that was edited by the auditors.
 and they took out the name Federal Judge Simon. As you know, Federal Judge Simon was the one that made the ruling on Joseph Walsh's decision. Now, by their policy, they say that third-party names will not be published. Again, I was actually complimenting the federal judge pertaining to this ruling, pointing to freedom of speech. Again, they edited what I wanted to put on the agenda. Again, that's in violation of the First Amendment.
 Again, also the Constitution. You have no right to limit what I put down and what I say unless you look at that as being unsafe in any manner, which it is not. Again, your policy states that you're going to do that. I disagree again with your policy. I challenge your policy. Again, my position is that courts have concluded that a city council meeting is a limited public forum meeting.
 for the purposes of First Amendment analysis. Again, you're editing what I want to have in written form on the agenda. So again, your policies are in violation. Now, you may sit there and say, well, we don't have to allow you to communicate to us by voice. That's not in the Constitution. Now, I would have to challenge you on that, because if you do not allow us to speak to you and –
 You think you have a right to do that. Our only recourse would be to recall the mayor and have you removed out of office. Because freedom of speech is to bring our grievances forward and to be heard. And that creates the greatest change throughout this city. And if you try to censor us, we're going to challenge you in court. Thank you. Thank you very much. All right. Let's take 214. I request of Craig Rogers to address counsel regarding government transparency.
 Good morning. Good morning. Craig Rogers, 11010 Southeast Dam Hill Street, Portland, Oregon. I'd like to address transparent and accountable. I want to tell you that one of my favorite movies is The Wizard of Oz. One of the most telling parts of that movie is when Toto pulls the curtain back
 And you see the gentleman behind the curtain with all the buttons, whistles, and bells, and they say, pay no attention to that man behind the curtain. Actually, at the start of the street feast, somebody got up, walked out, and never came back. That gentleman might as well have had a curtain attached to him because it really made me wonder what's going on behind closed doors and underneath the table. So I started looking more, and I thought I got a lot to learn. And...
 When I started looking at some of the things recently that had occurred, let alone what I know in the past, for instance, the airport deal, the path to nowhere, and the way the real estate deals were done, and how it's not just a percentage but actually 100% in some of the things that times over the value of them and where the city lost the value in these real estate deals.
 And they're very complicated. They're kind of like a shell game. And I had somebody in the car with me over the weekend, and we sat there and talked about this. This gentleman...
 He's actually been a trustee for a $35 billion pension plan. We sat for two decades negotiating contracts between Teamsters and Coca-Cola. This gentleman really knows a lot. He spent 10 years in Ron Wine's office. We couldn't make heads or tails of why anybody would do this airport thing.
 plan with the post office. At its most basic, it's like you're walking into a car dealer and they want $20,000 for a car, and you say, here, I'll give you $40,000. So when I look at the front of the Tribune, and here's a woman in children's shelter, and they don't have the money to expand and to protect these people, it really makes me wonder how the city can do these deals where they're giving away millions, and they can't come up with the money to protect people
 the homeless, women and children. I'm a product of a broken family. We used to have to open up the oven and turn on the heat because the oil tank was empty. Sell my Lionel train set to pay the electric bill. I know what it's like. I lived it. And we need to make the public, the citizens, more of a priority and have money for these people, the needy, the public, rather than a small business.
 let's say, developers. We need to make more of the public and reach out to them. So I want to go over something here. Transparent... Greg, you're running out of time, so sum up, please. Transparent Webster's. Easy to notice or understand. Honest and open...
 Not secretive. Accountable. Required to explain actions or decisions to someone. Required to be responsible for something. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. I think 215. Please, sir. Request of Reverend Margaret Hepziband. You're being disruptive, Mr. Davis. If you do that again, you'll be asked to leave. Request of Reverend Margaret Hepziband to address counsel regarding justice. Margaret, are you here? Yes.
 Okay, let's take the next person in, please. 216, request of Sharon Nasset to address council regarding homelessness. Sharon? Okay, then let's move on to the... Sir, you're going to have to be quiet. Let us move on. This is what happened. Mr. Walsh, you're being disruptive. Unless you're quiet and let us proceed, you'll be excluded from the chamber, and that goes for you as well, sir.
 All right, I'm sorry. We're going to recess this meeting, and I'm going to ask the security folks to remove these two folks from the chamber. We'll be back in five minutes. Why are you removing me? I didn't do anything. You were disruptive. Disruptive? I'll tell you what's disruptive. You are fraud. That's disruptive. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. Arrest me. I'm doing awesome. See you next time.
 The new mayor. Hey, how about democracy, huh? There's just democracy here. So does someone else want to take my camera? You can go to jail or revert it. Right on. Hey, Steve, can you take my camera and film Joe? I don't feel like going to jail for a few hours. You don't want to go? No. You don't want to go either? No. I don't have a fucking family. We make our stand and stuff.
 It doesn't make it any better if we go to jail or anything. Why don't you throw me out? Get me a warning. They must like you better. Yeah. No one better than me. I think he dreams about me at night. I'm the new guy. I wish I could run for office. You guys have been excluded for 24 hours. The police are on their way to the police.
 Well, I'm just waiting for Joe. Wait for the vet. He's an old guy, and I'm walking out with my buddy. We're not resisting your orders or anything. Hey, how come you can't exclude us for 30 days anymore? Is there something about a permanent injunction?
 Can you hear me now? I think it's because of this old dude right here. What about a permanent injunction against you? He got some rules changed and tried to restore the Constitution. Oh, yeah. Oh, God. Bill Walsh, the victorious man and the local hero. Read him in speech. Hold him. Oh, yeah. This man is a legend. He is. That's true.
 Are you going to have to get your mug in somewhere else today? No, I got my book. Here's the mirror. Okay, we're ready to get back to work. Well, we can probably start without a quorum because we've got this as a report and Commissioner Novick is here. We have three to be on.
 I didn't see him but he might be well this one's this is only gonna take ten minutes so we can this 945 so we should go ahead and do it all right council will turn to order please and let's take item 217
 accept and appropriate a grant from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management pre-disaster mitigation grant in the amount of $526,257 for the City of Portland Residential Seismic Strengthening Project. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, citizens, this is an exciting day. We all know how hard Carbon and your team work to make the city resilient, to use Commissioner Fish's favorite word, expanding our net teams and working on ways to address the risk posed by unreinforced masonry buildings. Engaging the oil companies to talk about how we can make sure that our critical energy infrastructure doesn't collapse. Thank you.
 And we also, of course, have done outreach to citizens to ask that to tell them what they can do to be ready. And one thing we say again and again is that they should be, in the words of the talking heads, bolting down the house. There are up to 100,000 homes in Portland that were built before there was a requirement to bolt the homes to their foundations.
 A few years ago, with the help of Congressman Blumenauer, we grabbed a leftover piece of an old FEMA grant to help a couple of dozen people retrofit their homes. And we've worked with Clean Energy Works now and Habit to provide long-term low-interest loans to pay for the portion of retrofit. They actually now do that for everybody, whether it's in the context of some grant agreement with FEMA or not.
 So this year, we asked FEMA for a standalone half a million dollar grant to pay for half the cost of retrofitting 150 homes. Now, FEMA spends billions of dollars a year, as you know, responding to emergencies.
 Last year, they only allocated $30 million to pre-disaster mitigation projects. And most of that is allocated in some way and is not available for competitive project applications like this.
 So only about $11 million was available for competitive applications. So half a million dollars is actually a significant percentage of the total amount that FEMA had available for this kind of project, which means that we were pretty darn competitive. This next year, Congress has seen fit to authorize $90 million for pre-disaster mitigation, and we hope that that's a directory that will continue. In the years to come, there will be billions allocated.
 And we're glad that we've got, you know, we hope that we were establishing an ongoing claim to that money for this kind of work. So I'm just pleased as punch about this. Went to a house yesterday where...
 on Madison Street Southeast, where the homeowner was saying that she signed up to be one of the applicants for the grant because she read the New Yorker article and said, gosh darn it, we've got to do something. We actually had thousands of people sign up to apply. We could only accommodate 150, but that means that there's thousands of people who were able to get information about what they can do to retrofit their homes, which for most people only cost between three and eight thousand dollars.
 So now I'll shut up and turn it over to Carmen and to Tim Miller, the CEO of Inhabit. Thank you, Commissioner. Mayor Carmen Merlo, Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. Before I start, I do have two non-material amendments I'd like to introduce. The first is under Section D. We're literally just rounding the dollar amount up to $526,257. Okay.
 The second amendment is part of the fiscal impact statement. We're correcting the first fund number and just adding two additional commitment items. So these are both non-material amendments, and I want to introduce that before we start.
 I'm so proud of this grant for a couple of reasons. As Commissioner Novick said, FEMA doesn't allocate very much money towards pre-disaster mitigation. We were the only funded project in FEMA Region 10, and we're one of only three seismic mitigation projects in the entire country. So we're really proud about this grant.
 One of our goals after an earthquake is to keep people in their homes, and that's because Hurricane Katrina taught us that when people are displaced from their homes, their neighborhoods, their city, the chances of them coming back are very small, and that slows down the city's economic and social recovery. So we're so proud about this grant and our partnership with Inhabit.
 When we announced the earlier press release to apply for the grant, it was coincidentally the same exact day that the story in the little-known magazine, The New Yorker, came out, and we received an overwhelming request for people who wanted to sign up. And so to tell you more about that project, I want to turn it over to Tim Miller from Inhabit. Thank you, Carmen. Mayor, commissioners, thanks very much for the opportunity to speak with you this morning about this really important resilience work.
 and the celebration of landing a grant from FEMA. Just a very quick background, since I know most of you are quite familiar with Inhabit, formerly Clean Energy Works. We were started in 2009 and 2010 right here in this building and started off as Clean Energy Works Portland, and now we are Inhabit. And we've been collaborating with the city ever since.
 And we, as you know, got a federal grant and then follow on state support to expand our work. And so we've built this infrastructure of a really expert team of folks who know how to work with homes and homeowners. And we have systems and things to help manage these projects and make it go smoothly for those homeowners. So while we're doing this resilience work and energy efficiency work, we're also creating great jobs. We have equity requirements in the jobs that we create. And we're more and more addressing homeowners who might not otherwise afford this work.
 So that's our work, and we've done about 5,000 homes in Oregon and 3,200 homes right here in Portland with our energy efficiency and other upgrades. And while we've been doing that, we've created over $74 million of great job-creating economic activity. So I'm really excited. I've joined Commissioner Novick and Carmen in celebrating today because this is the result of three years of work. I checked back in my e-mail records, and that's when the e-mails began on this whole effort.
 And we saw this vision that this energy work could be coupled with seismic work. Once you're in the home and sometimes opening up walls, it makes a lot of sense to, as the Commissioner said, bolt down the house. And there was fortunately a prescriptive path already adopted by the city, adopted by BDS with FEMA guidance, for very efficient, effective ways to address most homes without doing a whole lot of engineering work. So the prescriptive path was a key ingredient.
 We saw the big opportunity to combine this work together. We did a cost-benefit analysis in partnership with the state and with Carmen's team to look at what kinds of upgrades would be clear cost-benefit for the homeowners and have a good return on the investment in these homes. Thank you.
 And so we built a program. We engaged contractors. We recruited a whole bunch of homeowners who wanted to do this work. And we did those first 23 homes, which you see here on this map. These are the first 23 homes or a couple dozen homes that the commissioner referenced. Thank you.
 With that success and a very successful collaboration and a good report to FEMA, we saw the chance to expand this, and so we put in for this next grant, as you heard, overwhelming response from Portlanders interested in doing this work. Thousands of people, frankly, signed up. So a huge increase in this awareness of the importance of this risk in the past year.
 So we're really excited to do this next wave. Monday we were at this home, as the Commissioner mentioned, and met the family there and their interest in doing this work. By the way, in between this time, we've also done another 40 homes of people who didn't need any grant funding. People are going forward with this work without any support. You see the additional dots on the map here of the next wave of homes that did it without grant help.
 And so we met this family here that you see, and they're five kids, and it's a beautiful older home, typical southeast Portland home. It needed this upgrade. And each of these homes that has this work done is really an island of resilience if we have an incident, which is expected in the next couple decades, two decades. These homes are also exemplified.
 examples of resilience for their neighbors, showing how this work can be done, how it's not that expensive, how it's fairly simple to do this upgrade and have one's home protected for the future. Our homes are often our biggest asset, and if we can protect those with a small investment to keep the home inhabitable or repairable in the event of a big earthquake, it makes a huge difference and actually comes down to sometimes the difference between being displaced or being able to stay in Portland.
 So this is great work. From an equity perspective, half of the homeowners who are half of the homes that will be addressed in this grant are below the median value of homes in Portland. So we're making sure to keep equity considerations in this work. So with that, we have six contractors doing this work, and we're creating opportunities for those workers as well. Now, one other comment on this next wave of 150 homes, thanks to the FEMA grant.
 these homeowners will receive 50% incentives to do this work. It's a good example of how public investment can be paired with private capital and the financing that we help arrange for these homeowners to do this work and mobilize this activity. But we know that we can get a whole lot more homes done even with lower incentives. We don't need a full 50% incentive, at least not for some folks. For folks who wouldn't otherwise afford it, certainly those incentives are key. But with the huge...
 from Portlanders in doing this work. We know we can get more work done and don't need a full 50% incentive. So we think there are opportunities here to make every public dollar go further in the future. The possibility of an additional investment from the city of Portland for another $500,000 would really multiply this impact from the federal grant, build on this infrastructure we've created, build on this process we've created, and get more homes done and more work done.
 There are 100,000 homes in Portland that need this kind of work. There are older homes that are not attached to their foundation. And there's huge potential and leverage in doubling down on this FEMA grant if you so choose. But with your approval to accept this FEMA grant, we look forward to working with the homeowners and the contractors and with Carmen and her team to go do this good work. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Any questions? Yes, I do.
 First, thank you very much, Director Merlot, for briefing me on this. And obviously, it's a great program. I'm a little concerned. I didn't see the map before. And there are only 13 homes east of 205 that are on the list. So I'm wondering about the equating of lower than median home value with actual low-income families and communities of color. And how will you check on your equity analysis of who's benefiting? Thank you.
 I'll take the question first and I'll pass it over to Tim. I think there's two reasons to account for that. One, keep in mind that many homes east of Act 205 are actually newer homes and don't need this work.
 We also wanted to make sure that in order for the home to qualify, it has to be an eligible home that's capable of meeting the prescriptive requirements that are put out by the Bureau of Development Services. So if the house doesn't have a continuous foundation, if it's on a steep slope, if it's in a floodplain, it wouldn't qualify. But I think truly the answer for why there's so few homes on east of 205 is because they're quite frankly, they are newer homes and don't need the retrofitting.
 And I've loaded up here the next map which shows the dots for the next 150 homes, so you can see that footprint a little more clearly. You see beginnings of some homes east of 205, but with Carmen's points taken. MS. So are you going to be tracking the demographics, both the income and ethnicity and back racial makeup of the folks who get the benefit of this? MS. We didn't have the luxury of being able to track demographics.
 When we submitted the application, we had to have the homes pre-identified, and we did that through the 4,000-plus waiting list that we had after we did the press release. All we were able to get at that time was the address of the home and then look at tax records. That is all we had the opportunity to do before we had to submit the application. Right, and we're hoping this is going to snowball and continue to keep going. So it would be possible once folks –
 show up to do the work for them to at least track who's inhabiting the house. Yes. And to ask. People don't have to give, but to ask about income so that you could give a report to council on who benefited from this so that we know moving forward how to refine the program to make sure that more people who are truly in need.
 Not that these people aren't at these homes. Obviously, everyone needs to be done, so it's going to be a good start. I think, though, given the limited funding, I know that you share the council's commitment to making sure that we correct some of the mistakes of the past. Yes, absolutely. We can ask those questions. Herman, I have a question. Oh, sorry.
 Commissioner, I just wanted to say that the ability of PBEM to do outreach to various communities or to anybody actually is limited by the fact that we're a 15-person bureau with only one person that does outreach of any kind. And maybe in the future we can take advantage of other bureaus' ability to do outreach and identify people in various communities who could benefit from similar work.
 I'd be happy to partner with that. Obviously, Environmental Services is a much bigger bureau, but they do contract with some of the district coalitions, and we need to continue to expand working with the diversity leadership partners to facilitate that, and I'd certainly be happy to help with that. Thank you. Carmen, first of all, superb presentation, but it's got me thinking. So when we think about a healthy and safe home,
 and where we touch potentially a homeowner or a renter. There's a whole array of things we care about. So I'm thinking just out loud, Commissioner Saltzman sends firefighters to knock on people's doors to make sure their smoke detector is working. And in the course of that conversation, they may identify other fire hazards like newspapers next to the fireplace or electrical outlets that are overburdened or whatever. So that's one thing.
 We know that there are some homes built between 1970 and 1985 that are – there is some risk that lead was used in the soldering. And there's some – there's a narrow window of homes, but we know that's a risk, and we communicate with them and tell them, you know, you should have your water checked. There's radon. There's this very outstanding effort to make sure the home is stable in the event of a seismic event.
 I wonder at some point if we could kind of create a laundry list of the things we care about, because with a great partner like you, I would like to see how much of this we can leverage off of one visit. And one of the challenges we often have, particularly as you're talking about an older property owner or renter, the challenge you have is the trust factor of getting in the door, which is why Commissioner Saltzman is bullish on having a firefighter make that contact.
 because a firefighter can often build a trusting relationship and get into someone's house, be invited in. So what I would urge us to do is maybe think holistically about whatever, the ten things that the county and the city care about, particularly with struggling homeowners, and how might we leverage the relationship. Because as long as we've got someone getting in the house doing one thing,
 You know, your folks are eminently qualified to expand the scope of what they do. And there may actually be a huge benefit to the city of that marginal dollar that we put in and the checklist of things that we do.
 we check for because we want to make sure they're safe today and in the event in the future there's an event so That's a good suggestion and and you know, we're contemplating bringing forward to council this idea of requiring disclosure of seismic and Energy performance for houses as we now do for commercial buildings. And so if we do that, we ought to do that You know holistically as well What are the really important things that need to be disclosed to a potential purchaser of building in this case a house? and
 seismic is obviously one of them. Energy is obviously another. How far down that road do we go? It's worth having the conversation. And if you've already got a relationship with Inhabit, I'm just thinking out loud, you know, maybe the Water Bureau figures that there's a, for a reasonable additional incremental cost, we could do outreach about, have you had your water tested? Have you thought about these various options? Yeah, it's worth looking into. Great suggestion. Thank you.
 So we'll see if anyone else wants to speak on this item. But Commissioner Novick moves the housekeeping amendments that Carmen has provided to us. Any further discussion about the amendments? Actually, there's an additional housekeeping amendment that we need. And one more time, we have to thank the eagle eye of Commissioner Fritz. We have a leftover emergency clause, I think, from the previous item. The Council of the Parents and Emergency exists because the close date for this grant
 application is August 28th. I think that we should revise that to an emergency exists because, Carmen, can you, I'm sleepy, can you help me by suggesting some emergency language? Well, the sooner that we can get this grant approved, the sooner we can start reaching out to the homeowners and start scheduling the contract work. That sounds like a fine rationale. We have three friendly amendments in effect. Friendly amendments to improve the ordinance. Okay, thank you both very much. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item?
 So let's act on the amendments first. Roll call vote, please, on those. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And on the ordinance as amended. Fritz.
 Well, thank you to Director Merlot, to our valued community partner, and especially to Commissioner Novick, who is the most enthusiastic person on this particular issue that I have come across in a long time. I'm happy to report that my house, built in 1991, is bolted to its foundation. I recently discovered that at the urging of Director Merlot.
 And now others will be able to look and see whether their homes need retrofitting. I do believe, as I mentioned, that we need to be very mindful of who is benefiting from these scarce resources. And I know that Director Merlo and her staff and Commissioner Novick share that concern as does Inhabit. So it's a great thing. And thank you for putting it on the time-certain agenda to bring attention to it. Thank you.
 Thanks for the presentation. We really appreciate the partnership. I remember when we launched that relationship six or seven years ago, and it's been a fantastic relationship. Thank you. Perhaps there's a way to expand it, as we've discussed. I just want to say, Mayor, the other day I had a chance to attend a Disaster Policy Council meeting, and I'm ready to award Carmen the best in class in terms of managing a meeting in city government. Thank you.
 boy does she run a meeting efficiently and effectively so thank you for your service aye saltsman well congratulations on uh getting this fema grant it sounds like it was really uh hard fought after and we're lucky to have received so much and uh appreciate the partnership with inhabit to help make more seismically retrofitted homes hi novick
 In addition to thanking Carmen and her team and Tim, I'd like to once again thank Jay Hutchins and Carol Studenman, who drew this issue of unbolted houses to my attention in late 2011 or maybe it was early 2012. Thank the folks at FEMA Region 10 that fought for this item for us at the national level.
 And, again, thanks to Catherine Schultz of The New Yorker for writing an article that happened to break the day we asked people to put in their names and houses for this application so that we had 5,000 applicants. Hi. Nails.
 Well, $526,257 is a lot of money, but it's just a start at the cost of this really big job. And so I know that may seem a little daunting, maybe not to you two, but to some of us. But you think back on issues like
 recycling and energy conservation, some small efforts at the beginning did create momentum, and then people took off on their own, as you described. So I think this is going to be catalytic of that kind of progress, and I really appreciate the fact that we're getting this good start. So thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you. Well done. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to the next item, please. Would you want to do the consent agenda real quick?
 I'm sorry? Get rid of the consent agenda? Okay, yes. Let's do the consent agenda. Sorry. Yes, I don't think there are any with some removals from the consent calendar, so consent agenda as printed. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, now we can do the next item. Item 218, recognize the exceptional diplomatic service of Japan Consul General Hiroshi Furosawa to Portland and our region.
 Well, I want to welcome, please, Consul General Furusawa, come forward and have a seat with us here this morning. And I'll read this proclamation and we'll talk about you a little bit and give you a chance to rebut a little bit. Thank you.
 It's an honor to have our Consul General here this morning, Hiroshi Furosawa. He has served us as Consul General in Portland now for almost three years, from May of 2013 to this month, which is longer than the usual two-year term in the diplomatic service. And he has, in that time, really built exceptional ties between Japan and Oregon and with Portland.
 We want to thank you for your service. We want to do something that we haven't actually done in 12 years. So I will read a proclamation that has a little special element, something that the city of Portland has not done in a while.
 It says this. It says, whereas Consul General of Japan Hiroshi Furusawa has demonstrated years of excellent diplomatic service in Portland, working to strengthen the bonds between Portland and Japan since assuming his post in 2013 at the Consular Office of Japan in Portland, and whereas Consul General Furusawa has been instrumental in fostering strong relationships and has worked tirelessly to increase cultural, educational, and economic development opportunities of mutual benefit for Japan and Portland,
 And whereas Consul General Furusawa has honored Portland by presenting the Japan Foreign Minister's commendation to Mr. Adolph Hertrick of Vanport Manufacturing in 2013, Kay Endo, a veteran of Portland Japanese American Community in 2013, Stephen Bloom of the Portland Japanese Garden in 2015, and the U.S. Wheat Associates for their long service in supplying high-quality wheat to Japan in 2015,
 Whereas, Consul General Furusawa has been a strong advocate for the Portland Japanese Garden Cultural Crossing Project and has contributed greatly to the success of the Portland Japanese Garden 50th Anniversary and the Portland Art Museum Legendary Samurai Exhibit. Whereas, the Consul General has been a champion of the Japanese Immersion Program in Portland Public Schools, has been an important ally to the Center for Japanese Studies at Portland State University, and encouraged the creation of an endowment fund for the Center.
 And whereas Consul General Furusawa recognized the Portland-Saporo Sister City Association with the Consul General's commendation in 2015 in recognition of Portland's oldest sister city relationship and its initiatives that sustained strong ties between Portland and Sapporo, Japan. And whereas the city of Portland was honored by the visit of the Japanese ambassador to the United States, who at the invitation of the Consul General attended the Garden Anniversary Celebration and the Samurai Exhibit Opening.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim Consul General Hiroshi Furusawa an Honorary Citizen of Portland and extend our deepest gratitude to you for your service here. Thank you so much. Honorary Citizen Furusawa, we welcome any comments you have about your service in Portland and your reflections on this city that loves you very much. We love having you here and we'll miss you.
 Well, thank you so much. I'm so honored to be recognized as a
 such a distinguished award. I don't have any word of rebutting here. One thing, this city is very special, a very special place for me. As you know, I have served New York, San Francisco, Washington, D.C., Los Angeles, besides this city.
 I don't mean to say negative words about the other cities, but this city, the people of Portland, gave me a really...
 special, very special assistant to me, for me to work very positively, and the other things you mentioned became very easily possible, and I thoroughly enjoyed working
 the work and living here in the city. Thanks so much. Thank you. I don't know how to say hard act to follow in Japanese, but that's what you are.
 Anyone can do it. Well, we want to take a photo with you, and you have a whole bunch of friends here in the council chambers today. We'd like to invite them to join you. We have representatives of the Japan-America Society of Oregon, the Portland Japanese Garden, Shukukai, which is the Japanese Business Association of Portland, the Sporo Sister City Association, and the Portland Art Museum, among others. So we'd like to invite all your friends to come forward with you and take a picture, please. Thank you.
 I'm nervous to say. Please. I'll take one photo, one of you, et cetera. Please, come join us. John? Joe, John? Good morning, everyone. We're going to support you. We're going to support you. And we're going to get to the middle department. Get very friendly with each other. Much closer. Right, Izzy? Well, you can come back to the opening .. We're going to get to the . Thanks. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Thanks everyone for being here. John, thank you. John, that's great. Thank you. Great. Thank you for coming. We'll see some of you tomorrow, I hope. All right. We'll move on to the rest of our agenda. And we are at regular agenda item 226. All right.
 Allow city subsidized affordable housing projects to utilize a type 2X land use review procedure pursuant to PCC 33.730.025 for the duration of the housing emergency. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. This resolution, oh, could you read the ordinance too, Carla? Go ahead and read 227 too also. 227.
 Direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to develop a legislative proposal to amend Title 33 as part of Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package, RICAP No. 8, to simplify regulations, remove regulatory obstacles, and expedite processes for land use reviews and permits for affordable housing projects, mass shelters, and short-term housing.
 Thank you. Thanks, Carla. This resolution and ordinance will further the City Council's commitment to addressing our affordable housing emergency. It also represents one of the many collaborative outcomes between the Housing Bureau and the Bureau of Development Services to expand our city's stock of affordable housing. And I'd like to thank Mayor Hills for his support of these efforts and his sponsorship of these items. And the resolution directs the Planning Bureau to conduct a legislative process
 to identify other opportunities to increase affordable housing through the land use process and the ordinance establishes a new type of review process for affordable housing projects only and here to explain more is our housing director kurt krieger and development services director paul scarlett and rebecca esau is here always to keep us honest
 keep us on tack so uh please take it away thank you very much commissioner salzman mr mayor members of council my name is kirk krieger and i'd like to at least uh remind you that on september 15th the council had a study session on
 what we termed at that time the high cost of affordable housing. We invited five expert witnesses to join me in that panel conversation. Michael Parkhurst from the Meyer Memorial Trust, Jessica Woodruff, REACH Community Development Corporation's Development Director, Jill Sherman, a partner with Gertie Nettle in Development, David Carboneau, a private developer and principal in Home First Development, and Mike Steffen, the general manager of Walsh Construction. We're all here.
 And just to refresh your memory and for the record, we evaluated all the current data as it related to housing prices of affordable housing. And we were able to isolate the cost drivers of affordable housing. Some 77% of the costs were hard costs. That is land, building, and labor principally. 14% of the costs of affordable housing were
 was in what we call soft costs. That's architecture and engineering fees, its interest, its taxes, legal expenses, and the like. And 9% are what we termed at that time social benefit costs. And social benefit costs is a basket of goods that are inflexible.
 in fact, applied by local government or state government to achieve social aims as a part of the development. Those include design review. And that conversation that we had on September 15th was an open, frank conversation about ways in which we could improve and bend the cost curve by specifically looking at the social benefit costs. Those are within your purview as policymakers.
 Design review was identified as a potential area for three principal concerns. One was that there was no time certain
 by which a project ever exits design review. There are design guidelines, and BDS will describe those to you. But projects were going into design review. Recommended changes were made. They would come back. The applicants would come back with having made those recommended changes. And more recommended changes were then made. So there seemed to be sort of an interminable feedback loop that was created in that process, which was interesting.
 created uncertainty, and added costs. The second, speaking of costs, is that while the design standards that are created by planning and sustainability are embedded in policy, there is no cost consideration. The design commission is not involved.
 tasked with that job. And so there is a debate about the type of materials without an offsetting conversation about what those materials actually cost. And I'd be happy to talk specifically about some examples about costs that were added as a part of design review. The third issue that seemed to be an issue was one of standing, and that is that these projects all are in a physical location. They have neighborhood interests.
 But the record is open for anyone to come comment as a design critic, and many do, that are not necessarily vested in the specific outcomes of a specific project. They may not be property owners, they may not be neighbors even of the locality, but they're given equal standing, which creates a lot of uncertainty for applicants.
 So during the discussion that we had last fall, Caritas, which is the nonprofit associated with the Arts Diocese of Portland, had a project at St. Francis Parish. It's called St. Francis Park. They are co-developing that with Home Forward. And the project underwent design review. The exterior cladding of the building was changed as a result of design review, and the project cost $400,000 more as a result.
 It did get processed within the proscribed time, so it wasn't delayed unnecessarily, but the costs are real. And it's important that you realize that this is a project that's funded by the Portland Housing Bureau, so those cost overages are essentially paid for by public funds.
 We are respectful of the design commissioners and their cohorts. The landmark commissioners are citizens. They're giving of their time freely. They're very thoughtful, and they're very deliberative. So it's not to diminish sort of the value added, but to –
 to put it in perspective, to recognize that we do have a housing emergency and that the changes recommended to you today are, in effect, a way by which to beta test in a short term between now and this fall, process improvements that could result in more affordable housing more quickly. I can go into more detail, but I'd like Paul to talk a little bit about the specifics. Thank you, Kurt. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Paul Scarlett, Director for Bureau of Development Services.
 I'll just share a couple of summary remarks and I'll turn it over to Rebecca to go into more details about the difference between what's proposed, the Type 2X, and existing requirement Type 3. First, we are very supportive of the efforts that the city is involved in in addressing the housing emergency and working very closely and collaboratively with the Portland Housing Bureau and staff to address that.
 address and come up with processes and efficiencies to allow for these projects to be built and completed. One of the proposals that is in front of you is one that was identified as a way to speed up the process, to reduce delay, and also to reduce cost. The Type 2X is one that would allow for staff administrative work,
 process decision versus going to a public hearing. And so that in itself would save time and money. As Kurt said, we are appreciative of the members of the Historic Landmarks and the Design Commission. This is in no way reflective of the work they're doing or not doing. It's in
 response to an emergency and how can we get housing that our cities subsidize located in central city and the gateway through the development review and land use review process quicker. And so through conversation and deliberation, this is a
 a tool that's been identified, we feel it will be beneficial in a lot of ways. It will run the course of the declaration through August, or excuse me, October. And we are looking and will be partnering with the Bureau of Plant and Sustainability on how this could be maybe a more permanent process. That's through the resolution, which they kind of work in conjunction with each other.
 Just an example for fees differences, in the Type 3, which these fees are based on project valuation. And so if you're building an apartment building
 cost of the project stipulates the type or the amount of review fee. So type 3 ranges from about $9,000 to $31,000. That includes BDS fees, the infrastructure bureau fees to review these projects. Type 2X
 would reduce that amount down to $5,000 to $9,000 on the high end. That's a savings of about $4,000 to $22,000. That's huge. And, of course, the timelines varies as well. So just to give you a little bit of context of some of the differences, Rebecca, our land use division manager, is, of course, more astute with all the technicalities of the differences in the land use review processes and things.
 and so forth, so I'll turn it over to her. Thank you. I would like to emphasize that in no way are we lowering the standards or the bar of what we expect as far as design and design quality. The regulations are staying the same as far as the approval criteria and the design guidelines that apply. It's only the procedure that we're using to review those projects that is proposed to be changed from a Type 3 to a 2X. And the basic differences between those review procedures, a Type 3 requires a mandatory hearing procedure,
 the hearing is required to take place within 51 days of a complete application. For a Type 2X, there is no hearing. It's a staff-level decision, and the decision needs to be made within 42 days of a complete application. It only goes to a hearing if it's appealed, and that would be to the Design Commission or the Landmarks Commission. If a Type 3 is appealed, it goes to City Council.
 And the way this ordinance is drafted is it's an option for an applicant. They can still choose to use the Type 3 design review process if they want to, which preserves their right to then have an appeal that goes to city council if they want to get to you.
 but they have the option to use the 2X instead and get through the process more quickly. Where does the 2X get appealed to? If it's a design review, it'll be appealed to the Design Commission, and if it's a historic resource review, to the Historic Landmarks Commission. And if those hearings bodies, then if their decision is appealed, it goes to LUVA. It never comes to City Council. So there is still the potential for a...
 a hearing before a public body in the City of Portland with the 2X. Perhaps to animate the conversation a little bit, this requires projects to be publicly funded through the Portland Housing Bureau. So it's a narrow window of opportunity. We looked at our pipeline as to projects that we've underwritten who are currently in design development and who are at the stage of development which this would provide them with an option.
 And neither have decided whether or not to take the 2X, but I think it's important that you know who they are and what they are. The 14th and Raleigh property that is owned by the Portland Housing Bureau is being assigned to Innovative Housing, Inc., is the master developer. They've developed a plan for 93 units in a 12-story building.
 Of those, 44 units, or 47 percent, are for people between zero to 30 percent of median income. So it's extremely low income. The design architect is Alex Salazar, and the architect of record is LRS Architecture. They currently have had design advice consultations with staff. They have not yet gone through the formal process. Okay.
 The second option, which is also viable in the current timeframe, is River Place Parcel 3, which is also owned by the Portland Housing Bureau. We've assigned the development rights of that project to a team of Bridge Housing and Williams & Dame Development. It is a mixed-income property.
 of 203 affordable units and 162 market-rate units with approximately 31,000 square foot of retail in the South Waterfront area.
 Of those, 90 units are 44% or for people between zero and 30% of median income. So both have an extreme amount of public value. They're both in strategic locations, ones in the Pearl, ones in the South Waterfront. And I must say that both developers have already engendered conversations with the immediate affected neighborhoods about project design. So, which.
 Whichever process they select, this will not be news to any of the neighborhood residents because they've already had multiple meetings on this. And the design guidelines in the central city and gateway remains, and these projects are required to meet those guidelines. So that doesn't change.
 And one more piece of the ordinance, the Type 2X, as part of this ordinance would require that the applicant apply for a design advice request. This is a form of early assistance to ensure that the applicant, before they spend a lot of time working on their design, they can bring their conceptual design to the Design Commission or the Historic Landmarks Commission to get feedback on the conceptual design, as well as get information from the infrastructure bureaus about what requirements apply, similar to a pre-application conference.
 So there's no surprises later on that could cost a lot of money and time. I have a few questions. Questions? Go ahead, please. Has this concept been floated by the DRAC or landmarks or planning sustainability?
 Or design commission. Or design commission. Are any of our advisory bodies that normally weigh in on this, have they been asked to comment? Yes, and we have letters from both the design commission and the historic landmarks commission that was just handed right before I came up, so I haven't had a chance to read that. But I've heard that they do have some concerns about this. And I'm not sure if you're taking testimony today, but they are here.
 And I met with some design commissioners and landmark commissioner yesterday, too, about this. All right. So has there been a formal presentation at DRAC, at landmarks, or at the design commission about this proposal? No.
 They both reviewed the proposed ordinances and they both commented on them. Housing Bureau did not make a formal presentation, but they seem to be fully conversant about the effect of the policies. We'd be happy to respond to questions perhaps after their testimony. I haven't received any feedback from any of the oversight bodies, but I guess we now have a letter and we'll have some testimony, so we'll get a chance to hear that.
 Mr. Director, would you remind me again, what's the trigger for which kinds of projects, development, excuse me, is eligible for this program?
 for this expedited process? Well, there are a couple of threshold requirements. They must be directly subsidized by the Portland Housing Bureau. That means they must have received a financial commitment from the Bureau. In both of the instances I gave you, we have done so. It happens that we also own both of the underlying sites, so we're even more deeply embedded in those projects.
 It would not apply, for instance, to a project indirectly assisted by the city through a tax exemption. Well, you beat me to it. So that's important. So if it's a project that qualifies for a multi-tax abatement or something, that would not be eligible? Not under this current iteration, although the second of these two companions requests planning and sustainability to come back with a permanent ordinance, they could choose to examine the indirect exemption.
 assistance provided. I think they're qualitatively different. I would at least need to know more. I'd have to have a deeper conversation. So in your presentation, you've been very clear that there's no dilution of design standards. And I want to pick up on that for a second because one of the noteworthy things about city-owned or city-invested affordable housing is
 is that it is typically not what communities rail against. That is, when you hear from folks in East Portland about crappy housing that is not designed in a way that's sensitive or respectful of the community, it is often the private market housing that's been slapped up and that looks like if a good windstorm comes, it'll be knocked down.
 Some of the most durable long-term and beautiful housing is the housing that the city has partnered with a nonprofit developer to build, and I can give you a thousand examples. So can you ensure us – and by the way, I think that when we're using public dollars to invest in affordable housing, we should approach that just like we're building a public library or a transportation hub or anything else. I think we should take great pride.
 in creating a space that's functional and also that is a community amenity. And even if you disagree with that on aesthetic grounds, I will tell you that the community buy-in and the community acceptance goes through the roof when it's something that people are proud of. And if you don't even accept that, I will tell you that better design, better built buildings last longer. So from a taxpayer point of view, we can say that there's a return. And the problem with not getting it right at the front end is there's no going back.
 And there's a certain building at the bridgehead that reminds me of that every day I go to work. We can't demolish that building, but it's an eyesore, and it's not what was intended. So can you ensure us during this pilot project that there will be no dilution of the kinds of existing and sensible design standards which help us produce functional as well as attractive buildings?
 I think we both probably need to respond. You just need to say yes. I definitely want to affirm your statement that affordable housing is not inferior housing. We don't need to cut corners with respect to the durability of materials or amenities. What we build today will last 100 years, and we need to be thinking in that regard. What I do want to underscore is that
 In addition to having direct financing, the projects must be five or more units. We selected that five unit threshold because that is the HUD standard for multifamily housing. Four or fewer units is regarded as single family in the HUD lexicon, five or more as multifamily.
 and the incomes must be below 60% of median income. So this at least differentiates between projects that might be more than 60, although the two examples that I gave you are well under that. I think what you said is important because we're talking about the public purpose, but I'm still focused on making sure that we –
 while we potentially cut red tape and create certainty, we're not degrading the kind of quality standards that people expect when a development comes to their community. And I'll let Paul and Rebecca follow up. Sure. That's a good question and concern. BDS is focused on reviewing projects that are developing
 for sure, meeting the development standards, the design guideline, we would be looking at affordable housing similar as we would in private development and making sure those requirements are being met. That's the passion and the professional approach from all staff working in the design and historic sections. So that's something we can commit to because that's what we do.
 I believe you can be assured that that's what we would be doing in this case. You said there were potentially three answers. Are we all in accord on that? As I said earlier, we have no intention of lowering the bar on the design standards, and we would hold them to the same standard we currently hold, all type 3, and any review we do, the design guidelines apply regardless of which procedure we're using. Could I just offer an example, Mayor? Once upon a time, I think it was called Block U, right?
 there was a proposal for a suburban style development over by the train station like a two or three story building that covered the entire lot and it was the to be the future home of what we now know as bug car commons because of an extensive public review process some members of the development community said to us we were nuts to a low-rise suburban style building in an urban
 And in fact, a good friend of Charlie's and mine on a cocktail, on a napkin at a breakfast meeting redesigned it for me. And he said you stack it and take half the, make it an urban form building, put it on Broadway, stack it and create a bonus lot. That bonus lot is now going to be a county health building. So we're going to have two urban form buildings.
 Then through that public process, some people had a concern about the color schemes and some of the discrete design elements. And they were changed to what we now have as sort of the salt and pepper look of Bud Clark Commons. Suffice it to say, there were some very, very important decisions made about the design that came from a public process.
 One that actually created enormous public value, because if we'd eaten up the whole lot with the wrong building, we would not have had the opportunity to partner with the county on a county health department. So I don't know how much of that came through what level of review, but I just offer that as an example that.
 While we want to give certainty and we want to move things along, we're also building for 100 years, and we want to make sure we get it right. And so I just want to make sure that we have the right balance here between certainty and getting through the regulatory process and also protecting a value that Portland cares about, which is beautiful and functional.
 Indeed. I think the challenge of the design commission, and I'm sure they'll speak to this, is that the standards to which they are charged with administering can be subjectively applied. For example, when it comes to material selection, the exterior of the building is, quote, to be a good quality material. That leaves a great deal of interpretation in the innovative housing industry.
 project conversation, they specified a 22-gauge steel exterior clad material. Design advice came back, said we'd like to see 18-gauge steel. Well, that sounds maybe like inside baseball, but that's a $395,000 difference in a project. And it really has no material effect whatsoever on what it looks like.
 It's the thickness of the steel in a fine-grained manner. So I think the standards themselves could be a little bit more clear, perhaps, and some materials that are currently not recognized
 able to pass their design review are commonly used in the private sector, and they are commonly found throughout Portland without getting into other instances. But the project will look no different under the Type 2X project than the Type 3X project. The last question then, because I want to just make sure what's before us and what isn't before us. So the other areas where people have argued that we could get some savings would be to do things like
 change the rules in terms of the kinds of compensation for the workers at the site. So work with potentially the state to alter the prevailing wage law application. Or another thing I read recently was a critique of our green building policy as being an additional cost that we could weaken.
 And then finally, there are some who say that the opportunity agenda for the city builds in cost because we're not building in the cheapest dirt, which is sort of the point that we want to build in high opportunity areas in order for people to have meaningful choice. Does any of the stuff before us today address those three values? Yes.
 May I address that? I have something that may be helpful, which my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail, brought to my attention. I think we should be considering these two ordinances like the tree code ordinances last week. This first one is a stopgap measure to make some immediate changes. The second ordinance directs the Bureau of Planning to go and look at all those issues that you just mentioned, Commissioner. And I think that's what I see we're doing here. Is that correct? That's correct. The stopgap resolution is to study it further.
 That's correct. Well, and just to clarify, in September we did talk about the entire basket of social benefit costs and bully the split wage rate, sustainability, trip reduction, minority and women-owned business enterprise set-asides, the trip reduction strategies developed in concert with PBOT, with NAD,
 with public comment. Our focus on opportunity areas, including the bedroom sizes, because we're promoting family housing at a greater cost of perhaps studio and very small micro units.
 So we don't intend to revisit any of those other costs in this short-term measure. In the longer-term measure, some of the issues of sustainability could come up. BOLI is a separate issue. It's a state wage rate letter opinion of the Labor Commissioner. We would like to see it applied differently than it is, but I don't see that changing anytime soon. So one of the – and I appreciate Commissioner Fritz pointing this out for me. So in the second item we're going to take up, we are directing –
 planning sustainability to review some of these other cost drivers, kind of below the line cost drivers, and including in that is a consideration as to whether Commissioner Saltzman's green building policy will apply to affordable housing. I just want to make sure I understand that.
 i think it's a fair conversation to have and we'll be happy to have that with them yes why is it a fair conversation that doesn't it before the council says we want to undo a policy we that dan put into law and defended for 17 years why why are we asking someone to revisit it well i don't think we're i mean we're asking the planning sustainability the bureau planning sustainability and the planning sustainability commission to to look at the mix of things that may inhibit the delivery of affordable housing
 And I think the green building policy, it's always been a source of debate in the affordable housing arena. And I think it's a fair debate to have. And I welcome the Planning and Sustainability Commission taking a look at it. And then we get to say whether to change it or not. Yeah. It's ultimately up to us.
 One more thing to add. The resolution is written to only direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to amend Title 33. That doesn't deal with labor or rates of pay and all that kind of thing. It's written very broadly to remove obstacles and find ways to expedite projects that deal with mass shelters, affordable housing, and short-term housing. I'll just say for the record, this is the first time I can remember on my watch on the council where we've said that
 we're going to ask someone to evaluate whether we should backtrack on our sustainability goals as to one class of housing as a way of saving money. And that's not the standard that we apply in any other setting. So if Commissioner Saltzman thinks it's worthy of a review, but we are setting a precedent here of saying that the marginal cost at the front end
 may not be of value even though we have generally documented long-term savings, and we're doing that in the context of an emergency. I have some concern with the council affirmatively saying that's the direction we want to go. Those are your words, Commissioner, not mine. No. We're asking the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to do an honest review, and that means nothing is off the table.
 horizon for them to look at and actually it's not the first time the city used to have a very aggressive solar access requirement for single-family homes it turned out to not be very cost effective in practice and so previous City Council discarded it that's a bad example well it happened and and I think we're capable of learning you know from what works and what doesn't work so when asking the question there's one critical difference we're asking them to evaluate
 reviewing and potentially reducing standards not to for-profit housing but to social housing. So that is a difference. It is a difference. We're not asking them to consider whether this is a cost burden on any other housing. Commissioner, I think I'm confident that when they do the review that it's going to come back, that yes, indeed, it is worth the investment. It's worth asking the question. I have a few other – yes, I believe –
 One of the elephants in the room is that the commissioner in charge of housing is also in charge of development services, and under other circumstances I might be concerned about that. Having seen Commissioner Saltzman and the way he manages his bureaus, I am not at all concerned that he's going to be directing his staff in development services to approve affordable housing projects just to get them done. He has a history of respecting the process, respecting the land use guidelines,
 review and indeed respecting his staff in development services and so i personally am confident that he will continue to allow the staff who i have found to be absolutely excellent in the design review section as in the rest of development services to do their work without interference so i just wanted to state that on the record
 and thank you all for the work that you do. The second is that the Design Commission's letter says that if this ordinance passes, staff will be making final land use decisions on significant projects. As Rebecca Issel just told us, that's not the case. That's not the case.
 these type 2Xs are appealed to the design commission. So citizens would have the final say. The council would not. As was pointed out, applicants, if they prefer their chances with the city council rather than the design commission, can start with the design commission and come to us. So it seems to me that this is an appropriate switch, at least pending hearing testimony, and also looking at it as a stopgap measure rather than something that we're enacting
 as a permanent basis, there's then a burden on the process and on the staff to prove that, in fact, we haven't reduced the standards or diminished the design of affordable housing in the pilot project. So that's the way I'm looking at it. My biggest concern is about that this change would –
 I was glad to see that it requires city subsidy of at least five units at 60% of median family income or less. I'm wondering what's to stop a developer from going through the 2X process with the city subsidy to then say, oh, never mind, I'm actually going to build luxury condos instead. And they've already got the approval for the design, and they then don't give us the affordable housing.
 well there's currently nothing in the pipeline that fits into that category the two instances that i mentioned we swept our entire pipeline of projects and those two are the only that are that are sort of timely and within the two areas of interest uh we have nothing in gateway at the present time and those two others are in the central city
 Looking forward, I think we'll be mindful of that potential abuse as planning and sustainability comes up with their recommendations to ensure. That really doesn't. Well, there's a clawback provision with any project that we have to be able to claw back our public funds if they have leveraged those public funds for private gain. I think we would have to take an enforcement action against that.
 This is before they actually do it. They get the design review checked off. The building looks lovely. And then they say, well, thank you, city. I don't want the public funds. I'm going to go ahead and build luxury housing instead.
 It's an easy way to do that. You can encumber the property with a lane at the outset to ensure that a specified number of units are provided that are affordable. She's worried about the design quality question, right? No, I'm worried about getting the design approval and then changing the project, reducing the public subsidy. What's to stop a developer from doing a bait-and-switch? We'll be mindful of that risk, and we'll insure against it.
 How? We can have a regulatory agreement with the police powers of the city behind it, and we can enforce a regulatory agreement. But they haven't gotten the approval yet. But they would have had to have public funds in the project. Now, public funds only come with the security of a development agreement, and that a development agreement can be a lien on the title. So we can claw back. So you could put something in the development agreement. Mm-hmm.
 Help me out, development services staff. How would you then rescind the design approval if the project changes? There's a provision in the zoning code in the 700 chapter that talks about a reconsideration, and I think it could be used for this situation where we would basically withdraw our approval of the design review because it hadn't gone through the appropriate procedure. And what would trigger that?
 When we saw a building permit that came in and we were alerted from the Housing Bureau that, oh, they are not going to do the affordable housing they said they were going to do. So you could have some kind of a flag within? We have meetings now every two weeks with Housing Bureau staff on all of their projects and the status of all of their projects. So we're coordinating very closely.
 so you're confident that you would be able to catch and then rescind the design approval yes great thank you very much i'm also going to offer an amendment on that five units after we hear some testimony from one of our design commissioners my final uh point i just want to put on the record that the council in the context of the comprehensive plan has been discussing making affordable housing the public benefit in
 in for bonuses, for example. And so I want to be very clear and maybe get some head nods from my fellow commissioners. We're not making decisions on the comprehensive plan. However, we have been having significant discussions about affordable housing as a public benefit, and I want to be clear that that's partly why this is coming towards us and that that is something for the design commission and others to consider, that that's the direction that council may be heading in the comprehensive plan. Head nodding provided. Thank you.
 Can I pick up on Hope's sequence? Actually, I have a couple of questions. One thing I was going to ask about the five units, but Commissioner Saltzman says he's going to address that. This is more related to 227 than 226, but...
 We've already, I think all of us, asked the bureaus that engage in permitting to prioritize affordable housing. What I've heard is that we've also asked them to prioritize other things like ITAP and the DOCS project, etc.,
 So, I think that we need to be sure that we're all telling our people in the permitting bureaus, here is what the priority ranking is and you will spend, we recognize you will spend less time on X when you're spending more time on Y. And we should make sure that that's a consistent message throughout the bureaus because we don't want to be interpreted differently resulting in things getting clogged that weren't supposed to.
 One question I have is how transparent can we be? If you prioritize one thing, you're deprioritizing others. So how transparent can we be with the development community about saying you can expect your non-affordable housing projects to be pushed back by X weeks because of this? And one sub-question is...
 When we're prioritizing affordable housing, does that mean that projects that are non-affordable housing projects that are currently in the queue that have been told that you may expect that they will have the project completed within the next weeks
 Will the affordable housing projects jump the queue so that those projects in the queue will be pushed back? So there's – sorry for the rambling question, but I think you get what I'm trying to figure out. MR. Yeah, I can take a stab at it. I appreciate the question and concern. It's competing priorities, and so at some point it becomes philosophical versus realistic, because you can only – there's so much capacity, limited capacity. So what we've done as a solution is to add more staff.
 and communicate the sort of priority reality that if you want to focus on ITAP, you want to focus on affordable housing, you want to focus on something else, if you're trying to do it with the same number of staff, it just doesn't work. So we need to add staff. And that's been an issue with us. Fortunately, the economy is good, so we can add staff to realize those priorities. Maybe in other bureaus, that conversation needs to be had yet. I think that's part of the issue. Thank you.
 I would also say that it called your attention that late yesterday Commissioner Saltzman circulated a joint memo from Director Scarlett and myself. And that very point is addressed on page two of that memo, which talks about the entire spectrum of process improvements that we're implementing between the two bureaus.
 So affordable projects will be tracked, and they will be tracked by BDS as well as water and PBOT and environmental services. They all have a role to play in this processing. So we're mindful that when a decision is made to prioritize one project and another project is given a lesser priority, I'm not sure that the system really allows you to –
 to then put an alert out to the next project in line to say that you'll be three days later than you would have been normally, as long as it occurs within the same allotted time that this council is established as a benchmark.
 We might not be able to be that specific project by project, but I do think it would be useful if we tried to provide whatever information we can to the development community saying, you've heard that we're prioritizing affordable housing, you might have some concerns about what that will mean for non-affordable housing projects.
 here is what we think we can expect based on what we know now, here is what we're tracking, and we'll update you on what the impact will be on you as we go along. Yeah, that's a good point. We can pull some information together for that. Mr. Director, going back to Commissioner Fritz's question about how do you enforce the terms of the bargain, I don't know how this quite fits, but we use regulatory agreements to ensure compliance with 60-year affordability on deals that we work on.
 In this instance, what is the minimum requirement for long-term affordability that we're asking of the developer? This is 60 percent of AMI, 60 years at a minimum. Subject to a regulatory agreement? That's correct. And so to her question about potentially a bait and switch at some point, when do you enter into the – in terms of the timeline –
 When do you enter into a regulatory agreement, and when does the design review process continue? Well, I think it depends on the underlying land. In both of the two examples I gave you, we have fee title to the real estate. So we still control that real estate, although we have assigned the development rights to the selected teams. Okay.
 So we have more leverage in those instances where we own the underlying real estate. If it's a privately owned site that we don't have fee title to, then we have to ensure that the development agreement is in place. It would normally come fairly late in the process once the final terms and conditions and the final finances are put into form. We might need an interim security instrument to avoid the sort of
 opportunism that Commissioner Fritz has identified. Something that even if it's a short version that says you understand that this benefit is being afforded to you because you've agreed to follow these terms. Correct. And the final agreement is going to contain a regulatory agreement with a 60-year covenant. That does have provisions for us to claw back and get damages if there's a breach. So I think her point is very well taken. Agreed. I guess just one other clarification, and then we'll wait to hear Dan's amendment.
 You said that it only applies to projects where we're affirmatively investing, so not the multi-projects. But this is not intended to allow otherwise private development just to have a lower standard of public review. So at some point, I'll be interested to know what is the right mix, the ratio of projects.
 subsidize affordable units to the total package because that seems to be the issue the two letters raise, and I think we'll look for your guidance as to what's the right mix. We'd be happy to discuss that after the testimony. Okay. Other questions before we take testimony? You want to save your amendment until after testimony? Yeah. Okay. So thank you very much. We'll call you back in a bit. Let's hear from who we have signed up to speak, please.
 about seven people signed up uh first three please come on up are charles johnson mike o'callaghan and tad savinar let's um go ahead and go oh here he is good morning commissioners my name for the record is charles johnson and i had a really live mic there for a moment um you can move away from it we've talked a bit about in previous sessions about uh experimentation and uh
 Unfortunately, despite the heading of this particular proposal, we don't yet have a mass shelter proposal. I hope we will reemphasize that. I saw perhaps the most realistic number and unfortunately it's scrolled away. But one of these documents, one of these PDFs that's attached, talks about the thing that we never talk about enough here. And we have to admit we haven't taken enough action on.
 tens of thousands of deficit units in affordable housing for people under 60% MFI. I think it was about 25,000 units short. I hope that number will get more and more discussion, not so much here, but as we move towards an election cycle, because those people really need to know that they need to activate and support proposals like this and even more aggressive proposals so that
 the housing can, we can move forward with housing. In Vienna, they have a better opera than we do. They also have about 30% of their city lives in public subsidized, public constructed housing. So that's just a reality. I don't know what the number is for New York, but it's something that can be done when the city is economic and thriving. We don't just tweak the design and review process
 We commit and we find ways to build the housing. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. First of all, I want to support what all these people are doing. I think it's great. I just put your name in the record. Mike O'Callaghan is my name. Really complex. It's really interesting hearing the complexity of all the people's concern, and I appreciate that, that the council does that.
 As you know, I was involved with Right to Dream, okay, and it took us probably about three days to build Right to Dream. It didn't cost us any money, and we house now 100 people, okay? This is a situation that you're in. You're very familiar with this top-down. That's just what we've been listening to with the last two groups of people who spoke. This is very different than bottom-up.
 Right to Dream is bottom up, Dignity Village is bottom up, and Hazelnut Grove is bottom up, and they all work. I understand why you don't receive input from the bottom up.
 Okay, I can understand why you receive input from the top, and that's good. Great. Okay, what are you going to do? You're going to house 120 people here? Hey, great. We've got 1,200, 1,600 people on the street. Good deal, 10% of them. So we need 10 times this, okay, at least 10 times. But you look at the people that are sleeping without shelter. They say 1,600. Scratch a little deeper. Okay.
 You'll see, indeed, they didn't include 600 people in their survey because they were sleeping, because they didn't want to fill out the survey, because they didn't want to give their name. And as I've testified to the council before –
 We have five times that amount of people on the street. You're not looking at the problem, brother. We have 10,000 people on the street. Now, if you guys, if all of us, were sitting outside in the rain, we would see an urgency here. And I do appreciate, Charlie, that you've stopped sweeping, pretty much, and that people are able to
 have some security. Okay? You have created a situation that is going to not be beneficial for the community because there's no security. These people are not secure. That's why we need, right, the dreams of 25 or smaller in the community where the community invites us in. The community doesn't want to invite us in because they see the mess that's there now. Okay? They don't like it. I don't blame them. Okay? So you've got choice A or B.
 Same way it is. Mess everywhere or do something about it. Okay, community, get on board. Okay? Let's get these people in a safe place, okay, where they can be self-determining.
 Let's do this. I mean, geez, be an innovator, okay? Let's try. You've got the pattern already. Pretty simple to set up. I'll work with any of you that want to do it. And I have an ad in the Tribune, okay, today, looking for 50 by 50 land where we can start a private club on. Okay? And hopefully some private property owner will respond just like the guy did down there so we could start right to dream. Okay? Don't fight us. Okay? Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 my name is tad savinar i'm the vice chair of the design commission uh yesterday our chair david wark and myself and a member of the landmarks commission met with uh commissioner salzman um david wark had the flu not as a result of that meeting but he couldn't be here so i'm reading a letter that he composed it's been submitted to you interestingly enough i think it touches on some of the issues that you've brought up um
 but I'll roll through it so that you have the benefit of hearing it and then certainly can discuss some specifics as to some of the issues that you've already raised. Thank you.
 Mayor Hills and Portland City Council, thank you for the opportunity to comment on the ordinance to allow city subsidized affordable housing to be reviewed through a type 2x design historic review instead of a type 3 design historic review. The design commission fully supports the creation and expediting of abundant affordable housing in our city.
 We recently reviewed two housing projects where we offered additional guidance, additional times to meet, and additional support for these projects to the development team. We are committed to assisting the expedient construction of affordable housing projects. However, this proposed ordinance was only shared with us last Thursday, and we would have preferred more time to have a thorough conversation about how to reach our collective goals. Thank you.
 We believe additional work is needed to help the needs of affordable housing, such as fee breaks and a swifter and more predictable Type III process. Ideally, the land use process remains equal across the board for all types of projects. Affordable housing projects deserve the same level of respect and scrutiny as their neighbors.
 Affordable housing will be long-lasting and should be designed and reviewed with that in mind. Understanding the immediate need to move things forward, we have the following suggestions to present. Thank you.
 One, the ordinance stipulates minimum requirements for a project in order to be able to qualify for a Type 2X procedure. The minimum number of units, five, is not aggressive enough if the city is to overcome the crisis in which we find ourselves. Without a significant minimum threshold, there is potential for abuse. Take, for instance, the Oregon Square project, which is providing 900 housing units, four blocks, five.
 Under the proposed ordinance, that project would have only needed to provide five affordable housing units in order to avoid a Type 3 review. We request that the Council revisit the minimum requirements and provide a more meaningful threshold. For instance, at least 25% of the proposed housing units of a primarily housing project must be city-subsidized affordable housing units. Two. Three.
 If this ordinance passes, and this came up in your discussion, staff will be making final land use decisions on significant projects that will have aggressive construction schedules. We respectfully request council members and upper management to empower staff
 and to allow staff to make expert decisions based in the relevant approval criteria. Three, the ordinance requires at least one design advice review for all projects taking advantage of this incentive.
 The design commission requests that council request council to direct staff to establish minimum submittal requirements for these DARS. This will ensure an effective and in-depth early review by the design commission with predictable results.
 4. If the ordinance were to be extended into October 2016, we would hope that the extension is based on factual evidence from the results of this pilot program. Thank you again for your creativity and leadership in finding ways in which to address Portland's affordable housing crisis. Please know that we are a resource to you and always willing to participate in work groups that provide guidance for legislation such as this ordinance.
 This is my favorite. The Design Commission is committed to supporting high-quality, low-maintenance, affordable housing where the residents are proud of their home and the neighbors are proud to have the project in their neighborhood. There's also a letter submitted from Landmarks Commission. I don't know if they're here or not. We have it. I don't know if there's anybody here from the commission, but we have the letter. Yes.
 Thank you very much for your testimony. Thank you for your service on the commission. I don't understand the concern about the five units, because if it was just five units in a 900-unit project, it wouldn't be getting a city subsidy. We're concerned about something that is a Walmart with five units. But it wouldn't get a city subsidy. Right.
 I think there's a lot of confusion about where the five units came from. I'm not even sure. Kurt gave one explanation. But I'm going to offer an amendment to change that to 20% of the units just to make it equal with what we require on a multi-project. And for the two projects we're talking about that will probably take advantage of this 2X process or have the option to do it, they're well over 20% affordable units. Yes.
 And so maybe we'll have staff back to tell us when would they give a city subsidy, because that was – I shared your concern, and then I saw, well, this is a city subsidy. We're not going to give it for just a tiny amount of affordability. Thank you. I think that's correct. That's a good solution. And you recommended 25%. Right. Same idea. Right. Ed, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Next three are Peggy Moretti, John Drentlaw, and John Czarnecki.
 Yeah, yeah, it's, yeah. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning. Morning. I'd like to go first. Should I go first? Go ahead, please. All right. Good morning. My name is Peggy Moretti. I'm the Executive Director of Restore Oregon, a nonprofit that works statewide to preserve and pass forward the historic places that create livable, sustainable communities. Thank you.
 Restore Oregon is much attuned to and supportive of the need to retain existing affordable housing that is often the target of demolition, and we certainly support the development of additional affordable housing. There are many examples of historic buildings being successfully redeveloped into affordable housing in Portland, including most recently the Erickson Fritz Apartments in Old Town, and we would love to see more of that. And, in fact, one of the developers sits on our board of directors. Thank you.
 However, we are concerned that the proposed downgrading of design review for historic properties will have significant negative consequences while having a very negligible effect on bringing new housing to market faster. I sincerely hope City Council will consider these two important points. One, what is approved during our housing emergency will outlive all of us.
 It will stand in our community for decades. The purpose of a Type 3 review is to ensure that what is developed respects and protects our historic buildings, is compatible with the neighborhood, and upholds standards of quality in its design and construction.
 Your proposal says it does not exempt compliance with historic standards or district guidelines, but an overtaxed BDS staff that is not trained in historic review, coupled with huge bureaucratic pressure to move projects forward fast, makes the likelihood of a quality type 2 design review that pushes back when necessary seem slim.
 It also seems likely that the October expiration date of this emergency could be extended indefinitely. So the idea that this is a short-term one or two project proposal doesn't hold a lot of water in our mind. But more importantly, this proposal to short-circuit a thoughtful and transparent public review will only trim a whopping nine or ten days from the process.
 By the city's own analysis, a type 3 review takes 51 to 90 days and a type 2 takes 42 to 80 days. This will do nothing to expedite the process in a meaningful way, but could leave the city with some very incompatible new development or mangled historic buildings that will stand for 50 years or more.
 What does make sense in our analysis of this, and in the short time frame with which we've had to look at this and respond to it, is the reduction of the fees for the different levels of review. Restore Oregon urges Council to reduce the fee structure without jeopardizing the caliber of design review. Thank you. Thanks, Peggy, very much. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is John Drentlaw, and what brings me here is because of the process that is being considered. And the reason the process is of concern to me is because I'm also a vice chair commissioner for Clackamas County Planning Commission, and the city of Portland does overlay within all the tri-county area here. I think it's very important that we consider the state of Oregon planning and sustainability goals.
 And if we're moving from a type three to a type two, what we are essentially doing is ignoring the number one goal of the State of Oregon, which in the first paragraph states to develop a citizen involvement program that ensures the opportunity for citizens to be involved in all phases of the planning process. And so this is ignoring that first principle. Then,
 That is a matter of the public getting involved. Then we also talk about time and money. If we're concerned about the money and the city is investing money, it would seem like it would be a pragmatic approach to waive the additional fee that is required for these affordable housing projects.
 And when looking at affordable housing, and there was a comment brought up regarding 22-gauge exterior versus 18-gauge, affordable housing has an established history of significant deferred maintenance, and that is one of the reasons that you put a more durable surface on there so that you do not have that apparent degrading of the exterior in it.
 And that would seem like the city's investment would be very concerned about the longevity of that. And also, if you're removing the public in a process that has been established, the probability of having an appeal come up is much higher. And so, in effect, you're going to be extending the time period of this review, and it would go to LUBA. I have many reviews that I have done that have gone to LUBA as well. We haven't had any of them overturned, though. However...
 This group also needs to consider the land use planning, which is goal number two. And it goes on to ensure an adequate factual base for decisions and actions. And we're talking about time and money here, and so time is going to be longer. Money is something that can be reduced just by a simple statement that it's no longer going to be required for affordable housing.
 And then also within the history element, the recreation needs of goal number eight would have to be ignored. And Commissioner Fritz, with the parks and recreation interest, would like to inform you of the recreation areas. It says to provide for human development and enrichment and include, but not be limited to, open space, scenic landscapes, recreational lands, history,
 archaeology, and natural science resources. Thank you. Thanks very much. Just to clarify, we're not proposing to change the approval criteria, and there is public input in a Type 2 procedure in the City of Portland and its appeal to the Design Commission, so there's multiple opportunities for citizens to have input. John, welcome. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm John Czarnicki. I'm an architect.
 and principle of new traditional architecture. During that time, if I may, I have always also been architectural consultant to Oregon Housing and Community Services, specializing in affordable housing throughout the state. In addition, I've been, and that was over the course of 10 years. In addition, I've also been architectural consultant to the states for the Oregon Main Street program that includes Main Street development and relationship to livability overall.
 The reason I'm here is really quite simple. We're in the danger of downgrading the quality of our neighborhoods. It's not a matter truly of the fees being too high or the time being too long. What we're really doing is we're backing off of the standards that we have established. Now, the importance of
 of public input, although Commissioner Fritz obviously is correct in terms of the opportunity, the opportunity for public input in the Type 2X process is much, much, much less than the opportunity is in the Type 3. The relative costs, in addition to the time of the design view, are minuscule if
 If affordable housing units cost about $500,000 apiece or $300,000 apiece, then, well, that's what they were when I was working at the state commissioner. Let's say 230, okay? Let's say 235. Those numbers get thrown around, sir. They're substantially less, but we can argue that. Well, maybe it still comes down to, you know, an additional –
 $10,000 in the review process or $20,000 in the review process, which is less than 1% of the total project cost. And in relationship to the time that's taken, it's really minimal. So I guess there are two things that come to mind. One is that since the cost of review is not an addition,
 to the cost of development. It's integral with development. I think it's important to think about this as just being a part of the budget as opposed to an addition. It's a philosophical conceptual understanding. So we're removing the standards, and the way to do this is just to take the funds that would otherwise be used to supplement –
 the affordable housing and make sure that part of those funds are used to cover the development costs, which include review. Let's see. Sum up, John, because you're just... Yes, thank you. Given that design review requires... Let's see. Give me a moment, David. Thank you. We've been talking about sustainable neighborhoods for the last...
 couple years now, if not longer. The notion of maintaining the quality of housing, whether it be affordable housing or whether it be market rate, and really the difference is with with methods of funding. Whether we're talking about either of those, then we're really talking about the the notion of the all-important notion of nimbyism, not in my backyard, the reluctance of
 of citizens to have substandard housing in their neighborhood and the clarity with which folks who live in substandard housing, by substandard, I mean very clearly, not designed as well or not designed as compatibly with the neighborhood to increase and maintain livability. It will be so obvious to everyone that the residents, they have not the means to live someplace better.
 thank you very much thank you very much thank you all okay the last two i show from both lists were when wendy rom and paul grove good morning hi
 I'm Wendy Rahm, and I'm a member of the American Institute of Architects Historic Resource Committee and on the board of the Bosco Milligan Foundation. But my comments here are my own. This process has been speeded up. I'm a very strong advocate of both the retention and creation of affordable housing.
 I'm a West End resident and I'm doing what I can to preserve the exceptionally dense number of affordable housing buildings in that neighborhood against potential demolition threats posed by the excessive height allowances proposed by the Central City 2035 plan.
 I'm advocating for no net loss there. Regarding the proposed change to the code, I oppose the shift from type 3 to a type 2, especially in historic districts. By saying that, I am not implying that our city staff are not well-intentioned and very, very capable.
 They are. But this proposal to change from type 3 to type 2 essentially omits the public process. Yes, appeals are possible. But the public process is a foundation of good government, and the effective loss of this part of the process creates a reduction in transparency and a danger of decisions done in the proverbial smoke-filled back rooms.
 With this change will also be the loss of an opportunity to publicly tell the stories attached to these buildings as they are readapted for an admittedly terribly important use as affordable housing. We are a forgetful species and need reminding how else but through the public process do we learn about the nearly lost story of the first maternal hospital in Portland. Who knew?
 Why are we targeting historic buildings once again? They deserve an open public review process at the Historic Landmarks Commission provided by the Type 3 process. For these reasons, I support the reduction in fees, a reduction of the public notice time by 10 days, but a retention of the Type 3 process. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Thank you. Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders Association, speaking on behalf of the Home Builders Foundation. For the record, I wanted to get this out there initially. I wanted to thank Council staff, Bureau staff for the responsiveness to a project in North Portland and folks' attention to that issue. It's much appreciated by our Executive Director and others.
 specifically today talking in support of Resolution 227. It's something that the work of the foundation and that they do
 particularly around transitional shelters, very much supportive of the proposal and the leadership on this front and want to be a partner in that moving forward. I certainly think it's impactful in particular for a lot of our partners, nonprofit partners that are resource or capacity constrained. And so as we move forward, we'd like to offer two additional suggestions.
 you know, for council and the work that's going to transpire. The first would be, and this is not news to folks, a potential waiver of fees or associated costs, especially for those that are, again, resource or capacity constrained. This impacts their business model.
 The funding becomes tenuous. There are a lot of different moving pieces, and these costs, while they might not appear to be much to some, are very impactful to the viability of a project. And the second item we would offer up for consideration is really around the notion of,
 a one-stop shop, if you will, a concierge service for these folks that might not, again, have the staff capacity or resources that are familiar with the bureaus, with the staff, with the processes engaged in undertaking an endeavor of this type. Thank you.
 There's been a lot of talk about inter-bureau coordination and different things. And if it's a point person either within the bureaus or a point person that can run lead on these types of things, we think it would be much more beneficial to help these folks getting their projects through the door and helping the folks that need it the most. So thank you very much for the opportunity. Thank you. Thank you both.
 So I would like to – I want to ask the staff to come back and propose your amendment. But, yeah, go ahead, please. Well, I have a couple of questions before you do your amendment. Before? Okay. If you wouldn't mind. Okay. Thank you.
 So first for housing, what's the standard for getting a city subsidy? How much of a project has to be or how many units have to be included? Well, we have a variety of programs, and we do subsidize single-family homes with STC waivers, which would be an indirect subsidy, as well as property tax exemptions.
 So, this ordinance was crafted and I actually kept all my previous drafts. The five-unit threshold was selected because it was the cutoff between a single family and a multifamily. We have 19 projects in our current pipeline and about another 12 coming through the fall NOFA process.
 Frankly, all of our projects exceed 40 units in size. We're not really funding projects of a small scale. The Miracles on Central is under construction. It's right on that edge. Of course, it's a four-story building in the convention center urban renewal area right near the Rose Garden. But most of our projects are around 100 units in size. And what's...
 So Commissioner Saltzman's percentage wouldn't or change? Actually, I like that idea because looking forward, if this policy is then applied in the future as we go through the process with planning and sustainability, because the 20-unit threshold is the same threshold that's used in the newly authorized state inclusionary housing bill. So we can provide both direct and indirect assistance to affordable housing developers
 principally private developers, and this could receive favorable design treatment in the future if they have at least 20 units within them. So that applies. Thank you. Then I just have two technical questions for BDS. Yes.
 Ready to go. In quickly looking on my smartphone, it looks like we currently have design review in a Type 2 in Hollywood, Interstate, St. John's, Albina, Outer Southeast, except for Gateway, and in the Central City and Gateway for Project Center 2.1 million. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. So we're already doing, in most of the city, we're already doing Type 2s. Yes. What's the difference between Type 2 and Type 2X? Yes.
 type 2 is even faster and given the complexity and the the size of the projects we're expecting in the central city and Gateway uh the type 2x gives the reviewer and the public additional time to comment and work out issues thank you so I think um I just want to raise I mean the larger question of of uh we want to we want to see design review in more places we want to see um
 a more rigorous approach to historic preservation, and we want projects to get through the process quickly. I suspect it's not going to be possible to achieve all three of those goals for every project. Difficult, but we'll try. So you are, in effect, giving a special treatment to these projects. I mean, you've got to be explicit about that. But short of some miraculous...
 process change that results in higher quality design review faster with the same staff in a city where we're going to have a huge pace of development for as far as my eye can see you know this seems to me the right approach I particularly appreciate your commitments to making sure that the standards are still followed which obviously they are
 One thing that was raised in passing, I guess it ought to just be touched on, Commissioner Fish raised it, and that is any thoughts about quality control in the enforcement process where a design is approved and where we don't necessarily get what the commission or the staff thought we were going to get?
 or a change is made by the applicant in the construction process. Some thoughts about how we deal with that issue. I think, again, regardless of what the rules and procedures are, if what's coming out the pipeline at the other end turns out to be subpar versus what people thought they were approving, then our process isn't working then either. We had an error on the staff part. Okay.
 we are working with the applicant on that to retroactively go in and make that project. If I know which project you're, you're talking about match what was approved through the design review. And they've been dragged through the mud publicly and are willing to work with us on getting that project back to what was expected and approved through the design commission approval. In general, I think what Rebecca, what left unsaid is we do have a,
 chain of quality control to make sure that what gets approved by design actually gets constructed it didn't happen in this situation, but We do have that closed circle loop. Yes, we have enormous volume of work coming through and complexity and we are short staffed But we are hiring and filling positions and mistakes will be made but we're working our best to Correct those after the fact when they are made and I just make a comment you said drag through the mud I I have a slightly different view having watched the debate unfold which is I
 i think it reinforces the sense that we all have that portland really cares about the the look and feel of their city and and when they make a decision about a building that's on the edge close to the water that's blocking views and it's an iconic site and the developer says i'm going to build it to a specification that you can be proud of
 Portland expects us to enforce that bargain. And whatever disappointment I have about that process is not directed to staff. We all make mistakes. Things happen. But I think there is a positive thing that comes out of this, that people really do care about how buildings in key locations look. I had two questions, though, because we had testimony yesterday.
 about alternate approaches. I just thought I'd ask Paul. One was a waiver of fees and one was concierge service. In addition to what Commissioner Saltzman is proposing, and I'm going to support his proposal, we do have concierge service for the film industry through PDC. Should we at some point be thinking about funding a concierge service through BDS?
 We currently have a concierge service for large projects such as projects in South Waterfront. It's a, you know, I can't remember the sort of dollar trigger. No, I meant for these kinds of projects. But for these types of projects. Less capacity, more concerned about time. We have something that we've put in place currently which is similar to concierge. So we've identified a single point of contact who will assist us.
 in the respective codes, whether it's the land use code or the building codes, and partnering with the design team and staff at Portland Housing Bureau. So we have something in works. It's not formalized like a concierge service is in the process manager per se, but it's mimicking that process, that approach. Well, I applaud that because one of the things that this council worked on a few years ago was co-location. And that whole idea was to, through co-location,
 simplifying the points of contact, making the process work better. So good job. I do want to connect with Commissioner Novick. That's part of what he was asking is you have these concerns, you have staff that are requested and asked to focus on these priorities, but then there's other jobs. And so how we sort of resolve all of it is certainly an ongoing conversation, but we are all committed. It's just a matter of capacity and how do you spend your time and where and how.
 Okay, so I wanted to move an amendment to change the requirement for eligibility for the Type 2X from a minimum threshold of five units, affordable units, to a minimum of 20% affordable units. Second. And then I also wanted to just get on the record that we will have a report back to Council in October or in the end of October about how this works.
 experiment went. And we will also, the Housing Bureau will require that all applicants who wish to participate in this type 2X process have a signed agreement with the Housing Bureau that outlines their responsibilities under the regulatory agreements to provide actual affordable housing. So those things, I just want to get on the record. I think those were points. Second, second, second. Can I offer just a final friendly amendment that I've reviewed with your eminent chief of staff?
 On the draft in front of you and the ordinance, Dan, on page 3, we've had some concern about this automatically rolling over. And it seems to me that because the council has to act in any event to extend the emergency if it chooses to, my friendly amendment would be to delete the last sentence of Section 3.
 Oh, I see. So just delete that if they extend, the council will. I mean, if the council chooses to extend, we're likely going to take up that. But for those concerned about automatic rollover, it seems to me we could just delete that without doing any violence to the ordinance. Okay. I'll accept that as a friendly amendment. Friendly amendment accepted. I'm looking for where the five-unit to 20% provision would fit in the ordinance. I think I've missed it. Bottom of page two? Okay.
 Oh, there it is, five or more units. So it means they privately own a property in which 20% or more of the units receive a city subsidy, right?
 Okay. Sure. That's where that verbiage would change. Could we actually, because this is going to be a standard that BDS is going to have to apply, I'd like to make sure we actually wordsmith this now before you adopt it. So if you want to, will it read, the term city subsidy project means a privately owned property
 with 20% or more units receiving a city subsidy after the effective date? Is that what we want it to be? Yeah. Sounds fine. So those are the words that put Commissioner Salzman's amendment into the text. Okay. Further discussion of the amendments, including the friendly amendment deleting the last sentence.
 Roll call vote, please, on the amendments. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. And then on the emergency ordinance as amended. Ritz. Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales, for bringing this forward. Thank you to staff in both bureaus for your, as always, excellent work. It's...
 As a former community land use chair at a neighborhood association, it was always kind of a toss-up to me whether I preferred the 2X or the Type 2 process or the Type 3. Type 2...
 allows citizen input into staff decision with an appeal to a not counsel body. Type 3 allows citizen input to the staff report, which then goes to a citizen body, which then gets appeal to counsel. And depending on the topic and the membership of the counsel, sometimes I preferred one rather than the other. So the fact that the code already says,
 That design review is always type 2 in all of the areas except for Central City and Gateway inexpensive project tells me that the type 2 process is a good one. And if it's good enough for Albina and outer southeast, it should be good enough in Central City as well, especially on these particular projects. And so...
 I don't see it as a diminishment of community oversight. In fact, it makes the Design Review Commission the final decision maker, and that gives them more power rather than less. So I believe that this is a good strategy, especially since it's a pilot project. So thank you all for your work. I. Thank you, Dan, for bringing this forward, and thank you for your tenacity. Thank you.
 I think the director mentioned in passing that there's something like 31 projects in the pipeline or soon to be in the pipeline, so that's an extraordinary boost of production at a time. We desperately need new units, and we're facing a shortage of units. We have a supply problem. And I think this is an innovative idea that Commissioner Salzman wants us to test over a limited period of time
 And if it turns out to be a good idea, we can extend it or modify it. If it turns out to have unanticipated problems, we can limit it or end it. But I appreciate that you're pitching a good idea. And I also appreciate the work of these three people that have testified before us, these professionals. They do a great job under very difficult circumstances.
 And I also appreciate that in the conversation we had today, you affirmed the commitment to the kinds of design standards that we all care about. And I just want to reiterate, a well-designed, functional building is not only something that any of us would want to live in, and therefore is affirming of the human spirit, it is also a building that tends to last longer, which makes it a good investment of taxpayer dollars.
 And more often than not, it builds community support for what we're doing. And I've never understood why we didn't make the same kind of investment in our public habitation structures that we do and all other public structures that we're proud of. So I appreciate the effort you're trying to do to stretch the dollar and to cut red tape. Thank you, Dan, for your leadership on this. Bye. Well, I want to thank our Housing Bureau Director and our Development Services Director and our BDS Chief Planning Director. Thank you.
 close enough close enough for all their hard work on these ideas and i want to also thank the design commissioners and the landmarks commissioners for all the hard work they do on behalf of of our city and ensuring that we do have quality design and great living spaces and i think what we're trying to do here is simply you know undertake a pilot project to see if we can move things a little more quickly a little less expensively
 But still, we're not relaxing one design standard whatsoever. So we've got to try some things different under a housing emergency. This is one of those tries. Let's give it a shot. Hi. Novick.
 I really appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's efforts to address the housing emergency, and this is a great step. I just want to reiterate my concern that we treat our permitting staff and all the bureaus nicely and don't make it clear to them that they can't magically generate more time and make it clear to them that,
 If we're prioritizing X, then we realize you're going to have less time for Y, and that we send that same message to the development community. So I appreciate everybody's remarks on those scores. Hi. Niels.
 Well, I want to thank you, Dan, for bringing this forward and crafting it well. I also want to thank our city budget office because they've been going through this new tool that they've developed called GATOR, which stands for Government Accountability, Transparency, and Results, where they look at a city system or process and reconsider issues.
 and re-engineer with the engagement of commissioners in charge and bureau directors and others that have skin in that game. And it's a good tool, and it was one of the things that led to this recommendation. So I want to thank Andrew Scott and his team for making that tool work for us as managers of the enterprise.
 I also want to echo the point here about experimentation. One thing the government doesn't do very often is pilot projects or experiments. We tend to take a long time in developing new policy and then put it into place rather than say we're going to try this for a while, and that's essentially what we're doing here. We've got another six months of this declared emergency. We'll see whether it is.
 Does it make sense to extend it at that point or not? It will be a public discussion and a legislative action by the council to do that. If we do that and then projects or policies that we've been trying out during that time can be reviewed as well. And we just need to keep trying things because we are in a crisis and whether it's the housing delivery system or our shelter system or even camping, you know, we have to think anew and try things and then see what works and doesn't and be willing to admit what hasn't worked and,
 move on so I think that spirit is very this is very consistent with that spirit and again I really appreciate Tad you and the other volunteers who put a huge amount of time into trying to maintain the quality of design in this city it's a huge
 tasks that we give you as volunteers and hopefully that we will not wear you out but we will also ensure that both the historic resources of the city and the quality of new construction are held to the highest possible standard and I appreciate Rebecca your your commitment to that in your colleagues as well let's give it a try aye thank you very much much let's move on to the second of the two ordinances which is 227
 Ready to vote on that? Okay. Let's take a vote on that, please. Ritz? I'm very grateful that we're doing the more comprehensive review and discussion that will involve all of the commissions and the community at large. That obviously needs to happen. I appreciate, again, the stopgap measure and was able to support it because of this second resolution. Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I just also wanted to add my thanks to the City Budget Office for their help on thinking through these issues. Novick?
 I'm glad the city budget office is getting some love because once the public starts noticing the recommendations and certain items for this year's budget, they're going to get all sorts of complaining calls. Aye. Niels? I think we get those calls. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move on to the remaining items in our morning regular agenda. Item 228. Okay.
 Pay settlement of lawsuit by Trillane Hunter in the sum of $26,516 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Mr. Landrum is here and has an amendment to propose, I believe. That's correct. Morning, Commissioners, Mayor. I'm David Landrum from the City Attorney's Office in...
 I have reached an agreement with the plaintiff's counsel to settle this case for a total of $26,515.69. And the amendment or the change that I'm asking for is we want the ordinance to authorize two checks rather than just one. One check in the amount of $22,503.71. That goes to the plaintiff and his counsel. The other is...
 Check for $4,011.98 so that we can pay medical lien directly rather than through the plaintiff's counsel. I move the amendment. Second. Further discussion on the amendment. Let's take a vote on the amendment and see if anyone wants to testify on that ordinance itself. Second.
 Just so you know, for future reference, we had a discussion a week or so ago about just changing the language to make payment, since sometimes we don't do checks anymore. We do electronic transfers or whatever. So for the future, let's all be vigilant when we have stuff like this coming to council to change that language. That way we wouldn't have to make the two-check change. Thank you for spotting that this time. Aye. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you, David. Anyone want to speak on this item? I have. Let's see. Sorry. Charles Johnson and Michael Callahan had signed up. They left. They left. Then is this, where did you go? This is an emergency ordinance. So unless you have anything, any further guidance for us, we'll take a vote on that, please. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Thank you, David. Aye. Okay, 229. Amend the fiscal year 2015-16 revised budget to respond to the housing emergency. If there's no objection, I'm going to reschedule that to March 16th. And 230. Okay.
 230, accept bid of James W. Fowler Company, LLC, for Powell Sewer Rehabilitation Phase 1 for $9,145,000. This is a bid acceptance. Is there a motion to adopt the report? Do we have someone here to... I don't think we have a presentation on this one. Do we not? No.
 didn't we have this uh yeah it sounds familiar but i thought we had this before and this is just the this is just the acceptance of the bid i'll move acceptance of the below the estimate okay yeah we have a second christine's not here so unless there are questions i think we we could either take it or not but it is right below the engineer's estimate um 18 um mw esb participation looks
 copacetic to me those are did you someone move the adoption of the report is there a second or second so I can do it adopt the report second okay further discussion anyone want to speak on this item roll call then please right I obviously respect the procurement process I am concerned that
 about the relatively low level of minority and women's small businesses, particularly when you break out the minority businesses as opposed to the disadvantaged businesses. It's only $4,283 out of $9 million.
 I asked about the employees of James W. Fowler, and I'm told that they currently have 107 employees, of which 12 are female and 15 are minorities. So suspend the rules and let Moody respond to your questions, please. I'm sorry, Commissioner. I thought I had enough time to run across the street. Christine Moody, Procurement Services.
 so you have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to james w fowler the engineer's estimate on this project was 10 million 800 000. on january 5 2016 six bids were received and jw fowler is the low bidder at 9 million 145 000 which is 16.44 below the estimate the bureau of environmental services has reviewed the bid items and accepts the proposed pricing as good
 Working with procurement services, BES identified the PAL Sewer Rehabilitation Phase 1 project to pilot the new Subcontractor Equity Program. This program establishes an aspirational goal of 20% of hard construction costs for disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses. Thank you.
 DMW-ESB subcontracting at the time of bid was 13.78%. And working with J.W. Fowler, we were able to find additional opportunities, and the DMW-ESB participation at this time is at 18%, with the entire 18% going towards disadvantaged minority and women contractors. J.W. Fowler has also committed to look for additional opportunities once the project has started, estimated at $200,000.
 I'll turn this back over to counsel if you have any questions.
 So I was in the middle of my discussion, and obviously the procurement process is as it is, and I know that you continue to work on how can we encourage or require or give points for both additional minority contracting and subcontracting, and also companies that are making an effort to diversify their workforce. So that was,
 It's really of concern to me, and I know it is to you too. So I know that we're going to be getting a report on the community benefits agreement coming to council in the next few months, the pilot projects that we did. And so I think there's a huge opportunity for us to look at what are our rules and how can we make it even more likely that we're going to be getting subcontractors in the pipeline.
 so that companies know what's coming up in the next six months, 12 months, even before we put it out to bid, so that Oregon tradeswomen can start training people for the particular subcontracting jobs. I mean, that's obviously not procurement services' job, but it's something that's the entire council's job and that we should be looking at how can we promote, use public dollars to make sure that people, everyone has an equal, has opportunity to work
 benefit from working using those dollars. So thank you for your ongoing work on that. And I'm glad you mentioned that, Commissioner. I think that the bureaus have
 have really heard counsel and are trying to do some more promoting of projects. For instance, BES is having an outreach event this afternoon to talk about contracting opportunities for the next six to nine months. And that's a merging of general contractors and minority contractors so that they can start doing that preparation that you just mentioned.
 Yeah, and then including the trades apprenticeships program to let them know we're going to need more of this kind of skill than this, and so if folks are just coming to their door,
 who are able-bodied and willing to learn, but aren't necessarily wedded to being a particular trait or another, that they can help direct them to the ones that are going to be coming up most likely and get them trained in the time allowed. So thank you, colleagues, for all your work on this. I was actually, it almost felt like a movie. You were raising all these concerns, and you came in stage left, sat down, and answered them. I focused on my notes. That's the way it should work.
 I'm delighted that it came in below the engineer's estimate, so that's a savings to our rate payers. And we've already had a discussion about the benefit of this project. Thanks to Scott Gibson and the team, and thanks to Procurement for your good work. Aye. Aneesh Chopra, Solicitor General, Novic, Niels. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to 231.
 Authorize a contract with Winaha Group, Inc., in the amount of $250,000 for on-call construction project management services at city-owned spectator venues as solicited through RFP number 118847. Ms. Hartnett, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Excuse me, Susan Hartnett, Spectator Facilities and Development Manager. Good morning, Mr. Mayor.
 in the Office of Management and Finance. I will be brief, hopefully less than the 10 minutes I have on the agenda.
 The item before Council authorizes an on-call contract for construction project management services to support the Spectator Venues Program. You may recall that we've had two prior contracts for these types of services. The first one was in 2012 when we began with the replacement of the ice floor and ice plant at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum.
 The second one was in 2014 and was part of the contract process for the Veterans Memorial Coliseum Options Study.
 We have continued with a fairly robust annual program of repair and replacement projects, primarily at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum to assure public safety and the reliability of operations at the VMC. The work under this contract before you today will continue to support those ongoing efforts. Thank you.
 This contract may be used to support some work at other spectator program facilities. For example, we are going to be moving into the next steps in ADA transition plan implementation at Providence Park and may utilize some of the subcontractors under this contract to help to support that work.
 We may also be utilizing some of it in our ongoing work with Metro and the Portland Five Centers for the Arts as we work to assess and quantify the repair, replacement, and capital improvement needs at those facilities.
 As the clerk mentioned, this contract was solicited through an RFP 118847, and Wenaha Group, LLC, was selected by an evaluation committee that actually included representatives from our partner organizations at the Rose Quarter and Providence Park. Wenaha Group also supports the city's goals for diversity in contracting. They are a minority business enterprise and an emerging small business.
 And coincidentally, their offices are in the left bank building directly across the street, which make it very easy for them to get to the Coliseum. The contract is for $250,000, and the term runs through June 30, 2018. I will acknowledge that in the second directive of the ordinance, it does mention the word checks. I will make sure that we change that language in future ordinances. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for pointing that out, and I'm happy to answer any questions.
 questions thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item if not it's an emergency ordinance let's vote please 100% minority participation here I know Vic thank you I okay 232 update city travel policy
 Yes, we do. Welcome back. Hello. Betsy Ames, Office of Management and Finance. Michelle Kirby, City Controller, BRFS. So we do have an amendment, is that right? Yes.
 We're here today to seek your approval to the revision to the travel policy, which is Accounting Admin Rule FIN 613. So we brought it forth last week, and then at your direction, we strengthened the section related to approval of travel. So now the policy states that all travel-related expenses must be authorized in advance of travel.
 and must be approved by the Bureau Director and the Bureau's Commissioner in Charge. Commissioners in Charge can authorize one or more designees to approve the travel on their behalf, and the Bureau Directors can authorize one or more designees to approve the travel on their behalf. And this authorization needs to be in writing and submitted to my office so that we have it on file. And so...
 We've revised what we think your intent was, and so we are seeking your approval at this time. Do you want us to move that amendment? Please. Go ahead. There's that amendment, and then we also are requesting that you include an implementation date of April 1, 2016, so we can communicate these changes to the bureaus and get all the forms ready for their use.
 so Commissioner fish moves both those minutes okay so I second did this capture what you wanted to see appreciate it further discussion please
 on the amendment on the amendments fritz hi fish hi saltzman hi novik hi hails hi and i don't believe testimony is appropriate because we asked for that last week unless anyone wants to speak on this item we'll take a vote on the amended ordinance fritz thank you this makes some very sensible changes thank you both for your good work and for um your work fine-tuning it over the last week hi i appreciate the fine-tuning and thank you very much for your work hi
 novick thank you for your work and i would have voted yes last week hi hi thank you okay um 233 please
 accept and appropriate a grant in the amount of $400,000 from the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife and a grant in the amount of $120,438 from Oregon State Marine Board for the Willamette Park Boat Ramp Tow Repair, Debris Boom Repair, and Dredge Project.
 person thank you mayor i put this on the regular agenda to celebrate that we are receiving a grant in the amount of 400 000 which is and another one for 120 000 thanks to our great staff who write these grants and our community support the willamette boat ramp willamette park boat ramp is the most heavily used access point on the willamette river and the only access point to the river on the west side of portland the ramp area and transient dock
 and that's not used in the derogatory sense that we sometimes hear of transients, are currently limited by substantial settlement buildup, making operations in low water extremely difficult and hazardous and causing delays to boat users and emergency vehicles. And
 We applied to the Oregon State Marine Board and the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, so I'm very pleased to bring the acceptance of these two grants. The total award of $520,438 will allow Portland Parks and Recreation to make crucial repairs that will restore this heavily used community access point to full functionality. If anyone does have any questions, Maya, go ahead.
 Agawal, Portland Parks and Recreation Senior Planner, and Jorge Villancio, Senior Associate Engineer, are here to answer any questions. Great questions about this project. Did you want to add anything? Did I mess up? No, I think that's right. So this is repair of the existing project.
 Correct. Dock. We get many requests to do additional dock work, and we don't have the funding for it nor the planning in some cases. So at the least, we're repairing the one that we have through generous grants from the state. Great. Okay. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Does it look like it? Then let's take a vote, please, to accept the money.
 Looking further in my notes, the last upgrade was in 1997, so this is really past due, and I'm very glad to be able to do it. Thank you both to the staff over here today, and also Shelley Hunter and Michelle Rodriguez for seeking out the grants. This is a good team effort, and thank you for your work. Thank you.
 Yes. Congratulations, Commissioner Fritz and the Parks Bureau. This is a heavily used facility, and it soon will be complemented by a new pump station that has been designed and developed with the community. So terrific work. Aye. Aye.
 Good work No thank you Congratulations I remember that last upgrade and I think I was parks commissioner then and I'm very happy as a boat owner to pay my very expensive Oregon State Marine Board fee so it can pay for projects like this
 you very much it looks like by the way to between these grants uh the ones for pbm and one for pbm and one for transportation there were at least a million dollars to the good today so that's uh that's a good day's work aye thank you very much thank you how much is the fee to the marine board my boat's about 200 bucks so it's not to be sneezed at all right then uh 234.
 amend the regional water sales agreements with Tualatin Valley Water District and the City of Tualatin regarding the purchase and interruptible water during the summer roll call vote please I wish I want to thank the water bureau team for bringing this home and just to remind my colleagues we serve almost almost a million people in the region and
 And about 400,000 of those people receive water through a wholesale customer. The smallest amount of water that we sell to our wholesale customers is called interruptible water. And it's the discretionary water that goes above and beyond the guaranteed amount of water we provide them. We had a disagreement about how to interpret and apply some key clauses in the contract.
 I commend the Bureau and our esteemed wholesale customers for working this out through mediation and through negotiation and not through protracted litigation. And the upside for our community, including our rate payers, is that by resolving this contractual dispute, which admittedly is a small piece of the pie, the puzzle, it opens the door to us being able to sell more water to our wholesale customers. And nothing makes a Water Bureau director happier than to sell more water.
 So thanks to everyone for the good work. This is an honorable compromise, and I'm pleased to support it. There we go. Hi. Saltsman. Good work. Hi.
 No. The world beset by drought. I'm glad that we have discretionary water to sell. Aye. There you go. Hayles. Well, I appreciate the good work here. This is really important to keep the solid relationship with wholesale customers and sell them more water because the bull run is a great source. People sometimes go to crazy lengths to avoid using bull run water, but this gives them the opportunity to do the right thing for their own citizens. Aye. Aye.
 Okay, 236, 305, sorry. 235, authorize application to the Oregon Office of State Fire Marshal for a grant in the amount of $33,000 for advanced hazmat life support and tox medic training for the Portland Fire and Rescue Hazmat Team. Mr. Salsman.
 Well, we've had a member of Portland Fire and Rescue very patiently waiting here all morning. Yes, sir. I'm not going to say a word. I'll turn it over to you. All right. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Sean Christensen, HAZMAT training lieutenant with Portland Fire and Rescue. As was stated, this is a – we're seeking authorization to apply for this grant through the Oregon State Fire Marshal's Office. Okay.
 through the Hazardous Materials Emergency Preparedness Grant Program. So this training is to, as was basically stated, provide recertification and certification for new employees within the City of Portland and the region and actually the state, since we are a state team also, for advanced hazmat life support and then top medic course. And I'm here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Questions? Yes.
 Thanks very much. Appreciate it. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Ritz? Aye. Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Thanks, Lieutenant. Aye. Novick? Hales? Aye.
 Well, speaking of boats, we had a huge fire about 10 days ago that destroyed about 300 boats on Hayden Island. And, boy, if you talk about the need for hazmat training and to deal with toxics, that had to be a pretty serious challenge for the Fire Bureau. I was there and working on that most of the evening, yes. Yeah, a whole bunch of stuff that caught fire that –
 isn't good to breathe so that's why this this training really matters because our folks are at risk in situations like that who knows what chemicals that you know really could threaten our firefighters health not to mention everyone else so important work thank you aye okay 236 36 amend the special traffic control district code to create a uniform temporary street closure approval process
 So, colleagues, for the past couple of years, Commissioner Fish and I have worked together and asked the public works bureaus we oversee to find better ways of coordinating maintenance utility work to minimize street and sidewalk closures and minimize the impact of those closures on vehicle traffic, pedestrians, bikers, and adjacent business owners. What we have here is a proposal to...
 to amend a portion of the code to basically delete exemptions to the requirement that anyone performing work in the right-of-way is required to get a permit to close the street. And here to elaborate on that is Faith Weingarten. Thank you. Thank you for hearing the proposal. I'm Faith Weingarten. I am PBOT Temporary Street Use Permitting Program Manager. Thank you.
 Our goal is to assure that when traffic flow or pedestrian flow is interrupted to facilitate construction, utility work, or maintenance, that there's a well-thought-out, approved plan for traffic control and pedestrian routing. This has, of course, always been the goal, but now there is a need to have the process more formalized.
 Although code states that anyone performing work in the right-of-way is required to get a permit to close the street, there is an exemption in code to this requirement if there is a separate city permit to do the work, for example, a street opening permit for utilities. Historically, if someone performing work in the right-of-way under a separate city permit needed to close a lane or sidewalk, they may have randomly sent a traffic control plan to the traffic engineer for input.
 Because many city permits give a long range of time to complete the work, it was not clear when and where this work would occur in the right-of-way.
 As our city has grown and continues to grow, we are requesting the change in code being proposed to better manage the right-of-way, requiring anyone whose work in the public right-of-way to obtain a lane or sidewalk closure permit fits within the current process to have a traffic control plan reviewed, approved, and tracked for specific dates. Thank you.
 The fee assessed provides cost recovery for the activities of the program, for example, traffic engineer review time. Currently there is an interim method in place to achieve these goals, but in order to be consistent with the permitting process in place, we would like to align this with our current permitting process for sidewalk closures and lane closures. The end result would support our goals of improved right-of-way management and coordination.
 Any questions? Thank you. Questions? It looks like there aren't any. Thank you very much. Okay, great. This is not an emergency ordinance, so unless there's any testimony, it will pass the second reading next week. Thanks very much. Thank you. We're recessed until 2 p.m. Thank you. All right, Carla, are we ready? Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the March 9th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Ritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Here. Novick?
 Here, I think Commissioner Fish will be joining us a little later. Welcome, everyone. We have a single item on the council calendar this afternoon. Would you read that, please? Item 237, report on the work to engage at-risk youth under the Mayor's Community Center initiative during fiscal year 2015-16. Well, thank you. I'm very pleased to have this chance for the community and our partners to report back to
 to the city council about what we've been doing together in our community centers let me set the stage for this a little bit I'm the police commissioner in ours in our form of government each of us has Bureau responsibilities even
 Even though all of us are responsible for the whole city and responsible for everything city government does, we have this departmental responsibility. And so I'm the police commissioner. And every time something bad happens in our city, this thing goes off either in my pocket or on my bed stand and tells me what's going on. And way too many times during the time that I've been mayor, I've been –
 picking this up and hearing about violence affecting young people in this city. And it's a plague, and it's an outrage, and it's something that we all have to work together and stop. There were 30 homicides in our city last year. For a city of our size, maybe that's not a huge number, but it's still too big. And 15 of them were gang-related. Fifteen. Fifteen.
 gang-related homicides in our city last year. Seventy-five people wounded in gang violence last year. A thousand shots fired around our neighborhoods. And, again, too many of those shots hit home and killed or wounded someone. So I take that seriously. I take it personally. It's the hardest part of my job to see people in our community suffering from that kind of violence, and particularly young people who are vulnerable in lots of ways, but they shouldn't have to be vulnerable to that.
 So it's something that I'm passionate about changing and that we I believe that we changed by working together And I know you do too, which is why a lot of you are in this work who are here in this room I'm also like everyone here a former parks commissioner Or a current parks commissioner. Don't don't worry Amanda. I
 Yeah, really, thanks. Commissioner Novick, who's not here this afternoon, is the only one of the four of us who hasn't yet had the privilege of serving as Parks Commissioner. Maybe someday he'll get the chance. But being the Parks Commissioner means you get to see young people in our city doing amazing things and coming together as community. And, again, we're going to see some of that today. And I had the particular privilege when I was Parks Commissioner of having the director of parks be Charles Jordan.
 a man who was an amazing leader in our city, a leader in the African-American community, and somebody who was just passionate about opportunity and access for young people. And he pounded that into my head and my heart that it's our job to provide access to opportunity and access to recreation.
 And so that's what's come together here as I looked at the appalling issues of youth violence in our city and I looked at the cost of participating in recreation programs and thought about the barriers, particularly for people that may not have enough money to pay for all those fees. And then when I was approached by Khalid Bombeck and the other young men that organized the East African All-Stars and said, hey, we've organized a team, but we need a place to play –
 That's when the light went on, and I approached my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, the head of our Parks Bureau, and said, let's put something together in our budget to make recreation more free and more available for more people. And that's what this program has accomplished, and that's what we're here to hear about today, to get a progress report from both the folks that are managing that program, from our partners, and from many of the youth that are engaged today.
 in that good work. So with that, let me bring up our panel to start this presentation, which is Antoinette Edwards from the Office of Youth Violence Prevention, Diana Nunez from my office, and Karen Burt from Parks and Recreation. So welcome, ladies, and thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fish for this opportunity. I'm going to be really brief because I'm excited for today. This is about celebrating and gratitude. And I just want to thank you, Mayor Hills, and thank you, commissioners, for this vision, for this reality. And it really reminds me that this is historic. This has not happened before.
 to come together and really listen to young people, say what they need. You participate in active listening, Mayor, when the young folks are at CPC and community folks. This is what we need. You're telling us to put down the gun, but what are you giving us to pick up? And what this day represents for me and many others is equal access to neighborhood, welcoming people back to Matt Dishman. I grew up when it was not street.
 And you really level the playing field so that everyone had an opportunity to come in and feel safe and enjoy. And I think it's heroic. Sometimes it's the act of caring and responding to a need. But the history of this is you're responding to the Bill of Rights for Young People, for Children's Rights. And I'm just going to read that and I will be finished. The Bill of Rights for Children and the Youth of City of Portland in Multnomah County.
 Recreation. We, the children and youth of Portland and Multnomah County, deserve access to safe and clean recreational areas. Parks. We have the right to safe, clean, and affordable access to parks and facilities at times which are convenient to children and youth.
 Culture. We have the right to access music, art, libraries, and museums, and other resources that could strengthen our creative and intellectual abilities. And you've done that. You brought the community together, and as you can look out, it's diverse, the richness of culture, and what I respect most about
 that this process was done with cultural humility. You invited communities in and said, you're the experts. You have the relationship. Guide us in the process and how we bring all the young people together. And it was amazing. Over 24,000 young people feeling connected, feeling like they had access, that there were no barriers. Just imagine if we can continue to do this. So I thank you for this opportunity. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Diana Nunez, and I am staff for Mayor Hales. And I want to take this opportunity to be part of this introduction of the Mayor's Community Center's initiative. Ms. Antoinette and Ms. Karen here. As Antoinette said, this initiative was born out of the community coming together and advocating for their youth. The mayor heard the community. He saw the numbers, the data, and saw an opportunity, and he acted.
 And when you have the community coming together with one voice and government listening and supporting, good things happen. So we will be able to hear today some of the great things that have happened through this initiative. My role here has been to be a point person from the mayor's office to take the vision and make it into a reality. I've had the privilege to work with several of the staff from the mayor's office, Deputy Chief of Staff Tara Pierce, Antoinette Edwards, Tom Peavy from the Office of Youth and Violence Prevention. Thank you.
 Josh Alpert, Chief of Staff from the Mayor's Office, and as well as Stefan Hartley, our amazing intern in the Mayor's Office who is here today, who gave this initiative of Youth Voice by shooting down every cool idea that we came up with as staff, but then provided actual cool alternatives. So Stefan is here as well today.
 And last but not least, the amazing Parks team who gracefully accepted this challenge and have gone above and beyond in the name of our community for our teens and our youth. I'd like to recognize them now, if they could please stand. Josh Green, Karen Burt, Aileen Argentina, if she's here, Callie Kurtz, Neil Brown, Madeline Bach, Maximo Brenz. I'm not sure if I'm missing everybody, but I believe that those are a lot of the people that we've worked with, and we appreciate them greatly. Thank you.
 with parks the mayor and commissioner fritz's support we wanted to identify opportunities to provide safe supervised spaces and programs to facilitate positive youth development and offered alternatives to unsafe and negative activities which are damaging our community we identified four components of the community center initiative pilot first a summer youth pass and we'll hear more about it but it was at dishman and east portland which provided free access to additional youth programming all summer long i was able to witness a
 The beginning of when this started, walking into Matt Dishman, and then the amazing change that happened when I was able to walk in midsummer and end of summer, seeing the halls packed with kids, basketball, ping pong, dancing, just even talking in the halls. It was amazing the energy that I was able to see and the transformation from the beginning of the summer to the end of the summer. Yeah.
 We had dedicated teen nights year-round. We had Friday and Saturday teen nights at St. John's, Mount Scott, Montevilla, East Portland, and Dishman, providing a safe place for teens to come during those hours that are most crucial when kids don't have much to do. Thank you.
 We identified and partnered with local community youth organizations to enhance and expand the great work that they're already doing in our city. We awarded over $350,000 to seven community partners to work with our youth and our community centers together. I'd like to recognize those partners who are here today. Thank you.
 representing POIC, Boys and Girls Club, ERCO Africa House, Latino Network, Rosewood Initiative, NAYA, and SEI. They deserve the credit just as much as our city team does of making this work happen. Would you stand up, please? Thank you all. I don't know if they did already. Thank you.
 And lastly, we worked with Montevilla Community Center and turned it into a teen center, and we'll hear more about that from Karen. In September, we kicked off Montevilla turning into a teen center, which is open seven days a week, 3 p.m. to 10 p.m., where our kids can come and just be teens and be supportive with additional programming and mentorship. So now I'd like to pass it over to Karen to talk more about those initiatives. Thank you.
 I want to say hello and thank you all for having us here today, and thank you very much for this opportunity for the youth that we serve in parks every day.
 With my office located at Montevilla Community Center, I've had the pleasure of watching the growth and change in individual kids throughout this school year in particular. I've watched kids who had come in frequently instigating arguments, creating confrontation with both staff and other youth become leaders at our center just through the short months of the school year thus far. And it's just been an amazing opportunity for all of us. The goal of the Portland Parks and Recreation Teen Services Program
 has been equal parts access and engagement of the youth. As the amazing Charles Jordan said, we really strive to be more than just fun and games. That has been our goal since...
 Most elements, the most important elements of the teen services program is our people. We have a great team of amazing team coordinators located at sites throughout the city. We have two new additions to the team that are here today as well. On top of who Diane already introduced, would Carlos Banks and Jason Smith also please stand up? They just started last week to help round out our team. Thank you.
 Our team is diverse in interest, in youth development background, in age, in race, ethnicity, and upbringing. We share a passion, however, for emphasizing and bringing out the full potential of youth in the communities that we serve.
 Each coordinator is supported by an array of casual employees, and while we wish we could have brought them all today, we would have filled this room at some over with the amazing support we get from people who act as gym attendants and cooking instructors and dance teachers and homework help, and the list goes on and on. All of these individuals play double duty, acting both as instructor for skill-based activities and role model and mentor to these youths.
 They all go above and beyond that just teaching cooking to being a listening ear and a support for the children that are in their care every day. These amazing individuals are able to create programs we refer to as our Teen Force Program. The Teen Force Program embodies the energy and excitement of the youth into engaging and empowering programs for kids ages 11 to 20 years old.
 While the basic structure for delivery was in place prior to the Mayor's initiative, the Mayor's announcement and support has allowed TeenForce to fulfill its ambition of providing the opportunity to access to all youth by bringing down barriers that have existed in our structure. Parks has reduced these barriers that a self-sustaining pricing model created by allowing us to offer a full array of programming absolutely free of charge.
 Currently, we're exploring additional barrier reductions in transportation and being able to get either services to youth who can't reach our centers or getting those youth from those facilities to sites near them. After the mayor's announcement last spring, Matt Dishman's staff really rallied around to get everything in place on a short time and spread the word through the Teen Force campaign.
 Participants were offered free access to the pool, fitness room, gym, and a full menu of enrichment opportunities. Youth under the age of 18 were spending their entire day at the center. A total of 2,418 youth registered for youth passes at Matt Dishman alone. The average number of youth users daily at that facility was 1,128. While these numbers show the need for access to free opportunities,
 We also learned a lot through the summer, lessons that we're taking as we build in the upcoming year and get ready to head into the new summer. We've learned that access to only one facility put a lot of stress on that facility and the staff and did not reach all of the youth in the city because there are transportation barriers in place where we had kids in the outer east or further up north who didn't find it easy to access one particular site.
 From those lessons, we were able to add opportunity over at East Portland Community Center, and Montevilla Pool is a start to reducing those increased barriers. By the end of the summer, we had free passes in the hands of 3,296 youth for drop-in activities. It's keeping those kids actively engaged in positive recreation during their out-of-school time this summer. And I want to make sure to give a really...
 A huge thank you to the staff at Matt Dishman that started us off on a good foot there and really shifted their way of thinking and made it fit for that community center and to provide opportunities for those youth. From that success, the teen coordinators created the new Teen Force Pass to help provide data and encourage participation between sites throughout the school year, working within a more targeted age group from 11 to 20 years old,
 These passes initially included many of the drop-in programs that were already offered for teens through Portland Parks and Recreation, open gyms, some game room access, a handful of enrichment programmings. But the mayor's community center initiative allowed us to create designated teen spaces available during all out-of-school hours at every one of the five Teen Force sites. So access to that was added to the pass this past year.
 Early this year, we've also included some fitness room access and pool access to four sites throughout the city as well. Teen nights have increased from twice a month at many of our facilities to every Friday or Saturday night. The simple word of mouth has helped us provide passes to 1,597 youth within the first few months of offering those teen force passes.
 Within the first quarter, we saw 7,916 recorded visits by 1,011 individuals, which tells us that each of those 1,000 youths received an average of eight important contacts with trusted and caring adults. Moving forward, we hope to combine the Summer Youth Pass with the School Year Teen Force Pass and make a more seamless access for youth throughout the year.
 With an emphasis on access, Portland Parks has also taken the opportunity to truly show our dedication to youth by converting one of our facilities to a teen center from 3 to 10 p.m. seven days per week. Montevilla Community Center is one of Portland Parks and Recreation's smaller and older facilities with limited amenities and space.
 Prior to the mayor's announcement, by 5 p.m., youth only had access to the facility through self-sustaining, meaning for-fee, classes that required pre-registration by their parents. As of September of 2015, the mayor's community center initiative...
 allowed us to convert from all-age community programming into free youth center with ample open gym times, a lobby full of game equipment, free after-school snacks, and a constantly growing list of free drop-in opportunities from break dancing to cooking. Most importantly, youth attending Montevilla are greeted by consistent, caring adults who act as positive role models and mentors daily. Thank you.
 With a seven-day-per-week operation, youth don't have to guess when they're able to walk through our doors and find a friend or some needed support. The smaller, more intimate size of the facility makes relationship building and positive contact with adults accessible from the moment a young person walks through the door. We are growing partnership opportunities with STARS Mentoring, iUrban Team, and the REAP program, just to name a few.
 Youth are free to be themselves without the worry of stepping on preschoolers or upsetting other patrons in the facility, and staff are able to take the time to provide guidance without needing to immediately hush what some adults would find to be volatile voices. It's been a great pleasure. I can't emphasize enough how much joy it's been to sit and watch these changes occur over the past years.
 These interactions are nearly impossible to quantify or put a value on, and it's what makes the teen services program a lot more than just fun and games.
 At this point, I think I'd like to take the opportunity to turn the microphone over to some of our youth to provide some testimony on their experiences. Great. I think we have some panels of youth leaders from different programs here. Destiny Kares, Peggy Balambo, Rashad Elliott, and Rosa Okoa. Bring up another chair if you want to have four at a time or maybe come on up. Yes, please. Okay.
 Welcome. I think you're on first, Destiny. Just pull that microphone a little closer to you. It'll swing around there. Great. There you go. Hi. My name is Destiny Karras. I am a sophomore at Jefferson High School in North Portland. Additionally, I am the leading member of the Teen Advisory Council at Charles Jordan Community Center. The Teen Advisory Council is a new youth-led program that helps us address issues we teenagers are concerned with in our communities.
 This program gives us teens a chance to voice our own opinions and be heard. Our group is currently discussing the effects that gentrification can have on teens. We're brainstorming possible ways we can address gentrification, like hosting protests and group talks. Gentrification is moving all low-income families out to Gresham, Oregon. The reason I'm speaking here today is because I want to inform the city on the benefits that teens get from parks and recreation.
 One of the main benefits is T-Night. T-Night is a free drop-in program from 7-10 p.m. every Saturday night at Charles Jordan Community Center. The rec gives teens a safe place to come and hang out. During this time, they open up the gym, dance studio, and game room. On average, T-Night can have a weekly attendance from anywhere from 90 to 130 teens. They also provide pizza during these hours.
 Portland Parks and Recreation not only offers teen nights on Saturday, but also on Fridays at Mount Scott Community Center, East Portland Community Center, Matt Dishman Community Center, and Montevilla Community Center, keeping teens safe and out of trouble throughout the whole weekend. Teen night is only one benefit us teens receive from Parks and Recreation. Every weekday, they have free open gym and game room for teens.
 Teens also get free memberships to their workout room. Last month, I sat down and had a conversation with our Teen Advisory Council coordinator, Ryan, and told him that I felt like we should have free drop-in dance studios throughout the week also. He told me that he would look into it for me. Now we have free dance studio three days a week. Teens benefits from parks and recreation in schools also.
 because Teen Council gives us a chance to earn free volunteer credits. Parks and Recreation benefits teens financially because they offer us summer jobs. Teen Council also sits down with us and helps us write resumes. The staff at Parks and Recreation have positive relationships with us teens also.
 In conclusion, the teens in our community truly value Parks and Recreation because it benefits us teens by offering us tea night on Friday and Saturday nights, productive drop-in activities during the week, and extra volunteer credits and summer jobs. Thanks for listening. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Peggy Bulambo, and I'm 15 years old, and I'm a freshman at Benson High School.
 I just want to talk about my problem that I had before I went to the African house. Me and my mom didn't get along. We used to yell at each other for not listening to her. She said I had bad friends because I never went to school. Every time I would go to school, I would never go to class. I would go to my friend's house. We would stay at their house and smoke and drink, do other stuff. My grades started getting low so that she could keep getting phone calls at home. Everything I did was trying to fit in with people because I'm not from here.
 And she needed help with me because she was thinking about going back to where I came from, and I couldn't do that because I needed education for school. And then she said, if you need education, then why are you doing all this stuff? And then she met a friend who knows the African House, and he introduced us to them, and then we started working together. Until now, I've been doing good. I don't hang out with those people no more. I don't do no bad things no more. And...
 I've been going to school on time. Me and my mom don't yell at each other and fight no more. And I'm happy that there's a program for me, for people like me, because I'm African, and there's a program for us to be ourselves and not try to fit in with anybody. So I want to thank the mayor for having this program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Rashad, welcome. Hi, my name is Rashad. I'm a senior at POIC North.
 And for me, the kickback at my dishman is just a really cool and safe environment. You can stop by, get a haircut, they have open gym, and you can even get something to eat if you're hungry. It's also really cool because I myself am behind in credits, and if you go enough times, you can get an elective credit. So that's pretty cool. That's great. That's great. Keep it up. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, Coach.
 There we go. Hi, my name's Jenny. I'm a sophomore at Rosemary Anderson High School at New Columbia. I like how students are such a big part of planning to make the kickback fun. When Aron first gave me a flyer for the kickback, it sounded kind of boring, but I still went to check it out because I felt bad for Aron. So I'm glad that I went, though. And I have a couple ideas for getting other students excited for kickback, especially girls. I think that students should start making the kickback flyers and passing them out.
 Also, Kickback should have a dance party. We should get a DJ, good music, and get people on stage to sing. Good ideas. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Okay, we have some more. Yeah, let's hear it. We always clap. Okay, we have, I think, Freddy Nino, Juan Garcia, and Andrea Alvarado. Are they here? Yes, they are. Come on up. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Who's going to start? Yeah. Yeah.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Halels and City Council members. My name is Rafael Nino, and I am an ISHI participant. Thank you for providing T-Nights. We Latino youth and our families appreciate having a space to do fun things that are safe and where we feel comfortable. Where I live, there isn't much to do. T-Nights has opened the doors and offered youth like myself opportunities.
 and I will engage in positive activities instead of being out on the streets facing or engaging in a risk of violent activities. Myself, Juan, and many other youth go to both community centers where Latino Network has C-Nights
 the one in East County and the St. John's because we enjoy having this space to spend our time. Thanks again for providing this space. Thank you. Thanks very much. My hails and city council members. My name is Juan Garcia. I'm a sophomore at Centennial High School. I play varsity basketball, and I do well in school. Right now, I have some college teams scouting me. Playing ball is really important to me, and I really appreciate being able to play basketball at team night.
 I make sure I go as a Chicano and to be proud of it. I like being able to go play where I feel comfortable. Most kids, most of the kids really like to play basketball. Thank you for opening up the centers to us. Basketball is a popular sport. A lot of youth show up just to play ball. After teen nights, I actually go to the park by my house and play basketball for another hour or so.
 I would stay at the community centers if it stayed open later. We both, me and Alfredo, want to thank you on behalf of the youth at Latino Networks Teen Nights for creating a safe space where we can ball, play games, and spend time with other youth. It means a lot to us, and we hope it continues to be available. Thank you. Thanks very much. Hi, my name is Andrea Alvarado. I'm a senior at Grant High School, and I've been a part of the Boys and Girls Club for 12 years.
 One of the big issues teens are facing today is not being able to find jobs or internships to provide worldwide training. Teens who have no job experience most likely have not acquired the skills to properly fill out an application, or create resumes, or properly deal with others in a professional manner. Through the Boys and Girls Club, I was able to acquire these skills through a program known as Youth Force. Youth Force is a program where teens gain on-the-job experience, and it prepares teens for college readiness.
 I have developed my communication skills and my confidence with the help of this program. Since I was provided with this great opportunity, it affected my family in a way where they can see the positivity coming from it, and that it helped us in such a big way. Another issue for teens are facing is a connection to a positive social outlet that is relevant to their needs. There are many programs for little kids, but for teens they seem to end right after middle school.
 which is one of the reasons we value your initiatives to support teen programs across the city. This funding has helped me and hundreds of other teens participate in activities and programs after school and on the weekends for free of charge. We have not only learned valuable skills, but also had safe places to perform friendships and to get great advice from adults, and most importantly, to just have fun. Um...
 The Boys and Girls Club and the teen program has given me opportunities to build my leadership skills. It has become because of my relationship with the club staff that I have been encouraged to participate in new things and to always keep an open mind, and most recently to empower myself to lead others. I have felt confidence to become the president of my school's Metra Club and to compete with the Boys and Girls Club Youth of the Year and to dedicate myself to my future plans, which is...
 early childhood education. They have given me values and experience to support in public speaking, a skill that I have once been afraid but now the confidence to take on. Most importantly, the Boys and Girls Club Teen Program has taught me to be an advocate. I am now a part of the Youth Leadership Council of the ACT Program, which advocates teens to receive the health education they are asking for. I feel that I have a value...
 I have a valuable voice that is being heard and something that most teens don't get to experience. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Good job. So we've heard from some of the youth. Now we're going to hear from some of the adults. We have Tim Sessions from the Portland Police Bureau, Julia Mitchell from POIC, I. Brown from Street Level Gang Outreach. Come on up. Tiffany Morris from NIA. I think we have four chairs.
 While they're getting settled, I was out at Boys and Girls Club for the Attorney General's visit. Some of the teens that Sergeant Sessions had been working with were there, and he'll probably turn red when I talk about it, but they value you very much as a mentor, and it was nice to hear that from them. Thank you, Mayor. It's an honor to be here, and it's good to see you too, Commissioners. Thank you.
 I'd like to let you know what we did this last summer. Usually it is the practice of the Youth Services Division, which is a combination of those officers that teach the great gang resistance education and training program, the school resource officers, and other officers we have assigned to our unit, basically to supplement patrol, to go back into patrol and to take 911 calls. But this last summer...
 it was a fun summer because we got to go play with the youth we were specifically assigned to go to the parks to work with the parks department and specifically to work with the summer food service program to help hand out lunches
 And there is nothing like looking to the eyes of the youth when you do that and you engage them with conversation, and especially if they have a ball with them and all of a sudden you see your fellow officers that you didn't know they were that agile and they're starting throwing, kicking around a ball. I did. I started kicking a ball around. Well, that's one uniform that got ripped out, but anyway. Okay.
 Anyway, we had fun. We also went to the centres, Matt Dishman Centre, the Monta Via Centre, Peninsular Park, St. John's Community Centre, McCoy Park, all over. Any place we could find youth, we were given direction. If you see youth playing basketball, go join them. But more importantly, we found how many of them we got to engage them in conversations.
 because we have an advantage. Many of the youth recognize my officers because they're their school resource officers, and we got to sit down with them and just have conversations. Also what was fun, especially at the Dishman Center, was how many adults were there.
 A few of my officers, I expected them to be in the weight room, and they were. It's because many of the youth were with uncles, grandfathers, other friends, and they were in working with them, giving them advice as far as how to work out to set a program, and the youth would come in and listen to them and want to participate.
 so it was an outstanding uh summer but we also added on to it by participating in our portland police bureau's youth services division bike fiesta that we held at july 18th out in st john's and the main purpose of that one is a bicycle fiesta as far as participating in a rodeo teaching young children as far as the safe way of riding bikes but more important
 giving out helmets and sizing those helmets, bicycle helmets, to all those that need them. And that was a needed point because even I fall off bikes. So if a young child learning how to ride a bike, let's keep them safe.
 and the other part that we did is we participated in the summer camp program where we brought in over 500 youth a day for one full week where we had police officers we had fbi agents we had firefighters we had amr personnel plus other educators all volunteer their time at centennial high school for a full week being their coaches and again there's nothing like looking into the
 and valuing what they have to say, especially when you're trying to hit a tennis ball and they're telling you you're doing it wrong. So I thank you for giving us that opportunity, and I sure hope we can continue to have that opportunity in the future. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. Hello. I'm Julia Mitchell. I'm the Director of Community Outreach for Portland OIC, POIC, Rosemary Anderson High School.
 POIC thanks Mayor Charlie Hills and the Teen Initiative for its support to launch Kickback Night. Now, Teen Nights was the original name, but that wasn't getting many of our students' attention. But the word name Kickback did. And so once we renamed it to that, we had a number of kids wanting to know what that was all about. So they came out.
 and enjoyed themselves on the third Saturday night of each month. So our particular program is culturally specific for gang-impacted youth ages 14 through 20. Kickback Night is a collaboration among POIC, and also we leverage our teachers. Teachers come out on those evenings to support our youth.
 Our other staff come as well because we're all interested in seeing what's going on. We want to be there with the kids, see them have fun, not just in the classrooms or in any of the other programs that we operate. We leverage our gang outreach workers. They come on out, and it's not just POIC's outreach workers, but the other street-level gang outreach workers come on out to Matt Dishman every third Saturday night too to see what's going on and to support what we're doing there. Thank you.
 The nights start with dinner. Kids are always hungry. We want to make sure they're fed, followed by activities including basketball, which we have a number of young men come out and ladies come out and hoop it up against each other. They always have a friendly competition going on, so we appreciate seeing that too. And it's just fun. We see them running around being active.
 free, youthful and free and just enjoying themselves without the stressors that we typically see during the school day on our campuses. So it's nice seeing them just have a place where they can relax and just be themselves.
 We've had more than 140 young students come on out and participate since the program began in August, and our participation continues to grow. And as Jenny, one of our students, said, she wants to see more activities for the young ladies, so we're going to listen to her words and have things that she'd like to do, like the dance, the DJs, and whatever else she wants, we're going to have just for her.
 because we want to see her come and enjoy herself. Rosemary Anderson High School has three sites. We have our north campus near Killingsworth Court in Albina, New Columbia, and right on the border of Gresham on 181st and Division. So we gather our students from all three locations and bring them to Matt Dishman. And we are very, very, very appreciative to having this opportunity and to providing this activity for our kids.
 Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, Brown, Gang Outreach. I think what's the most valuable with us as outreach workers is the relationship that we build with these kids when we're going around from community center to community center and seeing these kids and interacting with them. So when there's an issue on the streets that happens,
 We can go up to them and make sure they're safe, and we're not a stranger to them if they're in an environment where it's going to be possible shooting or something going on, or if there's a fight at the mall like there has been over the past couple months. I think the one key thing is that they always say it takes a village to raise a child, and the collaboration that we have with the police bureau, with the parks and rec, that we're able to come in at any time.
 and interact with them. If they have a problem, they feel comfortable enough to say, hey, hi, hey, so-and-so, hey, Tiffany, whoever. That they feel comfortable enough to call us and say, we need your help. And for us to be able to go into some of the schools, Jefferson, SEI, Madison, Roosevelt,
 and be welcomed with open arms to just be able to work with the kids. I think, like I said, the kids, when they see us in the hallway, they see us in the school, they see us on the weekends, at the kickbacks, at the teen nights. And so it's opened up a lot of doors for the outreach to build that bond with those kids and build that rapport.
 And, like I said, open them up and be able to sit there and have real candid conversations with them about what's going on, especially as outreach workers. There's always the negative, oh, you're the police, you're the Fed, you're whatever. But they don't realize that we're there for them to guide them to the right places and give them the resources they need.
 having this village that we have here today is a good representation that we've all come together for this initiative and for these kids that we may not see everything, the shootings go down right now, but with all of us touching these kids right now, a lot of these shootings and stuff that decline, we'll see three to five years from now. Thank you very much. Tiffany, welcome.
 Thank you. My name is Tiffany Morris, and with me is DeAndre Howard, and he has pretty much attended every open gym that we have had. So I am with the Native American Youth and Family Center, and my role at NAYA is the street level game officer.
 I first want to thank the city and Mary Harrels for the commitment to preventing gang violence by offering healthy safe opportunities for recreation and identity enhancement and also giving NEA the opportunity to provide those safe spaces for the youth of Portland through the Mayor's Teen Initiative. So far through the Mayor's Community Initiative Supporting Youth Project, NEA has engaged 150 youth through healthy pro-social enrichment with positive adult mentors who reflect their cultural background and experience.
 We have done this through Open Gym Basketball at North Portland University Park Baptist Church on Mondays and Thursday nights, where we typically have about 30 youth a night. Also on Saturday evenings, Youth Night at Neah, where we have Open Gym Basketball, have provided a kickboxing class, are currently working on a community photovoice project, and look forward to providing an automotive class. We also collaborate with Matt Dishman and have a Discovery and Absolute Fitness group, and were able to provide a boxing class last summer to the youth that attend Matt Dishman Community Center.
 We also have a youth empowerment group at Morrison's residential stage unit for girls who have been commercially sexually exploited. The greater number of youth we serve, 55%, are ages 16 to 20 and are Native American, African American, Latino, African immigrant, and mixed heritage backgrounds. Most of our youth come from North, Northeast Portland, and specifically the Cully neighborhood where parks and rec community centers do not exist.
 Through these activities, we have served 150 youth over 480 times and continue to see our numbers grow.
 After Nea received the Mayor's Teen Initiative grant, I started my youth empowerment group at Morrison's SAGE unit. While there, I met a young girl that was one of the first to go into SAGE. Over the course of her stay at SAGE, I was able to provide mentorship to this youth. I also started to attend RAP meetings and working with her family to support both the youth and the family in a positive way.
 The youth was the first to ever graduate from SAGE. After this youth graduated and went back home, she started to attend the Saturday night open gym to play basketball. She was a little intimidated by a lot of the males that attend due to her history. She was also not very good at basketball, but loved the sport nonetheless. When she got on the court, she was pleasantly surprised that not only was she treated with respect while playing, but other members
 that were playing on and off her team, we're giving her advice and pointers.
 Her experience well at NEA has been so positive and invigorating that it has helped in her healing, as well as give her the courage and confidence to try out for other sport teams at her school. She is currently going to school, getting awesome grades, just got a job, and is preparing to try out for cross country until basketball season starts again next year. In the collaboration that we have with the community, other outreach come in and support us, and we support them. Thank you all.
 Thanks very much. Yes, let's hear it for the adults, too. Adults ought to get applause, too. That's right. That's the way it should be. Okay, let's hear from Monica Serrell from SEI, Yolanda Gonzalez from Latina Network, Jimmy Dogo from ERCO Africa House, and Jason Normalis from Rosewood. Good afternoon, partners. Good afternoon. I'm Monique Serrell, and I work at Self-Enhancement. I'm the Afterschool Programming Manager.
 And I always kind of start off talking about after school programming as these four components that happen. And one is we feed every child that comes in. And so with your partnership, we're able to continue to do that. So we provide kind of a home-cooked meal, in a sense, for all of those children that come. And then we also provide an hour of uninterrupted tutorial time. So we're also wanting to make sure that all of our kids have the opportunity to get that extra tutorial support. Okay.
 We do what's called a gym talk where all of our students come together at one time and we're able to put our eyes on them and gauge what the feeling of the room is about. We're able to acknowledge our students for the positive behavior. We're able to talk about issues that might be going on. If there's something going on in our community at that time, we can address it at one time.
 And then, last but not least, we provide enrichment classes, right? And the idea is to offer as many options and opportunities as possible to all of our students. And so through this initiative, we've been able to add to those options and opportunities. And so there was three main classes that I wanted to talk about today through this partnership, and one of them is our job readiness training.
 And so during our after-school program, on a high school night, which is twice a week, we will see anywhere between 200 to 450 high schoolers. During that time, we're able to sign them up for classes, and through that job readiness training, they're able to –
 walk through what it takes to build a resume. We start off with pocket resumes, and then we help them develop a full-blown resume to help them get comfortable with speaking, mock interviews, and just really take them to the course. The idea behind that is
 to really provide a job experience for all of our children that come through. And so during the summertime, all of our students will either receive a job through self-enhancement, an internship, or they will come back and act as coaches for the younger generation. And so that class really helps guide them and prepare them for that opportunity through the summer.
 The second class is what we call Brothers Reflecting Brotherhood. And what that looks like is it's more culturally specific to African-American males, and they're able to come and talk and just have open conversation about what it takes to be a young man,
 What are the things that they're going through? What are the experiences that they're going through during the school day and after school? And so what we've done is we've enhanced that with Barbershop. And the idea around it is to have students in there getting their haircuts at the same time and to really give it that Barbershop feel so that they're comfortable. They're not sitting in a classroom around in a group, but it's just open conversation. They come, they hang out, they get lineups or haircuts, and they're just able to talk.
 And so with that, it's probably one of our most popular classes when it comes to our students. It's something that they look forward to. The teachers are really specific to their needs. They know what issues they're going through. Can I just ask you a question? Of all the things you've mentioned so far, what do you think would be the best team-building exercise for us? Oh, I'll have to come up with some options and then write them down and send them to you guys. I have some good team-building things for you. Okay.
 So our last class, an initiative that we've done with you guys, which has been awesome, we look forward to is throughout the summer we are looking to partner with our community centers to do community swim days. And so it's something kind of new for our kids. We offer all these things, but we don't really get to take them out and teach them how to swim. And so it's new. We are looking forward to it, but we're going to partner with Montevilla and Matt Dishman and these community centers where our children reside in and have these community swim days. And so...
 Hopefully our kids will come out of it and they will all know how to swim and be comfortable around water so that when we start taking them out, we do a boat building class as well, that they'll be really comfortable around it. But the idea really is just to have positive enrichment for our African-American population there. And through the initiative, we've been able to do that. So we appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Yolanda Gonzalez, and I'm the Community Healing Initiative Manager at Latino Network. I want to take this moment to say thank you to Mayor Hales and the members of City Council for investing in the health and safety of our youth. Previous to this investment, resources have been really scarce for our teen youth and activities, and especially during the peak times of safety hours on the weekends and in the evenings. As you all may know, gentrification is moving many of our Latino families, where they currently are living, into areas where there's very few...
 access to recreational activities. On top of that, Latino families most often, or the ones that we work with and serve, can't afford to pay for the ongoing activities or recreational activities. Our families are often very large, and many families have incomes typically between 50 to 100 percent of the federal poverty level. Even low-cost recreation opportunities are out of reach economically for most of the families we serve. That puts many of the youth that we serve at even a higher level of risk.
 We have one example where recently a family came to our teen night and they actually had 10 children in their own home and they can't play and be loud and make movement in their home and so when they came to our teen night they expressed immense amount of gratitude to have doors open in their community where they could play, have fun and be a family. We actually let the parents stay at teen night that night just so they could see that and have that opportunity.
 Our youth look forward to all the teen nights, and we've had experience where other youth from different ethnicities are coming together. We also know that our Latino youth are accessing other providers' teen nights as well. We appreciate the space and resources to serve our Latino community and our balance holding a culturally specific space for them, while also inviting other youth to come and partner with us. We want to be respectful of other providers and at the same time offer youth opportunities to have fun together.
 This first year's investments have been important to the initiative of the program, build partnerships between the community providers, Portland Parks and Rec staff, and the community. New youth keep hearing about Teen Nights and coming, and the numbers keep growing. We hope that this important effort to keep youth safe and equally, if not more importantly, lets them know that we care about them.
 and that this can continue and strengthen. We look forward to continue building a partnership for a safe community. Thank you again. Thank you. Jimmy, welcome. Thank you, and good afternoon, Mayor Hales, and good afternoon, all the commissioners for supporting this program. Everything I want to say, you'll understand it. But I serve a very specific population, newly arrived refugees.
 We serve Asian refugees, mostly from Bhutan, and also African youth refugees. Those youth and their family, they have language barriers. They have cultural barriers. They don't have access to community centers.
 So far, we registered 145 youth, and out of the 145, we have about 60 to 75 youth that come regularly to our activities. Besides providing service to the youth, the parents now, because through this program, we find out that they can get access to community center using the gym, using the sport equipment. We didn't know that before they can get a scholarship.
 to access those communities. Now we have a parent that are going to those community centers paying $5 to go and exercise. We didn't know this before this program. Also through this program, we have homework help. 99% of refugees who are coming here, they're illiterate. So parents are illiterate even in their own language. They cannot help their children with their homework. So this was a
 best opportunity for them to bring their children so that we can also help those kids with their homework. Most refugees that were brought here were put in apartment complex in a neighborhood that already affected so many social issues.
 So they're so afraid that their children will have a relationship with the street, you know, with gang group and all those. So every Saturday, they want to make sure that we get their children to this program.
 Most of those parents coming from rural areas, they don't understand urban living issues. They have zero urban living experience. So they rely on us to help their children take the right path, just like Peggy who testified earlier.
 We also, through this program, provide art. We bring the kids to share art, cultural heritage. And besides this, the program not only supporting the kids, giving the assets to a basketball game, giving access to helping them, doing their homework, but this program became like a family dispute resolution program.
 where our parents that are struggling with their teenagers will come to the program asking for help, what they can do. And our staff help them and try to resolve the issue, the dispute between family and the teenagers.
 We also bring guest speakers from different work of life to talk to the kid about career path, about career planning, about STEM. Because most of refugees, when they came here, they're put in school according to their age and their skill.
 So they tend to go toward humanity, like English, literature, history, and all that. They're so afraid of taking classes, like science classes and all that. So we bring people to mentor them, to coach them on how they can access, just like many students, they can take math classes, they can take science classes and all that.
 But I want to particularly thank Diana for helping us because we picked those kids during dinner time and they are hungry. And because the refugees live all over places in Poland, we have to go pick those kids around 6 p.m.
 The program started at 7. So the kids are hungry, and we were running out of the fund. So she was able to connect us with a food bank. So now we're getting food, and the kids, now when they came, they're 100% sure that there is food, even though it's not the food that they like. It's not ethnic food.
 but at least we have food. They're not going to go hungry. The other challenge we have is that we have, because we finish at 10, 10.30 p.m., we have to drop all those kids to their apartment because of the safety. We want to ensure that they all go home safe. So we build the trust
 between the program and the family, even Somali family who usually don't allow their daughters to leave the home after school. Now they're trusting us to go pick their kid, to pick their daughter to participate in this program.
 Another important thing that this program brought in our community, especially the refugee community, is bringing different refugee groups, African and Asian, together. Even though they're living in the same apartment complex, they don't have a contact. So through this program, now parents, youth, all are coming together to resolve issues in the community. Conflict between neighbors and all those are resolved through the program. So again, thank you so much for this program and...
 We pray that this program will continue after you leave. But for the sake of our youth, if you think about changing your mind, staying and continue providing us with service, we will really appreciate it. Again, thank you so much. Thank you. Jason, welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Jason. I'm the Rosewood Initiative Community Engagement Coordinator. I was born and raised down the street at the corner of 162nd Stark where Rosewood is located.
 Growing up in that neighborhood shaped my perspective on life and what it could be and should be for everybody. There's a unique balance I see every day that I'm walking up and down the street. No sirens, broken glass, and madness on the sidewalk. And sometimes it's very discouraging. But it's the conversations I have with kids who still have dreams and the mothers who work to give their children better and the acts of kindness and small efforts that people invest into their own community that remind me that things are what you make it.
 When Friday Night Jets came along, I gravitated towards it. I was never really staffed to be working, but I stayed after work. I wanted to contribute what I could to giving the youth in that community the experience. I truly believe that young people are the future, and they're the change that's going to come. I grew up around kids that wanted to be all sorts of things, from doctors to lawyers, and some of them didn't even know what they wanted to be, but they did know that they wanted better.
 As I got older, I saw that a lot of them, their dreams diminished, and only a few of them continued to pursue what they wanted. There's struggles in life, and that's something I know that any effort I can make to give the opportunity to those who still dream, to those who still envision a better future, to me is the best contribution I can give. I would like to thank the city of Portland for making Friday Night Jams possible. However, I'd like to advocate that more opportunities be given to the young people of East Portland.
 To see a day where dreams don't diminish and the youth accomplish what they envisioned for their lives. Thank you. Thank you. Well said. Let's hear it for these adults. Thank you. Our final panel is Aaron Zongwen from Rosewood, Dina Pirro from iUrban Teen, and Cynthia Castro from Portland Parks and Recreation, and maybe a couple of others. Come on up. Good afternoon. My name is Aaron Vongdin, and I'm the community events manager at the Rosewood Initiative.
 I started out as a work experience intern through ERCO and was eventually offered a permanent position at the Rosewood Initiative. I also graduated from POIC, the Rosemary Anderson East. I've seen hundreds of events go through the Rosewood Community Center, and none of them have really had a lot like –
 And we held it for 10 weeks during the summer, and it allowed youth to come to our center. And we had a DJ and games and food for the youth.
 Doing outreach for events now after Friday Night Jams, I still get youth that come up to me months after that ask me, when are you guys doing Friday Night Jams again? Or are you guys still doing that thing on Friday nights? And these are kids I haven't seen in months. And these are kids that have to deal with much rougher situations than I do. I know to a lot of people that, even to me sometimes, it's just,
 another part of the job but um to know that this kid remembers me and um that the friday night jams had a lasting impact on um on their lives it's it's it's uh it means a lot um so thank you so much for giving us this opportunity um to do friday night jams through the community center initiative the youth in the rosewood neighborhood need a safe and fun place um
 where they can be themselves, and you were able to see that. And I know if these kids were able to come here today, they would thank you too. So thank you guys so much. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Dina, welcome.
 Welcome, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm so glad to be here today. I haven't been in this seat in over 20 years. It's like being home again. For those of you who don't know me, I'm Dina Pirro, and I'm the founder of iUrban Teen, which is a STEAM plus C program that has an intentional outreach to male youth of color.
 And I always start off first, and I know that my time is limited. I'm going to talk really fast. I always talk about why, you know, I created this program. And I first had the notion to create it when I was a commissioner in the state of Washington on the Governor's Commission on African American Affairs. And all of our ethnic commissions are talking about the opportunity gap issue with so many male youth of color falling through the cracks.
 dropping out of school, being incarcerated. And at the same time, I joined a chief information officer council. And as soon as I walked into the room for the first meeting, it was a room full of white males, and I saw the instant disparity. And I knew that the whole technology realm was the place to be for opportunities, yet our young male youth didn't have this information. So that's my thought of having iUrban Teen Council.
 That was back in 2011. And since then, now we're in every major West Coast city, and we've served over 3,600 youth throughout the West Coast. What I'm really proud and honored of today and what I'm going to talk about, and I want to thank Tara Pearson and Cynthia Castro for believing in this project. When we talked about how do we engage the kids while learning different job skills that they can add to their resumes, let's create an app, an app by the youth for the youth.
 So with this app for Parks and Recreations, iUrban teens and some of the park teens, and that's why I have Neil here, one of our partners, here talking about the focus group pieces.
 The app is going to allow youth in the community to see what's going on in various park centers. They can then sign up for some of the free classes. They can join up via the app and also find out how to get there, what times to get there, all of that information. And parks will be able to push out notifications to the youth who have signed up on this app. But I said it's more than just...
 helping to create an app for the kids. These kids are going to be learning solid job skills. They're going to be learning focus groups, how to conduct a focus group. They're going to be learning project management. They're going to be learning ideation. They're going to be coming back. They're also going to be learning problem solving. They're going to come back to you all and show you how this app works. I'm really excited about this opportunity.
 This is the first time that we have actually had a partnership with the city of this magnitude, and I hope that it continues on the long term. I'm going to have Neil talk about, in fact, some of our kids are at Montevilla right now doing a dry run of the focus groups. I'm going to have Neil talk about that. That's great. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and other council members. My name is Neil Brown. I'm the teen services coordinator citywide, and we are doing a partnership with iUrban Teen. And what we're doing today, like Dina was saying, is a dry run on how the focus group is going to run because it's going to be for teens by teens. So what the partnership is going to look like is we're going to have iUrban Teens as well as Teen Force team members participating.
 collaborate to generate ideas of how they want this app to look for them, how they want it to work for them, and things like that. So it is actually being ideas generated by the youth. And so our first focus group will be tomorrow for about 10 youth. We'll also have two facilitators that are iUrban teen youth running that, so they're already learning those job skills on how to run a focus group and things like that. And then from these focus groups,
 We'll have those ideas generated to start our building block for how to create this app. Good work. Thank you. You get to bring it home. The anchor. See you in the track and field. That's right. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Cynthia Castro. I serve as Portland Parks and Recreation's Team Services Program Specialist. My position was created to increase our capacity to implement the mayor's community center initiative.
 and also manage our community partnerships. Today we've heard about the early impact the initiative has had on Portland youth, especially at-risk youth. I'm excited about what we've been able to accomplish collectively this first year and look forward to expanding on our efforts. To really feel the impact, I invite council to please visit our community centers. I'm happy to work with your schedulers to make this happen.
 As fiscal year 2015-16 winds down, we continue to explore additional partnerships and to create more meaningful opportunities that are responsive to our youth's needs. For instance, we've heard from our partners that many of the youth they work with are helping to support their families and are interested in employment opportunities.
 we are interested in adding a youth workforce development component to our teen services program we've already begun looking at ways to reduce barriers to youth employment with our bureau and are in touch with reap inc to bring their young entrepreneurs program to montevilla community center this spring we've also begun establishing the plan for this year's summer youth pass and how we can increase access to our community centers and pools while youth are out of school
 At the same time, we are preparing to participate in a discovery process led by PSU's Center for Public Service that will inform our three to five year teen services program strategic plan and the community center initiative. This process will include assessing the first year of the community center initiative, reviewing positive youth development models and best practices, and establishing criteria and methods for measuring success.
 I want to thank our Portland Parks and Recreation staff, Mayor's Office, Portland Police Bureau, Office of Youth Violence Prevention, and community partners for your collaboration on this initiative. Together we are stronger. To our youth who testified today, thank you for being here to share your stories and what this initiative means to you.
 I would like to conclude by thanking Mayor Hales for championing this community center initiative. I know change in leadership is on the horizon, but I am hopeful that your successor and city council will uphold your $2 million ongoing investment and continue making the health and safety of our youth and community a priority. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Let's hear it for these adults, too. So before we take action to accept this report, anyone else want to speak? Come on up.
 Welcome. Hi, thank you. Hello, Mayor and Commissioner. I'm Sarah Fast. I'm the Senior Director of Special Initiatives for the Boys and Girls Clubs of Portland. And we just wanted to thank you. 2016 actually marks our 70th anniversary and coincidentally also coincides with our national organization's celebration called the Year of the Teen. Our organization feels like we're sort of ahead of the curve for our national organization because a couple years ago we got together and...
 put the teen initiatives and teen programming into our strategic plan. So what we did is we dedicated a number of full-time staff specific to teen initiatives. But as you know and as many people in this room know, for a nonprofit organization, resources, and particularly funding, can often...
 put in jeopardy us able to fulfill all of the needs of our youth. And so the Mayor's Initiative came in at the exact right time and sort of as a beacon of light for us. And so we wanted to thank you for recognizing that teens are valuable people in their communities and have the right to be positive contributors to society. We also wanted to address that
 something that didn't really get brought up in this room, but that the majority of the youth that we work with across the Portland metropolitan area, when I say we, I mean myself and all of the people in the room, are children that have experienced adverse childhood experiences, which can be anything from seeing their parents be divorced, being new to the country, gentrification, watching substance abuse.
 being gang impacted. And it's because of the free programming that they're able to build resiliency and move towards being productive, caring, and responsible adults in our society. And if we did not have the funding to be able to open our doors free for these youth to be able to provide positive, supportive relationships to adults and give them opportunities to be leaders in their own community, some of these youth may not be able to fulfill their full potential. And so again, we thank you. And we also thank you that for the first
 that I have ever known of, we have a city entity that has really gotten behind all of these organizations working collaboratively towards one goal, because we often refer to these kids as our kids, but really they are all of our kids. I see a number of kids here who attended the Boys and Girls Club when they were younger and are now connected with other organizations, and it makes me just, and everybody in here, very happy to see, so we want to say thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah.
 Well, could I hear a motion to accept the report and then we can discuss it? So moved. Second. Any further discussion before we take action? Okay, what's the vote please to accept this great report? Well, thank you, Mayor Harrels, for bringing us this report to explain to the community what great work has been done by our community, including everybody here today.
 And it's often said that city government doesn't work together and that there are silos and that city council members don't talk to each other. Well, this is an excellent example of where the mayor and I have worked together seamlessly. And his staff have been the brains behind putting all the contracts together, having the foresight to include the community partners. And my park staff and I have been more than delighted.
 to be good partners about this to implement the program. I see a lot of satisfied smiles on my park staff as I'm looking around today. And as we were hearing the testimony of how successful this has been in how many ways,
 It was really hard work. And it was hard work at a very difficult time with almost, I think it was two months notice, Mayor, that came in kind of as a surprise in last year's budget. And yet, Aileen Argentina and her team pulled it together. Everybody really recognized that this is exactly the right thing to do to be providing positive options. So Cynthia Castro mentioned at the end some nervousness about this program perhaps going away with a new mayor. Do not be nervous.
 The current mayor is going to be in charge of this year's budget, and we had the foresight to put it securely in the Portland Parks and Recreation budget. So it is not being proposed to be cut this year, nor will it be next year, as long as I'm Parks Commissioner, which I'm going to be lobbying very hard to be. There is, I will tell you, the 5% cut on the table for this program that we were required to do for all programs in Portland Parks and Recreation.
 I don't support that cut any more than I support any of the other cuts in parks. So I encourage you to come to our community budget forums in April, especially for those commissioners who weren't able to be here today, to explain again how this has been a great program and how that $100,000 will make a big difference in how it gets implemented. In fact, it seems very clear that we need to expand the funding. We need to provide transportation so that our get trimester provision
 provide the transportation so there's much more ability for teens all over the city to get to the designated centers. I do want to thank my park staff in particular, and I have a long list, which is by no means exclusive, but people worked really hard on this. So if you'll just indulge me, I have a list of folks who I want to particularly thank within Portland Parks and Recreation. And
 I mentioned Eileen Argentina, the services manager, who's just been absolutely phenomenal. Joshua Green, Cynthia Castro, Karen Burt, Destiny Carries, and we had the team coordinators, Neil Brown, Robert Donaldson, Madeline Bach, Ryan Fitzpatrick, Callie Kurtz, Jason Scott, Carlos Banks, Lucille Dawson. Director Mike Abate was completely supportive of this from the word go, and I'm pretty
 pretty much said, Mayor Wright, just tell me what you want and we'll get it done. And that's the attitude that I and my staff and Mike Abbate, the director, brought to this. Art Hendricks, our equity inclusion manager, has been absolutely fantastic in giving us good advice.
 Sue Glenn was previously the zone manager, gave her early support. All of the center directors whose centers have had the teen programs, which is Abby McFarlane, which is now Craig Vanderbilt in East Portland, Maximo Behrens, Craig Vanderbilt, and Amory Downing, we, again, just...
 They stepped up and they made it happen and they supervised. It was mentioned that we have a lot of so-called casual staff. There's a lot of people making minimum wage for providing some of these programs, which we're hoping will be better funded as we move forwards. And...
 It's just colleagues' evidence that what we heard today, many of the people providing these services are the folks who actually may be on food stamps or otherwise not employed year-round with full-time city jobs with benefits who are being such great support to these youth and many more. Thank you.
 So that's something that we will also remember during the budget process. Also want to recognize other adults and volunteers, as it was mentioned about the food and the other wraparound services. Dinners don't just arrive out of magic. People are preparing those. I know there was a lot of extra effort that went into making sure that we thought about all of the aspects of what does it make to have a fun night and includes not being hungry. It includes the homework help, includes a lot of other different things.
 And finally, I want to talk to the youth who are here today and those who may be watching at home. This is your community investing in your future. This is the mayor saying this is worth $2 million. My staff saying this is work all of our time. This is the taxpayers of Portland saying we want to provide for the youth of our community because we believe in you and we know that with positive options, you're going to choose those options. You're going to do well. You're going to seek those great jobs. You're going to continue to...
 succeed in school we know that this is the good the right thing to do and it's a good example of the people of portland working together whether it's government youth non-profits police everybody working together to make sure that you have the option to be successful and that you have grasped it so thank you very much and thank you particularly mayor for your leadership on this it truly is going to be one of your legacies that i expect to continue for many years hi
 Well, I want to thank Mayor and Commissioner Fritz for making this all a reality. And it's very uplifting to see the very positive experience that so many young people have had with the community center initiative. And it's certainly something we want to continue to support and provide as many good opportunities to have fun, to eat.
 to learn about summer jobs and real jobs beyond summer and all sorts of other career opportunities. And we hope that many of you will consider career opportunities working for the city, too. We need you as well, because we have a lot of people who are reaching retirement age, and you're going to be the jobs of tomorrow here in the city of Portland. So we hope you'll seriously consider that. We have a screaming need for people to work at our 911 center. We have a screaming need for more people to be police officers.
 and just rank-and-file city workers. So I hope you'll all consider good career path opportunities. They pay well, offer outstanding benefits, and we're a great place to work. And as you know by working with many of our outstanding Parks and Recreation employees. So thank you all. Pleased to vote aye. Thank you, Mr. Mills. Let me close with messages for three different groups, for our city employees, for the other adult partners here, and for the youth.
 For the city employees, the Parks Bureau employees that have been mentioned, as well as the folks in my team that have put this effort together, well done. It's been amazing and fun, frankly, to watch the leadership of folks in my office flower in this work. Tara Pierce has long known how to get warring agencies to work together because she worked
 to the state. Diana Nunez has really, really shown as a leader on this effort. Diana, well done. And it was so fun to watch Stephan Hartley conduct the big public meeting where all these organizations came together to brainstorm this. And he did an amazing job. I know how nervous you were, but you did a great job. And it's just been fun watching the leadership development
 of these folks in the city. And I know everybody's worked really hard, and we don't get enough chances to say thank you, city employees, for way above and beyond the call of duty. But thank you.
 Secondly, to the other adult partners in the room, this is the kind of partnership that we all believe in and you helped make it happen, so thank you. And let's keep it going together with greater strength. I loved the mention of jobs here by a couple of folks. You know, there was a news report today that the unemployment rate in Portland has dropped to 4.4 percent. Not for kids of color.
 So we have a lot of work to do to make sure that access to that kind of economic opportunity extends to everybody in the city. And I can't think of a better group of partners to go beyond, as Charles Jordan said, beyond just fun and games, to community as you already have and to learning, which you already have, and to career opportunity beyond that.
 uh finally to the youth here i want to restate what i think commissioner fritz said so eloquently you know adults don't always get it some of us have gray hair and we don't always understand you or your life
 But I hope you see from this effort that the adults in this city, the taxpayers, the city employees, those of us that are leading the city, we really want to support you. And I hope you take that home and know that, that the adults in this community, imperfectly sometimes, will keep trying to support you in your life and your growth. And that's what this program is about. And the other thing I hope you take away from this –
 I mentioned it to some of the youth upstairs. You know, the germ of this idea was a group of young men who wanted to play basketball but couldn't find a place to do it and who approached the city and said, hey, could you help?
 And I think a lot of you, the youth that are here, haven't been in City Hall before. Let me tell you, something happens in this room almost every week. We meet every Wednesday and Thursday. Almost every week, some citizen comes to a meeting here to speak on an issue. And they might have walked in with the assumption that government never listens and it's always cooked in the back room and I don't have any power.
 And they will sit here and they will speak on an issue and they'll watch us change our minds and we'll vote not the way that we were going to vote before but the way they suggested. And they walk out going, that's amazing. I actually made a difference. I actually have power. This program is proof that you have power.
 It's proof that you have agency in your city. It's your city. You have power and influence. So please know that. Keep exercising it. It's not that the city just wants to pat you on the head and say, you know, we're happy we're taking care of our youth. We want you to lead as you've been leading in this program. We want you to lead as you're doing through the organizations that you're involved in. We want you to lead by advocating for what you believe in, whether it's taking care of the climate or taking care of your neighbors.
 So this proof that you have power is something that I hope you will build on and exercise and build your strength in, just like you're building your strength on the court or in the weight room or on the dance floor. So that's the biggest hope I have for our city, is that the youth that get engaged know that this is your city and that you own it and that you will run it and that you have authority over it. Keep coming in here and pounding on the table. Tell us what we should do.
 Well done, everyone. Thank you very much. Aye. And we're adjourned.