everybody welcome to the March 1st afternoon session of the Portland City Council Carla please call the roll here here good afternoon sorry my eyesight you're new to this so we're gonna go some slack it was it wasn't here and it just moved and I apologize I thought I had it out
 All right. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony on council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for your help. Your fellow Portlanders, helping your fellow Portlanders, excuse me, feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you, Ms. Adams.
 Just a reminder, today we don't have one agenda item. It is a report. We do have invited testimony, but we do not have open testimony on reports. Carla, can you please read the one item? Item 205, accept report of the welcoming, inclusive Sanctuary City Task Force. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm pleased to introduce the report of the Welcoming Inclusive Sanctuary City Task Force, a workgroup that was authorized to convene by the resolution we passed last spring. Before we begin, however, I would like to take a moment to acknowledge our mayor and my fellow commissioners.
 who all continue to demonstrate a commitment to enacting policies and practices that protect our immigrant and refugee communities. Since the resolution was passed last year, the city has taken a series of actions, which include committing $100,000 toward legal services,
 revising PPB's policy directive 81010, which clearly sets out the city's sanctuary policies, and filing a series of amicus briefs challenging the federal administration on a variety of actions that unfairly target immigrants. This past year has demonstrated to us that now more than ever, cities must be the ones to address our most pressing issues, and I'm grateful that our council is rising to that challenge.
 I should also note that community members have always been at the forefront of responding to crises. It is important for government to learn from the expertise that exists in our communities, which is why I want to thank everyone who served on the task force, most of whom are here today. Could everyone that served on the task force maybe just raise your hand? Thank you. Thank you.
 I would also like Council to know the extraordinary level of commitment Task Force members have exhibited. Originally, the intention was for there to be three total meetings. Task Force participants voluntarily added three additional meetings, including two on Sundays, in order to refine the recommendations and prepare for today's presentation. And I want to commit to matching the level of urgency and seriousness demonstrated by these members.
 Finally, I just want to note that this is ONI's first big project under new leadership. I appreciate the role ONI and New Portlanders has played in ensuring that the authentic voice of task force participants is reflected in this report. So thank you to Director Rhee and ONI staff, and also to Winta Yohannes from my office, none of whom I can see right now. They're over there. Oh, hi guys. Okay.
 unless any of my council colleagues would like to add anything else. Thank you very much. Chloe, I want to just acknowledge that last night I had the honor of representing the council at a Sanctuary City discussion that was part of Everybody Reads at Multnomah County, and it was a good turnout at the Multnomah County Library. I was joined by Asana Lawrence and Mariana Garcia-Medina on my team.
 And one of the questions that came up from the audience is, where are we going next? So the timing of this is perfect. I said, please come to City Hall on Thursday, and you'll hear the recommendations and next steps. So thank you both for your leadership. All right. I would like to invite Director Rhee up. You know, they never did tell me what the proper term for this table is. Is there a proper term? The big table. The large, old, stately-looking table. Okay.
 It's hard to move. Sorry I asked. Welcome, Director Reed. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Eudaly, Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish. Thank you for this opportunity to present the report and recommendations of the welcoming, inclusive Sanctuary City Task Force. Today's presentation is in three parts. In the first part, we will share background on the task force creation and the relationship with the New Portlanders Policy Commission.
 The second part is invited testimony from task force members who will share the realities confronted by immigrant and refugee communities, the organized community response, and the perspective of our youth leaders.
 The third part is a presentation by three task force numbers on the report's four recommendations. Each part is presented by a different panel. We request that each panel be allowed to present the remarks in total and that council ask their questions at the end of each panel presentation. I start with the background on the task force creation.
 Only our Native American communities are from this place. There is no modern-day Portland, Oregon, without the migrations of peoples to this region from all over the continent and all over the world. In 2016, the City Council established the New Portlander Policy Commission to advise on policies and practices to integrate immigrant and refugee communities' voices and needs into the life of the city, into its city services, its decision-making, and civic engagement in Portland.
 Last year, in March 2017, the City Council adopted Resolution 36277, declaring Portland a welcoming, inclusive sanctuary city for all. It was stated within the resolution that the city shall coordinate with school district, regional, statewide, and federal leaders and convene a work group to coordinate efforts to support immigrant and refugee communities. In October of last year...
 The Office of Commissioner Udailey and the Office of Neighborhood Involvement was tasked to convene this group, and we did so in partnership with the new Portlanders Policy Commission. The task force's charge was to develop a set of recommendations and priorities for the City of Portland, focusing on the coordination efforts with emphasis on protecting individuals and communities targeted for deportation.
 The task force is a cross-section of critical perspectives needed to fulfill the task force charge. It includes six representatives from the entities identified in the resolution, school districts, regional, state, and federal leaders, nine representatives of community members directly impacted by deportation activities,
 This included DREAMers, the Newport Lenders Policy Commission, and coalitions who are actively convening a wide range of community, faith, service, and advocacy groups on this topic.
 two representatives of civil rights and federal immigration law organizations, and two representatives of public safety and law enforcement. The task force met over four, actually Commissioner Udali is right, over six work sessions between January 6th and February 13th to be able to present to you today.
 Why did we choose to work so quickly? One reason is the impact of the current national climate on immigrants and refugees. And the other reason is that the community is ready and we do not have the luxury of time. The legislature declared Oregon a sanctuary state in 1987. Also in the early 1980s, many Oregonians became familiar with the sanctuary movement, which was led by community and faith leaders worldwide.
 offering shelter to Central American refugees fleeing civil conflict. For at least 30 years, Oregonians have been organizing across language, faith traditions, and generations to stop the separation of families through deportation. Thus, we knew we could act quickly, and even our fastest efforts would be overdue for communities seeking relief.
 The task force is eager to share their recommendations with you. I now turn it over to our representatives from the new Portlander Policy Commission to introduce themselves and the commission's work. Thank you. So we have Wajdi, Saeed, Joe Enlet, and Maria Garcia. Come on up, please. Good afternoon and welcome. Thank you.
 And again, just for the record, if you could state your names, we'd appreciate it. And we find these microphones work best if they're about six to eight inches away and they just slide around. Thank you. Maria Garcia. Wesh Desai. Thank you. Kolini Fusitoa. Thank you.
 Before I make my formal statement and introduce myself, I would like to acknowledge the original caretakers of this land, the Catlamet, Lower Chinook, Gladstock, Willapa, Wakiakum, Catlamet tribes of the Chinook Nation. I further acknowledge that this land was not discovered, that it was in fact colonized, and the colonization is still taking place. With this acknowledgement, I will now proceed to prepare remarks. Buenas tardes.
 Good afternoon. My name is Maria Garcia, a Mexican immigrant woman, a local business owner, and a co-chair of the New Portlanders Policy Commission. I'm honored to be speaking on behalf of the New Portlanders Commission and give testimony as the Latin representative in our beloved commission that has hosted this important sanctuary city task force together with ONI and other community partners.
 Some of the values the New Portlanders Policy Commission stands for are solidarity, unity, recognition, and inclusion of our colorful and vibrant immigrant communities living in our loved city of Portland and metropolitan area.
 Many want immigrants to be here legally. Coincidentally, a legal status immigrants also want, a status that recognizes their existence and contributions to the U.S. in education, manufacturing, food and beverage industry, construction, and resorts. Without immigrant labor, the U.S. could not compete in the agriculture or textile industries.
 food, hotels, or resorts would be too costly for most of us. Despite demand for immigrant labor for centuries, immigrants still fear for their freedom, livelihood, and their loved ones. Many families have children, parents, and siblings without legal status. Fortunately, many Oregonians
 understand that immigrants are a vital part of our future. Yet, many immigrants are struggling in access to education, healthcare, insurance, as well as legal and driving rights, and more important factor, added to the long list of needs, funds to cover the expenses of proper legal representation in case a deportation takes place. Our community experiences workplace and domestic abuses.
 but due to fear of deportation, they are afraid to report these violations of their rights to safety and protection. I ask this Honorable City Council to be on the right side of history with us, with immigrants, and make sure our communities start gaining trust, knowing that Portland, knowing that Portland, I'm sorry, the city that welcomes them, is protecting them and supporting their efforts, keeping our families together.
 is stand to stand with immigrants to stand for the human rights of everyone right means to stand for the human rights of all of us thank you thank you um thank you thank you mayor wheeler and city council for the opportunity to speak on the urgent need of support of our immigrant and refugee community my name is colony fuzitua
 co-chair of equity and practice committee of the new Portlander policy commission. I'm also the president of the Tongan American resource committee. I have reached out to the Portland police bureau to start a, to start a dialogue with the current equity in practice and how we can support their work to better serve the underrepresented, the underrepresented immigrant and refugee community. My goal is,
 on this commission is to reach out to all the city bureaus to build on what we are starting with the Portland Police Bureau. Our Pacific Island community in Oregon is the fastest growing community according to census 2010. We have over 12,000 Chuukese from the Federated State of Micronesia seeking dry land
 here in Portland because of rising sea level and continued contamination from U.S. nuclear testing 50 years ago. Tongans first arrived here in Portland in the late seventies and established themselves in larger number in the eighties. Today Portland's 1,200 Tongans are literally cornerstone of the city. Well known for building stone walls around the Portland metro area. We have Chukis,
 We have Tongans. We have Tomoros. We have Marshallese. We have Samoan. We have Fijian that are constantly in fear because of the current political environment. We ask that you support our recommendation here today. It will help our Pacific Island community. As a member of the New Portland Air Policy Commission,
 and a program coordinator of ERCLE, I witness every day the bonding together of new Portland community as they seek common goals. This is your opportunity to support our goals by accepting and adopting the following recommendation. In the island of Tonga, if you want to build a fishing canoe, you can build it on your own, or you can ask a neighbor or help you.
 But if you want to build a canoe for a long voyage, everybody in the community has to touch the equipment and the wood that's building the canoe because we want everybody's spirit within that canoe once they hit the water. Today, we ask you to be on a journey with us. We ask that you build a canoe. Thank you. Thank you.
 Peace be upon you, dear respected mayor and distinguished member of the City of Council, ladies and gentlemen. My name is Wajdi Saeed. I'm the president of the Muslim Educational Trust and a member of the beloved community coalition and Arab and Jewish Muslim Dialogue, also a member of the Evangelical Muslim, Christian, and Jewish network of 20 states. We met in Morocco three months ago and we met again.
 in Washington, D.C. recently. I'm honored to speak before you this afternoon in behalf of the new Portland Policy Commissions. I speak to you as a proud immigrant by choice of an Arab and Muslim background and a proud Portlander and a great citizen of this great country and a great citizen of this amazing world, which has so much potential and
 to empower and engage each and every one of us, the citizens of this world.
 America has been built over the shoulders of immigrants, African slaves, refugees, and so many others that has contributed to this beautiful America that we share together today. It is very important that we nourish this multiracial and multiethnic and multi-faith society. We as a community-based organization and stakeholders in our common future
 have a moral and ethical responsibility to reclaim our personal narratives and define our public square towards healing, unifying and creating common grounds for each one of us. Respected City Council, Our former Mayor Porter is remembered for the creation of the Immigration and Refugee Task Force 10 years ago.
 Four years ago, our respected Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Salzman and Commissioner Novick and our respected Commissioner Nick Fish, with the help of Mayor Hills, they are going to be remembered to create the Portland Council that became the new Portland Policy Commission. What will this council be remembered, dear Mayor? It's all in your hand. It is very important to continue this journey.
 to carry on with this critical work to empower these immigrant communities, which everyone in this room once was, or their forefathers and foremothers were, and give their daughters and sons and grandchildren an opportunity to serve in the same capacity in which each one of you serving today, respected mayor and city
 Officials, now is the time to be proactive in addressing the needs of our new Portlanders, immigrants and refugees communities. Now it's the time to do the right thing.
 Respected Mayor and City Council members, as citizens we need to be available to every single resident of Portland. We need to reason to be well engaged and successful. In this spirit it is with that great enthusiasm and urgency that I recommend, that we recommend, and I personally recommend somebody that have worked in this community for 31 years.
 to the City Council that no matter how much we put of money, how much you put of budget to defend these immigrants, it is important for us that we positively integrate by creating officially the Office of Immigrants and Refugees to be managed by the Newport Lander Policy Commission under your leadership, Mayor. It is very important that we treat this Newport Lander as we treat the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 This, my dear respected city officials, is going to heal. It's going to heal the ethnic, the multiracial representation in this commission. It's going to heal, at least in my community, the 55 ethnic groups, the 70 languages that we speak at the Muslim Educational Trusts.
 This office will be in charge of addressing the immediate and long-term needs of new Portland refugees and immigrants. It's going to heal the issues of the past, the issues of today, and it's going to heal the issues of tomorrow. It will be in charge of positive integration. It will be in charge of claiming our public square beyond the color of our skin. In the light of the recent wave of Islamophobia,
 75% of the total refugees are Muslims, coming from Muslim societies that our foreign policy has destabilized them. We need a permanent solution to address their issues. People need to be educated about the real story of the immigrants and become conscious of how to overcome and move their stereotypes to see people for who they actually are.
 instead of who they think they are. My dear respected mayor and city officials, racism has encountered us in so many ways. The anti-Jewish sentiments 100 years ago that reasoned and caused the Holocaust. The anti-African-American and continued racism
 and the anti-Latinos, the anti-Asians and so many things. My dear sisters and brothers, and allow me to call you that because we are human beings and human beings that need to heal and unify. My dear mayor and council members, we strongly wish and to make a bold statement and state
 and the state, the Office of Immigrant and Refugee Affairs within the new Portland Policy Commission. If we seriously want to become welcoming and inclusive sanctuary city, then we have to find permanent solutions. These permanent solutions that go beyond the budget that we assign the hundred thousand or the half a million or a million dollar. Our next door neighbors, Seattle, have attracted multi-billion dollars companies
 in the name of integration of all its citizens to become an added value. Today, 67 of the high-tech companies attract international immigrants to become the new Americans who will take part in defining our collective future as a community. Let us stay.
 away from the necessary politics to choose what is right and not to do what we want to do as politicians. We are extremely lucky, my dear Mayor and respected Council, that we have people of our own. Somebody like Linda Castillo and Paolo Catalani. They are working hard.
 every day to be that healers and unifiers, dear Mayor and City Council. And it is very important that we recognize such a contribution of two great individuals that rally behind them 25 ethnic groups.
 My dear Mayor and City Council, let us be honest with each other that we cannot heal the black and white narratives. We cannot heal the indigenous Native Americans. We cannot heal the challenges of yesterday unless we look collectively as human beings beyond our color of skin.
 My dear Mayor, I hope one day that my children and grandchildren will remember you, that you are a troubleshooter. You are a troubleshooter because you are a smart, intelligent man. Commissioner Fritz.
 I know you very well before you became a politician and I'm glad that you carry the legacy that you are doing and I hope our Commissioner Udeli will do the same and I hope our seasoned Polish leader, you know, Commissioner Fish and Salzman will do the same before Commissioner Salzman that depart from us into another level of engagement.
 We are looking forward that we create the immigrant and refugee office under your leadership, Mayor, equal to the human rights and equity office where we heal permanently. We become the change of agents of...
 of positive integration. Thank you very much, dear Mayor and City Council members. Thank you. And, Wajdi, there's never any question when you leave the microphone what the ask is and what your expectation is. Thank you for that once again. Thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you, all three of you, for excellent testimony. Okay, we have Group 2 now. That is Eric Vega, Ricardo Varela, and Yesenia Ramos. Welcome. My name is Eric Vega.
 Yes, Senor. Ramos Pacheco. Ricardo Varela Romero. My name is Eric Vega. I am representing the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition. I think the thing that I wanted to emphasize, the thing that is important to me, is that we approach this issue with a sense of urgency. Day after day, week after week, what we see are attacks on the immigrant community from no bond hearings...
 to broken families, to young people who have only known this country, being threatened with deportation day after day, week after week, attacks. And so I think it's important that we just underline this idea that immigrants don't have time. They are in immediate jeopardy. And that with your help, we can begin to at least begin to address this problem.
 Today, immigrants are the object of concerted social and political attacks led by enforcement actions that are meant to make their lives anxious and painful. This punishment-centered strategy is coming from the top down, from Washington, D.C., down. But I'm sure you know...
 that real change occurs from the bottom up, and that is what you represent. And what I think is most important is that what we do here today, the work of the task force and what we are talking about right now is important because it's part of movement building.
 There is a movement away from a strictly law enforcement analysis of just putting on the sheriff hat and get out of town, y'all bad people, to one that recognizes that people are being displaced all around the world, that this is one of the critical issues of our time as we begin to use a human rights-based analysis to the question. There's a long history.
 of struggle on this issue. Racial hostility and xenophobia run through various efforts to exclude and to hurt immigrants. And very quickly, I cite in my remarks the 1792 Naturalization Act, Chinese Exclusion Act, repatriation campaigns, the list goes on and on and on.
 And when you look at it, it's based on racial hostility. But we are moving beyond that. The actions that you take here show that we can move beyond that. In Texas, in the 1980s, Texas sought to exclude immigrant children from public schools. And they wanted to make life so mean, to hurt them so much, that then they would go away.
 And the Supreme Court then, which is different than the one we have now, made the following observation. In Plyler v. Doe, they said there was no rational basis to deprive children of an education and that it did not comport with fundamental concepts of justice. I could tell you about Prop 187 in California. It mobilized a constituency.
 And what they wanted to do was hurt immigrants so that they would self-deport. But what happened instead was that the courts found it unconstitutional and a huge progressive movement developed in California that is changing California to this day.
 Last year, our coalition held a consultation with immigrants and our allies. A couple of hundred people in a church trying to analyze what do we do, how do we respond to the Trump agenda on immigration. And this is a summary of what we found.
 People wanted to know their rights. People wanted to have a rapid response strategy. People wanted family preparation strategies. People wanted some kind of a coordinated basic legal defense. People wanted government, local government, to defend human beings, to defend immigrants. That was what we came out of that church after Reflections.
 Let me end by saying the Trumpian message is legally irresponsible, morally indefensible, and economically contradictory. The bottom-up message which this here represents...
 is that this is not only an urgent issue, locally focused, pro-justice, anti-racist, but it is also part of a movement that we believe best exemplifies Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and City Commissioners. I would like that you bear with me. English is my second language, but...
 You know, I will do my best. So, my name is Ricardo Varela, and I have been a community organizer for the past 11 years. And also, I'm a co-founder of Oregon Immigrant Activists. I urge you to accept and adopt the Tax Force recommendations. As an immigrant in the U.S., I have faced discrimination, racism, xenophobic action, and denial of services. But I'm not the only one, nor the last one.
 As immigrants in this society, we have to protest and resist unfair actions against us. We constantly need to fight for access to service, to be treated with respect, to gain the trust and acceptance of our neighbors. Some of us, we go farther and have built organizations and coalitions amongst our communities to teach fellow immigrants how to navigate the legal, healthcare,
 housing, tributary, and cultural integration system without losing our identity. These organizations and groups address specific needs on our communities. Those communities that they serve, and they have been creating a large and helpful and resultant network. These efforts have been designed for our people and have been taking place for at least 40 years.
 These groups are now able to keep with a growing need for such resources. 2006 was an especially important year for organizations that protect and serve immigrant communities in the country because it was the year that inhumane immigration reform bills were proposed that were full of border militarization, as well as decriminalization of anyone who committed
 that assists undocumented immigrants of any background. These threats and inhumane proposals created an urgency for the coordination of a plan to support all immigrant communities, regardless of their status, as well as an urgency to uphold and spread the values that the relevant organization and group support, which includes a humane immigration reform bill that we didn't see that.
 All organizations from all the sectors of the society come to the table, including faith communities, social service, legal service, grassroots organizations, health care organizations, etc. This is how Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition was born. During this difficult time, the PIRC started coordinating efforts in response for the forecoming immigration rates and developed a rapid response team.
 On June 12, 2007, Portland has the most aggressive rain in its history. Over 160 people were detained, creating public issues, liability for schools, overloading our social services, and a collective panic amongst our immigrant community, especially on our mixed-status families.
 Schools didn't have a system to support all the children affected, not an easy way to communicate to them the reason behind why their parents didn't show up. Thanks to the Rapid Response Team, created almost a year prior, organizations were able to mobilize volunteers all across the city and start tackling the needs of both the people detained and their families.
 including needs relating to housing, legal service, social services, mental health services, et cetera. I want to make a note here because in Postville, Iowa, almost went to bankruptcy in 2008 after they spent $5.2 million in the aftermath of a massive raid where 400 people were detained.
 Although it never was calculated how much this rate cost to the City of Portland, immigrant-related organizations assisted the city by providing voluntary pro bono work during the aftermath of the raid that affected families and provided them with important resources. Since then, organizations have worked to educate immigrants about their legal rights as workers, community members, and human beings.
 have created emergency plans and have distributed such plans through workshops and popular education methods. Community members have joined the Rapid Response Team to educate themselves and the tools and technological resources that were created by organizations around the country to protect immigrant rights.
 Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition hosted a 24-7 bulletin-driving hotline in Portland metro area to provide support to immigrants affected by ICE activity, with a secondary system to connect community members with the resources that they need based on their cases. On July 2017, the hotline became statewide.
 and the rapid response structure was implemented successfully in other cities and counties of Oregon in response to the constant attack for immigrant communities. But it is still in the early stages of development in many of the chapters due to the lack of resources. Although the proposed immigration legal services has been exhausted, attorneys are still trying to find ways to create access to legal services for immigrant communities.
 Our communities have organized to eradicate unconstitutional and immoral policies such as ice holes. I know ice hole campaign succeeded in a policy that was implemented in Multnomah County. No before we had to have people get detained and wait inside of the Washington Multnomah County Jail and see on first hand
 how we were treated, even though we didn't have previous records. This policy created a precedent, and it was then replicated in other parts of Oregon. The fake communities stepped up and were ready to host an accompanying minors when the city was going to receive a high number of them. But there wasn't anything in place to quickly connect the hosts to the minors that were in need.
 Innovation Lab has created a simplified structure that we can help one to understand all the voluntary pro bono, low bono work the organizations are currently doing to protect and serve the immigrant communities within the last 12 years. And this structure has also identified the areas where support is still needed. It is imperative for keeping our immigrant communities protected to create a welcoming environment for immigrants
 And the taxable recommendations, one and two, are to be accepted, adopted, and implemented as quickly as possible. We need universal representation to ensure that there is an adequate legal representation for immigrants. And we need an independent office of immigrant support to create additional capacity for the community-based organizations and to help coordinate efforts with local organizations.
 county and state agencies to further protect our immigrant communities. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Yesenia Ramos-Pacheco. I'm 17 years old and a senior at Reynolds High School. My pronouns are she and her. I'm a member of the Youth Against Violence Subcommittee on the Multnomah Youth Commission. I have lived in Rockwood my entire life, which has also allowed me to truly know my neighbors and has also helped me learn about my community needs. Thank you.
 I am passionate about the work that the task force has been doing in developing recommendations that will protect immigrants and refugees. I am here today to testify in support of the policy recommendations that have been developed and finalized by the welcoming, inclusive Sanctuary City Task Force. I ask you to take these recommendations into serious thought and soon adopt them. I am a daughter of immigrant parents, a niece to immigrant aunts and uncles, a cousin to immigrant cousins, and a friend to immigrant friends.
 I have witnessed my family as well as other families in my community be negatively affected by the deportations by U.S. and Immigration and Customs Enforcement. With recent political issues, I have noticed an incredible increase of fear within my community. My husband has been fighting his deportation case for the past four years. His final court date is to be on April 2nd, his birthday. My siblings and I have constantly feared and have been worried about the possibilities of our family separation.
 I am an active member of the Oregon National Guard and find it disturbing that as I serve this state and country, my parents can be taken far away from me. During 2010 and 2014, more than 71,000 children in Oregon lived with at least one undocumented parent. These are children who depend on their parents to meet all their essential needs. Parents being detained, taken away, or disappearing causes a trauma to these children.
 If the parents are taken away, the children's emotional stability, security, housing and daily needs, such as clothing and food, are then taken away as well. As of 2016, about 15,000 youth in Oregon were eligible for DACA. I know many of these youth. They are my peers. DACA has given them a sense of security and rights in this country, such as having the ability to work, attend school, and receive medical care. Access to these rights increases the livability of our community.
 but it has been a continuous battle for them to keep the security. Imagine having to be taken back to a place you don't recognize, a place in which you know no one, a place all alone, confused, and lost. The youth that fear their own deportation, youth with DACA, as well as youth like myself who have undocumented parents, live with fear, stress, and worry every day of their lives.
 This affects their capacity for success in all other areas of their lives, like education, jobs, and other activities. These are more than abstract policy decisions. This is an issue that is impacting thousands of real people right now. People in our community, people like me and my family. Therefore, we need you to adopt the policy recommendations right away. Thank you for your time, your attention, and support.
 Thank you for your testimony, and also thank you for mentioning your National Guard service. I think that was important, and I want to thank you for your service. Thank you. It's appreciated very, very much. Thanks, all three of you, for your eloquent testimony. All done. All right. If we could have our third panel come forward. Shampone Simapasi, Roberto Goderez, and Alberto Moreno.
 Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to be present, and we're very honored to serve in this very important task as we continue to fight for human rights. My name is Shabhan Sanlapasayi Okamura. I am here in multiple wearing multiple hats, but first and foremost, I'm here representing the American Immigration Lawyers Association. I am currently serving as their pro bono coordinator. I am on the front lines of
 Deportation clinics at the airport, I'm the one that's sent out usually, working with all the other nonprofits and our community leaders.
 Second, I have been serving for the last eight years as the AILA ICE liaison. I have been coordinating with our co-liaison on how to better improve the programs that we work with in terms of the community efforts and how to protect what we do to make sure that every family member, every child, and every person is heard. My testimony today is more about facts.
 Today, I want to share with the mayor and our commissioners, but also our community, about the numbers that really impact Oregonians, not just nationally, but here locally. I am a family and am a child of refugees. I continue to hold that sacred to me. That, under this current administration, is still under attack. So I speak for all of our communities today.
 In Oregon, we have a very sizable community of immigrants. Often, immigration is referred to as a Latino issue, but I want to reaffirm that this is a community issue. All of us are affected, regardless of our ancestry.
 I have provided today a lot of data. These are numbers for you and your staff to review, to take a closer look about economically, but emotionally, about the family unity, and how many kids are really at risk. Top countries in Oregon is yes, from Mexico, 37%. The second largest is China, at 6%.
 The third, Vietnam, at 5.2%. India at 4.1%. But surprising to all of us is 3.6% Canadian. This is the vast numbers and the dynamic diversity that's within our state. I want to explain a little bit about why this is important and what has changed in our community.
 Our families are afraid. They're afraid because right now the rhetoric makes everyone a target. In Oregon, one in 10 Oregonian residents is an immigrant. And last year, when the Census Bureau took data, 498,870 people in Oregon, that's about 12.4% of the state's population, were native-born with one immigrant parent.
 We are a nation and a state of mixed families. We have families who may have a U.S. citizen parent or a parent who is a legal permanent resident or in process or an undocumented parent or a brother or sister on DACA. This is what we are seeing on the front lines right now. Can you put the previous slide up because some people might be like me and find it easier to read? Yes, that one. There you go.
 And so it's very important for us to look at how we are and who we are in the state of Oregon. 191,777 were women. 180,488 were men. 25,000 were men.
 and 28 were immigrant children. These are the numbers that make up Oregon, but I'm not gonna highlight everything. I want you guys to review that on your own time. Today, I wanna talk about the important numbers that we need to look at in our rhetoric about DACA, which is coming to an end, possibly March 5th, 2018. That is a very short time period. This is a critical time. DACA in Oregon,
 We have over 10,000 deferred action for childhood arrivals. As of 2016, 82% of DACA-eligible immigrants lived in Oregon, and 12,049 had applied for DACA.
 It's very important for us to know that even though there was 12,000, not all of them renewed. Some of them adjusted status to get the green card, but many of them did not out of fear of our own president and the current administration.
 The DACA clinics that we held, we had students show up, families, and although we had pro bono attorneys to help them, the consulates to aid them, to pay for their fees, they refused to move forward. This is the reality in Oregon. And why is this the reality and why is this important? I want to talk now a little bit about the immigration removal process.
 During our meetings, it came to light that there's a lot of misconception about how a person is taken and what happens to them. And we stress the urgency because immigration removal, as many of my colleagues and co-presenters will talk about, happens very, very quickly. A person can be picked up, what we refer to as public space. The courthouse has been the attention of everybody everywhere. But we've had arrests at hospitals.
 We've had arrests in front of schools. These are what our parents and our children are afraid of. This is why there's less numbers in our colleges, in our schools, people going to hospital reporting crimes. This is our reality. Second, Pete, use me again. Yes. Cutters, is there any way we can get that up on the screen, the chart that's behind the present? Press up an open signal if you can get a tight shot of that on the A-board in here.
 You might have the presentation up on here, though. You want to get the picture there? Yeah, because I think, again, it's really helpful to be able to see it as well as listen. It's got to be one or the other, I think, up there. I think that's more important right now in terms of looking at the flow and the urgency. We're working on it. Thank you. Sorry. Do go on. I didn't mean to interrupt. Okay.
 So the three main locations where people are picked up are public spaces, which I just mentioned, in their home, outside their home, or in places where they're living or visiting. Third, often you hear about is work. So there are different agencies that you hear. There is a difference between immigration customs enforcement and Homeland Security investigation. HSI is who will show up at work. ICE does their arrest for the top two agencies.
 It usually happens early morning. For us AILA attorneys who have to show up to try to intercept any arrests, we must try to get a family member released in Portland from any arrests within our metro area by 2 p.m. ICE will tell you 3, but often the bus leaves before we get there. So this is critical because jurisdiction moves.
 from Oregon to Tacoma once they get on that bus. And it's a lot harder for us to try to get bond, recognizance, or release on supervision in Portland. And the people that we as AILA attorneys have to work with, our counterpart over there, is a lot harder in Seattle than it is in Portland. This is our reality. And when we talk about how to protect Oregonians...
 If they are taken to Tacoma, the first and foremost thing we try to do right now is bond, getting them released on bond. As you've heard, the Supreme Court in the Rodriguez case,
 litigation has just ruled that a person, even green card holders, can be detained indefinitely. There's no more six-month periodic review. So if a person comes to the airport and they're a asylee and they're brought in and they're telling their story, they can be detained until they prove their case. This changes what we as ALA attorneys need to do and to fight collectively as a nation. They're detained for about a month and a half before we get a bond hearing.
 and that person may be innocent. And I want to point to the fact that administrative arrests by ICE in their report has increased double numbers. That's over 13%. That's administrative. That's people with no criminal history, what we refer to as collateral.
 as what they refer to that we use to help explain. But their master hearing, their individual hearing, this can be detention for up to six months to multiple years. Under the new Supreme Court ruling, a person may have to fight if they're a human trafficking victim, if they're an asylee, if they're a refugee trying to defend their case, and they're a green card holder. They can be detained their entire time without recourse. That is...
 in and of itself is horrific. If they are released on bond, they'll come through the same process but in Portland. This issue is a human rights issue. We have to consider it as a human rights issue. These are our families. When I talk to my brother Colini or my brother Wajdi,
 Our families are hurting. They're separated. It affects each and every one of us. These are babies we're trying to deport. I had to go to court with a six-year-old, unaccompanied minor. No one wanted him there. Our heart all broke.
 The judge just told me never to bring him back and that we will continue this hearing. But this is the reality of our current administration and the fight that we must embark on. These people here who are fighting with you, standing before you, these are pro bono love and care for our community. With all our hearts, we request and humbly urge that you please implement this resolution today, if possible. Thank you. Thank you. That was helpful. And by the way, thank you.
 For the data deck, too. This is actually great information. It's much appreciated. Thank you. Good afternoon. Mayor Willer and Portland City Council members, for the record, my name is Roberto Gutierrez. I am the policy director for the Immigrant Inclusion Rights Architecture Plan through Oregon Ready, and I work at CALSA. I am joined by many of my colleagues, including Elenica Jacob, Oregon Ready's coordinator, and Aaron Pettigrew, the rights attorney, who are here in the audience today.
 Oregonians now more than ever need effective representation in immigration proceedings. Oregonians are being detained and deported because of the federal administration's shift in immigration policy that has created a mass detention and deportation campaign resulting in the separation of families here in our community. This effect is felt not only here in Portland, but in cities across the nation.
 Following the administration's early 2017 executive orders, total immigration arrests have increased by 38% over the same period in 2016. And arrest of individuals without a criminal conviction has increased by 157%. This month, ICE arrested over 100 Californians in actions publicized as retaliation against the state's sanctuary policies.
 We must invest in our Oregonians because the city of Portland is a sanctuary city too. Representation ensures due process of law. It is even more critical during the pivotal moment of our history when administration is acting in a lawless manner and that has compounded our representation crisis. Federal courts have yet to extend representation as a fundamental right in immigration proceedings. However, the Supreme Court has recognized the right to appointed counsel is a matter of fairness.
 The Oregon Constitution echoes this fairness, fundamental foundation of fairness, as well. Despite this commitment of fairness, Oregonians are in unfair positions because of the administration's deportation campaign. Eight out of ten unrepresented Oregonians are separated from their families because they lack access to counsel. Oregon courts have recognized the impact of deportation here because a deported person may be required to sever family ties,
 because become impoverished and return to a society in which he or she no longer can function, and in many, indeed, face life-threatening conditions. The City of Portland must act and ensure its residents have access to just representation by funding a universal representation program, because it ensures fairness by preventing deportation and disrupts the administration's unfair immigration crusade.
 While we are witnessing a crisis because too many of our community members have been detained and deported without representation, this problem will only continue to grow because the city is home to 27,000 undocumented immigrants.
 Legal representation funding is necessary and key to keeping our community together. The lack of representation results in the majority of Oregonians in removal proceedings that are deported. Conversely, Oregonians with representation are much more likely to win relief, preventing deportation. In 2016, the Portland Immigration Court issued decisions in 281 unrepresented cases.
 233 or 87% resulted in deportation, whereas represented cases, only 29% of issued decisions resulted in deportation. The community value of representation provided for Oregonians is significant.
 We urge the city to follow neighboring jurisdictions like the City of Portland and Los Angeles that created and funded a universal representation model similar to what Portland's immigrant legal service providers have created. To address Portland's unmet representation need, Oregon Ready convened ICS, Catholic Charities, MPD, SOAR, Innovation Law Lab, CALSA, and Lewis and Clark Law School.
 The collective met multiple times and researched various models across the U.S. The collaborative conducted a number of site visits and formed interviews from programs located here in the Northwest and East Coast cities like Atlanta and New York City. Our proposed representation model for Portland contains four key elements. The first piece is legal defenders.
 This is essentially the core component of the model. It's a collaborative focus consisting of dedicated attorneys housed at established immigration legal service nonprofits that represent Oregonians at risk of deportation. The second piece consists of navigators. These are trained volunteers and staff placed in community organizations that will identify and lead potential cases through the network services.
 The third piece is a centralized clearinghouse. This consists of a variety of tools to screen clients, provide research and data, and technical assistance to support its network and legal immigrant service providers. And then the fourth and final piece is a case cost fund. This fund would cover costs for such things like psychological evaluations, translation services, and other case cost needs.
 The universal representation model enforces collaboration across the rights infrastructure. The model reduces overall costs and minimizes implementation gaps. More importantly, it's easy to scale up to ensure Oregonians have fair and effective representation. Before I relinquish my time to Stephen Manning here today, I must thank Commissioner Udeli for convening this task force and committing to $750,000 to this endeavor.
 Mayor Willer for showing empathy during this time of urgency, and Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Salzman for supporting this work before you today. Lastly, I must thank the task force participants who worked quickly and diligently on this recommendation and others. To the volunteers and staff who helped initiate and organize this work, your commitment and energy was noticed.
 Moving forward, Stephen will address scaling and how the universal representation model will serve Oregonians here in Portland. We look forward to a council work session to discuss the finer details of this project soon. Thank you. Thank you. There is a PowerPoint. Is it possible to have that PowerPoint? Sure.
 Carla is our resident genius on PowerPoint. Thank you. She works miracles. Thank you. Great. Mayor, commissioners, members of the New Portland Committee, members of the task force, my name is Stephen Manning. I'm an attorney. I am the executive director of the Innovation Law Lab, which is a nonprofit here in Portland. We like to think of ourselves as law architects.
 and data empiricists, so we use technology, collaboration, data, litigation, to defend the rule of law for immigrants and refugees, so that every case that should win does win every time, everywhere.
 We have collaborated and designed and support two of the nation's largest pro bono initiatives, one in collaboration with several of nationwide immigrant rights organizations called the Dilley Pro Bono Project, which has represented upwards of 50,000 asylum seekers in the last four years with a 98% success rate.
 We are also the designers and the collaborators on the Southeast Immigrant Freedom Initiative. We work with the Southern Poverty Law Center. It will soon be one of the world's largest immigrant defense systems based at a detention center. We operate pro bono projects called Centers of Excellence in Atlanta, Charlotte, Kansas City, and here in Portland where we've trained more than 150 lawyers from some of our city's largest law firms and small firms.
 We're a member of Oregon Ready, and we've designed the rights architecture for Oregon, which is intended to build a permanent pathway for immigrant inclusion, particularly immigrants of color here in Oregon. I'd like to describe the rights architecture, this holistic approach about our entire service ecosystem.
 As the really extremely powerful testimony has shown today, that Oregon is an immigrant state and that our immigrant communities contribute to our collective prosperity. But that collective prosperity is definitely, as we've heard, under attack through the mass deportation and mass incarceration that is taking place.
 They're both unjust, so deportations where they violate the substantive law, and deportations that are unfair because of the asymmetrical nature of deportation. Because, as you have heard, there is no right toindividuals frequently appear unrepresented in the removal process.
 As my colleague Roberto just described, the vast increase in arrests in 2017 is actually pretty remarkable. And then one of the biggest things, as Roberto just described, is providing a lawyer is one of the single mostit correlates providing someone a lawyer creates rule of law faster
 and more effectively than almost anything else in the system to date. So we know, as Roberta describes, an individual with a lawyer in the Portland court is substantially more likely to prevail and prevent an unjust or unfair deportation. Nationwide, that has shown that 84% of individuals who are represented during the removal proceeding also can defeat an unjust or an unfair removal. Could you keep going? I'd like to describe the rights architecture.
 So the rights architecture is this holistic approach to our entire service ecosystem here in Oregon. The idea behind the rights architecture is this open, transparent, and deeply visible way of organizing what we do in Oregon to create this permanent pathway to immigrant inclusion.
 It begins with prevention and education. This is where organizations on the ground in the field do know-your-rights work, beyond know-your-rights work, family safety planning, affirmative intervention to minimize deportation risk. And we know empirically that more than 80% of immigration arrests, 80% of immigration arrests are constitutionally doubtful. That is that they violate the Fourth or Fifth Amendment.
 We know this happens with great regularity because we cannot attain, we cannot achieve redressability or accountability in the system because here's what happens, right? So even though individuals, we train individuals, there's an amazing coalition of organizations working in Portland and the county and across the state have mobilized to engage in Know Your Rights work.
 But we know when we do that know your rights work, individuals with their rights will be violated. So we've now begun teaching individuals what to do when your rights are violated, what we call the know your rights, beyond know your rights. But what happens is people give up in the process, and they give up for two basic reasons. So one, they know that they're going to get arrested and detained, and that their family is going to suffer a great deal during that detention period.
 And that they're not going to get a lawyer, because most individuals will appear without a lawyer. And without a lawyer, the likelihood of winning is small. And so people give up early in the process, so we cannot complete the circle. So in this diagram before you, Zone 1 is prevention and education. The recommendations in the task force today are going to help tie Zone 1 with Zone 3,
 family safety, moving individuals, and providing protection with families was owned for universal representation and closing a gap. The rights architecture was designed and is being implemented to close that gap, to create accountability so that the Fourth and Fifth Amendment lives in real time. And that I would say to our Attorney General Jeff Sessions that that actually is the rule of law.
 The universal representation model that is proposed today in the recommendations of the task force is a critical component of the rights architecture. So here, without it, the circle cannot be completed. So Oregon has one of the best private immigration defense bars in the nation.
 We have, but it's not enough, right? Our capacity is not enough, right? We have an amazing array of pro bono services through the Center of Excellence at the Law Lab, through the work Serpon does with the American Immigration Lawyers Association here in Portland. We rely on some of the largest law firms here in the city. It's not enough, right? Universal representation as proposed and the task force report completes the gap.
 So the model synthesizes several successful components of projects that we use around the nation, as well as during our studies of what happens in the New York, the Knife Up project, so the New York Immigrant Family Unity project, the California, the LA Justice Fund, as well as the Seattle representation program.
 The systems were proposing scales in a dynamic way so that we think after three years we should be able to achieve universality. So that means the system would achieve scale where we would be able to prevent nearly every unjust or unfair deportation that would occur here at the Portland Immigration Court. And with that, I will turn it over to Mr. Moreno. Thank you.
 Mayor, esteemed commissioners, my name is Alberto Moreno, and I am the chair for the Commission on Hispanic Affairs. In that role, I am charged with representing the needs of Latinos in Oregon, who now number 500,000 strong. I wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for your leadership in making Portland a sanctuary city for our immigrant and refugee communities who live there.
 Pray and work in this August city. Every day, as you have heard, across this great nation of ours, across this great state, our communities are being hunted down. Hunted in our courthouses, in our hospitals, in our schools, and even in the sacrosanct space of our private homes. Amen.
 Men in black descend under the cover of night, knocking down our doors, scooping up our parents, tearing in one fell swoop the delicate, sacred fabric of our families uprooted here. And so we are here before you at this indecorous moment in history to ask you to make material your promise of Portland's sanctuary.
 to make of this city that safe harbor, that bright beacon upon the distant promontory. This task force has worked hard, as you heard, to put together a list of recommendations that would lead us to a cogent response in the face of that action. The recommendations, the thoughtful recommendations are as follow.
 We respectfully request that a deportation defense fund be established and seeded with sufficient resources to ensure robust representation of individuals who are the subject of any immigration action.
 Additionally, we are also asking that the City of Portland commit resources and staffing to establish an independent Office of Immigrant Support. This office is essential to creating a welcoming, inclusive city where our children and families can feel safe. The Office of Immigrant Support would provide and manage the grants to be awarded to community-based organizations who would in turn...
 provide independent representation and deportation or removal proceedings. That piece is important as we seek to provide political and legal protection for the city. The office would also ensure coordination between city, county, state, and federal agencies to
 to ensure a cogent response in the face of immigration enforcement action. This office would also work to leverage additional investments and funding to ensure the long-term viability of this program. Further, the task force agrees that political and social support from city officials is crucial to the success of any programs enacted to protect and support immigrant and refugee communities.
 Accordingly, the task force further recommends the following, that elected city officials act as liaisons between federal agencies and community members with grievances, that the city works and coordinates with county, state, and federal agencies and offices, as well as non-profits and community organizations, to support and protect immigrant and refugee communities.
 And finally, the fourth recommendation is that the city adopt and internalize task force recommendations into city policies, that the city appoints and empowers an independent city public ombudsman for redress and accountability in implementing the task force recommendations, and
 and that the city authorized the current task force to develop the membership criteria for a new task force that would oversee the implementation of the recommendations as set forth in this report. We urge you today to adopt these recommendations as we live out our support to the most vulnerable among us. Thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thank you. Go ahead.
 Just the right time? Yeah, sure. Commissioner Saltzman. This is the last panel. We do have some invited testimony, but if you have a question for the panel, please. Yeah, I guess I'm a little confused because, I mean, there's a lot to absorb here. And thank you for all the work that you've done. But I thought, I guess, trying to understand the representation in the immigration or in deportation process. So I thought I heard Mr. Guterres say that representation is recognized as a matter of right by immigrants.
 federal judges and others. Is that correct? Because I'm hearing that people are not afforded automatically representation. I'm trying to reconcile those two statements. So the
 So there's two rights that an individual has, basically, when someone appears in the removal proceedings or deportation proceedings. So an individual has his or her Fifth Amendment right to due process. And as part of that due process, that would include an individual bringing his or her own attorney, but not an attorney provided for by the government.
 So if an individual is indigent or an individual is unable to afford an attorney, or if they're simply, they could afford an attorney, but there are no attorneys available or the capacity for the local legal system is limited.
 complete or full, then that individual would have to defend him or herself. There's also a statutory phrase which is being litigated at this moment, what it may mean, in the Immigration Nationality Act that refers to this as an individual may be represented by counsel at no expense to the federal government. And what that means is right now in the federal courts. Okay. And then, thanks. Um,
 And I guess the other question, so we're talking about representation for people in deportation proceedings. We're not talking about representation for people in criminal proceedings. Is that correct? That's correct. Because they're provided with representation in that case. Correct. Okay. Thanks. So I have a question, too, if I could, to our immigration lawyer. You know, there's so many restrictions that have been placed on what federal legal services lawyers can do.
 that I'm sort of out of date. Can someone at Oregon Legal Aid Services provide the services that we're talking about here to a qualified party? Does federal law allow people funded by legal services to provide these services?
 Yes and no. So if they are an organ or if they're a member of the American Immigration Lawyer Association and they work in one of the nonprofits, they would have a better understanding of it. But just like in any practice of law, the area of immigration is very complex. Even under immigration law, as immigration attorneys, not all of us work in 
 deportation and removal. Right. So a family, it would be very hard for Oregon Law Center or Legal Aid, who works under like family law or very specific custody battles or elder law, to jump in from that area to do a very complex litigation. But just curious, are there lawyers funded federally that do this work?
 at Oregon Legal Aid Services, or is this separate from the suite of services that are currently being offered? What we're requesting is something completely separate. No, I understand, but I want to go back to my question.
 Currently, are there lawyers federally funded that do this work through Oregon Legal Aid Services? Not that I know of. Stephen, do you have an answer to that? So Oregon Legal Aid, they're precluded from providing any kind of immigration, like sort of representational services? That's what I assumed. I mean, every time they get into interesting areas, Congress...
 slaps them down. So Oregon Law Center is their sister organization, separate organization, right? It is not within, so there are members, Oregon Law Center, members of the Oregon Law Center are actually a member of Oregon Ready who have put forth part of this proposal. And they are active participants as well. And they do not provide removal or deportation defense services. Okay, good. That's what I need to know. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, now we're going to move on to the invited testimony segment. If I could have Luz Reyna from Congressman Earl Blumenauer's office, Kofi Dessa, the Director of Office of Equity and Human Rights, and Andrea Williams, Executive Director of CASA, come to the table.
 So I'm going to ask you or remind you all to state your name for the record and please limit your testimony to two to Three minutes. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you mayor and commissioners. My name is loose Raina I'm here on behalf of Congressman woman our first I want to thank the Commission and everyone involved for putting forth these recommendations Now more than ever we are grateful for those in our community who have stepped up to protect the thousands of families who now call Portland home our city our country our
 are at their best when we prioritize inclusivity, no matter one's national origin, race, religion, or immigration status. Every single one of us contributes to the vibrancy and diversity of our city, and it is a critical part of the fabric of our community. In light of this administration's hateful and anti-immigrant agenda, putting the sanctuary city resolution into action is all the most important.
 We still may see the federal government choose to undermine safety and instill fear, but our city will not cave under this pressure. We will do everything in our power to keep our communities together. We cannot and will not turn our backs on our city's most vulnerable. While I continue to fight against the divisive policies we're seeing at the national level, I'm incredibly heartened to know that Oregonians will continue to fight at home. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Kofi Desu, Interim Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, City of Portland. Mayor Weiner, Commissioners, thank you for creating the opportunity for community members
 to work closely with the city of Portland to provide these recommendations to you. As an immigrant myself, I want to remind you that we are here in Portland, in Oregon, to participate in the prosperity of this state and this country. And we are working hard, our communities are working hard to contribute to this prosperity.
 and providing a structure to support immigrants is a testimony of the welcoming character that Oregon shows to us, that was attracted us to come to Oregon and to reside in Oregon. So I want to show my support.
 Am I too close? Yeah. I want to show my support to these recommendations. From the Office of Equity and Human Rights, but also as a personal interest because of my immigrant status. Another thing I want to highlight is that these issues are not new.
 They are not new. They are highlighted. They are elevated now. And having a permanent structure that will continue to support will help us to avoid being reactive when something happens. So I'm going to stop there. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you so much for the opportunity to testify. My name is Andrea Williams. I'm the Executive Director of CAUSA. We are an immigrant rights organization here in Portland, and we also advocate at the state and national levels. And we're also a member of Oregon Ready, which
 I want to just say, you know, thank you so much for your leadership. I know how proud you are of being a sanctuary state. I've heard many of you on the radio making the case and defending our law that restricts city resources and personnel from engaging in federal immigration law. And Oregon is a sanctuary state. We are the oldest sanctuary state in the nation. In case you didn't know it, passed in July of 1987.
 And despite that, unfortunately, our families are continuing to suffer very greatly. It feels like every single week I get a phone call, a Facebook message, an email, a frantic phone call from a mom or a sister or a kid because their loved one has been picked up by ICE and they don't know what to do. And frankly, sometimes I don't know what to do. And it's a really...
 disheartening situation. We have amazing lawyers that are working pro bono, but as you've heard, it's not enough, and we face a huge gap in legal representation. It can cost families thousands of dollars, and we're talking about farm workers, we're talking about restaurant workers, low-income people, and they're suddenly having to pay $20,000, $30,000 in bond to
 let alone the legal representation when they come back to Portland if they get let off on bond. I know families who have scrambled to get the money together, and some of them have had to give up paying rent.
 They've had to go to food pantries. And in some cases, many nonprofits here in the Portland area have stepped up and helped provide emergency funds, including ourselves. But we can't address the current scale of people who are being detained by ourselves. And so we're here...
 Part of supporting these recommendations, and in particular, the universal representation proposal that would provide the representation our families need. And while the city can't physically stop ICE from detaining somebody, we know that, but the city can provide the legal defense we need to fight back and make our case for why our families should stay together. Right.
 And so I see this universal representation proposal as a step towards strengthening our sanctuary status, making it live even more than it does, and address the current crisis we see ourselves in. So my ask is that we join our neighbors up in Washington, King County, Tacoma, who are implementing a similar program.
 Even though we're the oldest sanctuary city or sanctuary state on the West Coast, we are currently the only state with no deportation defense program. And so I love my state and I love this city, but unfortunately we're behind in
 Seattle, Tacoma, LA, San Francisco, they all have these programs. And yet we've had our sanctuary policies for longer. So I think we can do better. And so I want to say thank you to Commissioner Udaly for your leadership and your commitment. And we look forward to continuing to work together. So thank you.
 Question. Commissioner Fritz. Is there any discussion of having this funded at the state level? Because, you know, when we were doing our stopgap measures to fund some of the defense that we've done, there was the question of making sure that it was Portland DACA students who were recipients. And yet we're a region, we're a state. So what's the discussion of funding this at the state level? Thank you.
 So there have been conversations with the governor, and as you know, that process moves very slowly. We're about to head into a long legislative session next year. So the idea has been brought up. However, our sort of way of looking at this is if we can be successful on a smaller scale at a city or county level, we can make a stronger case for the state to invest. Okay.
 So I think it's got to be a local state partnership. And just for some perspective, there is no other state in the nation that I'm aware of that has a statewide fund for deportation defense. California has a grant process to support legal service providers to help people apply for citizenship. Right.
 and for DACA, but they don't have it, at least currently to my awareness, at the statewide level. So what we would be doing with the state would be unprecedented. And so I think we need to be able to prove ourselves that this model works here first,
 before we scale it up even greater at the state level. If we were the first state, then maybe we can be the first state to fund it as well. That would be great. And we'll continue to have those conversations with the governor and other legislators. I particularly liked recommendation number three about the elected officials' responsibility to act as liaisons between the local jurisdictions and with our state and federal representatives. And we have done that on the council. Certainly we'll continue to do that. How about...
 other jurisdictions? Has there been any discussion with the county, with Beaverton? You know, this again is a community problem. It's not just a Portland problem.
 Oh, absolutely. You know, we have been in some deep conversations with Multnomah County. We've been talking to Chair Kofori, Commissioner Vega-Peterson, and other commissioners at the same time that we have been talking with you all. And ideally, it would be a partnership between the city and the county, which holds the greatest number of immigrants in the state numerically. Yeah.
 And then I think the discussion's open for other counties and cities that may want to participate. We figured we would start here because it's the county that has the largest number of immigrants. It's home to the Portland Immigration Court. And we have one of the most progressive city councils and county councils in the state. So we thought we would try to start where we could get momentum.
 and bring people along as we go. That was sort of the line of thinking. But yes, we are in conversation with Multnomah County as well. That's helpful to know, and I will certainly commit to talking with the Metro Policy Advisory Committee, which I'm the city's representative on. It seems to me that Washington County, with the farm workers in particular, being such a core part of their economy, might be interested in joining us.
 We would definitely welcome the help in developing those conversations and those relationships in Washington County. I agree that this should be a regional conversation and that's where we were looking before Ready Oregon's
 initiative came to our attention. So all three counties have declared our sanctuary status, and Beaverton has declared sanctuary status. But given that Portland and Multnomah County have the largest numbers of people that need this type of support,
 It makes sense to me to start there. Commissioner Udeli? Thank you. Just one more further question, just from what Commissioner Udeli just said. Would somebody tell the folks at home what is Ready Oregon? Okay.
 So Oregon Ready is a collaboration, a coalition between nonprofit legal service providers, community advocates, unions, in some cases some of the local government agencies have been involved. And we really got together when DACA was established to create better coordination and collaboration in making sure as many DACA recipients could get involved.
 gain status as possible. Over the years, we've shifted and we've become statewide recently in order to address the crisis of increased immigration enforcement in our state. And really what we're trying to do is create a cross-sector collaborative where immigration attorneys and community advocates on the ground are creating solutions together instead of being in silos. And that's part of what Stephen Manning was saying
 showing to the the rights infrastructure is our strategy in order to address the current immigration enforcement activity we're seeing in Oregon. Thank you. So Commissioner Daly I just have a question just to understand procedurally where we're going today we're being asked to accept a report correct
 I heard someone say there may be a work session in the future. I'm going to request that we have a work session on universal defense. Okay. And then it would be your intention to, through the budget process, to make the ask for the recommendations that you choose to act on this year?
 Yes, and I was going to clarify that at the end, just because I know that some of these processes must seem a little arcane. But today, we are here to simply accept the report. That doesn't mean that we are adopting and implementing recommendations. That is a separate process that will come next.
 But there will be other, the next opportunities will be presumably a work session to flush out some details and then a conversation during the budget process about whether to establish a program and at what level of funding. Yes. And there will be plenty of opportunities in those portions for public testimony and involvement. Absolutely. Good. Thank you. Okay. We're going to bring up, thank you very much. Great testimony. Thank you.
 We're going to now have Leland Baxter from Metropolitan Public Defender's Office, John Herrera from Catholic Charities, and Robert Brown from Interfaith Movement for Immigrant Justice. And again, just state your name for the record, and please limit your testimony to two to three minutes. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Thank you so much for having us. It's an honor to be here with so many dedicated immigrant rights advocates, folks who I've looked up to and learned from for years in my own work. I work at Metropolitan Public Defender in Immigrant Defense Oregon, which is a removal defense-focused project that was launched last year, thanks in part to the generous funding from the city. Other than that, I'm going to be talking about the Immigrant Defense Project,
 Us, along with Catholic Charities, are two of the first nonprofits to launch removal defense projects. I'm here to urge you to seriously consider the removal defense funding for a couple of different reasons.
 Oregon and Portland sanctuary policies in many ways protect immigrant communities, but we have also seen that they put immigrant communities at a heightened risk as the Trump administration, Jeff Sessions, target jurisdictions for escalated enforcement.
 representation in that context is absolutely critical and I believe it's an obligation for us as communities that wish to be sanctuary communities to provide representation. As we've heard, a lawyer or the lack thereof is a difference between an individual actually even applying for relief from deportation for which they may be eligible. The statistics that Metropolitan Public Defender requested last year from the Immigration Court show that
 When folks are unrepresented, about 83% of the time they're deported. When they have lawyers, that number drops significantly to somewhere in the 20s, and they prevail on forms of relief with attorneys about 44% of the time. If they don't have an attorney, they'll actually prevail maybe less than 3% of the time.
 What those numbers show us is that Oregonians who have a lawful right to be here in the United States are being deported every single day, perhaps by the hundreds every year. I urge you to take this to heart. We know that undocumented individuals in Oregon pay about $80 million in state and local taxes. And we know that if those individuals had lawful status, that would grow to about $130 million.
 That in no means is the reason why we should adopt this, right? The value of our immigrant communities should never be reduced to their economic output. But it shows that this is not only the moral thing to do, but it makes financial sense for the city, for the county, and for the state of Oregon. Thank you. Could I ask a question on that point? Yeah. Because you've made a good case, and I would expect that from a good attorney.
 And you've even turned the frame a little bit right back on us, which is an interesting  I wouldn't want to go up against you in court, in other words.
 Obviously, funding is an issue here, and that's a little bit of the elephant in the room, because we know the city is actually in a cut budget process. And so as we seek to find ways to support the good work of this commission, we're going to have to weigh that against the reality that we've got a tough budget process coming up. Is there a way for us to be more creative?
 and more innovative on the financial structure here. Is there an opportunity around mainstream law firms, philanthropic organizations, private sector organizations that benefit from our immigrant community? Is there some way to cast a wider net here? Has that been considered? Sure.
 as one strategy, or could that be considered as a strategy as the city enters its budget process? So there's a couple of things. One, the strategy of bringing in private law firms is something that's been pursued. Stephen Manning kind of touched on that with his Centers of Excellence. And with limited amount of time, I don't think he was able to get into really 
 in depth what that entails, but the Center of Excellence draws in pro bono attorneys from major law firms around the city to assist, but it's just simply insufficient in the face of the amount of need that we...
 where busy, you know, big law firm attorneys able to fit in cases in their pro bono space simply isn't the type of representation that we truly need at Portland's Immigration Court. I want to be a little more blunt. I wasn't actually talking about pro bono work, although I'm really grateful for the pro bono services that are provided. I was actually talking about dollars and cents contributions. Okay.
 So I believe that with an investment from the city and perhaps an investment from the county as well, it demonstrates to the private sector that this is  right? With that kind of seed money can absolutely be leveraged. And I do think there's a place and a responsibility for businesses that benefit from immigrant labor, that benefit from being in a community that's pro-immigrant.
 But I think there's outreach still to be done in that area. I think it should be done. But I also think that we're here today in response to the task force's recommendations, and I do think they recognize that there's an important role for a city council that has historically been so pro-immigrant to play with this universal representation. Excellent. Thanks. And I do appreciate your testimony. Thanks a lot. That was good.
 Good afternoon Mr. Mayor and dear commissioners. My name is John Arroyo. I'm the director of the Immigration Legal Services Program at Cal Poly Churris. And we're here today to put a
 support to this universal representation. And I want to take a little bit on what you just said, Mr. Mayor, about this being an effort that has to be in conjunction with many sectors, including the public, starting with your office and your budget. That's why we're asking to start putting the first dollars. And we're asking also, it's been...
 proposal to the local foundations and also we're asking also the governor's office to join this effort because this is not an issue of City of Portland itself, this is an issue of Oregon as we are representing Oregonians here.
 But we need to start with something concrete, and that's the ask today, is for you to consider that families are being separated daily and at a matter of time. So that's the ask, is for you to consider when you go into the process of the budgeting, is to have some money allocated to start this process of keeping families together. And the only way to keep families together is to have attorneys defending them in court. There's no way to an immigrant...
 that is barely speaking the language, to face all the force that is being brought by the government to deport them. So there is no way that someone can defend their cases without the help of an attorney. So that's the ask today, is to really encourage you to take this leadership and be in the first city
 around the state to put some money toward the defense for the universal representation, which means universal representation means families together. That's our ask. And also, thanking you all for being a proud service, a proud
 proud figure serving the city of Portland, but also telling the community that we are here and that you support us, the immigrants, not only with resolution, but with some concrete action saying here is some money that you can go and have an attorney that is willing to keep your family here united.
 Thank you. And that was a very strong statement, and I appreciate it. And I'm still going to see if I can't think of some creative ways to leverage public resources with private. Definitely there might be some good ideas in this room that we could think of together. We're happy to put every single word along with you and go and ask for those dollars. Delighted to hear that. Thank you. Before we move on, I do think it would be helpful. ICE is not exactly the most 
 or willing to share their data with us. We have a sense of how many families are at risk, but do we have a sense in the last year or two of the number of people who have been detained and or deported in our area? So...
 For the city of Portland, so what we do have is some law students who are here. Lindsay Johnison and Teresa Smith have been doing work on this, and they have gathered some data. So what we know is that there's nearly 4,000 individuals in removal proceedings who have Oregon addresses. We know that that number actually undercounts because a good number of individuals who are detained in Tacoma have their address listed as that detention center. We also know from that same data set that for individuals who have Multnomah County addresses, that's
 There's about 814 individuals with Multnomah County addresses who are in removal proceedings. I'll just note that that's a growth of about 10% over six months. So if it continues at that clip, that's going to be growing significantly. Washington County is the most represented in removal proceedings. Okay.
 And there's about 940 individuals with Washington County addresses who are currently in removal proceedings. So between Multnomah and Washington County, it's well over almost 2,000. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Robert Brown. I work with the Interfaith Movement for Immigrant Justice. The acronym that we use for that is EMERJ, I-M-I-R-J, so that's how I'll say it because it's a lot easier.
 We emerge as an organization of people of faith and conscience that supports the immigrant community and works with the immigrant community to help solve their needs. Last year we were an organization of about 25 congregations in the Portland area, and now we are an organization of over 100 congregations throughout the state.
 So you can understand that there is a big need and there's a big desire for faith communities to be working on this issue of sanctuary. We have had multiple trainings and we are working directly with faith communities and having them understand what the sanctuary needs are. I'm going to talk to you about the needs from a different perspective, the needs for representation.
 In eMERGE, we have a working group that works on accompaniment. So we send people to accompany people to ICE check-ins, to court cases as needed, along with the ACLU, who provides legal observer kind of services. We just completed a survey in eMERGE of about 20 different organizations that represent the immigrant community.
 And we asked them, what do you need? What kind of accompaniment, what kind of support do you need? And the first thing that when we looked at the data, and we just looked at it yesterday, as a matter of fact, the data really was very clearly stated that what's needed from the community is legal help. People feel, individuals feel, families feel isolated and helpless. And that's no way for our community to be.
 The second thing that people needed was housing, and the third thing that people needed was money, because when people get picked up by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, then usually many times the breadwinner of the family is taken away, and the rest of the family is left with trying to maintain it.
 So I just wanted to let you know from what does the community want? The community need is really for legal representation. So I hope that you will take very seriously the recommendations of the task force that worked on this. And you mentioned about working on state kind of issues. Yes.
 We do have connections all across the state and various communities, and it would be interesting to have these conversations in Bend and in Hood River also with those people. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I have one question of the attorneys maybe. So if we were to move forward with this proposal, would it be expected that any participating attorneys would agree on a uniform billing rate, hourly billing? Oh, I believe the idea would be to  you mean to bill the city? Yes.
 Or to bill the clients. I believe the representation would be free. If the city is paying the bill, yeah. Right. And I believe the model that we're currently proposing is not an hourly billed rate. It's an annual FTE rate. So the city would pay for a number of attorneys, or the city and the county really, or the city, the county, and private partners. Right.
 would pay for a certain number of attorneys. Those attorneys would be housed. Those attorneys would work close to full-time in simply representing individuals. We've worked out case caps for the first year, the second year, and the third year, which would increase. Those case caps are kind of pushed higher thanks to the technical support team that's based in the clearinghouse, which was kind of referenced. So,
 So the idea is actually to avoid an hourly billing type situation because
 There are significant issues with how that relates to the quality of representation at times, especially under this type of model. And the best thing, right, is to have individuals who are dedicated and are working as hard as they can for all of their clients. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. So before I call the next and final four people up for testimony, I know we're going to lose Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman around 4 p.m.,
 And I just want to get a sense of what you would like to do. I think they would both like to be here for the vote. But I want to hear, one way or another, I want to hear from the final four. Well, is the next panel about a ten-minute panel? We could make it a ten-minute panel, I think. Okay. Yeah, I have to leave it for...
 You know, we're accepting a report. That's a fairly innocuous thing, so whether I'm actually here for that vote or not is not that big a deal for me. Just want to check in. All right. But I would vote to accept it if I'm here. Well, would it be appropriate for Commissioners Fish and Saltzman to make some comments before our final four? I'm going to stay until the vote. Okay. All right. Karina Ramos, Reverend Mark Knutson from Augustus University.
 I didn't say that right. Agostana? Agostana. All right, it's on my street and everything. Linda? Jaramillo? Jaramillo? Did I get it close? Jaramillo. Oh, okay. Well, I can't say it fancy like you. And we have the interpreter. Okay, great. And everyone just state your name for the record, and if you could...
 Tighten your testimony to two to three minutes. That would be very helpful. Hola, buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Karina Letran Ramos. Soy inmigrante de El Salvador. Hi, good afternoon. My name is Karina Ramos. I'm an immigrant from El Salvador. Can you move the microphone a little bit closer between the two of you? Yeah. I'm sorry. He's fine. You're ahead of me now. I'm sorry. No problem. Say it again. Okay.
 My name is Karina Letrano Ramos and I was born in El Salvador. I have two daughters, 15 and 17 years old. They're still in my country even though the risks that they run.
 El 18 de febrero de 1914, la Fuerza Armada de El Salvador desapareci a mi hermano menor. 18 de febrero de 2014, las fuerzas armadas de El Salvador desaparecieron a mi hermano. Su nombre es Francisco Javier Hernndez. Ellos desaparecieron a mi hermano y a dos jvenes ms. Su nombre es Francisco Javier Hernndez. Se desapareci a dos jvenes ms.
 Se busc con la ayuda de la Polica Nacional, Fiscala General de la Repblica y Derechos Humanos. We looked for him through the help of the National Police, the Mayor's Office, and the General Republic, oh, the Human Rights, sorry.
 We made all the denouncements of the entities, but since it was related to a public entity, we just couldn't find any answers.
 As is well known in my country, there's an issue with gangs and maras. But with... Sorry.
 But in my case, it was the national police that made me disappear. My family, since they made the denouncements, they've been prosecuted by threats.
 Lastimosamente, fue el primer caso que se denunci despus de los acuerdos de paz que firm el pas entre el gobierno y las fuerzas del Frente Faragundo Mart. Unfortunately, that was the first... Do you know what my question is, please?
 Unfortunately, that was the first announcement after the accord of peace between the government and the... Qu? De qu? De qu? Las izquierdas se llaman, las izquierdas del pas. No, no, no puede ser, perdn. Despus de lo que se hizo despus de los acuerdos de paz. S, se apareci. Between the armed forces and the, up to the accord of the peace, yeah.
 This is a brief history of what happened to me, and because of that, me and my mother, we had to leave the country to save our lives.
 Llegamos a Estados Unidos en busca de apoyo internacional para poder continuar la bsqueda de mi hermano. We came to the United States in search of international help to continue to look for my brother. The help to look for my brother. Bueno, mi madre y yo llegamos a Oregon el 26 de octubre.
 El 26 de febrero del 2016 y desde entonces hemos vivido en este lugar. My mother and I, we came to Oregon on February 26th and since then we've lived in this place, in this country.
 Since then, we've been in the process of asylum, and thank goodness for that. And since, because of that, we've...
 Since 2006, we also had to disband from our brother. My brother, Manuel Jesus, he tried to cross the border to save his life, but unfortunately he was detained by immigration.
 Since then, he has had his hearing. They imposed a $20,000 bail hearing for him. And that's an impossible amount for us to pay as a family.
 As you can see, since December 2017, I fell and broke my hand. That's impaired me from working. I'm paying all the charges.
 With their national help, the case of Brother Javier has been able to be reopened.
 And we hope to have some answers after four years. This means a higher risk for my family and more for my brother if he is deported back to El Salvador.
 Traigo ac este caso pues porque he escuchado mucho de lo que se habla de los inmigrantes, verdad? De que somos una poblacin muy alta en este estado. I have brought this to attention because I've heard of the stories that immigrants were a high number of immigrants in the state. Y esto es un poco de lo que afecta a la comunidad de inmigrantes realmente. S.
 This is something that impacts immigrant communities, and since I am proud of my family, this is something that impacts us all.
 Quizs nosotros los inmigrantes lo que esperamos es un poco de apoyo nada ms y que nos abran las puertas para poder trabajar y hacer lo mejor que podemos tambin aqu en su pas. Gracias.
 Buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Linda Jaramillo y soy la directora de la Secretara de la Salud de la Oregn Latino. Tambin estoy esperando la presidencia electa de la Secretara de la Salud de la Oregn. Primero, quiero agradecerles a todos los comisionados por su coraje en declarar a Portland una ciudad de santuario.
 Tambin quiero agradecerle a la Comisin Udaily por su liderazgo en el trabajo en este trabajo de la Fuerza de Trabajo y a la seora Wheeler por su valiente evidencia, la cual llamo a una representante de la Ciudad de Portland entre los mayores cuando el presidente Trump amenaz de retirar el financiamiento federal de las ciudades de la Sanctuaria. Fue un da orgulloso, de hecho, para nosotros verlos all. Contino siendo una orgullosa oregoniana y portlandesa en estos tiempos caticos y desafiantes polticamente.
 Estoy aqu en apoyo de la recomendacin que se ha presentado por la Fuerza de Trabajo. La coalicin de salud latino de Oregon se dedica a la salud de la comunidad y a eliminar las disparidades de salud que afectan a los latinos y latinas de Oregon. Es un hecho bien documentado que el acceso a servicios de salud de salud es crtico para abordar nuestros temas de derechos humanos.
 En nuestras interacciones como coalicin con miembros de la comunidad latina, estamos constantemente contados y recordados, como el ministro Manajer, que el clima poltico actual que impacta a la poblacin inmigrante crea miedo y distorsin, resultando en la isolacin social.
 Los padres son temidos de llevar a sus hijos a las servicios de prevencin y intervencin de mucho necesidad debido a la amenaza impuesta por ICE. Como trabajamos con diligencia para enrolar a los nios y jvenes en el plan de salud de Oregon, que ahora se cualifica, debemos tomar grandes precauciones para evitar exponerlos a riesgos potenciales en los foros pblicos. Este problema de acceso a la salud ya es serio,
 El problema del acceso a la salud est creciendo y debemos hacer todo lo que podamos para detenerlo ahora y revertir este trend. Como un hermano anterior de Tonga comparti, construir una canoa fuerte nos llevar a todos, todos nosotros trabajando juntos para coordinar, colaborar y apoyar a los dems, no solo con el apoyo legal que es necesario, sino con un oficio que realmente nos puede mover juntos y crear un ambiente en el que podamos cambiar nuestra cultura.
 S que usted concluye que queremos que Portland sea una ciudad saludable con gente saludable viviendo en ella. Su accin en las recomendaciones de este reporte es importante para asegurar la salud y la bienestar de todos los portlandeses, no solo algunos. Muchas gracias por la oportunidad. Gracias por estar aqu.
 uh good day mayor wheeler commissioner you daily thank you for your work on this uh commissioner fritz commissioner fish and solstman and mayor wheeler i appreciated your bringing your pastoral skills to the funeral of our dear friend reverend w g hardy a few weeks ago he was a great man as i could do and long time running mate we're both franklin high graduates so
 I come as a pastor of Augustine Lutheran Church in Portland, a thriving multicultural multinational congregation that 22 years ago could have become a McMinimums because it was dying. And today it's 900 people, but it also houses $2.5 million worth of justice work and 30 jobs have been created through the church and through our nonprofit collaborative with Familia de la Accin, the Society for Haitian Arts, Culture, and Social Support, the Native American Open Circle Ministry, Community Alliance of Tenants,
 Well Arts Institute, Wolverington Preschool. And I just say that because out of that one little place in Portland, $2.5 million of work, 30 jobs, and 50,000 visits a year outside of worship. So I'll come back to the dollar amount
 as I close my comments, but I think we have a challenge before us. And as I look around this room and give tremendous thanks to the task force that was at work, and for our dear friends in this room right now, Sukri and Polo Katalani and Marco Mejia and others who have been working on this, I say great thanks. And we fully endorse, of course, as I know you're going to, their recommendations. But let me just say a few words. I ask you, look, you know, you're looking out this whole time. This is Portland. This is Portland.
 This is who we are as a nation.
 and part of a global village. And it's not somebody in a red hat someplace with some kind of slogan on it. It's us. Many cultures, great diversity. That's the richness of a community. I ask you not to look behind you, but imagine behind you it says Portland. And imagine, say, a thriving, multicultural, multinational, multi-generational sanctuary city as the vision for who we are. But that takes confronting racism head on. And I know you all know that. And in our work as a member of the...
 I'll be a minister of Alliance Coalition for Justice, Police, Reform, steering committee for 20 years now and 10 years in federal court with all of us. As a past president of Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon, chair of the Northwest Health Foundation Board, you know what it takes. And you can talk to Sukri and others from the Health Foundation Board how they shifted dollars. So now three out of every four dollars goes towards communities of color. God gets angry, as you all know,
 And we have many faith communities represented because we know if we don't work together lovingly, not just tolerate, no, be brothers and sisters, Muslim and Jew, Hindu and Buddhist, Sikh, Native American spiritual leaders, people of faith and people of just goodwill to weave the beloved community, we'll lose it. And so I ask you to look closely at this going forward. Imagine that this task force not only is creating something that's very tangible, but it'll become the lens from which you look at this city. Thank you.
 They become the lens for police reform. They become the lens for housing. They become the lens for employment. And if you open the newspaper and look at a leading real estate firm, everybody's white. Look at a leading firm that does appliances. Everybody's white. They put their pictures. That's not who we are. So this is much bigger, as you know. So I encourage you, $750,000. I'm going to ask you 10 times that.
 And of course, others will come to the table. Because we can multiply. People of faith know that you put some out there, the 11, and it will multiply. And it will multiply, and it will change who we are. The only way we're going to change is to change the culture of this city and nation to be a very exciting time of an inclusive and powerful, loving, powerful for good, loving people. Because God gets angry.
 When the vulnerable, the poor, the widow, the orphan, when families are separated. I beg you, go to the belly of ice. I've been there many times with Steve Manning, Francisco Aguirre, and others. Go in that little tiny room in that massive building on McAdam Avenue. Go through security. Go sit with other people waiting because they don't know why they're there.
 The fear and trembling. I hope every Portlander goes to bed at night and asks what it would be like to have a knock at midnight to come and get me or my family. That is a terrifying figure. And this is about life and death. Francisco Aguirre, who lived in Augustana for 81 days, and during that time we helped start the National New Sanctuary Movement, from six congregations out of 1,400 across this nation,
 His son was so afraid of living in Portland because of ice, his 18-year-old son, Moses, begged to go back to El Salvador. He was murdered on a soccer field. This is his life or death. So I beg you, keep doing what you're doing, but let's take it up 10.0. Leadership 10.0. Budgeting 10.0. Don't be afraid. Set the tone, which you already are, but let's take it farther. And thank you to this task force. Your work is brilliant. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Are you available for morning pep talks, Reverend? Morning pep talks? I'm ready any time. Okay. But keep doing. And I know you're going to vote, so thank you. We have one more guest. That is Romeo Sosa. Is Romeo still here? You're going to close it out for us. Okay. Good afternoon. No pressure. Yeah, good afternoon, Mayor and...
 City Commissioners, it was nice to see you yesterday in the panel, for the Secretary panel too. I think I'm here today also to support the... Sit back from the... Sit back? Or push the mic back a little bit. You're too close. Like that? Yeah, that's great. Okay. Yeah. I'm asking you to support the recommendation of the task force, but also, leaving this moment, I just want to tell you some of the stories that
 I received that call because I'm part of the Portland Immigrant Rights Coalition, who have the hotline. And there's several cases that I took personally, but this is some of the closest case that happened. It's also a member of the soccer team of VOSS, Worker Rights Education Project, which is the executive director, but I'm in transitioning out right now.
 So he's a member of the soccer team and we had to play that day on March 17, 2017. So I received a phone call in the morning at like 7 o'clock and it said that ICE got detained my brother in McLaughlin and Jennings Avenue.
 And so I couldn't believe that moment, but I was kind of shocked. I know him, and I know his brother, so I have to ask him, like, tell me a little bit what happened. So basically they followed him from his house to work. They are going to work, and they got stopped. They thought it was the police, but it was ICE, got detained and arrested that day.
 And then immediately I take more information about like where did they take. Because also in the Poland Immigrant Rights Coalition we have like a verification team. So they already transferred to the jail here in Poland in the Makara Avenue. So this person went directly to see if he's there and he confirmed he's there.
 So immediately I brought to the Poland Immigrant Rights Coalition rapid response team what we should do. And we took more information, we got enough information to make a mobilization because we wanted to stop him to be transferred to Tacoma Detention Center.
 So, in less than 30 minutes, they were going to transfer him that day. In less than 30 minutes, we have 30 people in front of the Macadam Detention Center here in Portland protesting that they should not be transferred to Tacoma Detention Center. But also we contacted a lawyer and she told us that we need to stop him here in Portland because it's going to be hard if he's going to be in Tacoma.
 Also part of this story, we couldn't stop him. They sent him to Tacoma. But the beautiful thing of this is that the neighbors, the church, that they came with bags of food and also money to continue to pay the rent. And also the community is organized and organized.
 kind of those crucial moments. But I think it's your part, too. It's part of the city council to propose to help us a little bit to really stop all this suffering of the people. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further questions? Please call the roll. Fritz.
 Well, thank you to everybody who came today on this important thing. And in fact, I will start by saying thank you to the people of New Jersey and Pennsylvania and New York and Oregon for welcoming me as an immigrant. I came here in 79 and to Portland in 86. And I'm very grateful for the way the people of Portland have made me part of the Portland family.
 And it wasn't, so I became a citizen in 1992, right after Measure 5 passed, feeling that even if I was only one vote, I would have been one vote to stop that nonsense. It wasn't until the beginning of 2017 when I went to an event at the Muslim Educational Trust
 talking after the new president had announced all his travel bans and various other things. That was the first time I felt like a second-class citizen since I became a citizen because people were being told that even if you were a naturalized citizen, it was not safe to leave the country and go back to your country of Oregon because you might not.
 and the people who were there to have us all work together. And that's what we're talking about here, is we're talking about all working together. So thank you to the task force members. It's going to take all of us working together to figure out how to fund this project.
 program. The Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, the Portland Police Bureau, Portland Public Schools, David Douglas Schools, Parkrose High School, and actually all of the other, we had the young woman from Reynolds High School. The schools, as we heard, children are so vulnerable here, American-born children whose parents could be deported. And so it's absolutely part of the school board's responsibility to figure out how they can help fund this
 American Civil Liberties Union, the American Immigration Lawyers Association, thank you for your presentation, the DREAM activists, Multnomah County Board of Commissioners, One Oregon, Oregon Ready, Oregon Commission on Hispanic Affairs, and TriMet. And TriMet should have a part of funding this too. We all need to feel safe out in public and everywhere else.
 Thank you to Winter Johannes in Commissioner Eudaly's office and Gordian Salazar in mine and for all of the work in the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement. It will take all of us figuring out how to address this. We must address this. This was a very compelling...
 presentation, how to find the money between us all is going to be a huge challenge. Commissioner Udalia, I appreciate you prioritising looking at the universal representation part of this recommendation as the most urgent issue. I know that my dear friends at the New Portlanders Policy Commission are ready and willing to just continue ramping up your work.
 You have a good home in the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement, and for now the support that you're getting there will continue to enable you to do great work like this. I do think that the most urgent issue is the legal support, which has to be a wide community initiative with individuals, non-profits, organisations,
 Public organizations, private organizations, we all need to be part of this. And so I know that it will be a very difficult budget process. We will be making cuts within city services for things like parks where that's where people are welcome to gather. We have a wonderful gathering coming up on March 16th, which we did the first one of last year with the immigrant support celebration. I hope everybody will look at my website later and find out about that.
 We can celebrate together as well as being scared together, and I think we have to do both. We should be diligent in addressing this terrible thing that's coming over our community and making our families so vulnerable, and we can continue to revel in the glory of the amazing community that we have, that we are willing to work together, we do value each other, and we're going to figure out how to address this. Aye. Fish.
 Well, I want to begin by thanking Commissioner Udaly, ONI, the task force, and everyone who participated today and testified so eloquently in favor of this report. Since we have spent the better part of today sharing stories, I'll just begin by acknowledging and thanking my mother, who was an immigrant from Canada, and my wife's mother, who was an immigrant from Cordova in the south of Spain.
 Neither of us would be in Portland doing what we're doing had we not had immigrant mothers who chose a better life and came to this country and started families. And so I acknowledge and celebrate Julia and Carmen and thank them. I also want to acknowledge the work that the Council has done on both the Sanctuary City and the Dreamer resolutions. And a lot of good collaborative work went into those resolutions. And I want to particularly acknowledge Ascenta Lawrence,
 proud Turkish-American woman who's on my team, and Mariana Garcia-Medina, who's a proud dreamer who's on my team, who both worked hard on both of those resolutions. So as I listen very carefully today to the testimony, here's my takeaway. I learned that it is beyond dispute that there is an enormous difference in the quality of people's representation and how their rights are affected as to whether they have a lawyer or not. And the statistics are staggering.
 I don't think we've been presented with a clearer case of a disparity on any issue than we have today in terms of those who are or are not represented in this complex and Byzantine system of immigration law. Second, I thought it was very powerful when one of the people testifying noted that because Oregon has chosen to be a sanctuary state and we are bound by Oregon law, so we're a sanctuary city, we have in effect placed people in harm's way. Right.
 that the heightened risk that so many families face in our community is in part because of the principled stand that Oregon has taken, but that there is a cause and effect. And we know that also because Attorney General Sessions seems to be somewhat obsessed with the state of Oregon. And at various times he's threatened to take away all of our federal funding, some of our federal funding. He sent letters. He's made demands. He's even threatened to throw a number of us in jail.
 I think he's beginning to mimic some of the worst habits of his boss in terms of hollow threats. But they clearly were on their radar. And let's be clear that as a result, there are people at greater risk in our community. And so we do have a responsibility.
 I had asked a question earlier about whether legal aid services, our federally funded legal services, could play a role. And as I suspected, the answer we got was that they are by law prohibited from providing these services. And over time, legal aid lawyers have had the door closed narrower and narrower in terms of what they can and can't do because the
 People in Congress who would like to zero out legal services for the poor have, as an alternative strategy, just narrowed the focus of who they could represent. And let's remember that only one in five Oregonians eligible for legal aid services receives the services. So we're woefully underfunding that program. But I learned that there is no federal legal role here, and I also learned that there's no federal right.
 that there is no established right for people to have a counsel, competent or otherwise. We also learned that the kinds of legal work we're talking about here is highly specialized. And I was on a forum last night with a couple of people that are here today, and an immigration lawyer gave sort of an immigration law 101 for dummies, kind of for my benefit, sort of laying out the contours of the law. And it was...
 maddeningly complicated. It was almost incomprehensible how complicated the law is. And so this is uniquely not an area of law where you can just grab a lawyer and say, run to a hearing and do your best. This is highly, highly specialized work that requires intense training.
 So the question then becomes, does the city have a role? And I think what I've heard is that in a perfect world, there may be a role for the city and the state and the county. There may be a role for philanthropy, and there also may be a role for law firms that have highly specialized people. And that's a longer-term goal. That's a worthy thing to think about. But the question before us is, what did we do yesterday? Okay.
 And what I come back to is what I think is at the core of Chloe's presentation today, which is the most important principle in the law, and it is the notion of equal justice under law.
 It is the cornerstone of our society. It is the language that's on most courthouses across the country. It's the language that is at the Justice Department in Washington. It is really our most cherished legal principle, equal justice under the law. And 
 When someone doesn't have the right or the access to a lawyer, they cannot get effective justice. We just know that. That's a fundamental point. So I really appreciate the focus in these recommendations on providing universal representation because I think that is, in a nutshell, in the short term what's needed.
 I think the larger question of creating an office of immigrant rights or something like that makes a lot of sense. We have just established or have now our second tribal liaison at the city, and I can tell you that in a very short amount of time she has done an amazing job helping us navigate very complicated waters involving sovereign nations and urban Indians that don't have the same rights.
 So I think that that's a laudable goal. So those two recommendations, I think, are thoughtful, well-scaled. And I think in a budget cycle, we're going to have to make tough choices. The one thing I anticipate is we're going to have a fair amount of one-time money to carve up.
 And so I would like to have a robust conversation at council about launching this program with some one-time money, grabbing what we can, and then scaling it over time. I think this is the right thing to do, and if this becomes a catalyst for other cities and states to take the lead, that would make me even prouder. So thank you all for your good work. Commissioner Udaly, thank you for your leadership. Aye. Aye in accepting the report. Wheeler.
 Well, today we heard some very powerful and insightful testimony, and I want to appreciate everybody who came up and testified. I thought this was an extremely valuable community interaction. So thank you for that, and thank you to all of the participants in the welcoming, inclusive Sanctuary City Task Force for all the work that you've done to coordinate efforts and support communities
 and protect the immigrant and refugee community here in the city of Portland. I want to be clear in restating the same goals that I state at all of these opportunities. Portland is a city where all people are welcome regardless of their immigration status. Portland is a place where all people are treated with dignity and respect.
 We're not going to be complicit in the deportation of our neighbors. We're going to protect all Portlanders, no matter their immigration status. We'll protect Portland's status as a sanctuary city, ensuring that our city remains safe and welcoming for all people.
 We're living under a national political climate where the rights of immigrants and refugees are under siege by an administration where sweeps and deportations instill fear and trauma, break up families, and as you heard today from some of our testimony, endanger lives.
 It's our responsibility here to take steps at the local level to ensure that everyone who chooses to live in Portland is protected, given basic human rights of dignity, respect, and acceptance, regardless of their immigration status. Now, every time I say those words, my Twitter feed, my Facebook feed, my email inbox, my phone's,
 get flooded by people from all over the country. And they often ask the same question. They say, Mayor Wheeler, and by extension, my colleagues on the city council, you took an oath when you took this job to uphold the law and uphold the Constitution of the United States of America. And then they say something or ask something like, what happened? I want to be very clear about
 Everything that I just stated is consistent with upholding the law, and it is consistent with upholding the Constitution of the United States of America. And every federal court that has had an opportunity to review these issues agrees with me, and they stand in opposition to the actions of the federal administration.
 So I agree, something needs to be done here at the local level. Commissioner Udailey, like my colleagues, I appreciate you honing in very pragmatically and correctly on this issue of legal aid. I think that is a great place for us to be able to focus on.
 You've heard me, and certainly you've heard some of my colleagues and others mention that there are discussions to be had around size, around scale, around budgets, and I look forward to working with my colleagues and all of you as we continue to evaluate the best path forward.
 But most importantly, I want to tell you how much I appreciate hearing this report today, and I want to respect the incredible amount of time and energy and thought that went into putting this report together. Thank all of you, and thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I vote aye. Udaly? Thank you, Mayor and colleagues.
 I usually don't get to close the session. I don't feel like I've got a dramatic enough closing, so I might have to wing it here. When we passed the Sanctuary City Resolution last year, we knew that it was simply a first step
 toward protecting and defending our immigrant communities. And we also knew that it wasn't enough. And while we have implemented a few other policies or funded some defense, this task force was really our next big step in hearing from and collaborating with the community in order to determine what the most pressing issues are. And I think...
 unjust and unfair deportation poses a threat to a range of fundamental human rights, and nothing else that we can do really matters if those people are ripped from our community. So I want to thank the task force for highlighting this issue.
 We hear you and it seems that we are all in agreement here. So, as everyone has noted, this is a challenging budget cycle. We are in a budget cut year. And I've been looking hard at ways that I could
 Things that I could give up in order to put resources towards universal defense. And while someone said I committed to $750,000 earlier, I've committed to hustle for those dollars, that's for sure. But I don't actually have $750,000 to give to Polo today, who actually asked me for the check earlier. Okay.
 I am going to do my best for you, and I do agree with the Mayor and Commissioner Fritz. There may be other entities. There may be ways that we can leverage those dollars, but I think we've got a really great initiative in the Oregon Ready project, and I would love to be able to get started on that as soon as possible. As to the Office of Immigrant Support, I don't know if you have any questions.
 I've already communicated this to the task force participants. It's a longer term request that will take a while to implement. And we're really concerned with what we can do immediately.
 I want to note that this request has been made many times by the community over the years. And I recently learned as a newcomer to City Hall that such an office has previously existed in different... Some of you may already know this. Raise your hand if you already know this. Yes, I see three people previously existed.
 Portland Mayor Frank Ivancy created an Office of Refugee Affairs in the 80s, which led us to today's new Portlander program, which is currently housed under the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. So we can't immediately put together the office as recommended in the report. I can commit to working with my colleagues to see what aspects of the office we can implement today
 now through ONI and OEHR while we consider the larger task of establishing a separate office. So these are my initial reactions. I look forward to engaging with the recommendations, continuing conversations with my colleagues, and I'm going to request a work session. I think it might be my first.
 Finally, I have some thank yous. I want to again thank the task force members for being generous with your time and lending your support to the city's effort to strengthen our policies. And I want to give a special thank you to Yesenia Ramos for your moving testimony. I try not to cry when I'm up here, but it's...
 You're in a tough situation, and I really appreciate your bravery in coming down here and all of your service to our community. And she's only a senior in high school, folks, so I can't wait to see what you do next.
 I want to also thank ONI staff, Sukri, Diane Riley, Polo Catalani, May Lo, and Marco Mejia, as well as Winta once again. I really don't think this would have come together in such a wonderful way without her. And thank you for your work. And finally, thank you to staff from every council office, as well as OEHR, OGR, and the city attorney's office.
 who remain engaged throughout this process and have provided invaluable support. Thank you all for being here today, and I vote aye. Commissioner Udaly votes aye. The report is adopted. Accepted. Accepted. And we are adjourned. Thank you. All right. That's another great speech. Well done.