A few minutes away so you can still talk and all those good things. Can we get the cops out of here? Yes. Can't get the cops out? Could they unload their guns? They shoot people. I'm nervous. Good morning. Notice that I'm going to shorten it. The purpose of the meetings is to hear city business. This is a great opportunity for everybody to be heard. We want to create an environment where everybody feels welcome and comfortable to have their opinions heard. You may or may not agree with the opinions you've heard here. We'd ask people not to verbally react to people's testimony. Thumbs up, thumbs down, or jazz hands are sufficient. We ask that everybody be respectful. Typically we get three minutes, but as some of you know, as the council meeting goes on, we might have to shorten that testimony time if required Shouting, interrupting other people's testimony obviously is not accepted. Shutting down the meeting is not a good thing. If these things happen, we will have to adjourn the meeting and it is possible that you could be excluded from City Hall. We hope that doesn't happen because frankly, we like to hear what everybody thinks. So that's it. Carla, if you could please call the first person up for communications today. Item 188, request of Jay Dubois to address council regarding reform multi-level. Is Jay Dubois here today? Probably in City Hall. It's possible, so if somebody comes later, we'll accommodate them. Next, please. Item 189, request of Robert McCullough to address council regarding city revenue enhancements. He contacted me this morning and is not coming. All right, thank you. Next item, please. Number 190, request of Colonel Moses to address counsel regarding biblical teachings, regarding the orphan, the destitute, the downtrodden, and the rich. He also contacted, resents his apologies, not able to make it. All right, very good. Next item, please. Item 191, request of James B. Lee to address counsel regarding concerns for security at City Hall. Good morning. And the usual, if you could just state your name for the record. The light is green. I guess that's good. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is James Lee. I reside on Southeast Mitchell Street in Portland and I speak only for myself. Thank you for hearing me today. Thank you, sir. I'm concerned about the violence and the destruction at City Hall. I want to remind people that in the 1970s a very large bomb was placed under the portico and did very substantial damage to the council chambers. I personally during Connie McCready's tenure as mayor witnessed someone actually setting fire to the podium. This is one the podium was facing the other way in the normal council chamber. So these are very important issues and I think Mayor Wheeler is dealing with them with this new situation realistically. I'd like to reinforce what the mayor just said and that's important. for good order, that everyone behaves themselves, and we behave in a polite and polished manner. But in fact, there is a sea change in the public life of our city and the country. First, we had a defense crisis in September of 2001, then we had a financial crisis in October of 2008, and now we had our most recent electoral crisis in November of 2016. I look at this threefold sequence as it comprises a national catharsis. The citizens of influence, wealth, and power have become overbearing. A substantial minority has been dispossessed of respect, livelihood, family. Perhaps they actually are a minority. The elites are confounded that their perceived inherent superiority is being challenged. as it is firmly based in our two native ideologies which are feminism and capitalism. Both are paranoid delusions, both typify the extreme self-involvement ineluctably leading to the demise of great nations. We here cannot control the present deconstruction of our nation's long-lived native ideologies, even as we witness them today. but with careful thought and prudent actions we can minimize their local effects of which homelessness is a vital one i simply wish to close by saying we are playing a new game with new rules and that we must think anew and act anew those were the remarks of a pretty good republican president at one time and he concluded by saying We must disenthrall ourselves and then we can save our country. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for the Abraham Lincoln Club. We appreciate it. Next up please. Item 192, request of standard Schaefer to address council regarding emergency medical services and Portland Police Bureau crowd control protocol needs updating for new weapons. Good morning. Good morning. Stan Schafer is my name. On October 12th, 2016 at City Hall, the Bridge Crane riot. Dozens of injured people filled the streets unable to move. Police wouldn't allow EMTs into the area to treat victims. Much later we discovered there was one video showing an EMT treating a victim but badly scolding her for screaming from her burns. We had in power Portland met with fire and emergency and discussed improving the response, protecting innocent parties neutrally during crowd control conditions. People have died because police have refused to let EMTs treat injuries under safer conditions. Fire promise changes but didn't follow through. Today, you can still be gassed indiscriminately by riot police in a crowd, and EMT can come up to you in riot gear wearing pepper spray canisters to treat your burn injuries. The savior appears as the abuser, the batterer's twin, the same liquor on their breath, so to speak. But the thing is, they don't come for us. They come for the police. We've seen EMTs confiscating property, tossing batteries into the streets instead of treating injuries. We were promised mobile task teams that never appeared. We've seen EMTs wearing Blue Lives Matter patches to Black Lives marches. The social science is clear. Riot gear causes escalation and sparks violence. We do not say this to shame our EMTs. We say this to shame the lack of accountability around militarized policing. On President's Day, a policeman smashed a 66-year-old woman's face. The EMT 10 feet away didn't treat her. Later, she had to refuse treatment because they asked her name next to police, just as we sought to prevent. We expect emergency services to protect the presumption of innocence and HIPAA. We expect fire and emergency to be fully informed about the weapons police used. They aren't. They don't have chemical data sheets. PPB has not shared them with fire in defiance of two federal laws endangering EMS workers. What happens when the police armory catches fire in the big earthquake, firefighters won't know they're fighting a chemical fire and they will find no comfort in deputy chief Deputy Fire Chief Espinosa who said, I don't mean to be rude, but pepper spray and CS gas are not critical injuries. We are calling on you to work with us to treat injuries without further trauma or escalation. We want medical treatment for all. It should be beyond politics. We want new written policy. We want new training. We want new training. Everybody wants strong emergency medical services. Everybody wants it done professionally. We are all at risk. The gas leaks everywhere. Ask the folks at R2D2 who were accidentally gassed by the police. Work with us to keep Portland safe. Demilitarize emergency care. There's no time to list all the failures. EMT should not wear riot gear. That's not neutral, and they should not wear Blue Lives Matter badges. Thank you very much. Next I'd hope we're that's is that the end of communications. Yes Carla. Okay. So next we will go to the consent agenda It's my understanding Carla that items 194 196 197 and 203 have been pulled if any other items been pulled off the consent agenda. That's all I have. Okay, great. Could you please call the roll? I Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. At this time, I wonder if the family of Qantas Hayes would like to have an opportunity. Not yet? Very good. Fair enough. We'll move into the regular agenda. We have a time certain, if you could call that, please. Item 193, proclaimed March 2017 to be Women's History Month in Portland. So this is one that I have the privilege to read. This is a proclamation on behalf of the Portland City Council and on behalf of the City of Portland. Of course, we're celebrating Women's History Month and it's our tradition to issue a proclamation in support of that. Whereas residents of this region know that its greatness and success is a direct result of all residents, regardless of gender, making creative, intelligent, and revolutionary contributions to society. And whereas women have been historically underrepresented, yet have played and continue to play important roles internationally, nationally, regionally, and locally in furthering knowledge and promoting positive social change, And whereas to foster the next generation of women, the City of Portland seeks to encourage and support professional, educational, and social opportunities for women in order to ensure that opportunities that may not have existed in the past are available in the present and into the future. And whereas Women's History Month is a time for all Portlanders to remember the stories and teachings of the many women who made and contribute to make improvements for the livability of the city, region, and world. And whereas during Women's History Month all Americans are encouraged to reflect on past victories and struggles of women to create a society where our daughters can reach their full potential unobstructed by gender. And whereas the 2017 Women's History Month theme, Honoring Trailblazing Women in Labor and Business, is especially relevant to honor women who have successfully challenged the role of women in both business and in the paid labor force, Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim March 1st to March 31st, 2017, to be Women's History Month in Portland and encourage all residents to honor and observe this month. And as this is a resolution, there is no vote, but I'm happy to entertain any comments from any of my colleagues on this subject. I think we have some speakers. It's my understanding we do not have any testimony on this. I think we have some speakers. We do? Yeah. Yes? Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. Please, come on up. Introduce yourself. My apologies. I'm sorry about that. Good morning mayor and councillors. Thank you for the time to speak to you today and for claim and for proclaiming Women's History Month 2017 I'm Courtney Duke. I work at P bot in transportation planning But I'm here also representing a PDX City Mamas where they're working moms affinity group Which is the deep sponsored affinity group our mission is working for working parents. I I have been an employee, obviously a female employee at the city for 20 years, and just celebrated 12 years as a working mom at the city on February 13th, the 12th birthday of my son, who is a sixth grader at Jackson Middle School, so I therefore am also a proud public school parent. Working moms can be financially vulnerable compared to working dads. There continues to be a wage gap in the United States. And many women do not have paid family leave, although the city of Portland passed paid family leave for six weeks last year. And we thank the council that was here voting on that. But working moms can still be financially burdened. Many working mothers are also usually doing double if not triple duty working at their job, working at home, caring for aging parents, volunteering at schools, and working to make the local and national communities safe for women and children and to move forward with positive change. PDX City Mamas is proud to partner with the Women's Empowerment Group on another Women's History Month this year with a focus on women in trades and labor. We have a month full of networking, panels, films, meals, and education here at the city. Women from all bureaus at the city on both sides of the river are working together to bring events to city employees. Please join us for any of these events that are on the calendar, but specifically I wanted to call out March 23rd, which is a happy hour, with combining the Women's Empowerment Group and the Working Moms Group, and April 18th at a lunchtime event, which is our Wonder Woman Awards. And the Wonder Woman Awards are open to anyone to nominate a woman in their organization. So thank you again. We have three other speakers. Thank you. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler. Mayor Wheeler. Good morning. Thank you. My name is Nan Stark. I am a city planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm also the Northeast District liaison. I would say that each of us has only one thing to gain from the feminist movement, our whole humanity. That's a quote from one of the founders of the modern women's movement, Gloria Steinem, and we know that her words resonate more powerfully than ever today. It's an honor to be here today to celebrate Women's History Month. As an organizer with the Women's Empowerment Affinity Group, I appreciate the advancements the city continues to make in providing leadership opportunities for women. I've been a city employee for 22 years. which is hard to believe, but it's true, it happens. And I've seen many positive changes during that time, particularly in the number of women who are bureau directors and in upper management positions. But there's still a lot of work to do, particularly in diversifying our workforce to better reflect our population and in getting women in leadership positions throughout all of our bureaus, not hitting the glass ceiling, but seeing opportunities for advancement and pay equity The city has done a pretty good job in this, but women in this country still make only 70 cents on the dollar for every dollar that a man makes. It's wonderful and heartening to see two women again on city council, something we haven't experienced since the 1990s when Gretchen Khafre and Vera Katz were on the council. And prior to that, it was in the 80s. In fact, how many women have served on the city council? Commissioner Udailey is our eighth out of 350 elected city commissioners in Portland's history. So you can do the math on that. Our history includes three women mayors, Mayor Katz, McCready, and Dorothy McCullough-Lee, our first female mayor. We're grateful that Commissioner Fritz has served us since 2009, Previous women commissioners include Vera Katz and Gretchen Khafre from the 1990s, Margaret Straughan and Mildred Schwab in the 80s, Connie McCready in the 70s, and the first elected councilwoman was Dorothy McCullough Lee who served in the late 40s and early 50s and then later became mayor. We have yet to see a woman of color on the council. There have been two people of color in Portland's history, two commissioners, both men, Charles Jordan and Dick Bogle, from the mid-70s to the 90s. As we open Women's History Month, I encourage all of us to embrace Angela Davis's words. I'm no longer accepting the things I cannot change. I'm changing the things I cannot accept. Thank you. Thank you very much. And thank you for your service to the city. Well, good morning. Good morning. My name is Huong Nguyen, and I work for Bureau of Environmental Services as an engineering associate in the wastewater treatment plant. And I've been with the city for nine years. I met a lot of incredible women who love to work, who dedicate, who want to take on more responsibility. But opportunity doesn't come that easy. I also met people who want to scale back, to focus on their families, but they didn't get approval. It is hard for working moms to balance work, life, and career. Being an Asian American working mom is not making it any easier. A recent survey in Canada showed that Asian job applicants is 28% less likely to get a job interview compared to equally qualified candidate, Anglo-Name. In the U.S., Asian job applicants were almost twice as likely to get a job interview if they changed their name on their resume. These surveys and sources are posted on the city website, Office of Equity and Human Rights. Speaking of myself, there are challenges in the workplace. English is one of them. I would decline for a job interview because English was not my first language. I realize that the Bureau, all bureaus, cities willing to spend millions of dollars in assets management. We want to evaluate our assets to make the system with more reliability. But when it comes to the human, the most valuable assets, I'm not aware of any program that can help to evaluate our need to make us most efficient. So I'm here today to asking you, mayor, councils, to please to support your employee all the way. Either she scale back to taking care of her family or she want to step up and take on more responsibilities, please give her the resources, the tool that she need. Mentor her. Help her to develop her full potential. And thank you. That's all I have today. Excellent. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. Thank you. Folks, folks, you folks, please. Let's let the testimony continue. You guys, please. Sorry. Yes. Yes. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Please continue. And we'd ask again, thumbs up, thumbs down, jazz hands, something like that, so we can let everybody be heard in this council session. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the prompting. My name's Debbie Castleton. I- Is it actually on? Yes. Great. Thanks. Can you hear me now? We can. Thanks. My name's Debbie Castleton. I work for the Bureau of Environmental Services. This is my 15th year. It's my 10th year as one of the co-chairs of the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland, which is a volunteer position. And it is an employee group for employees by employees. We oversee all of the different affinity groups and we try to help out with the celebrations, the cultural celebrations, etc. And we also have a leadership development program that we piloted last year. We're going to try to do it again in this next year. And I want to say how proud I am of Hun, who is a graduate from the leadership development program's pilot program and public speaking is now one of her fortes, I'd say. So... We have many excellent events this year and I just want to point those out Yesterday we had a fantastic event that I there were a lot of people in attendance here. It was the system the Brotherhood short film and That was co-sponsored by the city african-american network affinity group as well as women's empowerment the So many sponsors. Again, this is our seventh annual Wonder Woman Awards, which is pretty exciting. We couldn't schedule it in March because there's space availability issues. So it's going to be on my birthday, April 18. I thought that was appropriate since I'm hosting it. And now we can't forget it. Right, exactly. There better be cake. There's also a couple of OMF speaker series happening during the month and that's in the calendar. We have a Women's History Month breakfast tomorrow morning in the Portland building here in room C on the second floor. We have some short films in discussion. We have, of course, with the theme this year, we have to show Norma Rae with Sally Field. And that's my doing. A lot of people have not seen that 1979 film which started this whole union movement. So you have to see it. So we'll have it shown in two parts during lunch, and that'll be in P-Bot's office in the Hawthorne room on the 8th floor. So I hope to see you all there. There's a wellness discussion and walk, dress for success clothing drive again, which has been very successful. We have a speaker panel for hope and inspiration. And these are at different locations all over. We have things at City Hall, the Portland building, the 1900 building. I know that there are some folks in Parks and Rec at the different community centers that are going to try to do some web series and stuff. We also have an event that's hosted by the Portland Housing Bureau Equity Team at the Commonwealth Building where that's also the same offices as the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And I also added to the calendar, it's not on the one that you have, but the one that I send in the emails is more inclusive. And I'll note that because things keep getting added. And also rooms change because there's a lot of stuff going on. And room availability is really hard right now. So, in fact, we have the boss ladies event that I've added to the calendar on March 28th that Commissioner Udallius hosting that will be facilitated by Kelly Roy of ADX. So that will be at the City Hall atrium from 6 to 8. And then, again, like I said, we have many cosponsors. And I'll wrap this up. the Women's Empowerment Team, PDX City of Mamas, Bureau of Development Services, Environmental Services, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the BTS Equity Committee, the City Attorney's Office, OMF, Parks, and PBOT. And then, again, there were some additions. Like I said, we have a Women in Development that's hosted at the Portland Housing Bureau. So like I said, watch for my emails. They'll come out every week. I know you guys get sick of them. But for the public, these are all open to the public. They are posted on the front page of the PortlandOregon.gov website in the calendar. They'll be there every week, but they're on the main calendar too. So I finally got Deep's calendar connected to the front page, so all of our events should be posted there. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. And could I give you this resolution for breakfast tomorrow? Oh, that would be great. That would be fun. Thanks. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thank you. So we'll move it up. Could you call the roll? That was a proclamation? Oh, it's a proclamation. Can I get a motion, please, in a second? I just commented on the meeting. Don't need any? Yeah. Okay. Just comments, Mayor. Comments. Commissioner Fish, you're up. Thank you, Mayor. First, I want to thank all the dedicated city employees that took time this morning to talk to us. Debbie's on my team at the Bureau of Environmental Services. And for those of you in the community that have a sewer project in your neighborhood, the newsletter that you get that has on the front page a note from Debbie Castleton. This is Debbie who does such great work. So Debbie, thank you. Mayor, thank you for issuing this proclamation and for honoring women leadership in our community. And as is my tradition, each year I just want to acknowledge three women leaders that are making a difference. The most important hire that we make as city elected officials is our chiefs of staff. And our chief of staff not only runs our whole operation but speaks for us in public gatherings. I have a dynamic chief of staff named Sonia Schmansky and I want to acknowledge and thank her for her leadership. I want to acknowledge my wife Patricia, who is a professor of history and teaches women's history at Portland State University. And she's the reason that we came to Oregon and I thank her every day for that career decision. And I also want to thank and acknowledge today perhaps one of the most important women leaders in our community who just turned 70. And who just received notification that she will receive an honorary degree from Portland State University, which is long overdue. And that is Senator Avel Gordly. And I'm grateful for the role model that she has provided for all of us in public service. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Saltsman, did you have anything? I just want to thank the organizers and your calendar is very impressive and I will try to attend as many of those events. Thank you. Thank you also to the organizers. As usual, Nick is so much more prepared with an eloquent speech than I am. But I just want to say that the issues of working moms are certainly resonating with me today as I'm struggling through a week with a very sick kid and trying to simultaneously do my job. And I guess I want to thank my co-host, I'd like to thank my policy director, Jamie Duhamel, who is also a hardworking mom and is a powerhouse behind our office. Happy International Women's Day, Jamie and to everyone. So at the risk of being intensely corny, I want to thank my third grade teacher. She was the first one, Mrs. Hobbs, who really inspired me. To want to do something positive with my life and I still think about her all the time. I obviously will support the proclamation. So the proclamation is obviously approved and I want to thank my colleagues for your words and I want to thank our great city employees who never cease to amaze me. Thank you so much for coming forward with this and giving such great testimony to a packed chamber today. Thank you. Yeah, so I am willing to offer that time if the family is ready now. I don't want to push you. Is the family? Great, let's invite Qantas Hayes' family up. They'd like to have the opportunity to address the city council. It's off agenda, but I certainly will allow it. Please. Good morning and thank you for coming in. You need to press the button at the base there. Sorry. Good morning to you guys. My name is Venus Hayes, and I'm the mother of Qantas Hayes, the 17-year-old that was shot and killed by Officer Andrew Hurst on February 9th. I would like to thank all for gathering here today, both in remembrance for my son, Qantas Hayes, and in support of my family's fight for justice on his behalf. It's been 20 days since Qantas was taken from me. The days passing, his death felt like a lifetime for my family. For my family and myself, we waited patiently. For the city, it's sufficient to provide us answers surrounding the events that took my son's life. As the details are slowly made available to the public, my family has had to bear the burden of piecing together what occurred by fact-finding statements given in various social media sites. and news outlets rather than receiving them from those working this investigation. Since his death, we have learned that Officer Hurst, who was also involved in the death of Merrill Hatch, shot Quantas a total of three times. To clarify earlier statements and news reports, my son died immediately as a result of a gunshot wound to his head. My son was born and raised in Portland. Quantas was not a thug or a gang member. or some homeless street kid. He was a funny, adventurous teen who, like most kids, at times can be a little rebellious. He was my child. His life mattered. And I want to know why he was killed. I'm asking the public to stand with my family and me as we seek answers. I am asking the public to stand by us as we demand justice. Let my serve's life be the means of change. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Change. Change. Change. We ask again any witnesses of the events leading up to Qantas' death to reach out to our family's attorney, Ashley Albies, the Portland police, your local pastor, or any of the many advocacy groups in Portland. Thank you. We have no more other statements at this time. Thank you so much. We appreciate it. Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Justice! Thank you. Could we take a five minute recess? Quani-Z! Quani-Z! Justice now. When you say that, Dave, how do you feel? There we go. No. The item's pulled from consent first. 194. 194, reappoint. Reappoint. Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! Quanti-Z! All right, we will take a recess. do do do do do do do do We were starting with the pulled items. Yeah. All right, we are back in session. For those of you waiting to testify, thank you. I appreciate that. The first item that was pulled off the agenda, please, assuming we have staff here to testify. Thank you. I think it was 194. 194. reappoint Wendy Serrano, appoint Matthew Gebhardt to the Home Forward Board of Commissioners, and confirm the Gresham appointment of Richard Anderson. And is there staff, first of all, who pulled this? Mr. Walsh. And is there staff here to testify on this matter? We have people here from Home Forward that were waiting, but They left. So Mayor, would it be helpful if I just described who the appointees are? Yeah, that'd be great. And we had the chair of Home Forward was here earlier with a couple of the appointees. So under this resolution, Mayor, and under our system, it's the Mayor who formally brings to council nominations. We would be reappointing Wendy Serrano. She has served on the board since January of 2016. She's a former field representative for Congressman Earl Blumenauer, and she is a board member of the Oregon Latino Action Agenda. We'd be appointing Matthew Gephardt. He's an assistant professor of urban studies and planning and real estate development at Portland State University. And he has, in his background, completed a study for the Department of Housing and Urban Development on Choice Neighborhoods Initiative in Chicago. And we'd be confirming Gresham's appointee, and Gresham is a jurisdiction that makes their own appointment, of Richard Anderson. He is a consultant with an MBA, and he previously served at the request of Governor Barbara Roberts, later reappointed by Governor Kitzhaber, to the Tax Supervising and Conservation Commission, where he served from 1994 to 2005. Thank you, Commissioner. Mr. Walsh, did you pull this? Did you want to testify? Yes. Again, I'd remind people, we do have people here to testify and they are waiting. Thumbs up, thumbs down is sufficient. Good morning, sir. Push the button. Push the button down. It turns green. That's cool. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. And I am really trying this year to be patient with you guys. But it's not working so well. We have no objections to anybody on your list. It's the way you're doing it that bothers us. We don't know these people. Really don't. The people of Portland do not know these people. So it seems to me that if they're going to serve on a committee or a commission, that they come here and they say their little piece. Mr. Walsh, they were here. They left because we're an hour and a half behind schedule. Okay, but that's not the case all the time. And- Well- Let Joe speak, let Joe speak. Yes. We respect your law. Am I wrong or was this on the consent agenda? That's correct. Yeah, well consent agenda is underneath the table. No discussion unless a citizen comes to your meeting and pulls it. So don't tell me. that they were here testifying about what they were going to do on these committees. They don't put it on a consent agenda. Here in the open, if you appoint somebody on a committee, then you say, Mr. Walsh, state your case. Why are you on this committee? Instead of underneath the table. That's what we object to. And we will always object to it. Because let me tell you something. Go and order them. came out with these statistics. 20% of the people of Portland do not think they affect changes in this council. 20%! All of them! I have another question. Where is Amanda? Is she in Arizona? She's on a vacation? Looking for... So, Mr. Walsh, this is back to the appointment. When you testify, it's got to be on the agenda item. Well, she's not going to vote on the appointment. Could she not hear? Why is that? Some emergency? No, she's spending $40,000 to look for diversity in where? Arizona. And you're going to hear a lot about Arizona. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. Congratulations on spending my money. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. Next item, please, Carla. I'm going to vote on that resolution. Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Show us the man! Sorry. Could you call the roll, please? Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Item 196, paid claims of Michael Cooley in the sum of $425,000 and Lori Cooley in the sum of $100,000 for the total sum of $525,000 involving the Bureau of Transportation. And do we have staff here for this item, Kristen? Let's skip this till we have... We do? Well, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks. Come on down. Good morning. I'm from the City Attorney's Office. This is not my case, but I can answer some questions. Thank you. It fits our role. Happy to answer. Are there specific questions you would like me to answer? We didn't pull this item. This was pulled by a citizen, I believe. So I don't know what the specific questions are. But could you just tell us a little bit about what it is? It's a case about a bicycle versus car accident on the uphill portion of Interstate Avenue immediately south of the Kaiser. medical campus. Happened in 2013, Mr. Cooley was hit by a hit and run driver. He was very seriously injured. He also had a claim, they had a, Mrs. Cooley had a lawsuit, a consortium claim. Rob Yamachika in the city attorney's office was lead counsel I second chaired. I'm David Landrum for anybody who doesn't know me. And we did a pretty extensive investigation. and came to the conclusion that the city's interest would be better served by settling the case than trying it. Very good. We worked out a settlement acceptable to all parties, and it's ready to go if y'all are ready to go. Mr. Landrum, the plaintiffs, the folks asserting the claim in this case, were represented by counsel and company counsel? Yes, that's correct. And does this settlement require a court approval, or is it just our approval? No, it just requires counsel approval. Thank you. Very good, thank you. All right. Is there public testimony on this item? Mr. Lightning pulled this. Is Mr. Lightning here? I just wanted to- Sir, you have to come to the microphone, it's on the record. It's the rule. It is the rule. Thank you, sir. You have to hit the button on the bottom. Yeah, yeah. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I just really wanted to have this pulled to the regular agenda. I think it's very important on any settlement agreements that these are put on the regular agenda for the public to be able to view this, understand the amounts that are being paid out, and again I disagree with the low amount. I think it should be closer to 750,000 payout. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Walsh? My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. This is really the most bizarre case that I've read. In case your viewers don't realize it, if you click on the number of the item, it'll give you the supporting documentations. So sometimes it's a few, and sometimes it's 40 or 50 pages. This one told us nothing about this. The only thing that I got was that you're going to pay out, I don't know, $600,000, somewhere like that. I mean, that's a larger amount than Amanda's spending in Arizona. However, no information. It sounds like... there was a bicycle accident that involved a city truck or a city car or a city something we don't know doesn't say in any of the supporting documentations i've never seen that usually if you pull up the supporting documentations it'll tell you hey this is what happened this is why we're paying this this is why we don't want this to go to trial all kinds of information nothing in this so when you do that My antennas go up and say, wow, why are they doing that? We do not oppose the settlement. Actually, we were doing with Mr. Lightning and increases because you waited. How many years? Four years. And then you're settling it without going to court. Shame. What the hell is that? Shame, attorney. Shame. Shame. Shame. Shame. Shame. You've got somebody that's paying $600,000, that serious accident, that person suffered for four years while you sat on your ass there, Commissioner, and did nothing while you sat on your ass there, City Attorney, and did nothing. All right, well, we don't actually know that, and I don't think— And do the eye again! Thank you. You sound like pirates! Thank you. All right. Thank you. Could you call the roll please? Thank you Mr. Walsh, please call the roll. Fish. Say it, I say it. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Wheeler. Aye. Next item please. Butchers, scammers, deceivers. Item 197, extend contract with Stellar Rad Systems LLC through June 30, 2018 and increase the contract value by $247,960 for a contractual not to exceed amount of $1,372,960 for maintenance of the communications network. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Beth. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. My name is Beth Fox. I'm with the Communications Division with BTS and this is our ordinance. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have for us. Thank you. It's my understanding this is a contract amendment. Is that correct? That is correct. Okay. Again, I assume this was pulled by somebody. Mr. Walsh pulled that. So I don't know what the questions are, so maybe you could stand by. We'll hear Mr. Walsh. Coming up, sir. Holy moly, what was that? He's back. An elephant. There's nine, Ted. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. We object to this. Not that it's a contract. It's that you're increasing the contract. Joe, I can't hear you. We have orders. Oh, no. yeah i was on the red yeah i couldn't hear you with the noise i'm so sorry mr walsh get to the point please just keep going Don't you interrupt me! Excuse me, you guys, stop for a minute. Joe, I'm not taking your time. Listen to me for a minute, you guys. I know you think this is fun and games. There are people in this chamber who are waiting their turn. They are waiting their turn. They are waiting, they are waiting their turn. They are waiting their turn to be heard. And if you guys act out, other people who want to be heard don't get their voice heard. And that is not the way we run this chamber. If you want to yell, you can yell at me outside all day long. But in this chamber, we're going to be respectful. Those are the rules. Those are the rules. Mr. Walsh, you know what? Mr. Walsh, please continue. But I'm asking everybody again, act like civilly. Can we do that? Are we capable of that? Thank you. Mr. Walsh. Once again, for the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent individuals for justice. This is not fun and games, Mayor. I take that as a personal insult. We come here on our own time. We don't get paid $100,000 a year to sit and listen to this. We do it because we care. You are increasing this contract, and I want to know, I don't know why. Do you know why that you're increasing this contract? And it seems like every goddamn contract that comes before this body gets increased, never gets decreased. So tell me why. Why are you increasing this contract? Did you screw it up in the beginning on the estimate? Or do you screw it up now? So tell me, Mayor, funding gains? You're spending hundreds of thousands of dollars. You think that's funny? You think that's funny? Son of a hell's thinking it's funny. One term. That's it. Poof. His career is over. He's in Spain someplace trying to keep his boat from sinking. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Why? Why are you increasing it? Do you know? And you and you, pirates. Would you like to hear? Shut up. Do the... Back to my original point. When you do the eyes, shut up! When you do the eyes! Could we hear from the attorney on the question that Mr. Walsh asked? Come on out. Can you read the back of my shirt? No. You know what? You guys, you guys... I want to hear the answer to this and after this item if we cannot maintain order in these chambers Once again, we're gonna have to adjourn and I don't want to do that. I honestly don't want to do that I want it. There's people here. There are people here who have signed up. I was on jury Thank you, and there are people who have signed up sit down sit down. You're out of order sit down sit down. I So, there are people who have come here to testify on items that they've signed up way in advance to speak on and they would like to be heard. And if you guys yell and shout and scream and laugh, then they don't get that opportunity. That's not true. You can sign up for communications just like everybody else did. Thank you. I wasn't even here. At any rate, that's correct. I was. So at any rate, if you could sit down, please, I'd like to hear the answer to the question. It was a good question Mr. Walsh raised, and let's hear it. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, I apologize. Thank you. Thank you again for your questions on this ordinance. I know that it's a lot of money over the 10-year period of time. Actually, it will be 11 years. We will have spent $1.3 million. This is a very complicated piece of software that runs our communications network with fiber and telephony. We are in the middle of replacing this software contract in order to put a new piece of software in but with the Data center move and the Portland renovation. It's going to take us longer to replace it than we had originally planned So we're extending it out until June of 2018 to make sure that we get it done in time and right and do not compete With the other larger projects that are in front of us. Thank you Appreciate it. Please call the roll Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Yes, next item is 2303. Item 203, authorize a competitive solicitation for construction of the North Park blocks playground, replacement and improvements. You guys, again, I'm going to have to ask you to stop laughing. If you want to laugh and talk, please do so, but do it outside so we can keep doing the business. I can't stop laughing. ...project for an estimated 980... You know, I'm sorry. You guys, I apologize. We want to hear this because we do want to talk about a new park for North Portland, but not right now. We'll take a break. We're recessed. We're recessed. Going on so people have some understanding. Number one, City Hall is under lockdown. We had a group of people repeatedly take over the City Council Chamber this morning. We did our level best. Number one, City Hall is under lockdown. We had a group of people repeatedly take over the City Council Chamber this morning. Sorry, we have a technical difficulty. We did our level best. Okay. Now I feel like the Nilly Vanilly of mayors here. I promise I'm not lip syncing. At any rate, we had a group of people commandeer the city council chamber this morning. I personally find that unacceptable. As I said in council session, there's a lot of people who have signed up to testify. They would like to come in and be heard, and we're going to provide a safe environment for that to happen. So for people who would like to watch the city council meeting, there is a viewing room. It's room C at the Portland building. The Portland building is the one right next door to City Hall. It's the big blue one with the tiles. If people would like to testify at this session, they may still do so. There's a sign-up sheet in room C. People will be called prior to their testimony, and they'll have the opportunity to be escorted over here. They'll be able to testify to the City Council, and again, we'll ask people, please state your name, and we will ask you to please testify on the item that is before the City Council. And I also want to state this to my colleagues. I apologize, this is not how I would like to run City Council meetings, but I think for today this is the best we could do to get the business of the City Council completed in as timely a manner as possible. And as always, I welcome thoughts and ideas on how to do this differently. Next week, of course, we'll be taking a vote on a different City Council protocol, and I would encourage people to take a look at that I know Commissioner Udailey is on her way, but could you please, well, we're in continuation, so we don't need to call the roll again. Could you call the next item, which I believe was a pulled item on the consent agenda? Item 203, authorize a competitive solicitation for construction of the North Park Blocks Playground Replacement and Improvements Project for an estimated $980,000. Okay. And is the individual who pulled that here or in the Portland building? Mr. Lightning pulled that, is he? I move. Okay, so we will put that one in abeyance until we determine whether or not Mr. Lightning is here to – If you wouldn't mind, we'll give it, say, 10 minutes. We have staff here prepared to testify, but we'll give that a few minutes until we understand whether Mr. Lightning is here. So if I understand correctly, that gets us back to our regular agenda. If you could call the next item. Thank you. Item 206, improve land use and other city regulations through the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package 8, Technical Amendments. Is there any further council discussion on this item? I'm going to give you one second. Commissioner Fish, this is the Recap 8, second reading of 206. So this, just to be clear, this does not include anything relating to trees. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is passed as amended. Next item, please. Item 207, improve city tree regulations through the Regulatory Improvement Code Amendment Package 8, technical amendments. Here, I have a request. Commissioner. Yes. For some reason, it may be my own failing, I did not get a follow-up briefing on this matter. My office has a number of questions. With the council's indulgence, would you set this over a week? No objections heard. We'll set item 207 over for one more week. Next item, please. 208, authorize city attorney to appear as amicus curiae to support city interest in fair treatment of immigrants. Good morning. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, Harry Auerbach from the city attorney's office. I believe we've talked about this with all of you. We have a couple of efforts going on around the country in which we've been asked to participate as amicus to defend the city's interest in maintaining a welcoming community for our immigrant population. And we're asking for your authorization to join those and for authorization because we get these requests sometimes on very short notice, for authorization to join others of a similar kind with the consent of the mayor who is our commissioner in charge. Very good. Any further discussion? Commissioner Fish, you might want to push your button. Don't. I think the paper's gone out. Something about pushing my button, Mayor? I think we're getting off too close to that line here. Carla, it's red, is that right? Red is on. It was green earlier today, I just want to make sure. I'm getting confused here. I strongly support this resolution and the mayor came down to talk to us about giving him the discretion to act outside of our normal cycle because I think we are in an unusual time and there are lots of legal challenges that are being brought to executive orders and to other I think it's appropriate to give the mayor, who also in his formal capacity oversees the legal department, the authority to sign on as amicus curiae or perhaps to make other recommendations outside of council action. So I strongly support this resolution. Any further discussion? Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner. Please call the roll. We did have people sign up for earlier. I am sorry, you bet. It was Joe Walsh, David Davis, and Stacy Rutledge. Okay, very good. Call the roll, please. Harry Auerbach in the legal department, thank you. And Mayor Wheeler, thank you for bringing this resolution forward. Let there be no doubt that this city will stand up for the rights of immigrants and refugees. that we will continue to follow state law and that where appropriate, we will lend our voice in ongoing legal proceedings to defend our values. Aye. Saltzman? Well, this makes a lot of sense to authorize the mayor to Authorized future, fed to the court filings because there are many of them and there will be many more I sense as this country reacts to some of the anti-immigrant and refugee rhetoric that we've heard in Washington, D.C. So I'm very supportive of this and wish us all luck. Wheeler. First of all, let me just say this. I'm aware of the fact that three people have signed up to testify on this. They're no longer here. They have left and if people would like to sign up, they can do so in room C in the Portland building. I, the resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next item. That is an emergency ordinance. I believe we're trying to get Commissioner Udalli here. No, we'll just ‑‑ is 209 Commissioner Udalli? No, that is your item. So why don't we go ahead ‑‑ Except 213. Got it. Okay. Let's do 2.13 if Commissioner Fish is prepared on 2.13. Ah, here she is. Never mind. That's quite an entrance. We need you. Thank you, Commissioner. We're just starting. 2.09. 2.09, authorize intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University in the amount of $15,750 to conduct a citywide employee engagement survey to ascertain strengths that support the city's identity as an employer of choice and further identify areas of growth and improvement. Okay, thank you. Thanks, yes, and please poke the button until it lights up and state your name for the record. There you go. Hi. I'm Anna Canwitt, director of the Bureau of Human Resources. Gail Baird, my training manager, was going to be here. I'm not sure she will make it, but that's fine. So this request is a continuation of the resolution we presented to City Council last September branding the City of Portland as an employer of choice. a number of initiatives. We created a brand of the city being a values-based employer. Our values around public service, public trust, equitable outcomes, diversity and inclusion, and ethical conduct. At the time, I told council we would be coming back with a budget request to conduct a survey, citywide survey of employee engagement that will help us narrow down our focus areas for this initiative. I'm here, I don't need the actual council to authorize the money. I have it in my budget for the contract with PSU to help us develop the survey. Not only would they develop the survey, PSU would be responsible for conducting it, would be anonymous, and they would aggregate the data for us. And so this is very important work. in moving this initiative forward for the city. It would give us really good baseline data. From there, we'll look at other initiatives. After the survey, the next steps will actually be putting together a program for conducting entrance, stay, and exit interviews. So we have additional data on our employees, but we think the survey is very important part of this initiative. And I have the money within the Bureau of Human Resources budget to pay for the survey. So it's really just authorizing the agreement with Portland State University to do the work. This is a survey of city employees? City employees. We've never – individual bureaus have done surveys, but we have never done a citywide survey. And so I think this will give us a really good opportunity to have that data across the board. And it is supported by the Champion Circle. It's the cross-bureau committee that's working on this. So I have representatives from about 10, 12 bureaus on that committee. Will there be any questions about pay equity thoughts from our employees? Um, probably not that, Commissioner. I mean, um, of course we haven't, uh, started working direct with PSU yet. We've had conversations. They, um, they do a lot of this work for the city. We're going to try to keep the survey short and there are questions that we probably won't ask. I'm not sure about that one, but certainly the things that we can't affect change over we're probably not going to ask about and I'm not meaning to apply pay equity is one of those but I have seen bureaus ask questions about Are you happy with your compensation? We're not going to ask that because that's a council decision. We have a compensation plan that sets that for employees or through collective bargaining. So we're going to be very careful in terms of making sure that we're not – I've seen surveys where you set employees' expectations, then they're disappointed because they feel like they've wasted their time and there's no outcome. I think it would be interesting if we could ascertain – And I, you know, we heard testimony this morning during Women's History Month proclamation that, you know, people feel the city is a better place than, than others in terms of pay equity. But I think it would be useful if we could weave a question in there that sort of, you know, if we're trying, trying to be the employer of choice, I think this is a huge issue, you know, particularly for women. Absolutely. Employees. I think we can do that, Commissioner, along the lines in terms of particularly opportunities to move because as you may recall, From the resolution we presented last year on this, what we found, because we have a compensation plan that is well constructed and the compensation factors are either bargained or based on its objective factors that we can make, it's not as much of a pay equity issue here, but we do have a difference in terms of where women are in the organization. When you look at our lowest paying job, it tends to be about three-quarters of women. When you get up to my level in the organization, it's pretty much reversed, if not a lower percentage than that. And so certainly we have areas we need to work on. And so I think we can weave some questions in all around that. MR. Okay. I think that would be great. Thank you. MS. Absolutely. MR. Further questions while Ann is sitting up here? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? MS. Yes, Mr. Shedrick-Wilkins. MR. Very good. And the mic is already on. I'm Shedrick J Wilkins. I'll make this quick. This issue is similar to the issue of giving $62,000 to Street Roots. I do not believe in giving money to PSU. PSU wants to do studies on housing or something, they can do it by themselves. They could list students to do that. There's no reason why the city should be giving money. And actually, it doesn't make it an independent review. If you're going to give $15,000 for the homeless, give it to Saltzman and his housing bureau and don't have somebody do anything that naturally will do things. And also, as a PSU is not necessarily qualified, it's a school. It's a university. They have students training to do these things. It's not a professional review of anything. And neither is Street Roots. Street Roots, again, makes comments. I don't consider their opinion. It's nice to know they can do that and people can read what Street Roots says, but again, giving money to them, it's the same thing. And even though this is a small percentage of the city budget, it's kind of symbolic that we don't pay groups. And actually, it could edge them to be biased. In other words, there's nothing wrong with the housing in the city because they gave us $15,000. So that's it. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Any further board discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Fish. Well, I want to thank Anna for the presentation and I strongly support this ordinance. And I think this mayor will be the first time that I've ever publicly disagreed with Mr. Wilkins who consistently comes before us and offers, I think, thoughtful testimony. And he's also someone who follows us very closely. But I respectfully disagree with his analogy. This is not like providing a grant to Street Roots for the purpose of helping them serve better their mission. This is a grant to Portland State University for the purpose of asking them to do an independent review. And – sorry? No. Go ahead. I'm sorry to interrupt. I just want to be very clear. This is money that is in my budget now. So I'm not asking council to authorize additional funding. I'm going to pay for this within the Bureau of Humorist's budget. I'd need the authorization obviously to enter into the government. I just want – I wasn't sure if that was clear. No, that – it was clear. I just – I apologize. Thank you. I – and so thank you. It's not new money. It's budgeted. But the point I wanted to make is that I strongly support using third party entities like Portland State University to do independent assessments of our work. In fact, I think it's through those kinds of collaborations that we have greater public trust in the outcomes because of course if we did them in house, that's where I think we might be more vulnerable to the charge of potentially bringing our bias to the work. that I have the great honor right now of serving as the community representative on the search for a new director of the Hatfield School. And one of the things that all the applicants for that position have mentioned is that they want to continue to position Portland State University as the go-to place for local government to get independent research on the functions of government. So I think it's exactly the role they should be playing, and I think it's a great idea to engage them to do this survey. Seltzman? Aye. Udaily? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Thank you, Anna. Item 210, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Hawthorne Boulevard located at 2310 Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. The usual. State your name for the record, please. Yes. Good afternoon. Cook Krieger, PHB, Director of Housing for the City. And with me today is Doria VanBakkel. Just to frame the issue, the state legislature allows cities under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program, or the multi-program, to exempt property taxes from willing property owners that are willing to make a portion of the units affordable. The City Council and the Board of County Commissioners allocate annually a sum of money and that sum of money is currently $3 million per year. Dori VanBakkel administers the program so she's the interface with the actual property owners and helps them to position their projects for approval. Yes. Hello. Again, Dori VanBockel. I'm program coordinator for both the multiple unit limited tax exemption program as well as our new inclusionary housing program and the other programs that are associated with that. And so we actually have two projects. We'll hear this one and another one similarly. And since we have two folks who are new to the multi-program, I wanted to give you a very quick overview of kind of the nuts and bolts of how we review an application. Generally, the program itself is meant to encourage private developers to include affordable units in their projects that might not otherwise have them. And by doing so, they receive a 10-year property tax exemption on the improvements of the new structure that gets built. Generally, the affordability then required in the project is 20% of the units during that 10-year period be set aside for households up to 80% of median family income and potentially are at 60 depending on certain factors of where a project is located and the type of building in the market for that type of a project. We do also have not just the affordability goals of the program, but also for accessibility as far as requiring some units in the building to be built to be fully adaptable in order to be accessible for people with disabilities and seniors and And then also we have some goals around equity with the program, both through working with the third party technical assistance provider for pursuing 20% participation with minority women in emerging small businesses and the construction contracting of the projects, as well as in working with us in the lease up of the building. As Director Krieger had mentioned, we do have an annual $3 million cap that we are reviewing with each application that comes in. And projects must submit prior to having their building permits issued. So this is part of the planning of the development. And we test and review the project financials to see that there is a need to provide this tax exemption in order for the affordability to be achieved in the project and So, up to now, to get to this point, all of the after review of applications, they're also reviewed then by staff, but then through our internal investment committee at the housing bureau. We also have held a public hearing through our Portland Housing Advisory Commission and allowed for the public to, you know, just ask questions, get comfortable with the projects and what the program is. And then this is ultimately the final approval is here at council. For this specific project, it's located on 23rd and Hawthorne. So it is a proposed four-story building with ground floor retail space, as well as 22 tuck-under parking spaces. So it's a high walkability, bikeable area, and there's a mix of one- and two-bedroom units in the specific project. And... Those will be, again, available at 80% of area median income. But I'm happy to answer any questions. questions about the project itself or certainly too about the program and how it works. Just one other thing I'd like to add. Since we have a preference policy in north and northeast Portland, projects that fall within that area and the next project is one that is 5327 Interstate. So projects in north Portland come under the aegis of the preference policy. In this particular instance, we would be placing – we'd be working with the NOAPFE application is a means by which people who qualify have access to the unit. So it's an open platform for everyone to have equal access. I just have a couple clarifying questions. Sure. The multi-program is only for new developments, is that correct? Yes, correct. So when you said that they will get a tax exemption on improvements I guess it was confused by that. On the building that gets built so the land is still taxable however. Oh I see okay okay. And only the residential portion of the building so if it's a retail space that's accepted from the exemption. That is exactly what I was confused about and are we ever hitting that three million cap? We've actually in almost exceeded it with for 2016 in the sense that we have gone over three million dollars, but there's an exception for projects located within urban renewal areas. And so we actually have total applications from 2016 about 4.5 million and So we won't technically hit the cap itself, but we have been very well prescribed for the calendar year so you'll see a handful of applications still that had been received in 2016 come before you in the next coming months and do you have the approximate number of units affordable units we might get out of that? I don't have it at my fingertips. I'm happy to follow up. It's um, you know, so 20% of all of those of the total projects and I think we were looking at, you know, several hundred affordable units out of that. So yeah. Cool. Thanks. You're welcome. Questions? Yes, sir. Mr. Director, I think when this was originally filed, an affordable housing impact statement was not part of the submission. And while that was something that was a regular feature of Commissioner Saltzman's presentations to council, of course it's up to the Mayor's office whether to continue that. I want to just put it to the Commissioner in charge and the Director. Can we assume that that will continue so that there will be an impact statement? And each subsequent filing with the council? The staff have no difficulty with abiding that request. The format, I think, is something that we agree is succinct. And I think the issue is that we want to identify the, within the universe of people benefiting from the program, how many might have incomes between 0 to 30 percent of median income versus 30 to 60, 60 to 80 in this instance. They're all 80% and below. And rarely, unless someone has a voucher, which would enable a person at 30% of median income with a tenant-based voucher to use that voucher in that building, would they tend to have incomes of extremely low incomes. But we're, I think, accept the format and would be happy to abide that requirement. Commissioner, I think, absolutely, I think that's an appropriate request and we can fulfill that. Number two, and I apologize, I think I've forgotten the answer to this, but we have the experts before us. At the expiration of the 10-year statutory period, do we still have the discretion, assuming we have cap space to extend it another 10 years if we have a willing party? Yeah, with the current code, that's not an option that we have available. We have in some limited instances, if I'm recalling the Ramona. We have done some extensions of projects that had largely affordable units in the building rather than just a portion that also had separate affordability restrictions that made them eligible per our interpretation of the statute along with the county's acceptance of the program. Currently, with the code changes that went forward through the inclusionary housing implementation, because of the ongoing affordability through the inclusionary housing, just creation of units, that keeping the cap available for that was a priority. So, but there's nothing under state law that would preclude us from doing that. Is that correct? Yeah, as long as it does have the affordability as the feature. So it would be something that we could design within the program implementation, yeah. So Mayor, I don't, I won't bring this as an amendment, but I would like to just put this on the table. I would like to bring back to council a code fix that retains the discretion on a case-by-case basis for the commissioner in charge to make a recommendation of extending and for a couple of reasons. One is that because a lot of this housing occurs in high opportunity areas and stable buildings, getting more than the 10-year affordability may be a strong public interest. As we know, up to close to 20,000 units were entitled prior to the effective date of our inclusionary housing ordinance. So we're actually, while there will be some projects that come along, regrettably, the bulk of the new development over the next three years will not technically be subject to our ordinance because of the timing. And so, and then finally, I just, Philosophically, I think we should have all the tools available to the commissioner in charge, whether you choose to exercise it and bring a recommendation back to council, whether you have the concurrence of the county chair and the assessor, that would be within your prerogative. But I would strongly urge that we come back with a code change that preserves your authority to do that. Thank you, Commissioner. And I will second that. I realize it's not a formal amendment today, but let's put together some draft language and we'll walk the floor. I would personally appreciate that flexibility because I think there's some opportunities and it would give us a little bit of strength in the negotiations as well. The final comment I'll just make is I'll be attending the Home for Everyone tomorrow in the afternoon. And I'll be presenting on a proposal that I hope gets traction on both sides of the river to set some hard numbers around permanent supportive housing units. Because I think unless you have a goal, it's hard to reach it. And as the director just mentioned, these are all 80% units, which is great news for a starting teacher, a nurse. maybe even an entry-level police officer. But the challenge that we continue to face is we have people in shelters and on the street and thousands of people and while this housing fills a need in the community and serves a purpose, it is not actually addressing the most acute crisis that we're experiencing, which is homelessness. and its related challenges. And so I will be, and I support this today, and I support the multi-program, I think it's an appropriate use of scarce resources, but it doesn't quite fill the need that we currently have in transitioning people off the streets into stable housing. And so I will be pressing us during budget time to set some concrete goals that we can hopefully achieve on an annual basis. Good. Further comments? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? Sorry, 210. This was the pooled item. No, I'm sorry, wrong one. No, I do not have a sign-up sheet, so we probably do not have anybody in the other rooms. Very good. Call the roll, please. Fish. Thank you for your presentation and your good work. Aye. Saltzman. Good news. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. All good, and thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your suggestions. I think they're great suggestions. That strengthens the conversation as well. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Okay. We're going to do the pulled item next, item 203. Let's do 211 and go back to 3. Okay. Okay. 211, approve application. Sorry, thank you for your patience. But Kurt is very interesting. Very interesting. Thank you. We have some explaining to do. Yeah. Approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program for Fairfield-Killingsworth located at 5327 North Interstate Avenue. As... as at least initiated previously, Kurt Krieger, Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, with me is Dori VanBankle. 5327 North Interstate differs in size and it differs in terms of its geographic location. Dori can describe the actual number of units, but in this instance, the preference policy would also apply, which makes it somewhat different than the one on Hawthorne. Correct. Yeah, as far as specifically on this particular project, it's a seven-story building and will also have some ground floor retail space which is typical for both the areas. There's 57 subterranean parking spaces designed with the project. This is one block off of the Interstate MAX line, and it will have a mix of Studio One and a sprinkle of two-bedroom units as well. So because the multi-program requires that the affordable units be distributed within the project, we'll have one affordable two-bedroom unit in that project, which is greatly desired, as well as then 20% of both the Studio One bedroom units as well. So per the preference policy, a certain number of those units will be set aside for people that either reside or formerly resided in North and Northeast Portland? So all of the affordable units will be available through the preference policy first. First, okay. So assuming that they can all be leased up under those terms. Great. Yes, we've been working with the Bureau of Technology Services on the actual software, multifamily properties turn over so frequently that the number of people that are interested and the need to keep the preference policy moving forward on a real-time basis is quite important. With home ownership, we had 1,000 people interested and selected 65. That database was done with an Excel spreadsheet. This is going to be a much more dynamic situation. People that own the properties are very welcome if we do the work for them by sorting and screening all the eligible households So in just for people that might not be familiar with the preference policy if people have been physically displaced from north on And Northeast Portland through a condemnation they score the greatest number of points if they've been economically displaced through rezoning or other community plan amendments in the area they receive fewer scores than And the people with the greatest number of scores get first shot at the available units. We then work our way down from a high score of six down to one until the entire list is worked through. So we're hopeful that this provides a path to return for people that have been disenfranchised from North Portland. MR. Good. Any further questions or comments? Is there any public testimony on item 211? MS. Yes, we have a gentleman who wishes to testify. MR. Very good. Come on up. Why don't you take this mic over here, and if you could just poke it so that it's lit up so people can hear you. If you could just state your name for the record, please. Thank you. Poke the button. Let's see. There you go. Thank you. Good afternoon, council members. My name is Jason Martin. I'm with Fairfield Residential, the developer of this project. I just want to make myself available in case you had any questions that were not resolved about the project. Well, thank you for coming in. We appreciate it. Thank you for coming, sir. We don't often have the developer attend these multi-hearings. So I guess I should ask you, is there any reason we should – we should vote no? Not at all. This is a phenomenal project that we're excited about. Thank you. Thank you. Good. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I really – this is a great project. Appreciate the developer being here. And glad to hear the preference policy will apply to people that were perhaps displaced from north-northeast Portland. And I also wanted to note that I think yesterday or the day before we got our first application under our inclusionary housing policy, which is really good news. It shows we got something right. Contrary to a lot of press and cynicism that existed around it. So I think it's a sign of good things to come. So good work. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman, who did a lot of work on this, particularly on the preference policy. And I want to thank your team as well for putting together this and the prior ordinance that we adopted as well. I think this is great progress in exactly the right direction. So thank you. Aye, the ordinance is adopted. Why don't we go back and finish off the consent agenda so these two ladies can get back to work. I'm sure they'd prefer to do that. Item 203. authorize a competitive solicitation for construction of the North Park blocks playground replacement and improvements project for an estimated nine hundred and eighty thousand dollars My name is Lauren McGuire. I'm the development program manager for Portland parks, and I'm here with Robin Laughlin the project manager for this particular project As you know this is part of the 2014 parks replacement bond the 68 million dollars that the voters approved and This is a great project. It's going to replace an outdated park playground that's at Cooch Park and Park Avenue. And we'll be taking out that equipment, replacing lights, and improving accessibility to the playground, as well as replacing all of that playground and surfacing. So we're just here to ask permission to bid, so to go out for a competitive solicitation. The estimated construction cost for us at this time is $980,000. And that's – we have medium confidence in that. Great. Thank you. I have a question. This – so this is the North Park blocks. And there is a public loo that's on the southeast corner. Is that correct? Yes, that's correct. And does the work that you are – contemplating around the playground. Will there be any – will you be investing anything in relating to the loo and the relationship between the loo and the playground? This project doesn't do any improvements to the loo itself. We will be making some changes to the fencing that's currently around the playground. So proximate to the loo, the fence around the playground moves towards the loo a little bit, but it stays within the center of the block. So let me just state a concern, and I second to no one in terms of my support for the public loo program, even though we did spin it off as a freestanding business. That loo is in an intense urban area, and I can just speak from my own personal experience that it has sometimes been kind of an attractive nuisance and been a magnet for behavior that is anti-social. And I think there's been some police activity there as well around drugs, drug sales and other kinds of things. And what I want to be absolutely sure as we go forward is that we are thinking holistically about the children and family playground that's adjacent to the Loo and how we help both become successful public spaces. Let me just state it as diplomatically as I can. And again, I second to no one in my support for the Loo, but it has attracted some people whose behavior is not what we want to promote and it happens to be adjacent to a major children's playground. So would you add that to your your thinking and planning on this and when you come back to council just let me know what your thoughts are. Thank you. Certainly. Any other questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Mr. Lightning had pulled it but I don't believe he's here anymore. Okay great. Call the roll please. Fish. Thanks again to Commissioner Fritz and her work in securing the bond money that allows us to do all this good work. And the North Park blocks, in my view, is long overdue for sort of an updating. And I think if we can get the children's playground updated and at some point we can find the partners to build out the northern space that's in front of the Pacific Northwest College of Art and then pivot the North Park blocks into the post office site, we can write the next great chapter of this area. So thank you very much. Did he vote? I'm sorry. A little drama, a little suspense. Aye. Zaltzman. Thank you. This is a good project. Thanks for your patience today. Aye. Udaylee? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you very much. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. And let's see. We are back to 2-12. 2-12. amend contracts with RNW Engineering Inc. and MFIA Inc. in the amount of $100,000 per contract to provide additional mechanical engineering services. Good afternoon. You remind me of somebody. Look familiar? Lauren McGuire, Development Program Manager for Portland Parks. We're here to ask that we amend the contract for RMW Engineering Inc. and also MFIA Inc. in the amount of $100,000. So let me explain. On May 1st in 2016, we had two contracts for these on-call professional technical expert services. They're mechanical engineering services. One was between the City of Portland and R&W Engineering. The other one was between the City of Portland and MFIA. The original contract amount for each of those was $100,000, which is typical for our on-call contracts. In the bond program, though, we're doing a lot of projects, as We were really looking for four different firms that would provide us mechanical engineering services, and we only had two at that time. So we decided, after talking to procurement, to go back out, and so we went out for a second RFP. It was released in November of 2016, and we got the same two. firms that were soliciting or providing us with proposals. So in talking to procurement their recommendation was rather than do two separate contracts for each firm just to make it one contract and to up the contract from $100,000 to $200,000. So that's why we're here. On-call contracts, in case you're not familiar, we have up to $75,000 per task order that we can do for those, and so that's how they work. If we go above that, then the director has to approve it. So let me ask a question. This may just be a general question that I'll put out there for future reference. If Mr. Walsh were here, he'd fall out of his seat hearing me ask this question. But this is on a regular agenda as a contract update. We had another one on our consent agenda earlier this morning that was also a contract update. What is the standard by which things are on the consent agenda versus in the regular agenda? Can I address that? Please, yes. Because it's not necessarily bureau specific. Okay. So, we have, I think, either formally or informally agreed as a body that $500,000 is the minimum threshold for or is a threshold for bringing a change order or a contract modification to council. And I, Carla, you, I'm having a senior moment, but I think we might have even done that by ordinance or maybe it was just. It was a memo, I believe, from Mayor Hales for capital improvement projects. Yeah. So I think this was a legacy of, of, of. some history where particularly I think the public utilities probably use the consent agenda with greater frequency and so your predecessor and I agreed that that anything a half million dollars or above would automatically be placed on the regular agenda. So what I would say is it's it's really within the discretion of the Commissioner in charge or the Bureau and But if what I would strongly suggest, Mayor, is that if you have a strong view as to what should be the trigger below a half million dollars, we should just establish that as a guideline because a number of these projects automatically get pulled to the regular agenda when people see them. And frankly, I even think that sometimes it's misleading with certain – not in this instance, but it's sometimes misleading where it seems to be a small dollar amount, but if you unravel the history, it's like the fifth or sixth or seventh time that someone has brought a change order, which may actually be totally appropriate because some of the work we do underwater, for example, other things, involves unforeseen contingencies. But you very well may want a rule that says if it's the X number of change order or if it's a certain amount, that it should be brought to the regular agenda. But there is a council rule that if it's a half million dollars or above, it should be placed on the regular agenda. Thank you, sir. I appreciate that. And correct, and to speak to this also, in this case, our contracts are doubling, basically. So we felt that was appropriate. Okay, thank you. Any further questions on this issue, Commissioner Udaly? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one else signed up. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 213, authorize a contract with lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Wheeler Basin Construction and Green Streets, project number A10219 for $7,033,000. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance will authorize a contract to replace or repair over 11,500 feet of public sewer pipe and install eight Green Street planters in the Boise-Elliott neighborhood. The project will reduce sewer backups and rehabilitate century-old pipes in very poor condition. The Green Street planters are being installed as a cost-effective way to reduce the amount of stormwater entering the sewer system, eliminating the need for larger pipes. This project is slated to start this summer and to be completed within 15 months. And I will just highlight, before I turn it over to Brandon Wilson and Scott Gibson, anticipate that what may catch your attention on this one is it's a big project going into a dense area that's also had a lot of capital construction work, whether it's roadways or new construction. And so we are interested in your feedback about sequencing of the work and impact on other projects. And I'm pleased to introduce Scott Gibson for the presentation. Thank you. For the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me today is Brandon Wilson. He's our project manager for this effort. I'm going to make just some short statements, and then Brandon will take over the presentation. We will come before you on a number of occasions over the year asking for authorization to do sewer construction projects. There are generally two types of efforts that we're engaged in. One is when the pipe fails, when it gets old and it's cracked and it needs to be replaced. Then there's this other program which we're talking about today, which is basement sewer backup risk. We have a legacy system that in certain areas can't provide appropriate level of service of protection. And when the rains get heavy above a certain level or below, even sometimes even below our target area, you can have sewage back up into basements. This project that we're here talking about today is a basement sewer backup relief project. And Brandon will get into the details, but The techniques that we tend to use there are to replace the pipe with a larger pipe when appropriate. But we also use green infrastructure, stormwater planters, to soak up some of that rainwater and diminish the demand on the system such that the existing system can function. So what Brandon and his team has done, and he'll describe this to you, is to use a combination of those tools, new pipes and green streets, to come up with a solution that works in this case. And I'll turn it over to Brandon. Okay. Thank you. Let's see if this is working. Okay. Hello. My name is Brandon Wilson. I work for the Bureau of Environmental Services. So Scott set the stage a little bit of what project we have. This slide shows the geographic location. You can see some familiar streets on the west end. We have Williams and Vancouver running north-south. MLK also is a major thoroughfare running north-south. And we're bound by the north by Russell and by the south close to Broadway. If I could just comment, because this is a great chart, on the – as you look to the east at MLK, so for those of you – Commissioner Udailey knows this, but for those who aren't as familiar with this area, that's – that work will be starting just to the south of the Nike store on MLK. And then as you go west from there, we recently took up a couple of items with new lights and turn systems being placed near Legacy Emanuel Hospital. There's a huge choke point coming off the bridge there. And then, of course, with changes to Vancouver and Williams Avenue, those can also be pretty congested. So this is a pretty active area with also a lot of restaurants that operate in the evening, a lot of community resources and the like. So that's one of our sensitivities is making sure that the work doesn't disrupt the living and working part of this community. Okay. Thank you. I'd also like to add that several streets in this project area are also considered city bikeways and or neighborhood greenways. Also on this slide, you can see the MLK area. There's six intersections on MLK that we've identified to be done during the night. And we coordinated with PBOT. We also have a noise variance for that work. And we did not receive any kind of opposition to that noise ordinance. And also, the night work that is shown is minimized. And I have a slide later that talks more about that. You talked about proposed night work. I understand there's a trade-off between traffic and headaches and noise for the residents. So how does that cut in this case? So night work is usually what is kind of an exception to our process. It's more expensive, generally less safe, and it's a trade-off here because – We've been working with our city engineer, the traffic engineer that is, and the work that we need to do, the manholes, they're in such a place that we're not able to maintain the minimum distances for lanes, the minimum widths required. And in order to do that work, we have to go during low-volume times, which are during the night. So we do go through the process of pulling the noise variants out, And then Paul Van Orden, the noise officer with the board, we make presentations and we do the outreach to the community that says we do need night work in this area. If you have any issues, this is who you contact. And so we go through the process to try to balance that because it's exactly as you said. It's a tradeoff between the residents who are living in the neighborhood and then the through traffic. Okay. Thanks for the explanation. Is that six intersections simultaneously or do you do two at a time? How is that night work going to be conducted? Great question. It will be conducted one intersection at a time. Over what period of time? I believe we allocated, we gave ourselves a week to a week and a half for each intersection and I'm not sure if they're going to be done consecutively necessarily, they're done in Along with the adjacent horizontal sewers when you need to come into the thank you into MLK, so they'll be scattered Okay, and I see you're using cross your you're building the crossing capacity here Is that in combination with vision zero is their coordination with that? Yeah, absolutely the civil engineering design Is reviewed and coordinated with people very exclusively we have we work with a? We have a liaison who's – we pay part of his salary who works with us to coordinate the work with PBOT. And so we've done all that work to make sure that we're coordinated with that. Good. Well, I want to thank you, and I want to thank Commissioner Fish because I love to see multiple objectives achieved simultaneously. And this looks like a great opportunity to do that. You know, we sometimes actually, Mayor, get criticized for one of the impacts of the green infrastructure is it does inherently have a traffic-calming impact because it changes the – the – it changes the configuration of the street. And that's not its primary purpose, but it does – and a good example of that is on lower division. And there's other issues along upper division, but lower division with the green infrastructure and other things, it does have a traffic calming effect. Great. This slide basically gives more details about our project. It was recommended by our systems plan 2012. You can see 11,500 linear feet of mainline pipe. Those are the sizes between 8 inches and 30 inches. Most of these are under capacity. There are a few sections that are poor condition. These are generally century-old sewers. Next slide. Oh, no, he's got the thing. He's got the clicker. Yeah, no, it's still – I'm just kind of going through the – but I do have it. Why would we ever doubt – Nick, why would we ever doubt Carla? Why? Why? Roses or hydrangeas? We also mentioned the eight typical stormwater infiltration facilities. And there you go. So this – so with a project this size, there's a lot of public involvement that goes out. outreach done to the public, several mailings, several neighborhood public meetings, neighborhood associations. We've also commented that Debbie Castleton came before us this morning on Women's History Month and Mayor, we send a lot of these newsletters out to affected people whenever we do big capital construction projects and the original format for these had a lot of information but it had no personal touch. And thanks in part to Debbie's vision, what we do now on the front page of all of these is we have a, essentially a letter and a note from the staff person who is the liaison. And I don't know if you can see it here, but it has her cell phone number, her email address, and it's signed by her and she puts her own update every time we send one of these out on the cover. And of course, what we're trying to do is personalize this experience so it isn't just a bunch of numbers you can call, but it's a person saying, if you have a concern, call me directly. Great. And that was one of the things that she really fought for. Yes, Debbie's doing a fantastic job for this project, as you can imagine. I'd also like to mention that there's ongoing close coordination with residents and businesses that have been happening, that's been happening during design and will continue to happen during construction. I also wanted to touch on the fatigue in the neighborhood that you mentioned. This neighborhood has been undergoing development and different construction projects. Our public involvement staff is aware of that and especially the lack of parking that's as a result of that. So we do have that as a sensitivity. I wanted to talk a little bit about one aspect of this project that is a little unique. which is the flow transfer away from Williams and MLK. This slide doesn't really show that well, but our original pre-design where we started had three or four pipe segments being upsized, a lot of work happening on Williams and MLK, and we, in concert with our work with PBOT, we were able to reduce that amount of upsizing and instead upsize work on some side streets that are less expensive and less disruptive to the traffic patterns and also was able to eliminate quite a bit of night work and As part of that analysis, that's where the stormwater facilities were actually added to the project The project did not have those in to begin with it was through this effort to To try to get a better a better fit for this project that those were added and next steps advertisement should be this month level of confidence high and purchasing agents. Okay, so we'll be back to present an ordinance to award to ask for the awarding of our contract once we have a low bid and a contractor selected. Construction is noticed to proceed in summer and as as Commissioner mentioned it will be a 15 month construction duration and that's that concludes our presentation. If you have any questions Commissioner, I have a question sure is there a difference between Vegetated green street facilities and bioswales. It's a great question there. I Trying to keep up with the lingo. Exactly. Yeah. That's the engineering version of what these are, but they're also called bioswales. They're also called green gardens. They're also called green streets. Ooh, green gardens. I like that. We've got lingo. And this might seem like a silly question. I think I know the answer, but if that's diverting rainwater away from our sewer system, then does that bring down people's sewer bills? answer that if I could. All right. Because we did a... I personally invested in the answer to this question. So we did a commissioner a couple years ago when we did Tabor to the River, which is, as you might imagine, it's all the flow from Tabor to the River. Because it was part of our Greater Green Initiative, what we did is we intentionally came to council and presented a kind of... a couple of alternatives. And we said, well, what happens if we just did the old gray approach, which is expand the pipe capacity. It's like building more highways, expanding more pipes. What would that cost? And then we did an analysis of what would it cost if we did fewer pipes and more green infrastructure to let mother nature handle the load And of course, the return on investment wasn't even close. The – there was significantly less expensive to do the project using gray and green rather than just gray. And therefore, to answer your question, When we keep our costs down on these big capital projects, then what we do is we give the council a menu of options. Council could say, well, then let's put our capital budget on a diet accordingly. Or the council could say for the same amount of money that we budgeted, go do more and address some of the other backlogs of work. But in any event, what we're able to show is a much more efficient use of scarce resources to get the job done, and it actually frees up money to do more work. And that's the beauty of gray and green. And my only regret is that 10 years ago we didn't describe it that way because I think we overemphasized the environmental benefits and we didn't focus enough on the ratepayer benefits. And my view is it's a huge win for ratepayers because it costs less and you put a value on what it is to have – to tackle the heat island effect or to have a more lush neighborhood or more friendly streetscape. We save a lot of money when we do it this way. And so fortunately, we're less reliant on gray now and we're using more green. So thank you. Thank you. That was all. Any further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? No. Very good. This moves to second reading. It's a non-emergency ordinance. And if you could read the next item. Item 214, assess benefited properties for massed armed traffic signal and utility undergrounding improvements in the North Vancouver Avenue and Cook Street Local Improvement District. Is there any further discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. All right. We now have our time. I think we have a five-minute break. Yeah, let's do that. We're in recess.