You ready? Yes. Let's get this road. You know what I mean. On the show? It must be Thursday. Clear the chambers. All right. We are in session. This is the March 8, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Commissioner Fritz? Here.
 You don't want to do the behavior self-speech? The what? The behavior self-speech. Oh, yeah, I forgot the behavior speech. Mary, listen up. Legal counsel, please. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Excellent. Well done. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I move to reconsider item 219. Carla, could you please read 219?
 Amend election reform code to renew, I'm sorry, to rename as open and accountable elections program and reassign from Office of Neighborhood Involvement to a commissioner's office.
 Colleagues, we had a first reading on this item yesterday, and at that time the council voted to remove the emergency clause that was on the item for reasons which I'll explain as we vote. We really need to get this program going as quickly as possible, and so I move to reconsider the item.
 emergency amendment. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz for reconsideration. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz. So this vote allows us to have another vote on whether to have the emergency clause or not. Aye.
 Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. It's under reconsideration. Next, as I understand it, is a vote to reject the amendment. Is that correct, Commissioner? It's a vote on whether to approve the amendment. So in other words, should there be an emergency ordinance, and I'm hoping. Right? Aye.
 And I would like the answer to be, well, my answer will be no. Okay. So the vote then before us is the question of whether we're now back at the reconsideration of the original question, the question being. No, first we have to take off the. Is to remove, the question is are we removing.
 The emergency clause. Yes. So you're essentially re-voting on the exact motion you considered yesterday, which was a motion to remove the emergency clause. So re-vote on that. And then when that vote is done, if you all reject that motion, you can vote on the underlying, which has an emergency clause on it. So to be clear, a vote of yes, for example, would be a vote to remove the emergency clause. Yes, correct.
 Very good. Thank you. Is that clear? Yes, thank you. Carla, please call the roll. Should we remove the emergency clause? No. Fish? No. Salt? I'm sorry, Eudaly? No. Wheeler? No. So we have rejected the amendment. Now we are voting on the original ordinance with the emergency clause in place. Is that clear for everybody? Correct. Very good. Please call the roll, Carla. Fritz? Yes.
 So, colleagues, it's been more than a year, in fact, quite a lot more than a year since we passed the open and accountable elections system. And the intent has always been to get it going so that you'd be ready for the 2020 council and council elections.
 It's already going to be very difficult to move that. It's been a while since we've been able to work on this due to other priorities. We need to move very quickly to get a consultant hired. I realize this is very unusual to be doing this procedural change. Commissioner Saltzman's office is aware of our action today. Aye. Fish? I just want to reiterate what I said yesterday, which is...
 Great confidence in Commissioner Fritz and her office to launch this program. And I share, I think, the views of, I think, most if not all my colleagues that we should also be thinking in the medium term of a neutral place to park this program other than a commissioner's office. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 I support this, and I have already drafted an executive order that will move this program directly to Commissioner Fritz, effective immediately. I vote aye. The ordinance is approved as amended. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. So, Council voted on amendments to the Central City 2035 plan as part of this Council session yesterday afternoon, and I would like to reconsider my vote on amendments number 2A1, number 7, River Place Bonus Height, and 2A1, number 10, River Place Special Tower Orientation Standards. Thank you.
 When council reconvenes to discuss Central City 2035 on March 15th, I will make my motion to reconsider. I want to add that I'm doing this as a courtesy to the mayor. It does not guarantee a change in my vote. But yesterday, due to compelling arguments on both sides and ending up being the deciding vote, I realized I just was not prepared to make an affirmative decision.
 So I voted no. And I'm going to spend the next couple of weeks talking to my colleagues, to community members, and getting more fully briefed from the planning bureau on the...
 on the proposal and the implications of this amendment. I've had conversation with the mayor and expressed my concerns about what I felt was a tacit approval for a development project that has not gone through the appropriate channels for approval. And I've asked for commitments from the mayor that any project that intends to develop on that site, especially if they plan to build to the maximum heights,
 goes through the same rigorous master plan process, design overlay, and community engagement as any other development would. Thank you, Commissioner. I will second this, and I would like to thank you for your reconsideration. And for the record, Commissioner Udaly asked me very pointed questions about public accountability.
 I believe those questions are answered through the master planning requirement of the amendment, but she has also asked for time to meet with the planning and sustainability staff and ensure that her concerns around planning
 the public benefits of this particular action are there and explicitly stated and I have certainly agreed to those conditions and I thank her for that conversation as well as the
 good questions that she asked of my office and me and the planning staff, and I think they are all important issues that need to be fully considered. So I appreciate the opportunity to continue this conversation through the reconsideration process. So I want to remind people then that we are not going to vote on the amendment today. The amendment will remain open so that Commissioner Udaly and others may consider the merits of the amendment further.
 It will be taken up on March 22nd as part of the Central City 2035 planning session. There will not. It's March 15th. I just want to clarify for the record. Oh, it's March 15th. I'm sorry. I had 22nd written down. It's only one week. So it is March 15th now.
 Okay, so it will be March 15th, so we need to move very quickly, and I will commit to that, as will the staff commit to that. We will not take oral testimony when it comes back to the council, but we will continue to take written testimony on this item. The record is closed. Okay, I keep getting better information on top of better information. How can the record be closed? So the record is closed on this issue.
 You've already received testimony and the record was closed on this. It's open until tomorrow for the amendments that you're voting on during the 15th, but the notice did not indicate that the record would be reopened. Is that correct? Okay. Very good. So it will be taken up on the 15th of March.
 Thank you. I appreciate the clarification. So, Commissioner is only allowed to talk with staff. She's not allowed to talk with anybody else about this. It's a legislative hearing. So, she can speak with anyone and collect information. But I'm talking about in terms of whether people have the opportunity to put additional testimony into the record. I'm not clear what the difference is. Well, so, it's a legislative hearing. The public has been notified that the record is closed. Yes.
 At this point, there is not any notification that there will be opportunity for more oral or written testimony, but for the amendments that are coming back on the 15th. And that written record is open until tomorrow. Do you have anything else to add? I'd just say it's permissible to talk about the evidence that's already in the record. So having a conversation with somebody about what's in the record is fine. It's new evidence that the record is closed to at this point.
 The challenge is, though, my understanding from what Commissioner Udail just said, is that she wants more information. Yeah. New evidence. It's probably not going to work for my purposes. What I think probably would be a first starting point was talk to BPS, because I think there's a...
 significant volume of evidence that's there and maybe they could collect it and identify it for you. So you have that as a starting point. And if, you know, it's a legislative process. If council decides they want to reopen the record, you can do so. But I think it would need to be done explicitly and people would need to be given the opportunity, equal opportunity to provide evidence. Can I ask a question of the city attorney? Sure.
 And for whatever reason, and yesterday is a little bit of a blur in my memory because of all the issues we took up, but I guess I hadn't focused on the fact we had one week to address all the open questions. So we did kick some things to the final hearing. It included some issues where, like I raised a concern about two issues and wanted additional briefings and information. Are we doing this by the 15th because there's some –
 other reason that it has to be done by the 15th? Yeah, BPS is not here today because they didn't have an item on the agenda. So what I understand, what I know from yesterday, the items that were held open for a vote on March 15th, there's actually three items. It's the Central City skyline view from I-84, the view from – and the height and FAR at Big Pink, Wells Fargo, PacWest. Okay.
 And then there was measuring top of bank, which was removed. Correct. So those are the only items that were held over. All the other amendments were voted on yesterday. And then the final package is coming back in May for vote. Well, just as an example, the question of the ordinary high water that I asked to have considered later is actually a very complicated question. And I've asked for briefings, and I've asked to understand why we have –
 gone from one proposal to another. I guess I didn't focus on the fact that this is all coming back next week. So that is a very – that's an aggressive timeline, and I guess the one question I would have is, is that necessary, or do we have a little more breathing room? You can always – it's a legislative process, so you can always set more hearings. I'd like to take a ten-minute recess so we can discuss this. Sure. Thank you. We need to get this right. I'm going to discuss it with my team. Okay. Sorry.
 BPS has another date. BPS has another date. Yeah, I thought... I actually... I'm completely swamped with other things. I wanted... The ordinary high water issue is a huge issue. I also wanted to talk to whoever I want to. I might want to talk to the... Chloe? Chloe? Commissioner Daly? You have the card. You get to decide...
 how you want this to work. How about you? You get to decide. It's basically a one-man.
 Okay with that? Recognize? Why don't you go talk to her? She can do whatever she wants. She can stay in another week. She can reopen the record to get information. It's only three issues. It's not like we're dating. Out of those three issues, really only one or two are that confidential. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you. Sure. I think I'm the only one. I just, I, I, I just, I just, I, I, I don't want to be a worthy decision. I took a position that I knew had peril that I thought was the right one. Occasionally, and I didn't want to appear to be flip-flopping now that this can be moved to the past.
 I may go down with the ship again. As I told you, I think I would advise you to take a rest. I appreciate that. I know, but the thing I also appreciate is that she's very direct in stating her case. But she doesn't bat a thousand, because I almost bat a thousand. But I appreciate the directness in that. I always know where she is. I can't say that. I always know. I'm like this. I'm like Jesus. Duck.
 I just hope that's part of lesson one. But she can't do it. That's where the pressure is. Yeah. I just . That's right. She wants to open it up to her. She wants to actually do it. How much did you pay? That's a good position to be in. Yeah. Save money for the season. No, the cold. I mean, whether we need to go in this or not doesn't matter. I think that's fine. Yeah. Yeah, I'm very well on that.
 Yeah, I guess you should... I want to do this in my new mug. You want this? It's pretty magical. I thought it might make your day. What's that? It's great. We can get you matching ones. Where's the bird? We don't like it very much. Where's the bird? You guys have fun against cats? Are you monsters? Yes. We like, we prefer birds.
 Oh, I have a cat instead of a child. No, I love cats. Okay. I wanted a monkey instead of a child. It didn't work out, so I had a cat. There's a Sherlock Holmes story about that. There is? Mm-hmm. Oh, I should read that. And then, um... I do think if I'd gotten to work with monkeys, I would have never had a child. I'm never going to tell Henry so fast. I love him. I love him. I love him. I love him. I love him. I love him. I love him.
 I want you to do a questionnaire. And then they're based on the . Current numbers. What's the prejudice? It's actually going to be on the . Oh, OK. And then what they're asking for.
 I didn't want to. So then did you rob themselves? Because those weren't new things. So her response should have been. Those are left out. I should have told on Saturday. I should have. I should have. Someone should try. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have. I should have.
 No, no, but I'm saying she doesn't have a kind of...
 Thank you.
 So, yeah. What was the? The call center. I did that. That's very clear. I'm interested in using the data. So the difference between that and what's the behind the fashion in Asia and what's on the map in the four communities together. It may not be. A couple hours. It may not be. I'm really looking forward to .
 This is five minutes. This is three. Right, but 500 verses come in. That's eight. I'll start. It's worth a few years. Obviously the arts is a challenge, too.
 Surprise. I want to do that. Maybe you'll do it yourself? I'm Helen. And this guy's in person. And all of those questions are very positive. And we get the recommendations from the commissions. And we get the key. And we feel so good about it. It's so unmasked. It's so good. But I'm so excited about it.
 I don't remember a better I did what I'm good at I restated my talking points concisely so we could take that one quote and not the other one say it say it say it and then
 I'm sorry.
 I think if you call and say, I'm just really excited about tomorrow. I'm going to show something like that.
 I think we have a man with the answers. Lots of the answers. All right, we are back in session. I come bearing lots of answers. Here is what I've learned. So...
 The word hearing is being used, even though this is a legislative matter, because ultimately everything that we do with regard to the 2035 plan is subject to LUBA. So technically speaking...
 Everything that we use to make decisions with regard to the 2035 plan, including any amendments, has to be made using what I will describe as extremely voluminous record that is currently in place.
 There is nothing in this record that precludes Commissioner Udaly or anybody else from meeting with staff, for example, asking about details within the record, for example, what exactly is included in a master planning process, what is not included in that process. Because the meeting was already noticed, all of the 2035 documents,
 was noticed for the 15th, which I agree with Commissioner Fish. I think it's too pinched. What I would propose to my colleagues is not just this matter and not just the matter of the mean high water
 tide conversation. I would propose that we publicly state today that on the 15th it is our intention to continue the entirety of the 2035 plan to March 22nd, where frankly, I mean, I need more than a week to be able to go through all of the discussion points and amendments that are currently in the record. Does that answer people's questions? Who's not here on the 22nd?
 I'd show everybody in on the 22nd. I guess my only remaining question is whether I can talk to the planning committee or community members about this item. Is that a question of whether we need to keep the record open for a period of time just to be extra safe? Reopen the record. Okay.
 Reopen the record? Yes, you may need to reopen the record. I would recommend that we first talk with BPS and see what information is in the record. Some of this, I mean it is thousands and thousands of pages if not more. Hundreds of thousands. So BPS can help you identify. Once they understand your questions, they can help you identify the information that's already in the record.
 At that point, if there needs to be a conversation about reopening the record, council can have that discussion here. Acceptable to me. So we have a motion for reconsideration on the table. We have a second from myself. We are not going to vote on the amendment today. We're just voting on the reconsideration. Please call the roll.
 Sorry, you'll actually be voting on that reconsideration next time 2035 is back in front of you. So this was just a public FYI. Got it. Okay, thank you for that clarification. Thank God we're done with that. Welcome. This is the March 8th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Regular agenda, 232. I didn't call the roll. I was joking, Carla. I'm resetting.
 That's as funny as I get on a Thursday afternoon. That's it. Carla, that's a cry for help. I think it is. So we're ready for 2.32. Yes, please. 32. 2.32. Appoint Richard Helzer and A. Young Lee and reappoint Scott Bradley to the Towing Board of Review for terms to expire March 1, 2019.
 Colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman could not be here today, but he asked me to read this statement, and then obviously we have some good folks here. Today before us is PBOT's recommendation to appoint three members of the public to serve on the Towing Board of Review. These positions are important as they provide an outside perspective on towing issues and help in shaping policy and identifying solutions to opportunities that arise.
 The Towing Board of Review consists of eight voting members and two non-voting members. Of the eight voting members, three members are from the community, no affiliation to the towing industry, and are subject to confirmation by the City Council to serve for a period of two years. The new appointees are Richard Heiser...
 A. Young Lee, and we also have one existing member being reappointed today. That's Scott Bradley. Here to answer any questions council members may have are Patrick Kramer and Mark Williams with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Welcome, gentlemen. I hope you're enjoying yourselves.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm Mark Williams. I'm the Regulatory Division Manager for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I just want to say that, you know, the Toll Board is doing some very important work. As you can imagine, I'm sure everybody's heard about the abandoned vehicles and derelict RVs, and we have done a lot of important work and we've got a lot of important work to do.
 But I just want to publicly acknowledge these folks that are busy in their personal lives but are taking their time to help us resolve a lot of other important matters. Thank you.
 Patrick Kramer, I'm the towing coordinator in PBOT. And I just want to take a moment to acknowledge the two outgoing board members and really thank them for their commitment over the years and their contributions to the board have been really key. Thank you. And that's Deborah Hogan and Ed Ferraro. Thank you very much.
 Colleagues, any questions? Mr. Gentleman, the nominees? Yes. Would you like to say anything? Good afternoon, Mayor. Richard J. Helzer. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity today, and I can answer any questions you may have. Can you just tell folks what you do and why you want to be on the board?
 I have an interest in the board because given my current career, I work in maintenance management for the Oregon Military Department. Pretty familiar as an automotive hobbyist with the way some of these things go, and I have a strong interest in the public safety aspect of towing companies.
 It's a good opportunity, I think. I have a strong interest in livability within our neighborhoods, and response times and things of that nature that they perform for us are very critical. If we have an officer who's on the scene stuck waiting for a tow when a citizen needs help, it just seems like the kind of thing we should do to improve livability and inclusion in the city, Mayor, Commissioners. And what part of the city do you live in? North Portland, born and raised since 1980, ma'am. Great, thank you. Can I just observe, Mayor, that it is...
 Not every day that a Bronze Star recipient is before us. And for those who follow these things, for all of Senator McCain's heroism, he was awarded the Silver Star. And the Bronze Star is the next highest award that our nation bestows. So congratulations to you. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you.
 So my name is Scott Bradley. I live in the Concordia neighborhood. I've lived in Portland, in the Portland area, for around 20 years. My background and work experience is in another regulated industry, telecommunications, and I perform telecommunications finance reviews. I deal regularly with contracts, making sure that there's a high level of service and good oversight for clients.
 contract review. And so I think I can contribute to that and have her previous term on the table. Well, for my part, I'll just say I feel very privileged that we have people of your caliber willing to serve in a volunteer capacity. This is one of those many, many excruciatingly important oversight panels that is completely thankless.
 So let me thank you now. It's very important, and the community pays a great deal of attention to these matters, and I think it's helpful for them to hear you being here and hear that you're people of integrity and that you approach this with a degree of seriousness. So thank you for your service. Mayor, could we also hear from Ms. Lee? We have a third person here. I'm sorry, Ms. Lee. I apologize. It hasn't been my day. I was trying to dodge.
 Forgive the nervousness. I am a civil engineer and I work in bridges. And a friend of mine had been towed a few years back, so I was her car escort that evening. And I was very interested in what the towing board did when I saw the advertisement.
 And in my current job, I work with a lot of processes, certain things that the regular citizen may not know about but are important for running a city. So I was interested in learning more about this process. And then soon after that, I started reading articles about people being unfairly penalized for being towed.
 and my interest was piqued even further. So I would like to help, if possible, and bring my perspective. I'm getting more nervous as I'm talking, so I'm going to stop. Thank you. You did great. Thank you. We have your bio, and I want to thank you for the narrative you gave us. Yesterday we celebrated Women's History Month, and we had a number of young women leaders who work for bureaus and council offices testify
 And there was a young woman on my team named Betsy who was chosen to a path of being an engineer. So she's going to school for engineering but also working at City Hall as her day job. And her family also questioned why she was choosing a male-dominated profession. And I appreciate that in your narrative –
 You mentioned that you were on a career path that your family deemed a man job, but you've broken through the barriers. And so thank you for that, and thank you for inspiring the next generation of women engineers. Thank you. Very good. I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz to accept the appointments. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you, all three of you, for serving on this important committee. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Thank you for joining us today, and thank you for your service. Aye. E. Daly. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. I'm very excited about all three of you stepping up, and I appreciate your motivations for being here. And, Ms. Lee, I, number one, want to apologize again for...
 skipping over you. That was premature of me. But I'm glad that you spoke as eloquently as you did on the issue of equity and fairness with regard to the towing industry. And as you know, and I'll say it, I don't mind saying it, historically the towing industry is an industry not known
 for its soft touch and equitable approaches to doing business. And while I think it's getting better, I think all of us can strive to do even better. And I believe that the issues you cited are of great importance. And as you probably were aware, there was an article not too long ago in the paper that surprised the heck out of me that talked about,
 towing costs, towing fees that were being charged to people who had their cars stolen.
 And that struck me as a significant oversight. It was one of those things where it just appeared that nobody was really paying attention and looking at the whole picture. And I think all of you have that opportunity through this appointment to be able to look at the big picture and understand how it impacts people in our community. So good for you, and thank you. I vote aye. The appointments are all adopted. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Next item, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Item 233, amend the arts education and access income tax to end administrative cost limitation, place cost limitation under city council oversight, and direct the revenue division to work with the arts education and access fund citizen oversight committee to increase the poverty level exemption. Colleagues, the arts tax was passed by voters.
 to provide funding for art in our schools and to support arts institutions. Today's action is aimed at fixing an issue with the administrative cap to ensure that we're collecting the funds that voters intended go to the arts.
 Today's action also looks at raising the poverty level exemption to make sure that the arts tax are affordable to everyone. These fixes will increase the compliance rate and by potentially increasing the poverty level exemption will decrease the impact of the arts tax on low income individuals. I'd like to particularly thank Commissioners Fish and Udaly for their very hard work on this issue. I'd like to start by turning this over to Commissioner Fish.
 Thank you, Mayor, and I want to thank both you and Commissioner Udaly for co-sponsoring this ordinance for consideration. In the six years since this tax was overwhelmingly adopted by Portland voters, it has been amended by the council four times. Today, as the elected representatives of the people, we are proposing two additional changes that will make the tax more progressive by directing the Arts Oversight Committee, our community oversight body,
 to work with us to exempt more low-income Portlanders, and would give the council the discretion through a transparent public process to decide how much work the city puts into collections of the tax from non-payers. I'd like to make a note about the words we're using here because they matter. Collection activity is fundamentally different than the cost of administration.
 The arts tax is the only tax, fee, bond, or levy that I can think of that we have to go out and collect. Other revenue sources are assessed as part of another bill and paid automatically. And to be fair, the actual administrative costs associated with the arts tax is minimal.
 mostly consisting of managing contracts with the school districts and distributing money to local arts organizations, not hiring professional staff people, not producing glossy brochures, not sending out annual reports to the community. Certainly nowhere near the 5% cap that was originally contemplated.
 So in my view, it's just not accurate to equate the cost of collections with the cost of administration. They are two separate things. Back to today's action. I believe these two updates are reasonable. And, in fact, one has been proposed by the Revenue Bureau with the concurrence of the arts oversight body, our citizen-led oversight body.
 And further, I think it makes sense to consider these two items in tandem. We know that making the tax more progressive shrinks the pool of eligible taxpayers and that that potentially shrinks the projected revenue. If we retain the limit on collection activity, knowing that the denominator is shrinking, we are effectively telling people they're off the hook for paying their fair share. That's not fair. That's not fair.
 And that's not what the voters intended, and it's not good policy. And I'm pleased that we're addressing these issues today. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I have an amendment to introduce. It's a joint amendment between Commissioner Fish and I. Here is the exact language.
 Change Directive B to read, the Council directs the Revenue Division to work with the AOC to recommend an increase of at least, but not limited to, twice the current poverty level exemption to make the tax more equitable and bring recommendations for implementation back to City Council by September 1st, 2018.
 That's the second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, and we have a second from Commissioner Fish. Do we have further discussion on the amendment? Why don't we go ahead and leave the amendment open, and we'll take our testimony, and then we can come back and close it.
 Very good. Is there any further? Did you want to make a presentation? Yes, just briefly. I have some brief remarks about this. Thank you very much, Mayor. I'm Thomas Lanham. I'm the Revenue Division Director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. And Commissioner Fish, I appreciated your distinction between administration and collection costs. It's a very important one and one that's lost, I think, in the larger conversation about the cost limitation issue.
 So this ordinance before you today ends the 5% cost limitation for the arts, education, and access income tax and replaces it with city council oversight. It directs the Revenue Division to work with the Arts Tax Oversight Committee to recommend an increase in the poverty exemption level and with the amendment to 200% or more. To date, the Revenue Division has collected over $51 million in tax revenue at a cost of a little over $4 million, or about 8% of the revenue.
 Over $46 million has been dispersed to school districts and the Regional Arts and Culture Council since 2013. These tax dollars support almost 60 kindergarten through fifth grade teachers for the last five years, as well as in local public schools, as well as dozens of local arts organizations. The cost limitation was originally conceived to provide voters with assurances that the tax would be efficiently collected.
 While efficient collection is certainly a desirable goal, in this case it has had the unintended consequence of working against an even more important goal, which is maximizing the revenue yield. The cost limitation works against our efforts to maximize the revenue yield because it limits the amount we can spend to five cents for every dollar collected. Spending ten cents to collect the next dollar makes perfectly good business sense, but the current city code prohibits us from doing that.
 The inability to remain under the cost limitation has sometimes been publicly framed as an indication that the program itself is inefficient. Nothing could be further from the truth. With 4.5 budgeted FTE, employees maintaining 500,000 taxpayer accounts, that's over 100,000 accounts per employee, and the arts tax is actually one of the most efficient revenue collection programs in the city by an order of magnitude.
 Most of those programs, for example, Water Bureau collections or other collection programs within the revenue division, average 5,000 to 12,000 accounts per FTE. Put another way, if the tax rate was $70 per person instead of $35, this program would have met the 5% cost limitation. So the inability to meet the 5% cost limitation is really more indicative of the low revenue per taxpayer rather than inefficiency.
 It's also important to note that we cannot cut the budget to meet the 5% cost limitation without losing revenue because almost the entire budget is tax collection positions and printing and postage for tax notifications to taxpayers. So cutting collection positions for tax notifications will set up a negative feedback loop as taxpayers increasingly realize there are no consequences for failure to pay. Thank you.
 As noted earlier, the Arts Tax Oversight Committee has endorsed this recommendation, and I'll wrap up there and ask for any comments that you may have or questions. Thomas, I just have one question. I've been trying to think about what's the true apples-to-apple comparison of this tax, and I guess one way of looking at this is,
 the compliance rate for state and federal tax collections. Do we know in Portland or Multnomah County what the current collection rate is for state and federal taxes? Yes.
 Not specific to the county. The IRS does publish nationwide statistics. The all-in compliance rate following enforcement is around 85.7 or 8% for the IRS for personal income taxes. That's the national standard for the IRS? That's correct. And the IRS, as you know, has substantial enforcement tools that we do not have. And we are currently collecting about 75%? That's correct, 74%. So...
 I know I've heard the argument made by some that because we're not collecting 100%, it somehow shows some kind of, it is indicative of broader public sentiments about the tax. According
 According to the data you just supplied us, the true benchmark is probably what the federal compliance rate is, which is 85%. And is it your plan over time to lift 75% closer to 85%? That's correct, and this change today will help us do that. I don't know that we ever get to 85%. We are, for example, never going to garnish someone's wages for the arts tax. It just doesn't seem reasonable for the amount of money that we're talking about. The IRS certainly would do that, so that's going to help their compliance rate remain higher than ours, right?
 That said, I think 80% remains a reasonable goal as we continue to use a number of collection tools, such as collection agencies, IRS, federal taxpayer information that we now have, and some other steps that we're taking internally. Well, I'm really pleased to have this clarification because I once worked for an elected official whose favorite expression was, compared to what? And I think when you're debating something, you have to define the field of –
 that you're operating on, you have to have a comparator. And it seems to me the apple-to-apple comparison here is the federal income tax compliance rate
 And we've built our compliance rate up to 75 percent. Your next milestone is to get it to 80 percent. And under this proposal, annually we'd be reviewing not only your progress towards that goal, but how much we think is a reasonable amount of revenue to be dedicated to further collections. And we would do that in a transparent public process. So I appreciate the clarification. Thank you.
 Thank you. May I ask a question with regard to the poverty rate exemption? How would you expect that to interact with the compliance rate? Well, that's a great question. It's complicated. So right now approximately one in seven Portland adults is in poverty and therefore qualifies for that exemption. If we were to double down on the exemption, that moves approximately, that number would be about one-third approximately.
 The question would be, what is the compliance rate between people that are at 100 percent of poverty, in other words, just barely are expected to file and pay, and 200 percent? And that's something that we're just going to have to look at. I don't have the answer today. Very good. And I just want to state for the record that there is an integrity issue here. The taxpayers passed this. The voters, more correctly, passed this.
 people are subjected to it. They subjected themselves to it. They said they wanted support for arts education, and they are getting that. That part of the program seems to be very efficient. They've also said they wanted support for arts institution because collections are lower than anticipated. That part of the promise has really not been fulfilled. And there was also the promise to keep the administrative rates in check.
 And now that this program has been around long enough, it is obvious that the cost of compliance is greater than originally anticipated as a portion of the overall pool of revenues.
 And while there is no question that some will take this as the opportunity to say this proves that the program doesn't work, I would dispute that. I would say that the program works. It does not work as well as originally proffered or anticipated.
 But one of the problems that we are clearly running up against is the administrative overhead is too low to actually have the kind of enforcement mechanism put into place to ensure that there is fairness in this policy and that we are collecting the revenues that are due as a result of what the voters asked for. And so I see this as a movement towards –
 transparency and integrity in terms of what it actually costs to administer this program. So while we are undoubtedly going to take some lumps for it, I think fixing it is the right thing to do, rather than either avoiding that difficult conversation
 or scrapping the program altogether. I don't think the public wants us to scrap it. I think they want us to fix it and be responsible about it and be transparent in terms of the approach that we take. So I'm glad to support this. Commissioner Fish. And I know that Commissioner Daly is in the queue, but if I may, because I want to just riff off of something the mayor just said, there are a whole host of additional checks and balances that are built into our system
 which you ought to acknowledge. Number one, there have been multiple occasions where anyone who felt that the arts tax was either not warranted or did not approve of any action taken by the council could have referred that to a vote of the people. That system is prescribed. That has not happened. The fact that there are so few people in the audience today, I think, gives us some other sense about how people generally feel about this issue.
 But I want to make a broader point. Legislative bodies in Oregon routinely do changes to matters that are initially referred to the voters for permission and then exercise their lawful obligation or duty to fix something. And the last example, the biggest example I can think of is Measure 91, which was a very controversial item, had to do with cannabis. People had strong views on either side.
 But once the voters gave the permission to move forward, the Oregon legislature made substantial changes to the law within its purview to make the system work better. And I'm just guessing here, it's an educated guess, that the loudest critics of that action were probably people who voted no on the underlying ballot measure.
 And the softest voices or the voices of approval were probably those people that supported the underlying ballot measure and thought the legislature's changes made it work better. That's my guess, but I think that generally people who are opposed at the beginning to these kinds of things continue to find grounds to object, and that's fine. That's principled. I object from the beginning. I voted against it, and I continue to object.
 But we have a well-established practice in this state of legislative bodies exercising their lawful purview of fixing things that the voters have adopted through a legislative process that was referred to them. And to those who say somehow that's undemocratic, I cry foul. The system allows for that. And frankly, if we didn't have that check and balance, we'd be referring a lot of stuff to the voters that simply would not be appropriate for their consideration. So I want to just observe that.
 Commissioner Udale. Following up on what Commissioner Fish has just said, we've seen a lot of changes in our city over the past five or six years since this policy was passed. And $15,000, which is the current exemption, is worth a lot less in today's housing market.
 So I just want to go on record as saying I absolutely support increasing the exemption to 200%, which is a common threshold for many means-tested or needs-based programs. But I'm also interested in looking at a higher exemption, given that an individual would have to make three times the poverty level to actually afford to live in our city.
 That being said, I'm also very interested in the possibility of this becoming a more progressive tax that's based on income. And that's something that we haven't talked about today. And I realize we don't have the capability of doing that now. But once our Revenue Bureau system is connected with the federal system, I believe that will be a possibility. Do you have any thoughts?
 comments or thoughts on that? No, those are very good comments. And I think, so when we think of an income tax, I think typically we think of the federal or state income taxes that we all pay or that we all better be paying, right?
 that have a table, right, that you will use to map your income to a particular tax amount. And so we can't do that now for a range of reasons administratively. We could do it, but it would be prohibitive, cost prohibitive to run such a program. But once we get our tax administration databases up and running, and we believe that should happen in the early 2020s, there's no hard date yet, then we should be able to do that. Great.
 I had one more comment, but I think I've forgotten. So thank you. Well, actually, I'm going to be very interested in seeing how our compliance rate changes once that exemption is put in place. I have a feeling it will be noticeable, at least, if not significant. Okay. Yeah. Very good. Public testimony. Thanks, Thomas. Thank you. So we have two people signed up. Please come on up. Arne Strasser and Mary Seip.
 Good afternoon. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. We do not need your address. Arne Strasser. Art is about life, color, freedom. Art should not be represented by a dull, bureaucratic form that looks like every tax bill, which is what the current tax bill looks like. The whole process has a negative, punitive air to it,
 And certain aspects of this, what you've built that you're just discussing, has also a punitive aspect to it, whatever its other merits. Look at the mailings of another city agency, the recycling program, regularly mailed, graphic, easy-to-read brochures, and a program with high compliance and few complaints.
 What we receive instead is an envelope addressed to city resident that contains a form without any artistic feeling to it at all that asks us to list the members of our family and their social security numbers, and we're supposed to drop this highly sensitive information into a mailbox. No wonder compliance is low. The city already knows who we are. Why isn't the envelope addressed to us personally?"
 The tax program needs to be redesigned from top to bottom. Get artists involved. Produce colorful, artistic materials that will help people understand why the tax is important and where the money goes. Completely change the way the program is administered. The arts tax program needs to reflect art.
 colorful, and full of life, and it needs to be designed in a way that makes paying it a positive experience. Yes to an arts tax program that helps us appreciate the importance of art to the beauty and humanity of the city. Thank you. I think it's a great idea. Appreciate that. Sir, just, I think it's a brilliant idea, too, and it reminds me that we've actually made some progress updating the website today
 But we haven't gone so far as to update the form that we send out. I will tell you that no good deed goes unpunished. We recently had a council hearing in which we took up 20-something recommendations for making art spaces more accessible.
 And on the cover of that report, we put a picture of a child that had done a work of art and used face paint. And it was engaging and wonderful. And I got an email from someone saying it was a totally inappropriate picture. It diminished the significance of the arts, that we shouldn't use children in that manner, blah, blah, blah. So everybody's a critic, but I believe what you've just put into the record and said is –
 Absolutely true. And you have our collective commitment that we will try to bring the values that you would like to see brought back into this program reflected in what we send the taxpayers. And I thank you for taking the time to share it with us. It's a fair admonition that you raise because the program really overall is part of a vision. It's part of a vision.
 a strategy, set of strategies around engagement around the arts and arts education and supporting arts institutions. But sometimes in government we do think too narrowly, and we are thinking about this in this context as a revenue structure. And so I think your admonition is a really good one because there's a larger brand and a larger vision that's part of this. So I appreciate your testimony. Thank you, sir. You're welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Seif.
 Well, this is an interesting day in so many ways. One thing I want to do is give a shout-out to the fact that it's International Women's Day, and go girl power. What's really interesting for me is that I feel like somebody's been looking over my shoulder. My testimony...
 It's almost word for word, the amendment that you just presented regarding scary. Has my email been hacked? I assure you that I have always felt this way about the exemption level from the beginning. Mary, the camera that's just above you when you're sitting back there actually rotates down, so we get a closer look at what's on your – Right. You're reading right over my shoulder when I come everywhere. If you could give us the short version, we've already read your testimony. Yeah.
 you know, it is, um, uh, I, I just, um, I feel so validated. You know, a year ago this month, I started coming every week to the city council meetings. Um, and, uh, and I, and I did that for a number of reasons. Um, and, and, uh, little did I expect that, um, you would, uh, uh,
 really hear as loud and clear as you have the many comments that I've made over this past year. And I just, you know, this is just such a perfect example to me of how becoming involved in our city government or any government whatsoever, actively involved.
 coming and speaking before you and learning how the city works. How, you know, literally, I just cannot believe how absolutely important
 what you've done here follows exactly to the T what my concerns were about putting some teeth into the wording of the ordinance in relationship to expanding the exemption. And even right down to, you know, because my thoughts were, you know, like people that are eligible for food stamps, people whose only source of income is Social Security or SSI, people living in affordable housing, you know,
 you know, that somehow you could word this so that it would encompass all of that in a very simple manner. And that's exactly what you've done with this amendment. And I just can't say enough about how appreciative I am to have a city council that really is listening and really accepting the feedback that comes before them.
 And really also reaching out for that feedback as well. And I just say thank you. Did my staff pay you to come say this today? I was teasing Carla earlier that I should be on the payroll. I'm here.
 Every week. But, you know, bottom line is I'm really encouraged to see the amendment that you've put out here and the ordinance. And thank you. Well, Mary, thank you. And you started coming about the same time I took over as presiding officer of this council. Right.
 And I've been very frank with people. I've told people this is a very difficult job. It is much harder than I expected it to be for a lot of obvious reasons. It's harder than I ever thought it was. And we live in a nation of critics, right?
 But it's a lot harder to actually have to weigh difficult choices and make decisions and fix things, move things in the right direction. And you have not always agreed with everything we've done, but I have always appreciated the feedback and the input that you've provided. You've always come very, very well prepared. Your arguments are always germane.
 And so right back at you. Thank you. Oh, thank you so much. This is what the process is supposed to look like is when engaged citizens such as yourself come forward and help us shape policy and move things in the right direction, and you help us make those tough decisions and draw lines where others are perfectly content just to sit back and be critics after the line has already been drawn by others. Yeah. So thank you. I urge everybody at home watching.
 Get out of your house, come down here in person. Commissioner Fritz. Mary, when you first started coming, Ms. Seip, when you first started coming, you said to me that you felt you had seen people on television and the same people coming in and just yelling at us all the time and that you wanted to remind us. Yes.
 that there are other people out there who are not angry with what we're doing. Be the voice of reason. So your presence, and I appreciate that you don't testify on every single item. If you contribute, then you do, like today, something different.
 Otherwise, you are just quietly present. And it just reminds me that there are a lot of people out there. I recognize there's a lot of people out there who would like to have the time to come and yell at us as well. There's a place for that as well. Thank you for representing probably a lot of people in Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. So let's take a vote on the amendment. I'm sorry, Thomas, you had another comment? Yeah, just briefly. Thank you, Eric. So just in response to a couple of those comments, which I thought were very good comments, and they're accurate, right? We're sending out black and white form. There is a mention of what the tax dollars are purchasing and also links to get more information about that, right?
 The cost limitation drives everything that we do, and you're about to fix that. So putting a colorful insert into this letter was never an option in the past. And now I think that's something that we should look at. We should work with RAC potentially to design something like that, something that's a little more clear about where the tax dollars go.
 And then in terms of the resident at addressing, that was another deliberate decision that cut about 100,000 pieces of mail out of our mailer and then saved $50,000 more. So, you know, again, we may be able to take a look at different options going forward now that we're not constantly constrained by this cost limitation. So, Thomas, I'm not the mayor, but I am the president of the council. So somewhere in the charter it gives me some authority and authority.
 I'm appointing an ad hoc committee of Commissioner Udaly and me to work with you on some recommendations for redesign. And I will tell you, one of the things that I got in the mail recently that kind of set the bar was I got my monthly bus pass in a nondescript envelope. But when I opened it, there was a mailer that updated me and everyone else on the fact we had moved to a 20-mile-an-hour speed limit. And it had some information. It was in orange. It was high-impact.
 I could not avoid it. I read it. I think inspired by those kinds of things, I think we can come up with something that addresses the very valid concern the gentleman raised. And we can use each bill to drive a broader message about the pride we should all take in supporting arts education in our schools. Right. In fact, that's an example of the ways that we try to save money. You got that PBOT mailer about the 20-mile-an-hour limit in an arts tax envelope. Right.
 That was an arts tax envelope? Yes, it was, sir. I thought it was my bus pass. No. My bus pass. But either way. Well, they may have done it several different ways. My point is that they also inserted in the arts tax bill, and that saved mailing costs as well for us and them. I agree that we need to do better public outreach. I do think at least some portion of that 25% of non-complying people
 Payers are just simply confused about the tax.
 because it comes to sender, it may not reach them at the address that they actually reside at when the tax is due. They may think that it's per household and not per taxpayer. They may think that it has lumped in with other taxes that they've paid. So clarifying that boring stuff as well as maybe giving a little bit more splash to it. But yeah, I mean my question was who is going to pay for that because we don't want to
 eat up a lot of money on a marketing campaign. Commissioner, I'll just note, because I took out my phone and did the math, with all the imperfections of this tax, our current compliance rate is at just under 90% of what the federal compliance rate is for a tax that's been around for 100 years.
 So I think we've got room to grow, but I think we should be proud that we're at 90% of what the federal government considers a benchmark. Commissioner Fritz. Commissioner Fritz, I'm feeling a little like chopped liver that I was left off the ad hoc committee, and I'd like to remind everybody that I did vote for this in the first place and went through a considerable amount of trouble defending it over the years. So I'd just like to add my commendations for these changes.
 and also to have a little bit of a cautionary note that for everybody who comes in and says we should use more colour, we should give more information, we have people coming in saying you're wasting too much taxpayers' money. And so I just wanted to acknowledge that knowing you as I do, Thomas, you are not going to be running amok and spending out 10-page glossy brochures with every tax bill, that you will have a modicum of...
 well, you'll have a lot of restraint because I know that that's what you do. So thank you very much. Thank you. Saving money can also be beautiful. It can. Sorry, my former Treasury job is sneaking back in. So with that, let's call the roll on the amendment, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading as amended. Thank you, everybody.
 Next item, please. Item 234. Reappoint Deanne Woodring to the Investment Advisory Committee for term to expire March 14, 2020. So we have Jennifer Cooperman here to discuss Deanne Woodring. Deanne was not able to join us today due to a work conflict, but Jennifer is here to give us a brief description.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Good afternoon. So I am here to present an item regarding the reappointment of Deanne Woodring to the Investment Advisory Committee. This is a two-year term. This would be her fourth term on the committee. The committee exists as part of city code to advise the city treasurer and the council on the management of the city's investment portfolio.
 I've included her bio in the material presented to you. I wasn't planning to read it, but I would just say that she is incredibly experienced in the world of investments, including the restrictions placed on government investments, investments by government entities.
 and she currently serves as a board member on the Oregon Short-Term Fund Board. And if she were available, she would be here today. Her picture is included in her bio in case you happen to run into her on the street. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you have. How do you go about recruiting members for this committee? We work through ONI.
 It is one of the committees that is listed in the ONI page for all of the boards and commissions that are offered in the city. We also reach out to people whom we meet, whether it's through people who sit on RFPs that we work on related to the world of Treasury. We work through GFOA, the Government Finance Officers Association, for folks who are in the Portland area.
 and use former members to reach out to people that they know as well. And how many people are there on the committee? Three. And what are the demographics of those people at this point? At this point, Mark Campbell, who is the CFO for Multnomah County, sits on the committee. Deanne Woodring is on the committee. And we have a third individual, Chris Raines, who comes from Wall Street, moved out here, and runs his own investment firm.
 thank you sure very good uh colleagues i will accept a motion on the report so moved second i have a motion from commissioner fish a second from commissioner fritz please call the role fritz aye fish aye new daily aye wheeler aye
 The appointment is approved. Thank you. Thank you. And just to put out a bit of a brief public service announcement, we have a lot of – it has been our council policy to have people who are being appointed for the first time to be present to answer questions of the council and to have their responses heard by the public.
 there is a consideration to have reappointments go to the consent agenda. And I want the public to be aware that that is under consideration. And if people have thoughts, I certainly would be interested in those thoughts at mayorwheeler at portlandoregon.gov.
 And the reason we are considering that is the people who are being reappointed are now known entities to the city council. They have served. They have been vetted. They have previously come before the city council. And oftentimes what we find is asking people to take time off from their employment or other responsibilities to come to the chamber and then, frankly, have very few questions of them seems somewhat disrespectful. Okay.
 And so we are considering moving reappointments, not first-time appointments, but reappointments to the consent agenda. And I just want the public to be aware of that. If people have comments, I'd certainly be interested to entertain those comments. Thank you, Jennifer. We appreciate it very much. Last but not least, item number 235, please.
 authorize a five-year price agreement with U.S. Bank Elevon for merchant services for a not-to-exceed amount of $25 million. So, colleagues, many bureaus and programs in the city rely on merchant services. The acceptance of credit cards and debit cards as payments for city services remains essential. In fact, it's becoming more essential with time.
 On April 5th, 2017, the Chief Procurement Officer was authorized to issue a competitive solicitation for the purchase of merchant services for an estimated amount of $25 million. The majority of fees covered by this contract are set by Visa, MasterCard, and Discover, so those fees are not negotiable, and they're passed through from the vendor to the city at cost. Okay.
 On May 24, 2017, eight proposals were received and five were deemed responsive to the solicitation requirements. To discuss this process in further detail, we have Interim Chief Procurement Officer Larry Pallott and Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman is still here. Thank you both. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners.
 A lot of what the mayor said is what's in my report. So I think I'll skip the first paragraph. June 29th, the city issued the notice of intent to award the price agreement to U.S. Bank Elamon. No protests were received, no comments at all. The contract has been negotiated in the amount of $25 million.
 The City's Treasury Division, along with Procurement Services and the City Attorney's Office, worked quite diligently to negotiate the limited amount of pieces of this that can be negotiated to protect the City's interests by maximizing data security and the indemnification aspects of the agreement. As the Mayor said, 95% of the total fees paid under this type of thing are non-negotiable. They are set by the credit card companies.
 These fees are passed through directly to the bureaus, and they're established, they're cut, baked into the transaction cost. The amount of the agreement, while seemingly quite substantial, is actually not a general fund budgetary item because the fees are actually baked into the transactions cost.
 U.S. Bank Elevon is the incumbent vendor, which saves the city a significant amount of time and effort and money by not requiring the city to go through a transition period. However, the transition costs were not considered as part of the evaluation team, and all of the proposers competed fairly and equitably. U.S. Bank Elevon is in compliance with...
 All of the city contracting requirements, including their business tax registration and payment. If the city council has any questions concerning the solicitation or the resulting agreement, I can answer those. Or if there are questions specific to the actual services required or the payment structure for that, as you said, the Chief Financial Officer, Jennifer Cooperman, is here. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. I'll entertain a motion. That's a report. Thank you.
 I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fish. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Thank you for your presentation. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Well done. Aye. Thank you very much. The report is accepted. Colleagues, one last bit of business as I was digging through my large pile of documents. This is a letter to the city auditor. It is from me. Aye.
 It is regarding assignment of city departments, bureaus, and liaison duties. Pursuant to Section 2-302 of the Charter of the City of Portland, Oregon, effective immediately, I'm reassigning the Open and Accountable Elections Program from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement to Commissioner Amanda Fritz' office. Congratulations, Commissioner. Thank you. There it is. And we are adjourned.