Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. New Daily. Here. Wheeler. Here. If we could get legal counsel to please read the rules of decorum. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thanks, Robert. And just a reminder for everybody, if you'd like to testify on an item, the sign-up sheets are in the hallway or you can see the council clerk. First up is the communications agenda. Carla, could you please read the first item? Are you doing the reading today? This is Keelan. Keelan's doing the reading today. Fabulous. Thank you, Keelan. Is this your first time doing this? Yes. Excellent. Great. Good. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thanks, Keelan. I hope Carla's not getting any ideas about leaving us. Welcome, Keelan. Thank you. First communication, request of Jason Renaud to address council regarding the potential of recovery from mental illness. Welcome. And Jason, if you could state your name for the record, please. I'm Jason Renaud with the Mental Health Association of Portland. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Since 2006, the year James Chassie was beaten to death by Portland police officers, the city of Portland has failed to eliminate the routine harm done by police to people with mental illness. Most of you failed to understand the solution. Chassie wasn't the first or the last. In 2006, the Portland Police Bureau killed three people. In 2007, they killed two. In 2008, just one. In 2010, made up for 2009 with five.
 In 2011, there was one person killed by police. In 2012, 2013, 2014 had two each. 2015 had three. 2016 had one. 2017 had two. 2018 had three. That's 27 people over a dozen years. And this is important. Every one of them was in a mental health crisis of some sort.
 Andre Gladen's death in 2019 was typical. An African-American man with bipolar disorder, clearly ill and in need of compassion and medical services. A homeowner call to 911 brought a police officer who predictably escalated the situation and within moments killed Mr. Gladen. Since 2006, the strategy selected by this council to end the problem was more training. But as it turns out, training, and that was done.
 More training didn't solve the problem of people getting killed. It's good in its own right, but a basic misunderstanding of the solution. The solution is to uninvolve police officers from people with mental illness and crisis. Separate them. Get them as far away from each other as possible. This is a vastly more complicated task than providing training, requiring interdisciplinary cooperation across multiple governments.
 In the dozen years since James Chastity was killed, the work to reduce contacts between police officers and people with mental illness or addiction crisis has not begun. Instead, the council invited the Department of Justice to weld law enforcement to people with mental illness in crisis. This turns out to have been a grievous error. It's the elimination of mental illness and addiction crisis which will reduce the number of persons killed by police. We can stop this.
 But the work needs to be done before police arrive, not so much after. What this council, as individuals and as a collective voice, can do is to learn and talk about the power and potential of recovery from these illnesses. And recovery is the least expensive and most effective way to reduce use of force by police.
 I wish Andre Gladen had had a chance to recover from his bipolar disorder. It's a complicated illness where a night without sleep or a day without food or a stressful event can cause a crisis. Gladen needed help, not a fight, and he needed it a long time before he was killed by a Portland police officer. Thank you. Thank you. And could I also comment on this, Jason? First of all, thank you for being here and thank you for sharing your message with the council. I agree with you.
 that the key here is to reduce interactions between the police and people in crisis on the streets, and more importantly, the police agree with you. You've heard Daryl Turner from the Portland Police Association say this. You've heard Chief Outlaw say this. You've heard me in my capacity as police commissioner say this. And...
 I am particularly in agreement with your statement that we need to work on an interdisciplinary basis. Right now, the way the system is set up is if somebody sees somebody in crisis, they're well-meaning and they want that individual to get help, they call 911.
 9-1-1 in our community then turns to the police. And so what you get is you get a cop with a gun who's trained in law enforcement tactics and techniques. And many of our police, while they are trained, especially to deal with people in crisis, not all of them are.
 And therefore, we need what other communities have, which is inform people in the call center who then call somebody other than the police, people who are trained either in substance abuse or mental health or EMTs or all of the above, who go out, assess the situation, and see if they can stabilize it. Then if necessary or if there's an escalation or a threat to public safety, then the police are called in.
 And that's a model that we're actively looking at. We're talking to the county. We're talking to the health department. We're talking to the police and the fire bureau, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, our colleagues up here. I am eager to move very quickly on this. You will not be surprised to hear that there will be some pushback because it does require interdisciplinary efforts. It requires organizations that are already doing outreach, crisis outreach.
 to work with us or come under a common umbrella or at least have some funnel of communications that enables us to prioritize calls going to service providers. So there's going to be a lot of work that needs to happen in this community and a lot of leadership provided in order to move us into a better direction. And you've been at this for many, many years, and I've respected you for that, and I hope you'll work with us and help us as we try to...
 to realize the model that you're describing here today. I'm so glad that you got to Eugene to see the CAHOOTS model. That's great. And that's an excellent model to emulate up here in –
 In Multnomah County and in Portland. What makes it difficult is we have bits and pieces of it in place with established service providers. And, of course, the hospitals play a role in this. The mental health system plays a role in this. The substance abuse and treatment system plays a role. And we actually have to rethink how we're organized and how we're structured and how we communicate amongst ourselves. And that's going to require some substantial lifting. And I know you're...
 substantial leadership and credibility and clout in this area is going to be important in helping us to get it done. Eager to help. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your being here. Commissioner Hardesty.
 You daily. You daily. Commissioner, you daily. I'm so sorry. I apologize. I will play Commissioner Hardesty today. No, just a clarifying question. We also need a policy change because isn't it policy that we send the police when someone, I mean, someone calls? That's correct. So I don't want to leave the public with the impression that our emergency call center operators are just...
 not reaching out to the right entity. That's our current policy. Yeah, it's the structure. It is the structure and policy, and thank you for that clarification. And I also agree with and support Mr. Renaud's proposal. Very good. Thank you. Thank you for being here today, Jason. We appreciate it. Thank you so much. Thank you, Keelan. Next item, please. Number 190, request of Lightning Superhumanity to address council regarding AI, Lightning's new form of city government. Good morning. If you could please state your name for the record.
 Yes, I'll do two minutes of verbal communication, one minute of video. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity. AI, the science of making machines smart. What we have to begin to do is, from my position, I want to start looking at AI politicians. I want to be able to vote for an AI politician.
 I want to create a form of government to where we'll have more of a direct democracy, to where on every item on the agenda, we can have solutions created and then vote by smartphone and determine the final decision. I want to have an understanding that the humanity must be put at the top here. Safety and digital ethics must be taken serious. And again, from my position,
 We need to begin to assimilate these machines into the city councils throughout the county, throughout the city, throughout the United States. We must become enhanced by the machine, work with the machine, and understand if we do not, it can end up being the greatest threat to humanity. Thank you.
 We are willing to step forward with the tech companies and work alongside of them, understand what they're trying to create, understand this could be the last greatest invention to humanity, and understand we want to be part of this to make sure things are set into place to prevent anything negative but only create AI for positive good. And that is my position. And again, I want to have an understanding
 invest in the AI researchers and begin to understand them and what they want to create in the same manner they're beginning to understand you and how they're going to create the machine. Carla, please.
 issue of keeping humanity alive and not putting the machines inside of absolutely everything. And that is a great opportunity for companies to say that they care. Excuse me, is this going to be captioned by the... Not just making things hyper-efficient. What is your ethics as far as technology is concerned? And how do you value humans in the sense of technology? And how do you keep things human? This is becoming a key question because...
 keeping things human has to do with trust. Humans are based on engagement, on relationships,
 Humans are not living off the data pipeline. It's much more about relationships. So this is a key opportunity for companies using great technology but putting humanity on top and letting human things flourish rather than squash them with automation. It's quite clear that if we don't have a moral compass and a value system, then eventually we disconnect and then everything falls apart because we've lost our purpose, right? The bottom line is, you know, technology has no ethics.
 but society and humans depend on it. What we see today in technology is the primary conversation is about how much does it cost, can we do this, and does it actually work, and it's engineering kind of thinking. But in the very near future, we're clearly going to solve those issues like connectivity, broadband, quantum computing, intelligent machines. And so we're only really a few years away from that question to shift from if and how to why. Music
 and who that shifts a whole. Yeah, I think we've had enough. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Keelan, could you please read the next item? Number 191, request of Charles Bridgecrane Johnson to address counsel regarding Beware the Ides of Women's History Month, Moon of the War God, Black Lives Matter. Welton, if you could state your name for the record, please. Thank you.
 Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridge Crane Johnson, and it's a beautiful day in Cascadia, but it's warm enough in here I think that we don't need this. So, we've heard Mr. Renaud talk about people in mental health crisis and the number of them that end up dead. We've heard Lightning's presentation touched on the need to really work with data, and even though we occasionally publish some
 I don't know if it's really progress to say that a new homeless shelter is opening up. Occasionally, the transition projects, the main subcontractor for the Joint Office of Homeless Services...
 will do their Instagram or social media posts that says... I don't know if they did in the last couple of days, because here with March coming in like a lion, two of the first days of March, weather was so severe that we had emergency shelter open, so they would maybe say the number of people they sheltered, and then talk about four people transitioned into housing. But that really shouldn't be spoken of as an accomplishment necessarily, because what we have is a housing system where there's been...
 almost zero growth. And so when we say somebody was put into housing, what we mean is that another person either lost their housing or lost their life. And for the years of the homeless and the housing emergency crisis, we've banded about the number from the point-in-time count. But we've never publicly said
 brought forth the funded parties, and worked with the real data. The city and the county fund, through a major Fortune 500 corporation, information service products, sometimes called HMIS, sometimes called Service Point. And what Service Point really would do, or does, except we don't ask it what it's doing, is it tells us that there are people who have chronic homelessness for 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 years...
 and that we intend to extend their homelessness for an equal length of time instead of developing methods to better engage with those people and end their chronic homelessness, which, of course, gets to the point of making homes. It's unfortunate that we're coming up on six months since the good people of this county have passed a bond across the metro region, and I don't think you could find any ordinary people
 who feel they've been engaged in that process. We have some nice blips on the radar on the horizon, PSUs funding for homeless studies and stuff like that. But I think the answer is with the community, there needs to be more public engagement and honest talk about past mistakes or where we didn't make enough traction. Thank you very much. Thank you. Keelan, if you could please read the next item. Number 192, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding trust and local government.
 Good morning. If you could please state your name for the record. My name is Craig Rogers, and my intention of being here this morning is to support the City Club report and vote in the structure of our current City Council needs to change. And I go back 20 years or more of watching and rubbing shoulders with things that happened down here. And one of the most recent things in November 2020
 2016 was the community survey that showed historic lows. And it just hasn't gotten any better since this. I know from my own experience in this city. So I'm going to go back a ways. Here's the examiner back in 96. And this is something that I really got involved with. Park Bureau sacrifices trees.
 July letter concerning the planned cutting of 75 Douglas fir trees in Pier Park was closer to the mark than Portland Parks Director Charles Jordan admits. There was such a plan and it passed muster with the Parks Bureau Top Brass and Urban Forestry Commission. The trees were marked for cutting and conditional use hearing on the plan. That was a really serious issue and I got involved with it big time. I went down there and they all had a red X on them and...
 I'm not even going to go in to why they were probably going to be cut down. 75 Douglas fir trees. The commissioner said, well, it's too dark in there. They're diseased. No, you know, terrarium was growing up out of the ground. It needs shade. And the trees weren't diseased. We had a forester on our side. So that was all phony. You know, in a new structure, you would be held more accountable for
 And it would be easier to vote you in or vote you out, which really raises the standard that you adhere to while you're in office. So I totally endorse the city club. Now, during the street fee, why Portland roads are so bad, city council, you know. I went to the sustainability thing at the Elliott Center and I thought, oh, what the heck. You know, I'm just, I'm steep learning curve. Portland Mayor Charlie Hales, Indianapolis Mayor Greg Ballard.
 I really had my eyes open because Mayor Hales leans into the mic and he says, you know, and here's a room full of about 100 emerging local government leaders. See, it's in the political DNA. And he says, you know how you deal with the public? You give them choices. And you know what that is? It's a shell game. And you don't win a shell game. So then we get into the roads and here's McCullough Research and...
 The commissioner with the roads wouldn't release the data of how they were going to tax people, so we had to go to court. And the data actually showed that the biggest employer in the city of Portland was a colonics clinic with over 30,000 employees.
 So, believe me, I could sit down here for three months and tell you the things that the city has failed on, and I start laughing at home, you know, just thinking about some of this stuff. Thank you for coming in. You're welcome. Keelan, next individual, please. Number 193, request of Melanie Plott to address council regarding expansion of oil train infrastructure in Portland Zenith Terminal.
 Good morning. Good morning. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Melanie Plout. I'm a retired OBGYN physician now working with organizations like 350PDX to prevent the worst effects of climate change. First, I want to express my deep gratitude for this council's strong stance on the climate and on the safety of this community. As you know, work done by this body has been considered a national model for other jurisdictions.
 In November of 2015, the Council adopted the Oil Train Resolution, which is number 37164. To paraphrase only slightly, the last line reads, Portland, we have a problem.
 At the old ARC Logistics site in northwest Portland, the new owners, Zenith Energy, have converted a prior asphalt terminal into a facility which for the past year has been accepting rail car after rail car of tar sands oil from Alberta, Canada, and loading it on ships for export.
 It gets worse. In the last few months, they've started to expand their infrastructure, enabling them to unload more oil obtained by one of the dirtiest methods of extraction on the planet.
 This is a triple environmental and justice disaster. First, a disaster for our climate, as you well know. Second, a disaster for the First Nations people of Alberta and the ecological balance of their land. To extract tar sands, trees and topsoil are removed from hundreds of square miles, and the tar sands are scraped up with enormous shovels.
 Third, it is a disaster for Portland, a true health and safety emergency. I won't go into details, but I refer you to the Multnomah County briefing on oil by rail from 2016.
 If tar sands oil were to spill into our river, there would be serious trouble. This type of oil is heavy and tends to sink, making cleanup very difficult. A tar sand spill in Kalamazoo, Michigan, cost a billion dollars and took five years to clean up.
 Clearly, this activity violates the spirit of the laws passed by this body as well as common sense. I urge you to use your authority to put an immediate halt to the expansion of this facility and to the export of tar sands through our city. Our city and this council do not want to be accomplices to this crime. The original permits for this facility and for its expansion were for moving asphalt.
 Oil trains pose different risks and ought not to be covered under the same permits. There should be an immediate halt to this work until a thorough review can be done.
 Thank you for standing with us on issues like this. I'm willing to try to answer any questions you might have. Well, Melanie, first of all, thank you for coming in and testifying. And I want to assure you, when I heard that this news broke, it was extremely concerning to me. This is not a value that I espouse. This is not the kind of business development that the city of Portland should support.
 The number of jobs created by this, by the way, are about the same as a Starbucks outlet would create. But the environmental and public health risk is substantial. We saw this happen a year and a half ago in Mosier, Oregon, where a 96-car oil train derailed, and it created both an environmental and a public health catastrophe.
 And so legal issues aside for the moment, I want to assure you that my team and I are doing everything we can to stop this expansion. We are focusing instead on renewable energy resources. We are focusing instead on green energy. We are not interested in expanding fossil fuels of this nature. The tar sands issue, serving as an exporter of tar sands coming from potentially Canada –
 I don't think that's what anybody has in mind as a vision for a healthy economy for the city of Portland. And it's certainly not what we want in terms of public health or the safety of our environment. So we will continue to do everything we can to limit this expansion or get rid of it altogether. That's my pledge to you. Great. Thanks for doing everything you can to do that. And I'll look forward to working with you and others. Okay. Thank you.
 And that concludes the communications for today. Keelan, has any item been pulled off of our consent agenda? No, nothing's been pulled off. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda's been adopted. First time certain item, please. Item number 194. Proclaim March 2019 to be Women's History Month. Very good. I'd like to introduce Karen Brooks.
 Good morning. Thank you for being here. Hi. Hi, Mayor. Hi, Commissioners. My name is Karen Brooks. My pronouns are she, her. I work at Portland Fire and Rescue, and I'm on the leadership team for the city's LGBTQ affinity group.
 I was asked to introduce this year's Women's History Month presentation because the organizers from the Women's Empowerment Affinity Group consulted with the LGBTQ affinity group on ways to expand our definitions of gender and how we may focus on intersectionality.
 So today you get me, just your average Jewish mannish lesbian Portlander with a taste for a nice blazer. Shalom. While there is much to bind women together, this identity can intersect, as seen above, with race, ethnicity, national origin, ability, disability, religion, sexual orientation, gender presentation, and so much more.
 This year's Women History Month theme is Agents of Equity, Women and Gender Nonconforming Voices in Action. The Women's Empowerment Group made a special effort to expand the conversations we have about gender and to promote inclusion and understanding.
 Every year, the Women's Empowerment Affinity Group collaborates with bureaus and other affinity groups to provide diverse and inclusive events to celebrate women's achievement in our work communities. The events are created and run by volunteer City of Portland employees. It is critical to acknowledge and lift up the ways in which our experiences vary with each identity that we hold.
 Our identities do not exist independently of each other. And that's why it's so meaningful that the Women's Empowerment Group reached out to the LGBT group and others in the community to plan their events. There is a full calendar of events this month, and we encourage participation from our council members and the community.
 A few activities include the 9th Annual Wonder Woman Awards, harassment bystander training, a panel discussion about women in non-office jobs featuring a firefighter, and an event about how to talk to kids about gender fluidity and a film about gender pay gaps and much, much more. This couldn't happen without the time and resources offered by volunteers, the diverse and empowered employees of Portland, also known as DEEP, and our bureaus. Thank you very much for supporting our affinity groups.
 And if I might don a more official hat in multitask, I'd like to let your offices know that Portland Fire and Rescue is currently hiring and taking applications for entry-level firefighters until March 11th. This is considered a nontraditional job for women, but there's no reason for it to be put in that category. I would trust any of the female firefighters at PF&R to drag me out of a burning building, and that's no easy task.
 We also have a free summer camp for young women, 16 to 20, who are interested in gaining experience in firefighting. And that application period is also open. And I'm going to have these information cards. I'm going to give them to Carla, if you would like any for your office. Thank you.
 Now, I am pleased to introduce our agents of equity speakers. First, we have Joy Elise Davis. She's the executive director of the Portland African American Leadership Forum, and she'll be discussing her photo project, Albina Queens. Albina Queens will be showcased this month at the Old Church. The exhibit information is on the Women's History Month calendar, and there's an event this month where we'll walk over and view the exhibit. Thank you.
 I've seen this work and I'm happy to say that some of our amazing City of Portland employees are featured. It's really great. And our second speaker is Shannon Scott, a board member of the Human Rights Campaign, which is the largest national LGBTQ civil rights organization. She's a combat veteran of the Air Force and is the founder of United Equality Consulting, an organization focused on helping companies support their transgender employees. Thank you.
 And our third speaker is Courtney Duke. You will recognize Courtney as a senior planner from PBOT. I've been in front of city council many times. But today she will be representing the great work of the City of Portland's Women Empowerment Affinity Group and PDX City Mamas. So let's start with Joy. Thank you, Joy.
 Thank you. And thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, my name is Joy Leece Davis. I'm the Executive Director of the Portland African American Leadership Forum, better known as PALF. Our mission is to help our black community imagine the alternatives that we deserve and build our civic participation and leadership to achieve those alternatives.
 I created the Albina Queens Project in partnership with a local creative agency called Camp Grizzly because we imagine a world where people of African descent, especially black women and femmes, enjoy the rights, resources, recognition to be a thriving, resilient, connected community. This photography project celebrates those who claim, reclaim, and or disrupt traditional constructs of black femininity in its many forms.
 The images captures marks an occasion where black women and femmes are seen, counted, loved, and valued. This in and of itself is a political act. The Albina Queens exhibit represents a wide spectrum of difference. Non-binary femmes, femmes, cis women, youth, elderly, people with a range of abilities, and everyone and everything in between. It is in the spectrum where we find beauty and power of black people.
 The photography focuses on bringing out the natural radiance of black skin and the rich traditions of head wraps. Head wraps have a deep and complex history within the black community, from its use of a tool of oppression to its literally use as a crown today. This piece of fabric represents resiliency, resourcefulness, creativity that black women and femmes have employed as a method of survival and self-empowerment for centuries.
 Like many FEMS of African diaspora, when I enter rooms like this, I have to remind myself that this space is for me, even though it may not have been designed for me. It is our hope that when black women FEMS view this exhibit that they feel loved and valued.
 We deserve to be celebrated in spaces like this one, during and after Black History Month and Women's Month, really all year long. Today, we are honored by the many black women and femmes who have paved the way for this moment.
 I am honored to present the Albina Queens photography exhibit to you all, and it's my hope that folks listening will visit the exhibit at the Old Church, but also check out our website for many more opportunities to celebrate the leadership of 100 black women and femmes, one of which is Commissioner Joanne Hardisey. Thank you very much. Thanks. And, Joy, do you happen to have the URL for the website? Yes, if you go to albinaqueens.org. Very good. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. My name is Shannon Scott. My pronouns are she, her, and hers. I want to start off by saying thank you. Thank you for creating this space for us. Thank you for having us here today. I want to start by telling you all a little bit about myself and what brought me here.
 I was raised in a community that is not like Portland. I was raised in Montana, and I grew up there my entire young adulthood until I joined the military. I served in the military for almost 11 years. I'm a combat veteran of two Iraqi campaigns, and it was something that happened to me on that last trip home that would change my life.
 I was coming home on an aircraft, a cargo plane, and it was full of caskets. Those people that had given the ultimate sacrifice for their country. At that point, I decided that I could no longer hide my truth. I could no longer live in the closet, and I decided to begin my transition. It was at that moment in time that I realized just how important having a safe and accepting community is to living a happy and full life.
 I lost everything. I was forced out of the military because of my gender identity. I lost my friends, my partner, and my family. I knew I had to live somewhere better. And after one visit to Portland, Oregon, I knew that this was the place. I made my home here, and I devoted my life to serving those in the marginalized communities. Communities such as the transgender community, communities with people of color, women, gender non-conforming, and queer folks.
 As you all know, we've done a lot of work here in Portland to serve those communities better, but you also know that we have a long ways to go. I want to thank you for the work you've done, and I want to encourage you to keep having those difficult conversations, keep taking those meetings, and keep working to make Portland the amazing place it can be in the future.
 Years ago, I heard a shocking statistic that the average life expectancy of a transgender woman of color is 35 years old. This points out all too well the staggering effect of intersectionality and the effect it can have on our communities. That is why we work for all communities, why we must continue that work. Portland is seen as a leader across this country, as a progressive city trying to make change for the better. It's not perfect.
 But we're getting there, and we can get there. We at HRC are working on a bill right now at a national level that has been modeled after one that Oregon has right here called the Equality Act that would ensure legal protections for LGBTQ people and women. 25, half of the country does not have protections right now. Two women can get married on Sunday and be fired on Monday. A transgender woman can walk into a department store to buy a dress and be denied service.
 This happens all too often. Please continue to be that good example to show the country that we can do this. With that said, I want to take a moment to celebrate the amazing women at this table and to the amazing women in our community that have done such fantastic work for our community. And I would like to challenge everybody listening and watching right now to join in this work. If you would like to join me at HRC, we have positions not just to serve but to lead,
 It is my intention to raise those voices that have not been raised in the past with this amazing platform we have at the Human Rights Campaign. You are free to reach out to me at my email address, which is shannon at hrcportland.org. And in closing, I would like to say to each of you, I'm happy to continue this work with you towards creating a safer, happier, healthy Portland. Thanks, Shannon. Good morning. Good morning.
 I have to have my glasses and my computer right now. I can relate. So thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Courtney Duke, she, her. I'm usually here presenting and talking to you about transportation policy, but today I'm here to celebrate and advocate for women at the city through my involvement in Women's Empowerment, the Women's History Month Planning Committee, and as a founder and board member of PDX City Mamas, the city's working moms affinity group.
 It is refreshing and about time, I might add, to be here presenting to three women, although Commissioner Hardesty is not here, on council for the first time in this veteran, 22-year city veteran, and the city as a whole. Although I see that Commissioner Hardesty is not here, I look forward to working with her in all of my capacities at the city. Thank you.
 Women's Empowerment is the latest name and officially recognized women's group at the city. But women at the city have been planning and participating in Women's History and International Women's Day celebrations and events for over 20 years, both as a part of city government and as well as our volunteer time. Our group and celebrations have evolved and become more inclusive just as the population of our city and our employees have evolved and changed.
 Many working women have become working mothers. A need to support this segment of our employees was identified, and the PDX City Mamas was formed approximately 12 years ago. Our group supports working parents through policy and program development and changes, such as paid leave and nursing rooms, plus workshops, panels, and general support.
 I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for her early and consistent support of our group. I think you are our first guest speaker. I think so, too. And working parents in general. Commissioner Fritz, along with former Commissioner Saltzman, were the driving forces of paid family leave for employees at the city. And in addition, they heard our concerns and modified the rules to be able to take leave in increments over the year in order to better support families that serve as foster parents to children in our community. So thank you.
 This year, we have several events that reflect the changes our members and their families are experiencing. We have a presentation and facilitated discussion on gender and gender fluidity for children and families. We have advice on planning for high school education, or excuse me, for post-high school education, be that college or the trades. And a panel related to non-office jobs, field jobs at the city.
 And speaking of which, I'm going to copy Karen. PBOT is hiring seasonal workers and utility worker twos, which are excellent living wage and entry-level positions at the Maintenance Operations Office. We need and want more women applicants. Please spread the word to your communities. We invite all of you to join us at these events in March, but also any of our programs throughout the year are open to all city employees.
 Finally, I would like to mention a leader and mentor and woman of public sector excellence, Betsy Ames. Betsy provided excellence in public service to the city for over 20 years, both at City Hall and at bureaus including BPS and OMF. Betsy died last month, a loss for the city, our communities, and me personally. Thank you.
 She was a champion and mentor of women and men, both in her daily example, but also as a panelist, speaker, and supporter at Women's History Month every March as she was able. I dedicate my work this month to Betsy, while the OMF has created a yearly award for public service excellence in her honor. She is and will be missed. Thank you for your time and attention, and we look forward to seeing you at our events.
 Thank you. Thanks to all of you. Before I read the proclamation, I'd like to open this up for any comments my colleagues may have. I feel like it's my duty as the Transportation Commissioner to mention the launch of Women's History Month a couple days ago with Bike Town. They have a new Women's History Month bike wrap.
 which is fun. It was created by two women designers who work at Nike. And I shared the following Susan B. Anthony quote with attendees. And I'm going to share it today because I love it so much. And I'm wearing my little bicycle pin today from Congressman Blumenauer. The quote...
 Let me tell you what I think of bicycling. I think it has done more to emancipate women than anything else in the world. It gives women a feeling of freedom and self-reliance. I stand and rejoice every time I see a woman ride by on a wheel, the picture of free, untrammeled womanhood. I just didn't want to miss an opportunity to highlight the role that bicycles played in women's emancipation. And
 and just say that I am looking forward to making Portland a safer city for everyone to bike in, but particularly women who may be not surprising to some, but surprising to others are still underrepresented in the bike community because they face the same kind of barriers and threats.
 riding bikes on our street as they do everywhere else in society. So thanks for being here today. That was a lovely presentation. I'm so excited to see your exhibit. I have a lot of friends that are in that exhibit. I love the photos of them posing, doing the pose in front of the photos. It's really cool. So thank you, Mayor.
 That's it. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, each one of you, for your stirring presentations today. It's really joyful, a wonderful occasion. And I know that Commissioner Hardesty is sorry to have missed it on this historic occasion where finally we have a majority of women on the City Council.
 And so I also need to put in a plug for my bureau, the Water Bureau, which has many good jobs and apprenticeships. We spend over $3 million a year in training and opportunities for entry-level folks, and again, they are good apprenticeships.
 Family wage jobs. And so you have my commitment to continue to do whatever I can on the council to make sure that our city workforce and our community's workforce represents and encourages everybody to imagine a different alternative way of our society being. Thank you so much. Mayor, thanks for doing the proclamation today. Thank you to our stellar panel for the presentation.
 You know, we actually have a lot of people who watch this program on Channel 30, and someone I hear from regularly is former Senator Avel Gordley. So I want to do a shout-out to Avel, who is a faithful watcher of city council meetings and often follows up with e-mails and commentary. My wife wrote a book with Avel telling Avel's story, and I want to honor both of those women. Courtney, thank you for mentioning Betsy Ames.
 Betsy served in so many important capacities here in the city, and I was honored for a period of time when she served as my chief of staff, one of three women who have held that position, and she'll be greatly missed. So thank you for reminding us of Betsy's service. Thank you.
 My bureaus are the Parks Bureau and Bureau of Environmental Services. We, too, are hiring, at least on the BES side, parks. We have a different challenge, as will become clear through the budget process. We did a national search recently and hired a new leader at parks, a deputy commissioner from the New York City system named Adina Long. So we're very, very pleased to have this rock star who's decided to come to Portland and to lead our bureau.
 I hope to make one or more of the programs that are on this excellent calendar. But, again, thank you all for being here and for sharing your stories. And thank you, Mayor, for hosting this event. Very good. And I just want to add my thanks to the women on this panel. Thank you for being here today, and thank you for helping to orchestrate a fantastic presentation, also I think inspiring people to take leadership roles today.
 I want to thank women throughout the city who do play an important role and do provide leadership in a myriad of different ways. I want to give a shout-out to my mom. I think she's one of the strongest women that I've ever met. I'd like to thank my spouse, Katrina, for her leadership in the community, my daughter. And I particularly want to thank all the employees of the city of Portland who are so engaged and work so hard in our affinity groups.
 and help elevate everything that we do here. There's no question that when women are engaged in a leadership role, when they're engaged in committees, when they're engaged on boards, our community is better for it.
 And I also know that this is true with the women that I work with right here on this city council, Commissioners Udailey, Commissioners Fritz, Commissioner Hardesty. They each come to the table with a different lived experience, a different perspective, different ideas on how we should address things in the community. And I have found that having women on this city council elevates everything that I do as a leader. So I want to appreciate them and their leadership as well.
 This past election in our country was an historic one. I think everybody feels that we are at a very positive and important tipping point. More women and people of color than ever before ran for positions in Congress, and I think that that will trickle down through the entire leadership spectrum, not only in the public sector but also in the private sector.
 And all of us acknowledge that it is especially important for women of color to take leadership positions in this community. And I thank everybody for recognizing that. And it's important for me to recognize the additional barriers that all women face in leadership in our society. You know, I don't know how many times I hear people say, well, women have equal rights.
 Well, equal rights doesn't necessarily mean equality, and all you have to do is look at a boardroom of any Fortune 500 company, and that makes the case. There's still plenty of work to do, and you are the ones doing that work, and I want to appreciate that. Thank you for the calendar, and unfortunately, even if I hold it up, people won't be able to read it, but I hope people do go online and they look at it.
 the opportunities around Women's History Month. There is something there for everyone to be included. There's an especial...
 focused this year on trans women and femme feminine, identifying queer, gender, and non-binary people, and really exploring and talking about the importance of this community and what it means for us as Portlanders and how we can better engage and prosper together as a community. And last but not least, I want to thank our city's Women's Empowerment Group.
 Again, you are the ones who helped bring this together. You are the ones who help lead. You are the ones who bring important perspectives to the Portland City Council. And that's not something that you get paid big bucks to do. So I just want to acknowledge that and thank you for your service in that capacity. So without further ado, I'd like to read a proclamation on behalf of the entire City Council. I want to thank you for asking me to read this proclamation.
 Whereas this community's greatness and success is a direct result of welcoming and empowering all people, regardless of gender, culture, class, age, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and ability or disability issues.
 and whereas women, especially women of color, have been underrepresented, oppressed, and often unrecorded in their contributions, yet have been present in untold or oral histories and continue to play important roles in furthering knowledge and leading equitable change for our society.
 Whereas, to foster the next generation of women, the City of Portland seeks to encourage and support professional, educational, and social opportunities for women and female-bodied people so that there will not be competition with one another over scarce seats at the table, but rather an inclusive space for all women to be able to participate with a commitment to drawing women of color, empowering women to lead and benefit entire communities.
 And whereas Women's History Month is a time for all Portlanders to celebrate the paid and unpaid work of women who improve the livability of our community, working both inside and outside the home.
 Whereas, during Women's History Month, all people are encouraged to reflect on past victories and struggles of women to create a society where the next generation's success is based on the content of their character, not determined by their culture or gender identity.
 And whereas the 2019 Women's History Month theme, Agents of Equity, Women and Gender Nonconforming Voices in Action, is intentionally inclusive and intersectional. As agents of equity, we embrace language that represents everyone's experience.
 In spelling women with an X, we're following the lead of the Indigenous Women's March in an explicit inclusion of not only cis women, but also trans women and feminine-identifying queer, gender, and non-binary folks. We can deepen and strengthen our allyship when we think of gender more radically.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim March 1st to March 31st, 2019, to be Women's History Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. Thank you all. If you wouldn't mind, could we gather for a photograph right here down in the front? Okay.
 I'll try to put this back together. I think we've got a number of other supporters. Could we have them come and be part of the photograph too? Of course. So everybody who's with the women's affinity groups, please, and the other groups that were mentioned. Anyone who wants to celebrate, you bet. Come on forward. Could I get you? Yes, of course. Thanks. Appreciate it.
 From the Auditor Assessment Finance and Foreclosure Division to the Bureau of Revenue of Financial Services Revenue Division and designate the Revenue Division as the recorder for purposes of the city lien docket and financing local improvements. Speaking of strong women leaders, we have with us the auditor. Good morning, Madam Auditor. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero.
 Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman and I are here this morning with proposed code changes to finalize the transfer of the Assessments, Finance, and Foreclosure function from the Auditor's Office to the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The Assessments, Finance, and Foreclosure Division helps finance infrastructure improvements and supports regulatory efforts of city bureaus by assessing property for local improvements, system development charges, and code violations.
 The division also maintains the city's lien docket, provides financing for improvement assessments, collects current and delinquent revenues owed to the city, and recommends properties for foreclosure.
 Moving the function to the Revenue Division would implement a recommendation from a 2012 Consultant's Report that highlighted the city's complex liens process and its overlapping responsibilities. It would also address the risk of keeping a small, specialized unit in my office, which is unable to effectively provide coverage when employees retire or take new positions.
 Your action today will codify the consolidation of the city's liens process and make the Revenue Division the official recorder of the lien docket. The code changes proposed mostly replace references to the auditor with the Revenue Division or the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The ordinance also similarly amends related binding city policies. I am confident that Director Cooperman and her team will be good stewards of this important city function and encourage you to support this change.
 Very good. Does that complete your testimony? That completes my testimony. Very good. And, Jennifer, CFO Cooperman, do you have any? I would just add that we're looking forward to absorbing this team into our revenue division.
 We anticipate that the staff synergies with the rest of our team will allow us to successfully address the findings from the 2012 audit that the auditor referenced. And just to illuminate the challenges that the city has had to deal with, I brought with me,
 A picture of the customer service model that the audit from 2012 was able to draw for us of the challenges that we ask the public to go through. I anticipate being able to come back to you in a year.
 Period of time with improvements to this picture. But a picture is worth a thousand words. Yeah. Yeah. Or at least 38, apparently. Yes. 31 different steps. Okay.
 So, thank you. We look forward to your support. I anticipate bringing code updates to you later once we've had an opportunity to review them and anticipate the auditor graciously giving us a period of time to make improvements before she turns around and audits us. Very good. CFO Cooperman, do you have a time frame? For the changes to code? Correct. Probably by the end of the calendar year. Okay. Very good. Any further questions? No.
 Keelan, do we have public testimony on this item? We have three people signed up. Very good. Thank you. Maggie, Charles, Bridge Crane Johnson, and Lightning. Very good. Three minutes. Name for the record, please. Okay. I signed up for this because it's got the word foreclosure on it, and being in safes, it's Maggie.
 It came to my attention that there was disabled women in there who somebody had not helped her. There's a federal program that helps women.
 prevent foreclosure for disabled people. She's been disabled since she was a child and I guess maybe her mother died and maybe there was so many. Excuse me, Meg, I just wanted to clarify. This item is about moving the foreclosure process from the auditor's office to the Revenue Bureau. It's not about how we do foreclosures or anything. So if you could just comment on what this item is. Thank you. Yes, my name is Lightning and I represent Lightning Superhumanity. Again,
 I've always, from my position, always relied upon the auditors to have kind of an independence on issues. And from my position, although it sounds to me like they might be short in staff or might not be able to handle this type of workload, I myself would prefer the auditors to still keep doing what they're doing. I feel there's an independence there. I feel that on this foreclosure issue,
 in my opinion, I view it as a vision zero of foreclosures in the city of Portland. And I think we're in an economy right now that we could look at that in a more reasonable manner and try to go in that direction. I just don't like to see people foreclosed on. I don't like to see eminent domain. I don't like to see anything like that. And that's why I like to have the auditors involved.
 And I'm sure they'll still have that oversight even if it does change. And like I said, I don't have any issue on the Revenue Bureau whatsoever. It's just more or less I like to have the auditors because I think they tend to really dig into certain issues pretty aggressive. And they're used to that. That's what their job is. I mean, they're an auditor. And in my opinion, they're the most qualified to deal on this issue.
 with the type of training they have and the oversight that they offer. So I'm a little concerned on the move here, but again, either or will be fine as long as the oversight, which I'm sure it will be, will be there by the auditors. And again, just my personal position, Vision Zero on foreclosures, be cautious on the disabled, the senior citizens issue,
 and do whatever you can to work with them in a manner and make sure the communication is really clear to them on what's going on, and that they have the capacity to make reasonable decisions on their behalf at that time. And also that...
 Every other option has been looked at to prevent them from going through this, what I consider bad experience and maybe even traumatic experience to people being foreclosed on. Vision Zero Foreclosure, Portland, Oregon, that's our way in this city.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And as Commissioner Fritz has noted, this is presented to us just as the narrow issue of the transfer of this responsibility out of the auditor into revenue. But I think that...
 given the high aspirations for great public service here, it would have been an opportunity for us to talk about the volume of work that this office handles, how many of these actual issues we have. In the past few months, I think we've talked about turning down the heat on the zombie housing, stuff that was initiated under Mayor Hales. But when we talk about foreclosures, and there's 48 pages here,
 about if it goes as far as demolition and stuff like that. I think if we're really going to be a smart city, if we're going to really address the housing crisis that we face, some of this information needs to filter out so that we know how many buildings, it's a separate department, but how many buildings are marked with the red U, how many are maybe not being as aggressively pursued as nuisances or whatever it takes to get property demolished
 in a city that has great need. I'm not the strongest pro-capital, free market real estate person here. Since when I came to the city, we had a big hole in the ground sitting behind Nordstrom for two years. But, oh, we couldn't do anything because it's a free market. So I hope that when we look at nuisance and foreclosure properties, that there'll be a comprehensive thought about
 the extreme need that tens of thousands of people, even families with children, are facing to be inside structures while we have uninhabited structures marked, just sitting around. But the basic 48 pages of material, the ministerial function of moving this out of the auditor's office...
 into revenue seems to have been well prepared. I just wish that the presentation had said about how many transactions and properties this type of work impacts on an annual basis. Thank you very much. Thank you. Now, why were they allowed to speak on other issues besides just the transfer, and I was not? Maggie, come on. You know the rules. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Your time is up.
 Thank you, Maggie. Why were they allowed to speak? They were sticking to the issue, to the topic, and you were talking about something else. This is not about foreclosure. Thank you. Maggie, you're in violation of the council rules again, and if you don't stop, I'm going to ask you to leave. Thank you. Does that complete public testimony, Keelan? Yes. Very good. Any further discussion? This is an emergency item. Keelan, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. New Daily? Aye.
 As the former commissioner in charge of BDS, this was a really frustrating process for me, which CFO Cooperman illustrated with the 31 steps. And I do want to address a couple of the issues brought up by community members and just explain for everyone here and everyone watching that while I know the word foreclosure is a...
 kind of hot-button term, I want to assure you this is a very rare action taken by the city. BDS, while I had BDS, we brought back a program to help homeowners who were truly facing hardships and challenges getting their property back into compliance, and we're helping them with that. We really used this action against...
 property owners who are primarily absentees or they're large financial institutions and they are just refusing to take responsibility for these abandoned, derelict homes that can really present not just an eyesore but hazard and threat in neighborhoods.
 because of the way that they can be used. We've seen fires. We've seen a lot of illegal activity. It's not safe for youth and children in the neighborhood sometimes. So I just want everyone to rest assured that this is not
 comparable to bank foreclosure. It's rare, and it's a necessary action. It takes about a year at best because there are so many steps we're required to go through and that property owners still have ample opportunity to get into compliance and retain their property. So I want to thank the auditor and CFO Cooperman for being willing to...
 I guess it's not an exchange, participate in this transfer, and I vote aye. Wheeler? Well, first of all, let me just second what Commissioner Udaly just said. Foreclosure is, by design, something that is very, very difficult for governments to actually consummate. There are many, many steps that government needs to go through, and at the end of the process...
 a homeowner still has the option to make a payment, and that's usually what happens. And I support the fact that it is difficult for government to be able to foreclose on people and take their private property. But that desire that's built into our constitutional protections that make it difficult for government to take private property are also very frustrating for people in the community who are concerned about the zombie house next door.
 And so we've tried to balance those competing interests by improving the process and, in many regards, strengthening it, improving the transparency and the accountability. And I appreciate the work that the auditor has been doing on this, and I strongly support the idea of moving the actual administration of the program over to the CFO. I think that's the appropriate place for it.
 and just the chart you put up with regard to customer service, that in and of itself is an obvious improvement that we could all make. I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. Thank you for that. Keelan, could you please read item number 209? Thank you.
 Appoint Andrea Peluso to the Community Budget Advisory Board for a term to expire December 31, 2021. Colleagues, as we kick off our fiscal year 2019-2020 budget process, I am very excited to nominate Andrea Peluso to be appointed.
 appointed as our fifth and final community budget advisor. I've been looking forward to having her wealth of knowledge and experience at the table. We had a little bit of a preview of that yesterday as she sat around our budget work session. Interim Budget Director Jessica Kennard is here to provide a little bit more information and help support this nomination. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Council. Thank you, Mayor.
 Jessica Kennard, Interim City Budget Director. I'm here to talk a little bit about the item in front of you, appointing Andrea Peluso. So the Community Budget Advisory Board, as you know, consists of five members who are residents of the City of Portland. They serve staggered three-year terms and may be reappointed. They provide valuable community input as part of the City's annual and supplemental budget processes. As they participate in all Council budget deliberations...
 by advising the City Council on proposed budget amendments and by assisting in the review and discussion of budget plans and results. Andrew Peluso is co-founder and executive director of Family Forward Oregon and Family Forward Action, organizations founded by Oregon mothers to change policies and systems. Sorry, I was in a hurry on my way over here and it's snowing outside. Thank you.
 Whew. That's the transportation commissioner's problem. Thank you. I used to love snow. It's very pretty. Let me start again. She has a fantastic biography, so I want to do it justice. So in her work, she has helped to lead campaigns for affordable child care, paid family and medical leave,
 equal pay, increasing the minimum wage, paid sick time, pregnancy accommodation, protections against workplace discrimination, reproductive health care access, domestic worker protections, and more. Andrea lives in Portland and is the mother of two kids, ages 11 and 13. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Andrea obviously could not be here today, but she had a little bit of a chance to meet her yesterday during the work session. Seeing none, I'll entertain a motion.
 move to accept the report second we have a motion from commissioner fritz a second from commissioner you daily any further discussion please call the role prince well on this day that we celebrate women's history month i think it's very fitting that we appoint andrea peluso who's been a leader in our community and a good partner for city council members on many of the initiatives that we've passed over the past 10 years and more and so i'm very happy to that she's willing to serve with the budget committee hi excuse me you daily uh well thank you to ms peluso aye
 Oh, sorry, Wheeler. I strongly support this. Andrea is a great addition. I thought she asked fantastic questions yesterday, so this, for me, is just confirming what I already know. I vote aye. The report's accepted. The appointment's accepted. Thank you. Next item, please. 210. Appoint Sean Green to the Development Review Advisory Committee for a term to expire March 5, 2022. Colleagues, the DRAC...
 otherwise known as the Development Review Advisory Committee, was established in June of 2001 as the city's primary advisory body regarding development review. The DRACS members represent various industry and neighborhood groups with interests in development and development review.
 DRAC members are appointed by the City Council to one three-year term with the possibility of serving a second three-year term. Sean Green has been nominated to fill a vacant position that currently exists on the DRAC representing citywide neighborhood interests. The previous member completed their terms of service.
 Sean has both significant and relevant experience that I believe makes him a good appointment for the DRAC. He serves as an executive board member, vice chair actually of the Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods. He's the co-chair of the Land Use and Transportation Committee as well, and he serves on the Portland Online Permitting System, otherwise known as POP's Customer Advisory Committee.
 He owns a design-build construction company which specializes in homes and ADUs, giving him familiarity with Portland's development review process. I believe that appointing Sean Green will bring the drought closer to full strength and allow it to continue its fantastic work on behalf of the city of Portland. I'd like to invite up staff and Sean. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 thank you mayor and commissioners my name is mark fetters i'm with the bureau of development services and i provide staff support to the development review advisory committee and i want to thank you mayor for the introduction of sean green we and i just wanted to note we're very excited to recommend sean for appointment to the drac um
 I've worked with the DRAC now for several years and have seen the group provide a forum for the different stakeholders to development to come together to discuss issues and to find ways to collaborate and reach resolutions.
 I've seen the group grow over that time, and I think with Sean having a foot in both of those worlds, in the development community as well as the neighborhoods, he brings understanding and perspectives that I think will help move that forward. So I want to introduce Sean. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm very excited to have this opportunity to serve on the DRAC program.
 I've been attending meetings since I met with Marshall Runkle about two years ago, and we talked about some BDS issues, and he suggested I started attending meetings. Since then, I've been very involved in bringing those issues back to the coalition, Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, and talking about how –
 the things that are being discussed at DRAC and the processes at BDS can be improved. And as part of that process, a call was made for members to serve on the revamped online permitting system, POPs.
 I signed up and we've started that new committee and that new work in September. I was appointed chair of that committee, and I think there's a good connection between the work to improve the services and the five projects that are part of POPs.
 and the work of DRAC and integrating that so that there's better customer experience and more efficiencies throughout the Bureau. Very good. Sean, can I just ask you a question? You've obviously been very actively engaged, and we like residents like you who are really actively engaged and want to participate. You have a pretty busy schedule. You're engaged in a lot of things. What has motivated you to want to serve on this committee? Well,
 My initial motivation was out of some frustrations related to inspections, honestly. And that was, you know, I had a meeting with Marshall from Commissioner Udaly's office when she was in charge of the Bureau of Development Services, and he suggested that I get involved. And having a long history of neighborhood advocacy, starting with, well, Southeast Coalition of Neighborhoods, and I decided to...
 start attending meetings and seeing what was being discussed. Let me just say I applaud that. I love it when somebody says they have an issue or a problem and they come to City Hall or a commissioner, in this case Commissioner Udaly, and they put the challenge back on you and you take up the challenge. Thank you for doing that. That's how I got here. I think a lot of us feel that way. Yeah, so thank you for that. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for volunteering to serve.
 Setting the makeup of the Development Review Advisory Committee was one of the last community projects I worked on before I got elected to the council with the late, great Bonnie McKnight. And we tussled with then BDS Commissioner Leonard over what we had been seen as a very development-oriented Development Review Advisory Committee and set up the position so that there would be a balance of neighbourhood interests and development interests.
 You just told the mayor that you were concerned about inspections and basically your experience with development services as a developer. Can you give me reassurance that you will be able to represent the neighbourhood interests on the Development Review Advisory Committee and be primarily there to speak up for neighbourhood concerns? In my role as the neighbourhood advocate, definitely I would be there considering concerns for the neighbourhood. I think that...
 my long history of neighborhood advocacy and the numerous letters that I've sent to council on various issues, both in my role as chair of Laurelhurst Neighborhood Association, on the Land Use Transportation Committee from Southeast Uplift, and more recently as vice chair of Northeast Coalition Neighborhoods and co-chair of the Land Use Transportation Committee, in addition to my service on things like
 PBOT's Parking Advisory Task Force and the 20s Bikeway show that I have a strong commitment to neighborhood interests and ensuring that those are represented. I think there's alignment between development interests in DRAC and BDS, in particular development interests and neighborhood interests, in terms of providing consistent and thorough communication with those communities.
 clients and those affected by development, and also as part of looking at changes to the zoning code that will affect development, and also the way in which the Bureau engages in things around notifications. For example, the project that Sarah Wright's working on in Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 I don't really distinguish internally between the work I do for the community in terms of my professional job and making realities, their dreams come into reality, and also the work that I do in my neighborhood advocacy. I think there's a strong ethos of public service. I have a master's from Portland State in public.
 public administration and this long history of public service. Well, I'm hoping that you'll continue to serve with Northeast Coalition of Neighborhoods because I have every confidence that they would keep you in line if they feel that you're not representing their interests. So that was a very good answer. Thank you. I have a question. How many members are there on the DRAC? Currently there are 17 members on the DRAC.
 And we have three vacancies? We do have three vacancies presently. So in the memo we got from Director Esau, it says that the vacancies relate to historic preservation, minority construction, low-income housing. Those are actually three very significant areas of interest of this council and the community. How confident are you that we'll have some candidates for those positions in short order?
 We have been recruiting actively for those positions. We have a handful of applications that we have received that are either under review or will be under review shortly. We're hopeful to have those positions filled within the next few months. I can't give a guarantee as to when.
 But we are actively trying to fill those positions. So let me just make a recommendation. We approve a lot of appointments as a council, and everybody has a different way of doing it, but I'm often struck by the fact that
 that a bureau director or a commissioner doesn't take advantage of the opportunity to let other colleagues know that there are these vacancies so that we can activate our networks. I'd be certainly willing to help in the low-income housing development community, which I know very well, help identify a suitable candidate. Likewise with historic preservation and minority construction. I would urge you to send out an e-mail to
 Council chiefs and commissioners, just alerting us to the fact that you're doing this recruitment. Let us help you in that. And I hope we start getting in the habit of actually involving more members of Council in these appointment processes because while we often get very good candidates, where you have a situation like this with three vacancies in three areas that are very important, right?
 Take advantage of our networks as well. And so I hope you'll send something out just to remind us to forward good candidates to you. Yeah, we will definitely do that. And thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Any further questions? Commissioner Daly. Mr. Green, first of all, thank you for being here and thank you for accepting this appointment. You now serve on almost as many committees.
 boards and committees as I do and as a volunteer, and I want to say I just really admire and appreciate that. I don't know if I could sit through all these meetings if it wasn't my job, just to be honest, but I do lots of other volunteer work. Correct me if I'm wrong, does your company, Aforma, primarily do additions, renovations, and ADUs?
 That's correct. Yeah. So you are actually helping preserve existing housing and build upon it, which is great in my mind. We need more of that kind of development because you're not tearing down beautiful old homes. You're helping people build wealth and existing property. It's a greener approach than demolition and redevelopment, and I'm impressed.
 a big fan of ADUs, as I think everybody now knows. So I just think you bring a really great mix of experience and concerns as a neighborhood advocate and someone who's experienced in this type of development.
 I just want to say thank you because you probably won't be here when we take the vote next week. Well, no, it's a report. In fact, I'll move the report. Oh, we do do the report. Oh, great. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Thank you for being here. That's an additional donation of time. Thank you for being willing to serve. It's a lot of work. And thank you, Mark, for your work.
 Fish. Thank you, Mr. Green. This is a very important committee assignment, and we're delighted that you've stepped up. So thank you. Bye-bye. New Daily. Well, thanks again. You're now serving on one of the most unpleasant-sounding acronyms I think we have, DRAC, and one of the cutest, POPS. Yeah. So congratulations. Thanks. I vote aye. Wheeler. I vote aye. The report is accepted and is adopted. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Next item, Keelan, could you read item number 211? Amend contracts with Vanderhauen and Associates Incorporated and Triad Technology Group for staff augmentation in the amount of $2.5 million each.
 Colleagues, this ordinance amends contracts with two local vendors that provide staff augmentation services to the Bureau of Technology Services. Brian Perlo, Support Center Manager at the Bureau of Technology Services, is here to give us a brief presentation on this item and answer any questions that we might have. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for spending a few minutes for me. My name is Brian Perlo. I am the Support Center Manager for the Bureau of Technology Services.
 I'm going to discuss just for a few minutes this staff augmentation contract. So currently there are two existing contracts, both with local companies. The first is Vanderhallen, as you mentioned earlier, located in Portland. The second with Triad Technology Group, located in Tigard.
 Both companies provide on-call technical temporary support personnel as an on-needed basis to supplement BTS during peak installation and deployment periods, and for backfilling permanent BTS staff. Since the contract's inception in 2015, both these staff augmentation services have been heavily utilized due to several large-scale priority projects, including the Portland building project.
 as well as the implementation of the Portland Online Permitting System, also known as POPs. The contracts are being amended at this time to support the addition of new contracted staff and to continue funding of the existing staff to support these two projects and other ongoing projects. So additional funds are required in the amount of $2.5 million for each contract to fund the efforts until the contracts expire on April 1, 2020, next year.
 The funds are available in the 18-19 budget. So could you tell us a little bit about how new priorities are driving some of these contract amendments? Yeah, both of these really are being driven by really the Portland Building Project and the POPS Project. In fact, those two projects have been the main users of these contracts. And what assurance can I give my colleagues that,
 that going forward as we enter the 2019-2020 budget process, that we are going to stay ahead of the cost curve here? In other words, what assurance can we give them that we're not going to repeatedly come back to the council and ask for additional resources? Yeah, it's a really good question. Actually, both of these contracts are going to be reviewed next year, and we're going to go to RFP to replace both of them starting April 1, 2020.
 We don't expect that we would be adding any more budget to either of these contracts before the RFP heads out next year. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fritz. So did I just understand you to say that this is already in your budget and you won't be asking for anything else? So we're asking for spending authority on these contracts. Right, but you've got the money in the technology services budget. Correct. Thank you. Yep. Thanks. Thanks.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this item, Keelan? One person signed up, Charles Bridgecreen Johnson. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Name for the record. Is it still morning? Very good. Excellent. Can't tell it's so dark in here.
 Yeah, I don't know. That should be the great accomplishment. Charles Bridge, Ken Johnson, for the record. And one of the mayor's great legacies should be a better open windows policy. We talked about transparency here, but we always have the blinds down. I think we should be more adaptive. It's a lighting issue for film. Yeah, well, yeah, definitely.
 When I came up here, my main concern is that we've talked about $2 million and we've talked about two staffing subcontractors or whatever you want to call them. We haven't actually talked about the nature of the work or the number of hours of work that are being performed. And I think that...
 nosy, wonky, detailed audiences would have been really interested to know what kind of work product is delivered if we plunk out $2 million more. It sounds like, since it's related especially to the Portland building, that it's maybe more on the hardware side so that these computers will actually be present and functional when workers come back, but maybe there's also massive scope issues
 of internal data processing details that go along with that building. I don't know. So obviously I think you can vote for it, but I think the best standards of transparency and fiduciary responsibility to the citizens and taxpayers is if we had some more nuts and bolts about what the $2 million expenditures will actually get, what deliverables we'll get. Thanks very much. Thank you for your testimony. Colleagues, any further discussion? No.
 This is an emergency item. Please call the roll, Kaylin. Prince. Thank you for the presentation. Thanks to Chief Technology Officer Jeff Baer, who's with us today. Good work. Aye. Fish. Aye. New Daily. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for the presentation. Next item, please, 212.
 I authorize Portland Fire and Rescue to charge a fee for service for cost recovery of non-emergent lift assist responses to Oregon State licensed commercial assisted living residential care and nursing facilities within the city. Colleagues, this item is a second reading, but it's being moved to next Wednesday, March 13th, as noticed on the Tuesday memo as requested by Commissioner Hardesty. Could you please read item 213?
 Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Colleagues, this is a second reading. There has already been a presentation and public testimony on this item. I was not present. I've reviewed the record. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Mayor, I want to just acknowledge this milestone. This is our final item this morning. We're going to finish our business by 11 o'clock, so congratulations for keeping us on task this morning. Very good. New Daily? Thank you.
 Aye. We all in? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned.
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon, March 6, 2019 session of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon. Carla, would you please call the roll? Good afternoon. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Now we'll turn it over to legal counsel for a few rules on decorum. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and means to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. We have one item this afternoon. Carla, could you please read it? Item 214, amend Title 33 to update the neighborhood contact regulations. Colleagues, today we'll hear an ordinance.
 Addressing proposed changes to Title 33 of the Portland City Code requirements for neighborhood contact pre-application process for new developments. Yes.
 The goal of these proposed changes is to both simplify and clarify the rules and expand the reach of notice to residences that are located around these particular developments. The current requirement inconsistently applies to different sizes of projects in different parts of the city, and the amount of time that it takes can often be unpredictable. The existing requirement provides information to neighborhood associations and to the folks in those associations' communications networks that,
 The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has worked with the development services to address this issue by incorporating physical signage at the site to provide additional information to residents. The goal here is to reach as many people in as efficient amount of time as possible and give them every opportunity to engage on the way that their neighborhood grows and changes. I'd like to invite the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff, Sarah Wright and Eric Engstrom, are here to tell us a little bit more about this.
 When they are done with their presentation, I know that Commissioner Fritz would like to introduce an amendment, so I'd like to give her an opportunity afterwards to talk about her amendment. And then, of course, we have Mr. Smith is here as invited testimony, and after that we'll take everybody's public testimony who has signed up. If you have not signed up, there is a sign-up sheet right outside the door, or see Carla here at the clerk's desk and we'll get you signed up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Eric Engstrom. I manage the Comprehensive and Strategic Planning Group at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And as you mentioned with me is Sarah Wright, who is a planner with BPS and has been the project manager for this effort. We're here today to talk about the neighborhood contact requirement in the zoning code, as the mayor just mentioned. This is an existing code requirement that requires developers to contact neighborhood associations before they submit building permits in certain circumstances.
 A review and overhaul of this requirement was originally something we had planned to take on with the comprehensive plan related code work a few years back, but as we got into it, we decided it needed a little more involvement and discussion with the community before we could land on a proposal. And so it was separated out as a separate standalone project and is now coming to you.
 With the new zoning entitlements with the new comprehensive plan, we had anticipated that there would be more applications triggering this requirement, so it seemed timely to take a look at it and consider overhauls and make it work better.
 As the Mayor just mentioned, the objective was to clarify and simplify as well as expand the reach, make the information more broadly available than it had been. So with that context, Sarah will talk about the details. Thank you, Eric. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. And I just want to thank, there are a lot of people in the room today who have contributed and improved the project along the way, so I want to acknowledge that.
 I'm Sarah Wright with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm here to give you an overview of the Neighborhood Code Contact Code Update Project. And the project record, as transmitted by the Planning and Sustainability Commission, is in the room. And to that record, the Bureau has added a list of outreach activities. Thank you.
 So the current neighborhood contact requirement in the zoning code requires that applicants for building projects complete an outreach process before they submit their application to the city. The project does not address land use review notifications that are required part of the quasi-judicial process, and that's outside the scope of this project. This is a process in which the developer is required to make contact with the public.
 And it's important to note there is no obligation in the current requirement or in the proposed changes that would require the developer to actually make any changes to the project in response to feedback. It's an informal opportunity for a conversation to happen. And the goal is really to create an opportunity for the public to learn about and provide feedback on the project to the developer. So in this process, the applicant must send a certified letter to the Neighborhood Association.
 If the neighborhood association responds within 14 days of that mailing and invites the applicant to attend a meeting, the applicant must attend as long as the meeting is held within 45 days of that initial mailing. The meeting is an informal opportunity for community members to learn about the project and provide feedback to the developer. The applicant has to submit evidence to BDS, to the Bureau of Development Services, when they submit for their quasi-judicial process or building permit that they met this requirement.
 So these meetings can be very productive and sometimes applicants do revise their projects in response to the feedback. And there's an opportunity for people to learn more and also to make contacts that can be very valuable during the construction period. However, the meetings only happen when there's a neighborhood association in place that is active, has a land use chair who's able to receive the letter and respond to it in two weeks.
 In areas that don't have those elements in place or that have too much on their meeting agenda already, the meetings do not happen. The applicant gets no reply and is able to just submit their application. And even when meetings do happen, the opportunity to learn about and provide feedback on the project is limited to the people who attend the meeting, which is a very small subset of the much larger group of people who might be interested.
 And because of those issues, this project was initially part of the Code Reconciliation Project, which is kind of a housekeeping project following on the comprehensive plan, but it was pulled out to get a little bit more time and attention and be its own project. So we released a discussion draft last spring and a proposed draft in the summer, Planning and Sustainability Commission in August, and the recommended draft that's before you now was released in January 28th.
 The goals of the project were to broaden the reach of notice, to provide more information to more people, and also to increase the consistency and predictability of both the process itself and the thresholds for what kind of projects trigger the requirement. So these are the key elements of the proposal.
 All projects in most zones, so that's single-family and multi-family residential, commercial mixed-use, EX, and campus zones that are creating more than 10,000 square feet of new building would trigger the requirement. And the requirement would be to post a large on-site sign and also send an informational email or mail to the Neighborhood Association District Coalition and Business Association, which are currently also recipients of that letter.
 And if the project creates more than 25,000 square feet of new building, the applicant is responsible for ensuring that the project is presented at a public meeting. That can be done with the neighborhood association if that works for the developer and the neighborhood association, but it's the applicant's responsibility to make sure the meeting happens. So just to provide some context, projects that are something that's going to be built now might go through different processes. It may be getting built by right, so it's being built according to the zoning code rules.
 In that case, if it's getting just a building permit application, it would have to do the neighborhood contact before the building permit application. If the project is going through a land use review, that's a situation where there is an opportunity to provide testimony. The public is notified by mailed letters and also a small sign on site. That's a land use review process that's separate from neighborhood contact.
 The proposal would require that the neighborhood contact take place before the building permit is submitted or the land use review permit application is submitted, whichever comes first. Currently, projects that are going through a land use review process are then exempted from neighborhood contact as we're proposing to remove that exemption. So you would have to do the neighborhood contact process before the land use review application or the building permit application.
 And I just want to note that there are different decision makers in these different processes. With neighborhood contact, the decision maker is the applicant themselves. They can decide whether to respond to feedback. For a land use review process, there's a city hearings officer or a design commission or another decision maker like that, an opportunity to provide testimony.
 So this is a draft template for the sign that would be required to be posted on site. The Bureau of Development Services has developed this template, and they will continue to work on it and finalize it and post it on their website for use for developers. And you can see there is meeting information, that yellow square. There's a space for the information about a meeting, if it's required, to be posted in that space. You can also see there's the contact information for the applicant.
 And then underneath, there's contact information for the Bureau of Development Services, for the District Coalition, and the Neighborhood Association. We do anticipate that these signs would generate some calls to those entities for sure. Can you keep this up for a second? I have a question. In the Bureau of Environmental Services, when we do community outreach, like Tabor to the River is a good example,
 We find that it's very beneficial to have a single point of contact. So it could be Debbie, you know, one of our community outreach people. And in all the communications, written and electronic, it says if you have a concern, call Debbie or email Debbie. So you have a person. And what it does is puts a human face on.
 It also ensures accountability that there's someone. Here, what you have is general zoning information, Bureau of Development Services. I like the fact that the applicant is personalized. But did you give some thought to having someone more specific at BDS be the person that people could get information from? Yeah. So what's on this sign is a really tricky balance because, as you say, a sign works best if it's clear who to reach out to.
 With this sign, however, this is being posted by the applicant themselves, and it's before the city even knows about the project. I see. So we're requiring that the applicant put contact information on the sign, but the jurisdiction of the city or its ability to enforce, like, the developer answering the phone or answering those emails is limited. We wanted to make sure that people had other avenues to ask questions so they can call BDS, like, about what is allowed on this site, that kind of question. Okay.
 And the reason, the phone number that's on there is the planning and zoning hotline, so they'd be able to answer questions about what's allowed on that site. And we also wanted to make sure that people were aware of resources like the district coalition and the neighborhood association. So it's a little bit of a balancing act in that it would be ideal if there was a point of contact, but because the city isn't controlling that point of contact, we wanted to make sure that people have resources. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.
 Could I ask you a question? And I probably should know the answer to this already. Down at the bottom, if you can't read English as your first language, what actually happens? Yeah. If I'm calling and I speak a different language? Yeah.
 Does somebody have a copy of this sign or how does that work? So what you call with that information is the planning and zoning hotline. And the reason for that is that the city has the resources to be able to get on-demand phone interpretation, whereas a developer...
 You know, they could be developing just one project once. They're not going to have those resources. So we wanted to make sure that they'd be able to at least call somebody who could help them understand what the sign is about. Okay, so if I call and I say I'm standing in front of 3467 Southeast Main Street, can you tell me what this sign is all about? Sure.
 Will somebody actually be able to do that? They'll be able to say, we have no idea about the sign. That's not in our systems. But they will say, this is what we know about that kind of sign. That's a sign that we do require, and we can tell you what can be built on this site. Is there some way to database? I mean, I don't want to overcomplicate this. I don't know how many calls they would typically get, but I'm just wondering if there's some way to database it or –
 make it more accessible to whoever is actually answering the phone. Because I can imagine somebody might be frustrated just from a customer service perspective to be directed to a number where somebody tells them in their own language, I'm sorry, I can't help you. Yeah, and I think that's one of the tensions of this whole requirement is that it is kind of out in this pre, it's not inside the city's jurisdiction. So it's one of the balancing acts with this.
 However, there is a requirement in the proposal for the Bureau of Development Services to be posting information online. And part of what we're doing with this project is creating a tool that will allow developers to submit through a web form the information that will go on the sign, and that will be in an online map. So the staff will actually be able to see that.
 that they will be able to look that up. They won't, again, know anything else. Okay. In the big picture, that is the long-term intent when we have notices like this to eventually have a system where all these kinds of signs, you can find a virtual version of the same information online. Cool. Thank you. And just to clarify, this sign template is not being finalized today. The Bureau of Development Services will continue to work on that. How big is this sign? I'm sorry. Five feet by four feet. Five by four. Thank you. Big. Okay.
 So I just want to compare a couple of elements of the current requirements to the proposed requirements. So right now there's a certified or registered letter that must be sent to the neighborhood association. We're replacing that with an informational letter or email and a sign summarizing the project. The recipients of the project of the contact for the letter remain the same and then the sign of course can be seen by anybody passing by.
 The method of initial contact, certified mail, we're proposing to replace that with email or mail because we've been given to understand that email is much easier to process. And we really wanted to broaden the recipients of contact and make sure that information is available to the general public. So the meeting, this project also impacts the way that these meetings unfold. Currently, it's up to the neighborhood association, if there is a functioning neighborhood association, to decide if they want to put the development project on their agenda.
 The proposed change makes the applicant responsible for making sure there's a meeting and advertising it on the sign. The supporting materials do encourage applicants to reach out to the Neighborhood Association to ask them to host or co-host the presentation at their meeting. And we expect that applicants will generally prefer to do that since it would be a lot easier for them than trying to host their own meeting.
 The meeting must take place in the time period at least two weeks after the sign is posted and the letter is mailed, and at least two weeks before the application is submitted. So just to compare the current process and the timeline and the proposed process. Now, after the applicant puts that letter in the mail, they have to wait 14 days, and if they don't hear back, they can go ahead and submit their application. They may have to wait up to 45 days in order to attend the meeting if required.
 So the timing is unpredictable between 14 and 45 days.
 For the proposal, it would set a predictable period of 35 days from posting and mailing the notice to the submission of the application. So regardless of the size of the proposal, regardless of whether the neighborhood association is active, the applicant will know that there's a 35-day wait after the sign goes up and the e-mail or letter goes out. Keep that slide for a sec. We're at the bottom right where it says apply for land use review or building permit. Does the application have to include a copy of the letter or the e-mail?
 It does. There's a list of submittal requirements in the proposed code. So you have to show – you have to submit sort of an affidavit or, you know, just a statement saying that you did all the things and provide some evidence, like a copy of the e-mail, a photo of the sign. And I'm all for e-mails, but I will tell you that it is remarkable how often people –
 send things to the wrong email address or delete a part of the email address so it goes out into the wherever. Yeah. So I'm pleased that as part of the application you have to put that in because if a neighborhood association later or a business association has a grievance, they can go see where was this actually sent. Yeah. Yeah, that's definitely been an important part of making sure that that evidence is submitted. Okay.
 So we're proposing changes, as I said, to the process of neighborhood contact requirement and also to the thresholds for which projects trigger the neighborhood contact. And this shows the difference between the current and the proposed thresholds. And as I mentioned, the proposed changes would apply the requirement to more zones and also change the threshold to a simple square footage threshold, which
 And the second row is about land divisions. The proposal separates the threshold for land divisions from the type of review, since the number of lots created is more reflective of the impact on the surrounding community than the land use review type. And in the third row, you can see there are currently lower thresholds for some projects if they're in some areas of the city. The proposed change would remove these lower thresholds and just apply that 10,000 square foot threshold. I have a question. Development by right, is that for developments that...
 won't require a land use review. So where they're just meeting the zoning code requirements straightforwardly. So they'll still have to do a sign and a meeting. Yeah. Well, they have to do a sign for 10,000 square feet and a meeting for 25,000 square feet. A meeting for 25. And, I mean, if they're working completely within all the restrictions of their zoning, why would they have to have a meeting? Yeah.
 The idea in the original, the current neighborhood contact requirement that we're sort of moving forward is basically saying these meetings are valuable in order to provide people with information about what's coming, what's changing in their neighborhood. After the last 10 years, a lot of people really would like an earlier heads up about things changing. And it also does create...
 an opportunity to have a conversation between the applicant and the neighborhood, which is really valuable not only for potentially making changes to the outcomes if the developer is responsive to that, but also to creating a relationship for the kinds of issues that come up during the construction process. So we believe there's value in that information sharing and in that opportunity
 In spite of the fact that there isn't necessarily a way to change the project, and we feel like the value of that outweighs the potential frustration of getting a heads up about something that you can't necessarily affect, but it's definitely something that's come up. Is there any requirement? I mean, my concern is that community members that come to these meetings may think this is two things. They may...
 think this is their only opportunity to address issues they have with the development. They may also think that they can have more influence than they actually have in that meeting. So will there be anyone from the city, or will the developer be required to share basic information, like the next step is land use review, and if we go forward with a project the community doesn't like,
 Here's how you file an appeal. Is there...
 That is not something that we're proposing to require. It would be very difficult to enforce. It's definitely something we're including in the draft sort of supporting material that BDS can provide. And I think there's a lot of opportunities for education and outreach around educating the general public and also developers about land use review questions, but it's not written into this. Okay. Thanks. I have a question about this slide, too, about the –
 what's the current versus the proposed in which ones are related for design review. What if the design district has more restrictive requirements than this new proposal? That what we were told in written testimony was division, whether the division vision requires the meeting at a lower threshold. Would that still prevail? No.
 I don't know of any plan district that has notification requirements as part of the actual plan district. One of the architects of Division Vision is here, so I'm sure we'll hear more about that later. Okay, so the Division Design Initiatives. Yeah, so that's an idea. Oh, the Division Main Street. Yeah, so if there's a plan district that requires greater level of notification, would that plan district prevail? Yeah.
 My understanding is with this proposal, we've made that all uniform. What triggers this requirement? That's different from other zoning code where the plan district requirements, if more restrictive, are the ones that prevail. So the division, there was a trigger for neighborhood contact that was removed with the comprehensive plan adoption in May.
 So that trigger that was in effect is removed because it was replaced by the mixed-use zones, which didn't have any trigger for neighborhood contact in the past. Now anything over five units or 10,000 square feet, as it says on here, triggers that requirement. Okay.
 So there's no contact at this required? For the division, on division, no. Well, currently, if there's a mixed-use project in the mixed-use zones on division, it would be subject to the citywide standard for neighborhood contact in the same way that everything else would be. Thank you. So...
 Because these thresholds, these are the, you have heard testimony, you will hear more testimony about where these thresholds should be. I just feel like it's useful to quickly look at what these look like in the built environment and just give some examples. So projects under 10,000 square feet that would require no neighborhood contact at all under the proposal. This is R1 zoned property, building six units, and this did go through a type two review, so a land use review process. Okay.
 This is in commercial mixed use. So then, just to interrupt you, if it's going to have a land use review, there's posting requirements for that too, right? And that's totally separate. That remains the same. So those would remain the same contact, you know, who gets notified, what the signs that the sign is, all those kinds of things. That all stays the same.
 Yeah, and that is an opportunity to actually testify or to make official comment to the city, to a decision maker. So that remains the same. This is completely separated from that. Yeah, but that doesn't make much sense, that there would be bigger sign and more posting for something where people, as Commissioner Udaly said, don't have much input. We've worked with BDS to talk about how this process and how the design of the sign could be carried forward over those subsequent years.
 stages in the process and at this stage that's more work to do to align all the different instances that they require assigned but that's one possible path is for us to look at those land use reviews as a next step and
 The idea of the sign is that there's that box where you can post the information about a specific meeting, so it's possible that that later land use review notice could just be attached to the same sign. Well, colleagues, you might want to think about delaying this project. I mean, I know a lot of work's gone into it, but to have a five-foot by four-foot sign for a meeting where there's no sign,
 great ability to influence the decision and then have one of the small monitor sizes for somewhere where you actually do get to show up and make a change, that is going to give neighbors who are not land use geeks confused. The details of the sign construction is something that is in the BDS administrative rules, not in the zoning code, so there's nothing precluding us from continuing to work on that with or without this code amendment. Okay.
 And then this last project is in RH, high density residential, and this project is 15 units on a 5,000 square foot lot. They did have a meeting with the neighborhood association under the current rules. But they won't in the future? Under this proposal, they would not require a sign or a meeting. So projects that would require a sign but no meeting would be, this is in commercial mixed use, a 5,000 square foot lot, a 12 unit apartment building.
 And this is a high-density residential zoned property with 10,000 square foot lot. And this is 21 units in commercial mixed use. That's a 6,800 square foot lot. So projects that would require a sign and a meeting, they are over that 25,000 square foot threshold. This is 22 units in R2. Oops, got enthusiastic there. This is commercial mixed use, 75 units.
 And this last one is 113 units in R1. So we've had a lot of interest from stakeholders, including the Bureau of Development Services, in knowing how these proposals would affect the number of projects that trigger the neighborhood contact requirements. There are a couple parts of it that would increase the number. We're expanding to more zones, including single dwelling and EX that are currently not included.
 it would also remove the exemption for projects with a previous land use review and this is a significant number of projects the things that reduce the number of projects or the removal of the design related thresholds and also the changing the land division threshold from being associated with what type of land use review it's going through to the number of Lots that are created reduces the number of land divisions that would trigger the neighborhood contact
 And then also setting the threshold at 10,000 square feet regardless of number of units also decreases the number of projects that trigger this. So based on development numbers for the last five years, we estimate about 80 projects a year would have to meet the neighborhood contact requirements. But this is based on numbers for the last five years, numbers that are way down now. So we can't estimate necessarily how many projects going forward would be affected.
 There will be more projects. We estimate five to ten additional projects a year that will trigger the neighborhood contact, but they will be a different set of projects. For example, land divisions will trigger neighborhood contact about a third less frequently than they do now. And one thing I do want to note is that even though the number of projects that are triggering the threshold is not that much higher, this will involve more work for both applicants and the Bureau of Development Services staff. Currently, the applicant may not have to do anything more than just write a letter and not receive a reply.
 The proposal would require the applicant at a minimum to send the notification and post a sign and then hosting or attending a meeting for larger projects. So key issues raised in testimony at the Planning and Sustainability Commission stage that were consistent through this stage as well. Different testifiers would like to see the thresholds for the sign or the meeting requirements shifted up or down. And we also heard concern that meetings should have more restrictions around location and timing. And I also just wanna float that
 We heard a lot of comments and testimony about the need for easier access to information about land use that goes well beyond the scope of this project, but that was a strong theme of what we heard in this project. So just to circle back around and revisit the goals of the project, the proposed changes would broaden the reach of the notice by requiring an on-site sign that can be seen by anybody passing the site in a public meeting, an increased consistency and predictability of the process and the thresholds,
 The process, we're making the developer always responsible for making sure the notice and the meeting do happen and the timeline is more consistent. So in more projects, we'll have to meet the requirements because it will be applied consistently and require the same activities regardless of whether or not there's an active neighborhood association. Could you remind us, just again go back to one slide, so if the developer –
 drops the ball and doesn't give the notice and doesn't hold the meeting and then goes to seek a building permit or whatever, what's the consequence? They can't. It can't be received unless they've met the requirement. So they have to go back to the beginning of the process. Yeah. And that's where that question about enforceability in the requirement is tricky because it's difficult to – that's the only enforcement mechanism is to not receive the application. Right.
 And what's the mechanism that would allow, once this is filed, the recipient of the email to come in and argue that it was sent to the wrong address and or for the community to come and say the meeting was a sham or was scheduled in such a way to...
 It was scheduled in an inaccessible place at a time that unlikely people could get to and, you know, blah, blah, blah. What's the mechanism for policing that? So that happens now pretty frequently that a neighborhood association will say we didn't get the letter or they said they lied when they said they had a meeting. We didn't actually have a meeting. Yeah.
 It's kind of the staff have to arbitrate and make a decision, and they can put, like, an administrative hold on the project if they see a convincing case. Yeah. Well, the numbers that you've put up earlier that would be covered by this, and that assumes the economy continues to hum along, and what we're seeing is, you know, obviously a decline. Yeah.
 It doesn't seem like the numbers are so big that we couldn't get, you know, in the first year or two, a report back on how this is working. We could fine-tune it if necessary. Do you agree with that? Yeah. Just going on, continuing on the numbers, we received testimony from Matt V. Rezanov with Arbor Lodge, who says that only 66% of the projects that currently had neighborhood contacts would have been in
 66 would have been exempted and 100% of the permitted projects required to meet in permits in person would now be exempted. So how does that jive with that there'll be five to ten more? Most of, so I haven't gone back and looked at every permit from Arbor Lodge in response to that testimony, but because of the unit, the change to square footage instead of units,
 things that are building like that apartment building, building 15 units that's smaller than 10,000 square feet, that's the category where that development is falling into. And what was the rationale for choosing 10,000 square feet? We wanted to have... So 10,000 square feet is a threshold that's there a lot in the zoning code, and we had to pick...
 something that was measurable and also tied directly to the impact of the building on the community. And the size of the building is something that we hear a lot about. And square footage is easy to measure. So 10,000 was a good threshold that kind of cuts out most single-dwelling development because we didn't want to kind of get into triggering single-dwelling projects, having neighborhood contact. What was the rationale for the previous thought of doing it by unit?
 That, you know, I think that the way the neighborhood contact has been, the thresholds have been applied, and in the slide it showed all of the different ways. It's been kind of applied piecemeal in response to various projects, and what we wanted to do was not be piecemeal, but be holistic and consistent across the city.
 Thank you. So I just want to wrap it up with next steps. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is developing an online notification tool to fulfill the online contact element. And we will be piloting this tool and then handing it over to the Bureau of Development Services, which is working.
 working with the Bureau of Technology Services on the Portland Online permitting system that will move the City's paper-based development review process to an online system. And this tool can be integrated into that work in the future. The effective date is set in the ordinance for December 2019 to allow for outreach time, and also for that integration of the online notification with the POP system.
 But because this requirement is a process step that has to be met before the application can be submitted, we want to make sure that there's time to do a good job of letting applicants know that it's coming down the pike so they won't be surprised. And that's all I've got. Thank you for your time. Very good. Any further questions? Thank you. Commissioner Fritz, I understand you have an amendment. Thank you. Commissioner Fish has a question. No, no, I'm fine. We're going to hear from Chris Smith, right? We're going to hear from Chris Smith after we hear from Commissioner Fritz.
 Well, first, thank you, Ms. Wright, for all of your work on this project and your extensive outreach. I've been really impressed. It's interesting. We're having the hearing on a Wednesday afternoon when maybe people can't come, but even so, the volume of emails, et cetera, that I've had has been testimony to the fact that you have been able to create a lot of consensus, so I appreciate that.
 I actually have two amendments, which I didn't put one of them down, but the ones I've handed out here. This is on the location of the meeting place. And since currently...
 the meeting happens with the neighborhood association who is required by city policy to be accessible and provide to do their meetings in places that are accessible. I wanted to make sure that these meetings were in accessible places too. And so the changes to after number D, after...
 under the section 33705.020.B.4.D about the meeting, that it be open to the public and be in a location that provides equitable access to all members of the public. Accessibility includes providing language services, removing barriers, providing modifications, accommodations, alternative formats, auxiliary aids, or other services that ensure access, all of those on request. Thank you.
 So the meeting location itself has to be a place that people using mobility devices can get into without having to ask that. The other services, including language translation, et cetera, would be on request. So that's my first amendment. I'll second that. Thank you.
 And then the second amendment is under C. We received testimony from the Sullivan's Gulch Neighborhood Association suggesting that having the mandatory, the timing currently says be held at a time between 6pm and 9pm Monday through Friday or between 9am and 6pm on Saturday or Sunday. Sullivan's Gulch pointed out that religious services are often held on Saturday and Sunday mornings and I know from my experience as a parent of a
 family of sports enthusiastics that youth sports are often held in the morning too. So I would suggest that that get changed as requested by Solovitch and Muscovitch, that the Saturday or Sunday meetings be between 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. I'll second that for discussion purposes. I have a couple of questions about that conceptually.
 So those are now on the table and we can continue. Thank you. Could I just ask staff a couple of questions about those particular amendments? The first one strikes me as eminently sensible in terms of accessibility. Is there any reason why we should not be supportive of that amendment? No.
 Does legal counsel have any concerns about it? I can actually answer that. There are some concerns about enforceability, again. And I think as a practical matter, again, it would be a judgment call by the staff if it was said that it was held in a fortress that nobody could get into. It would be very difficult for the Bureau of Development Services staff when, given the evidence that the requirement was met, to make a decision about whether it was accessible or not. So it is a question of enforceability.
 I could see also the request for other services. I mean, certainly important where there's a need. I could also see that that could be abused in terms of a developer receiving multiple requests. And since this happens prior to the permitting, there would be no real city involvement in that. So let me ask the question slightly differently. As an aspiration, this seems important. We've had other conversations with the disability community in front of this meeting.
 in this council and acknowledging that we are arm's length from this transaction. Yeah. I just want to note that I did grapple with this quite a bit in development of this and I reached out to the Commission on Disability for some feedback about, and also Alan De La Torre with the Institute for Aging, just to get some feedback about what kinds of things would be sort of baseline needs for,
 and that information is included in the supporting documentation that's sort of providing education to the developers and recommendations for finding a location, that kind of thing. But we just felt because of the enforceability question to keep it out of the code language at this time. I do agree, and I appreciated having it in the supplementary, but the neighborhood's not going to have that supplementary material.
 And as we just discussed, none of this is really enforceable. So having, as the Mayor said, an aspirational statement of value in the code I think is an important thing. Well, I mean, let's take this question about enforceability, because it seems to me that if someone were to argue that they were prevented from participating because of the absence of a language service,
 that could cause BDS to put an administrative hold on it to determine whether it was actually an equitable meeting, right?
 It is a basis for preventing further action until you've investigated. Potentially, and BDS would have to grapple with how to make that determination, but yeah. And that's part of the challenge of moving the onus to the applicant. Under the current system, the complaint would be to the neighborhood association that the neighborhood association didn't provide those services.
 Well, the way it's worded, and I was sort of musing at the placement of the comma, but I agree with the placement of the comma. It's upon request. And so it makes it easier to determine whether or not, in fact, somebody had made the request. And if they made the request, what happened to that request? And so while I understand that enforcement is always an issue with many things we do here at the City of Portland, that at least puts brackets around it.
 I have a question for the city attorney. Can we show you daily? It seems like we're getting into kind of a nebulous zone, but in my mind it should be very clear. If we are requiring a developer to hold a meeting as part of a prescribed process to get to the land use review...
 We should have very clear standards for accessibility, and physical accessibility would be the most basic. I don't personally know if we have the legal right to require ASL interpretation or language support, but it seems like something we should be very clear about.
 about or we should get clear about. Well, let me ask this because it sounds like conceptually there's at least a consensus here that this is a worthy objective. Yeah.
 Is there a way we could, rather than locking ourselves into the language today, is there a way that we could have this be a critical component that we take a little time to think about and bring back? And I'll ask that of Commissioner Fritz since it's her amendment. I support the context of the amendment. I think it's an important point.
 I mean, it's a non-emergency ordinance. At the very least, we have another week. So that's one good thing. We are being asked to adopt the code. And the code says a lot of things about where the location of the meeting is.
 that will have some enforceability. As I say, it's a challenge because with neighborhood associations, they have to conform to the standards that we set, and we can require that on request these services be provided and that they have their meetings and locations that are automatically accessible to people who use mobility devices. Because the effective date was set out fairly far in advance and there's no immediate date,
 pushing us to adopt it. We did not assume you were going to adopt or move to second reading today. So if you had the hearing and then brought back language at the next meeting before it was forwarded to second reading, that's fine. That would be helpful. Commissioner Fish. I like the idea of sharpening the language, conferring with legal counsel to make sure that it's within our authority and it's enforceable because we don't want to put something in here that turns out to be neither. Okay.
 The one friendly amendment I would offer is after request, where it says upon request, upon request prior to the meeting. Yes. I know that's your intent, but I would just offer that as a friendly amendment. In fact, probably three days prior to the meeting. Okay.
 So that there's a reasonable period of time to put these in place. So could I suggest this from a procedural perspective? It sounds like we're all giving head nods. Can I keep this amendment open for the second reading, or what's your preference? Yeah, except as a friendly amendment, adding...
 Upon request three days prior to the meeting, let's take testimony and just see what people have to say. And then, yes, sir. Good. And then I had a question of legal counsel pertaining to Commissioner Fritz's second amendment. Her second amendment was to change the time of day to Sunday afternoons from 1 to 6 p.m. Is there any...
 specific issue there that this flags from your perspective? I think I heard Saturday and Sunday. Saturday and Sunday, correct. And I am not – that's not raising any specific legal concerns that I have in mind. Does this raise any operational questions from your perspective? Does the current meeting – do we currently have the same rules that apply to neighborhood associations with these timeframes? Yes.
 I don't actually know the parameters about the rules that are written in the association meeting timing. But as a practical matter, they try to choose times that people can get to. I mean, the proposal is to have it between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Saturday or Sunday. So narrowing that, I don't see why that would be a problem. And just to be clear, the intent is because people's schedules are busy Saturday and Sunday morning. Correct. And so they're more inclined to be available in the afternoon to attend. So it will be open to a broader audience.
 pool of people. Thank you. That was what I should have said. Perfectly said. Thank you. Good. Okay. Thank you. Mr. Smith, you're up. Thank you for your patience. Welcome. And Chris Smith is here obviously representing the Planning and Sustainability Commission. Thank you.
 Mayor, commissioners, good afternoon. I am Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, representing the commission's recommendation. We do urge you to adopt this recommendation. There are three points I'd like to make from our discussion. The first is we heard testimony about the 10,000 square foot and 25,000 square foot thresholds, as Sarah said, in both directions, that they were either too high or too low. We looked at the
 the bucket frequency of what size of projects the city sees over a given period of time and concluded there really weren't other values for those that made any more sense than these do. So we did not change that aspect of it. We did have a dissenting vote on this proposal. That came from our chair. And her concern was that this is, you know, potentially one more hurdle to development, but also I think more specifically the
 The concern that Commissioner Udaly raised, which is that people may equate the opportunity to engage with an assumption there is some kind of discretionary review going on. We talked about whether that could be indicated on the sign. The challenge is that at the time the sign is posted –
 You may not know the exact review process the project will go through because, you know, if you design in something that requires an adjustment, you know, that may change down the road as you go through the application process, so we really can't communicate that in advance. Nonetheless, the commission as a whole felt that the value of community engagement early outweighed those concerns and did support the proposal. The third point I want to make is about the online access process.
 When this proposal came to us, it did not contain online access as one of the components of the project.
 We were very concerned that that was a fundamentally ableist approach. In order to benefit from this without online access, you would have to be able to physically convey yourself to the site. You'd have to have sufficient visual ability to read the sign. And as the mayor pointed out, you'd have to be able to read written English. By adding the online component, of course, you get access to tools like screen readers. You can view it from anywhere. And worst case, you can run through Google Translate and try and get an approximation in your language. So, yeah.
 We felt that was essential to move this forward. We did hear from both BDS and BTS about the challenges with timing with POPs. I think that's in part why this has a long lead time to try and sync up those opportunities, but we did feel that online access was an essential component. Thank you, Chris. Excellent. That makes me feel better. Christian Smith, I was just extolling your virtues yesterday to the mayor because –
 You explained to me about the RSS feed and the ability to sign up to get notifications when websites change. So it seems like if we could just get the platform so that the developers could then post to it, people could sign up and post.
 and sign up as they wished. The minimum threshold for subscribability is pretty low if you use RSS as a technology. So I also want to just be fully transparent. Thank you to Commissioner Fritz, and thank you, one arm's length removed, Chris, because I've already used it in a conversation, and it made me sound really smart. So I appreciate that.
 So thank you for that. I'm wondering if you had any further thoughts on either of the amendments that have been proposed. Yeah, I think we balanced the meeting requirements. We did add, I think we tilted a little more towards involvement of the Neighborhood Association. I don't see either of the amendments being incompatible with the parameters we discussed. Great. Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks again for your service.
 Carla, do we have people signed up for public testimony? Yes, we have six people. Very good. The first three are Rocky Johnson, Linda Nedikovan, and Doug Klotz. All right. Come on down. Name for the record, please, three minutes each. And if the microphones are about six inches away from your mouth, that tends to be just about right. And please just leave the microphones on when you're done.
 Great. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Rocky Johnson. I am a member of the Land Use Committee for the Selwyn-Moreland Neighborhood Association. And the concern that we have is relaxing the requirement for neighborhood contact meetings from 10,000 to 25,000 square foot. We have a lot of projects in the 10,000 to 25,000 square foot range that
 that are currently happening in our neighborhood. And we've had pretty effective meetings with developers in situations where we've been able to save trees, we've been able to improve landscaping, we've been able to improve the exterior building quality, we've been able to improve transportation flows and safety concerns. And so we're concerned that if you raise that threshold to 25,000 square foot, we're going to lose that opportunity.
 And it's going to damage the livability of our neighborhood for years to come. So I just want to emphasize that as a major concern that we have in Selwood-Moreland neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Commissioner Fritz. If we look at the notice at 10,000 square foot, do you think that developers have learned that your group can help –
 improve a project and that if you were then to invite them to a neighborhood meeting, it doesn't say that they can't get invited to a neighborhood meeting. It just means that you wouldn't be their sole venue. Would that work? We just want to make sure that they have the requirement to have the neighborhood contact meeting. Okay. Because without that, our experiences are not as prone to do that. And some are more...
 happy to do that than others. But in most cases, we have a fairly productive exchange. And it actually benefits them because it makes their projects more marketable in the long run. So I think it's a good relationship and it's a good planning tool. So I don't want you to see you dispense with a good planning tool for the City of Portland. It's not a good idea. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and council members. My name is Linda Neddikhoven. I live in the Hossford-Abernathy neighborhood, but I'm speaking only for myself this afternoon. And so I don't forget, I want to call out the good work that Sarah has done. I'm one of those people that has talked with her, bothered her multiple times, and I'm aware of the myriad of people that she's talked to in this process. So I really appreciate that effort.
 This piece of code is really critical, as my esteemed colleague from Selwood just mentioned, in giving neighbors and business owners and employees an opportunity to really help shape the growth and change coming to the places where they live and work.
 of being able to have the conversation is oftentimes about the design, and that's interior, surrounding, as well as not just the aesthetics of the building, oftentimes leads to a much better project and less animosity and frustration and resentment about growth and change. So that's why we think it's really critical to have these conversations and to have them done well. And I want to first mention that I...
 support the effort and the project, and I share the widely held notion that the sign is a great innovation. And I think, again, needs to be explored for the work of other bureaus as well. Some kind of consistent signage of the same shape and sign and color with similar information might be really useful for us. I have a couple of major concerns, though.
 or they may be minor, the informational letters that go to just the neighborhood association, business association, et cetera. Our Safeway store sat at the 27th and Hawthorne, the junction of four neighborhood associations. So I know some of the Land Use Review Code specifies within a certain radius of a project you have to notify people. So to just...
 fine-tune that so the informational letters go a bit further out, because if you're a few blocks away as a neighborhood association or another business district, you might still want to know about it. The other is the bigger issue, which is the trigger for community meetings that Selwood has just mentioned, and I would...
 asked for either 10,000 square feet or four stories, however that could be defined, I can first of all point to new seasons at 40th and Hawthorne, which comes in at 17,000 square feet, less than 17,000 square feet. So it would not have merited a meeting. So at a minimum, we need to be looking at some use categories perhaps or some other issue in terms of where we set that threshold.
 But as I said, I would prefer that there just be a lower threshold, back to what we've had before. It's the four-story buildings that are, you know, sort of really changing the character and also creating a lot of the resentment among some, you know, some quarters in our community. And this is such a tremendous opportunity when meetings are run well. And we have a lot of suggestions about that. Sarah's incorporated many of them in the information.
 that she has. Can I say just one last thing? Go ahead. Sure. Which is that in 2006, the council did adopt our Green Street-Main Street plan, which called for any new development on the street to merit a meeting. And as you can see, that has not slowed down development on division in any way, shape, or form. So, I think that, and I understand we need to look at staff workload, etc., etc., but
 the wins and loses in terms of the community meetings can be great. And the more effort we put into the way BDS alerts people to resources and the way coalitions and neighborhoods work with people on these meetings, the better they can be for all of us. Thanks, Linda. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Doug Klotz. I support this proposal. The current process does not work very well, as we heard. Thank you.
 And I think the four-foot by five-foot sign is a great improvement. I've seen that in other cities. And so this will help a lot of questions that I used to get when I was land use chair of the Richmond neighborhood. Also, my experience, though, at the Richmond neighborhood is perhaps not as positive as Linda's.
 A lot of meetings consist of people coming and complaining about the project, and it was known that there was no requirement for the developer to change anything. So that's why I support the thresholds as they sit, because at 10,000 square feet, the projects under that –
 The bigger projects that are under that may very well go through designer view and other things anyway. But the smaller projects, the sign will tell folks what's going to happen, and they won't have the ability to change. So rather than setting up expectations that they can go to a meeting and effect some change,
 Just leaving the 10,000 to 25 foot at just the large sign and the notice to the associations seems fine to me. And the larger buildings will have the meetings and probably will also have designer view. So I support that. Also wanted to say that I really appreciate Sarah Wright's work on this. She's actually leaving the city coming up here.
 When budget improves, she will be one of the first hired back. But she does a great job, and she's very personable and does a great job at interacting with the public. Thank you for saying that. We appreciate it when we hear that of our employees. Thank you. Thank you, both of you. Next three, please. Carla. Our Christian Treball, Leah Fisher, and Heather Flint-Chateau. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Do you want to go ahead and start? Name for the record, please. Christian Trable, chair of the Overlook Neighborhood Association. First, let me just echo what's been said. Sarah has been great to work with on this project. All of staff has been very helpful and communicative. Now, if you keep this up, she's going to be a frontrunner for the Andrew Abbey Award for exemplary public outreach. Yeah.
 This is very complimentary, and I have to say, listening to her original presentation on some very complicated issues, I was struck by not only how accessible she made the information, but obviously how far she went in consulting with people. So it's nice in these forums to see the public compliment staff because they certainly catch a lot of the other stuff. I would support her receiving that award. Thank you.
 To echo what's been said already, we kind of do support a lower threshold here. If the gauge for residents to know what's happening in the neighborhood and the impacts that are going to happen on the neighborhood is just 25,000 square feet for a meeting,
 That's a lot of big projects that will have impacts within the neighborhoods. We, for example, this month have a developer coming in who's putting in eight units, but they're in the midst of single-family housing. No parking, that's going to affect those neighbors, and they want to have an opportunity to speak to the developer, see what accommodations can be made to make the project better and more compatible with the neighborhood.
 I would recommend, if not a 10,000-square-foot threshold, a number-of-units threshold. And the current code, which has five as the threshold, seems suitable. That would put it above the missing middle housing that will come in with the residential infill project, but capture projects that will have large impacts on neighborhoods. The inclusion of the sign, we're fully in support of. We think that's a great way to create outreach. One of the big concerns we have, though, is...
 that the current system is a one-size-fits-all system and it doesn't work for every neighborhood. This new system is a one-size-fits-all system that isn't going to work for every neighborhood. The current system works very well for Overlook, for Arbor Lodge, for some neighborhoods that have active neighborhood associations. We invite every developer who contacts us to come present and talk to our neighbors. And by and large, they are all very happy to do it. And I expect under the new system, most of them would be happy to come to the neighborhood association.
 Some, however, are not so happy and don't really want to engage with the neighbors. And I can foresee opportunities in the code here for developers who don't want to engage with the neighborhood at that level to avoid an effective meeting. And one element of this in particular that will enable that is the requirement that the meeting be within two miles of the neighborhood. That means that a project going up in Overlook could have a meeting in St. John's. And it could be held at an awkward time.
 you know, Sunday afternoon. I appreciate Commissioner Fritz trying to narrow down that some, but what our neighbors have right now is one-stop shopping. Every project is going to be at the Neighborhood Association meeting. They know that. They come to our meetings, and they're able to hear from multiple developers at one meeting. With this approach, they might have to go to four or five meetings in a month to find out what's happening in the neighborhood. And so my suggestion is that
 neighborhoods be given the first right of refusal on these meetings, rather than just say, developer, you have to have the burden, make it, you have to go to the neighborhood association. If they're willing to host it, you need to do it there. Otherwise, do it somewhere else. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 good afternoon hi mayor wheeler council members my name is leah fisher i'm the neighborhood planning program manager at southeast uplift which is one of the seven coalition coalition district offices i work with 20 neighborhood land use volunteers who process these notices therefore this change directly impacts my program and all of those neighborhood volunteers that i work with and we have been tracking this project closely um
 So I'm going to be speaking on behalf of myself as a staff person, but also on behalf of the Southeast Uplift Land Use Committee, which is an advisory body to the Southeast Uplift Board.
 In my role over the last two and a half years, I've witnessed personally all the challenges that were highlighted in this report, and I support the proposed changes. I feel like it's going to really address the major limitations of our current code in all of the points that are touched on earlier. I would like to add that our Southeast Uplift Land Use and Transportation Committee also overall supports all of the proposed changes in this report.
 They primarily, I would say, the committee really appreciates that early opportunity to connect with developers. I think a lot of them do have very productive meetings and are able to effect change. I think expanding the zones and making it consistent is something that they appreciate. I would say from my observation, the biggest piece of the proposed changes that the group has grappled with are those triggers and those thresholds.
 I think looking in Southeast specifically, there will most likely be fewer required meetings with developers, and the land use committee understands this, but they feel like citywide, if there's going to be more meetings and interactions with developers, it's going to be overall positive change. I am sure that they would be supportive of a variety of tweaks that have been mentioned here. Okay.
 The land use committee would also ask city council to require in this code that developers also contact neighboring organizations if the proposed project is on a boundary line, as Linda mentioned, or within a certain proximity of other geographic boundary lines, knowing that the impacts of large development don't end at neighborhood boundary lines.
 And then additionally, our committee would also encourage that the code be accompanied with supporting materials, as have also been discussed, best practices, guidelines for developers that are engaging with neighbors, and as recommended by city staff.
 And then lastly, the committee and my program would just, we greatly appreciate the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's thought and effort that went into this, particularly Sarah Wright, who has come to multiple meetings and been very accessible and able to explain the changes to all of our neighbors in a really understandable, great way. So thank you. Thank you.
 Could we get Sarah and Eric to come back? Oh, I apologize. Best for last. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Well, thank you. I hope so. My name is Heather Flint-Shadow, and I'm an urban planner. I'm a former government planner. I actually used to work in long-range planning and redevelopment. I used to run a mixed-use zoning program. And I'm a sustainability expert and green building consultant.
 And for the last six years, I've been co-leading with Linda Neddikoven and a large coalition of neighborhoods and business associations, the Division Design Initiative.
 And so we have many initiatives that we've been developing during this time, including an initiative on neighborhood notification and community engagement. And through that process, we've also developed Main Street design guidelines, our top ten policy recommendations for the city of Portland. We've done extensive policy advocacy, data gathering, surveys.
 public engagement, and really tried to work with the community on raising design literacy to help people understand that design is much more than aesthetics and style. It has to do with the form, the function, the quality, the durability, the longevity, and the livability of many of our projects. So one of our top recommendations, in fact, the top recommendation, was notification.
 Because we had now 16 projects in our neighborhood very, very quickly without any opportunity to have meaningful and timely input in the process. So we have changed the face of our neighborhood without ever really engaging the people in that place about what their vision was for how they wanted development to look. The Division Green Street Main Street plan was important, but it did not talk about the architecture beyond a very limited amount of design standards. So...
 We would like to just share a little bit about our notification policy, which has been now adopted by multiple organizations, including the Richmond Neighborhood Association in 2016 and now in 2018 by South Tabor Neighborhood Association and Hossford-Abernethy Neighborhood District. But in our top ten policy recommendations, those were endorsed by more than ten different organizations and business associations.
 So the differences are the size thresholds. RNA policy is stronger. The submittal requirements. Are we asking for the right information to understand really the impacts of a building and how they may fit with the context or not? And then do we have the right follow-up requirements? We have developers come to a meeting and never write a single word of notes about
 And so they may say they've submitted a letter to you to document what happened, but there's no real check and a way to follow up with that. So our policy has all three of those things.
 We're grateful that Sarah has done a wonderful job. I also just want to compliment her. She's been incredible. And I hope that you will get her back immediately. But she has incorporated much of our recommendations into the appendix as encouraged items. So we would like to, one, quickly support these large signs. Prior to permit submittal, I would encourage you to actually
 advocate for a 45 to 60 day time frame. Our policy has these timelines because we have people coming a week before they go in for development permits. It is far too late in the design process for any real change to happen. And that could be a missed opportunity for real synergy and better livability and better quality. Because neighborhoods understand the identity and the context.
 It's fine to shift the responsibility to the developer as long as it goes through the Neighborhood Association first. We would also like to encourage that you take a look at these 25,000 square foot thresholds. And I see my time running out. I have some great graphics for you, so I'd like to just ask if I could have a little bit more time to help you walk through this. Because you have provided great artwork, we'll make an exception in this particular case. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
 And we've really tried to be proactive with tools for you. Thank you. So this square foot metric is really not the right way to evaluate this because it results in very different impacts. It's not consistently addressing the degree of impact. And you're going to hear that from us on DOSA as well because we... DOSA? The Design Overlay Zoning Amendments, which are our new design standards and guidelines citywide, which we...
 We'll be coming back to advocate with you on that for our design guidelines, which I passed around. So it's not really relevant to the context, the scale, or the form, or the impact. And so my husband, who is also an architect, put together these little graphics to show the difference between if you are on a 50-foot wide lot or a 75-foot lot or a 100-foot lot, you end up with a different de facto threshold for triggers of a community meeting.
 It's too high for a narrow main street. It's too low for a wide street. So you may end up triggering a 75-foot building at that threshold, which is missing all of our main street buildings. None of them in this context are going to be addressed. It's a big, big concern. It may be too low for a wide main street or civic corridor.
 So we're proposing, and we've written some language for you, that you either go with the 10,000 square foot threshold or four stories. So here is our proposed language, taking the exact language that you already have and changing that to if a building is less than four stories, that it would fit neighborhood contact one, and neighborhood contact two if a building is four stories or greater. Sarah pointed out some really good examples
 to me that we needed to have better parity across the city. We care very deeply about the main street impacts because those are some of our greatest assets as a city. However, we realize that it needs to be simple and we need to be able to be responsive to impacts in all of our different contexts. So that four stories, as much as we might like three stories on our main streets, we wanted to give you something simple. Maybe that could be revisited later.
 This is the context challenge that we face. This is a graphic that was produced by Bill Tripp as part of the mixed-use zoning committee in a presentation of unpacking the division problem, which never made it to the community. But we were there, and we saw some of these great illustrations that documented what some of the impacts are to these areas. We're really not very responsive to the context, and this is actually even a probably smaller development envelope than what we really have.
 So how that affects some of our greatest assets, I think I heard Chloe say once that our buildings are our brand, and I love that. And really, we're hearing from Travel Portland that they're sending people out to the neighborhoods. It's really a draw for people. These are some of our greatest assets that are part of our identity of how we see ourselves. Some of our foundational architecture that on the east side where we are actually underserved for art
 these subtle details of these buildings become our art. And so when you have a very large building, it dramatically impacts the feel, the character, and the overall quality of the district as a whole. So why it matters, it's the context that really impacts this. So poor compatibility, it's not about the density. It's about the design. Can I ask you a question about this? I don't dispute anything you just said.
 But getting back to the context of this particular, this is really about a notification requirement. Absolutely. And you're getting into something of a zoning and FAR conversation. Well, I'd be happy to clarify. Please do. Bring it back and help nail the point home for me. So the point is. Because I think you're on to it.
 Yeah, the point is, is that if we don't relate to, well, one thing is, you have those neighborhood meetings. They're very important for helping that developer be a better fit, that development be a better fit in the neighborhood. And so this is what we're asking for as part of submittal requirements to really be able to understand context. And that's what's in our notification policy, that we don't ask people for a context elevation, where you can see at a glance whether it's in context or not.
 And so that's something that we could be requiring as part of the process to help both neighborhoods and city staff understand how well there's a fit. That building right there would not have triggered a neighborhood notification for a development meeting. And so things like this, this context elevation, can help that big building relate to some of its smaller pieces. And this is from some of our older documents, building blocks for outer southeast neighborhoods.
 And so this building fits better with its context, and you can see that in a glance. So we're asking for that, that context elevation to be part of the city's request. So this is just a good example right here of a successful meeting with the business association where this building came in, and we happened to be presenting our new design guidelines, and they heard the city...
 the business association, really concerned about the impacts of the building. Then they heard our presentation on the design guidelines. They went back and changed the building design and made it fit better with the context. It's contemporary, it's high density, but it fits better. And so those, you know, these very important resources, these meetings can lead to less conflicts, right?
 A better affordable design, and I'll tell you why. A smoother and faster process for developers, and a better fit with old and new. So we're very concerned, and we want to make sure that the buildings reflect the vision of the people who live there, but there's also a lot of psychology of place that's important. And as we are building our new vision for our city, are we relating to context? Yes.
 Right here we have nothing that relates to context. They may be interesting and exciting, but we're also building really expensive buildings right now. These are not more affordable buildings. I might like the contemporary buildings, but they're not more affordable when we're actually cantilevering out. We're not using good design traditional practices that are actually more affordable. Many of these are using more traditional time-tested design practices to add density, and if we don't do it well, we're turning people off of density, right?
 So one of the other last pieces I just want to mention, as we think about how we grow and trading and evaluating these public goods, we want affordable housing, but we also need quality and livability and sustainability. We are not tracking and measuring these impacts ourselves.
 So one of the things that we're working on is a sustainability scorecard. We encourage you to come to our event at Design Week, or Design for Affordability, Resilience, and Sustainability. And we think that if you were to kind of weigh some of these public goods and think about some of the pieces that we've got in our policy...
 that it might actually help us get better, more sustainable, more affordable, context-sensitive design. Very good. Thank you. And you get the plug right here at the end. Very nice. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Could we have Sarah and Eric come back just for a quick – I'm sure some people might have questions. First of all, I always like to give – well, first of all, Sarah, congratulations. I always love it when I hear people say, even if they have an honest disagreement, I love it when I hear people talk about City of Portland employees –
 as being thorough, thoughtful, and fair-minded. And we heard that from a couple of people today, and I want to acknowledge that and thank you for that. You're making us all look good. And, Eric, you do all the time, so thank you.
 Is there any reaction you have to any of the testimony or the question about the $10,000, the question about a first right of refusal at the Neighborhood Association, some of the concerns that maybe were just raised in this last PowerPoint presentation about certain types of buildings maybe being out of scale but not necessarily triggering a notification requirement? Do you have any?
 extending the timeline from 35 to 45 to 60? I'm just wondering if you have any quick thoughts for us on any of this. The first right of refusal definitely came up with the Planning and Sustainability Commission. It was something they were interested in, but it would require additional time in that 35-day time period because there would have to be a communication time period in there. So it was a concern about extending the time that it would take. That was what came up there.
 And in terms of the threshold being square footage as opposed to, say, stories or FAR, square footage is something that's very measurable and easy to address when the permit comes in. So it is a much easier threshold there. Could I ask a question about that? Because a couple of people mentioned four stories. And...
 Yeah, it seems like four stories is also pretty easy to measure. Is there some advantage in your mind to the square footage over, say, a story requirement? A story requirement actually would be a little bit weirdly hard to measure because do you measure it from the ground level, from the basement? So what is the ground floor? There's some wiggle room there. But it's also a question of if four stories is the threshold, then what about a really large one-story building on a large lot? Does that not –
 I think there's just questions about whether four stories are going to be replaced. There's a tradeoff. There's what you're getting. There are some of our larger streets, too, that you're going to see most development being over four stories. So you'll have a street like Sandy or MLK where the expectation is five or six often. And so do we want to be triggering kind of automatically every project on some of those larger streets is a question, too. Commissioner Fishman.
 I was struck by something Linda Netikovan said about at the new seasons, I think four different neighborhood associations converging on a corner. So where you have –
 the convergence of neighborhood associations, and therefore it's a little artificial to say that it's primarily the concern of one neighborhood association or another. Could we tweak this to provide a condition under which you might give more than one neighborhood association written notice if it was close enough to the boundary? Yes. It could be written into the code that it would be –
 to the neighborhood association, business association within X distance of the site. I'd be interested in knowing whether that's workable, but it seems reasonable where you might have more than one neighborhood association that does have an interest and feels impacted by the design, particularly where they converge. So some geographic boundary I think is worth considering.
 Commissioner Fritz. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly. Please go ahead. Oh, gosh. Since we're not voting today, I just wanted to say thanks to everyone who came and testified. You all brought valuable input to the conversation. And I think Sarah also did a great job. But maybe we have a few more things to consider. My primary concerns are when we talk about public rights,
 outreach, what's the definition of public and I think for too long it's been property owners or just the neighborhood association and so when I had BDS I directed the Bureau to when we were required when mailed notices were required to go out to all residents not just property owners because everyone has a stake and
 in their communities. And I don't, I've never seen a definition of public that defines it as property owners. So I'm glad to see we're expanding that. And then I guess I just want to
 reiterate a concern, although whoever was it, RNA brought the sample document that, yeah, that was really helpful for everyone who didn't see it. There was just a kind of little,
 or matrix of community concerns and how the developer addressed them. And I think in almost all instances, there was some kind of change or consideration made that's heartening to me. It makes me feel that these meetings could actually be more productive. I just... I want the public to have a greater understanding of the whole process and when is the time for them to actually...
 if they are not satisfied and cannot accept the development, like what are the steps after that? But I'm not going to offer any specific amendments. It sounds like we have some thinking to do before we do the final votes. Commissioner Fritz? So I'm concerned about the changes to historic review and design review and land use reviews, that this applies there too. And so...
 We had lots of testimony from community members that having early input can make things go more smoothly, that there's more of an opportunity to change effective development before it gets too far down the line when it becomes a battle. So particularly for historic resource review, doing away with the current standards and making it only at 25,000, that could be a huge impact on a historic district.
 So all of the requirements about the historic review would remain. So all the notification requirements where property owners would need to be notified, those would all remain. The land use review, the quasi-judicial notification requirements would still be in place. But not the neighborhood meeting. I'm looking at page 67. Right. So the neighborhood contact, if it's less than 10,000 square feet, there would not be a neighborhood contact requirement. I think that's really problematic. I hadn't realized that until I started looking at the –
 division main street issue. And my earlier question is, if you're in a planned district, usually in the zoning code, the more restrictive applies. And so what we're doing in this project is getting rid of requirements for neighborhood contact, which I think have really benefited developers and made projects go smoother. And particularly when you get to the Historic Landmarks Commission and the Design Commission, they have very challenging requirements
 reviews anyway with multiple meetings. So if in addition to that, this is the first time that the neighborhood or any community member has been able to come in and say, this is completely out of context, that's a big problem. Yeah.
 So we are, yes, I mean, I think contact is valuable and early contact is really valuable. What we wanted to do with this proposal was to separate it out from the type of land use review or the type of city process and say all projects, regardless of where they are in the city, deserve the same treatment. So that's where we separated that out. This really flies in the face of 25 years of planning. And we have said that in a land use review where there is land,
 by state law, a requirement that community members can weigh in and can affect the outcome, that there should be earlier contact so that there isn't that adversarial relationship. I'm okay with this for building permits because those are done by rights anyway, as Commissioner Udeli was saying earlier. But for land use reviews and historic reviews and design review, I think this is a huge change which –
 I'm not, maybe others, because you gave me a briefing a month or more ago and have been to multiple community meetings, maybe others are only just finding out that this applies there too. So I'm a bit, I'm very concerned. So I would suggest we continue this. We've heard excellent testimony. This would ordinarily go to a second reading, but we deliberately are keeping the amendments open because we want to have time to consider that, so we'd continue this hearing anyway.
 I'm very appreciative of the work that you have both done, Sarah and Eric. I think the more I hear about this, the more I realize this is an incredibly complex riddle that you're trying to solve here. It is the proverbial balloon, right? Squish one side, it pops out somewhere else. And so this is really about thoughtful balancing.
 And is there a particular urgency to this? Is there some reason why we can't continue this out of ways? And then we can have some conversations and see how we can take into account some of the context that's been provided through testimony, some of the issues that have been braised by Chris and the Planning and Sustainability Commission, respect the work that you have done and others in the Bureau have done, and see if we can continue.
 get closer to a consensus on this, would that be okay?
 So we probably need to pick a date, at least a placeholder date, but I'd prefer it not be too soon. I'd prefer it to be at least a month out unless somebody tells me that's not going to work. I don't think Carla had time for at least a month out anyway, right? That would be my suspicion, given that we're in the budget process. Right, and we have a lot of absences. So the first day I have everybody in, including Commissioner Hardesty, is April 11th. Would that work at 2 p.m.? It's a Thursday. Okay.
 A Thursday afternoon? Yes, 2 p.m. I was going to say an afternoon. You're leaving at 3.30, but.
 I would prefer an afternoon meeting because it gives us more time to have these kinds of conversations without the pressure. So I would subscribe to that. Could we make sure that it's early on the agenda or the only thing on the agenda just so we can make sure we benefit from Commissioner Fritz's presence on this? Sure, as the 2 p.m., I'll make sure that's it. That would be great. I'm on city business going to Ashland to speak at the conference for the League of Cities. Ashland, huh?
 I could go. And is that all day or is it just at that particular time? It's the following day, so I need to catch a plane to get there. So are you able to be here until 3.30 or you have to take the flight at 3.30?
 I did not, unfortunately. I'm not that far ahead in my... I have booked a flight, but I don't have it in my phone. Could we see... What's the week after? Yeah, thank you. Oh, then I'm gone. Because your Fritz is gone both days. Again, I'm city business. And then you're gone the following week, the last week in April. So if we're looking at May... Well, since it won't be such a long thing, maybe we could do it... Let's have a try for the 11th. And I can be there for an hour and then...
 That's good. If we can do a lot of staff work prior to then, maybe we don't need an endless council. Just a process clarification to make sure we have it right. Are you extending the hearing, including public comments through then, or are you closing the hearing and extending deliberation? We are closing public comment unless there are new amendments or significant refinements, in which case we'd be obligated to open it up to public testimony on whatever the changes are. Yeah.
 That's a good idea. So the record is closed today, but the hearing will continue until April 11th at 2 p.m. At 2 p.m. However, if additional amendments are proposed on that date, public testimony will be reopened at that point. Exactly. Exactly.
 It would still be a first reading, though. Yes, correct. So the vote would not occur on that day. That is correct. And hopefully if we do have amendments, we can get them into the Tuesday memo or even into the agenda ahead of time so people would know about them. Good. So I want to reiterate something I said earlier. I think this is excellent staff work by Sarah and Eric. And, again, we're asking you to do the nearly impossible here, and I think we need to acknowledge that. But I think you've provided us –
 an outstanding template to build from, and I think we can continue to refine this and get to a place where there is a strong consensus here. That could not have happened without you, and I appreciate it. So this hearing is continued, as was described earlier, and we are also adjourned. Thank you, everyone.