Okay, ready to go? Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the March 3rd meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Ritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. The high fives and congratulations up here before we got started were to particularly compliment Commissioner Saltzman and the whole community on a successful effort an hour ago the Oregon Legislature
 approved the bill that will allow cities to carry out what's called inclusionary housing process by which we can require new development to provide affordable units and Commissioner Saltzman advocated successfully for that down there with a lot of help from the rest of this council and the community. So thank the Oregon legislature. Let's suspend the rules and thank the legislature for doing that. Good thing.
 So welcome everyone. We have a single item on the calendar. I'll have our clerk read it in a moment and turn it over to a couple of my colleagues here to kick it off. If you're here to speak on this item, just let our clerk know and she will make sure that Carl will make sure that you're given an opportunity to speak. We typically allow people three minutes apiece unless there's a huge crowd and I don't think this crowd exceeds that threshold. So please can try to say whatever you want to say in three minutes.
 You need only give your name if you're planning to speak. If you're not a frequent flyer here, you don't need to give us your address, just your name. If you're representing an organization, please let us know that. And then we do ask, other than the kind of demonstration that we just suspended the rules for, that we not applaud or make demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' points of view so they don't feel intimidated and can express them. So if you want to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, that's fine, but we ask that we...
 can find applause to momentary celebrations, children, and visiting dignitaries. So if you're one of those latter two categories, you might get another round of applause. So with that, let's read the item, please, Item 212. Strengthen regulations for tree preservation in development situations. Commissioner Saltzman, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 And just before we leave the inclusionary housing topic, I do want to say it was a team effort, and a lot of people in City Hall worked very hard to help the legislature get to the right decision. So thanks to everybody who worked on that. We have a staff presentation and then some invited testimony before public testimony will be taken. And I'll make some quick just introductory remarks before I hand it off to the co-sponsor of this ordinance, Commissioner Fritz. Portlanders are passionate about our trees, and this really came to a head last summer in the Eastmoreland neighborhood.
 as that community rallied to save three gigantic sequoias that were slated for removal. Unfortunately, not all neighborhoods have the resources and passion that Eastmoreland has, and it was obvious to myself and I think to Council as a whole that we needed stronger protections for significant trees when development threatened their removal. The ordinance before Council this afternoon does just that.
 and i'm proud to have partnered with commissioner amanda fritz on this compromise package and a compromise it truly is over the past few months staff in both the bureau of development services and urban forestry created proposals to save significant trees in development situations and then jointly presented those to the planning and sustainability commission and also to the urban forestry commission and after both of those bodies deliberated and created their own proposals
 for saving significant trees in development situations. And thus, four unique proposals were on the table for Commissioner Fritz and myself to consider before this council hearing. I believe what council is considering today takes the best from all those proposals and appropriately balances the need for infill development with a very strong disincentive for removing trees that are 50 inches or greater in diameter.
 It is truly the Goldilocks tree preservation proposal. Just right. And with that introduction, and with that, I will turn it over to Commissioner Fritz for her words of wisdom, and then we'll hear from staff and invited testimony.
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. First, thanks to Mayor Hales for assigning me both the Bureau of Development Services and the Bureau of Portland Parks and Recreation at the beginning of his term. And so it was my honor to figure out how to implement the tree code some three years after the council adopted it in 2011.
 And I need to be one of the first to say that it has not been without challenges and that there are some things that with all of the good work that we thought that we were doing in 2011, that there were some unintended consequences of multiple kinds. And this is one of them.
 Particularly thank Commissioner Saltzman for continuing to partner with me since the Bureau of Development Services was reassigned to him, and indeed all of the staff in Portland Parks and Recreation and the Bureau of Development Services who have helped in preparing this amendment and in implementing the tree code, which has not been easy from our side either.
 Last summer, we did hear from many Portlanders concerned about the removal and proposed removal of especially large trees in neighborhoods. And we continue to hear about that on a, I would say, weekly basis at least. So in response to the feedback, we have developed this stopgap measure to discourage the removal of trees that many people believe should be preserved. Okay.
 This ordinance is only dealing with healthy large trees on private land in development situations. We are proposing a sunset to ensure that it is a temporary fix. And I know that there are many, many other issues that folks may want to discuss today or have asked us to discuss in the future. And indeed, I'm hopeful that we will begin the more thorough review of the Tree Code this next fiscal year.
 to address the issues that have been identified by the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee and others, including Commissioner Novick's concerns about pruning permits, which I have not forgotten and I will keep that in mind. There has been a lot of citizen review and I particularly want to thank the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee for working very hard last year to help us monitor the implementation initially.
 and all of the other citizen boards and commissions that have been involved in proposing this stopgap measure. I have proposed in the Portland Parks and Recreation budget
 process for next year to do a complete review of the tree code. Later this month we'll be bringing the first annual report to Council and there'll be an opportunity at that point to discuss all of the other issues that are not on the table today. But this is an urgent issue that we all on the Council felt should be addressed sooner rather than later.
 So I'm now going to turn it over to our city forester, Jen Cairo, and Emily Sandy, who's the code and policy analyst for the Bureau of Development Services, to provide the history and details of the proposal that is in front of us today. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good afternoon, commissioners and Mayor Hales. For the record, I'm Jen Cairo, the city forester and the city nature zone manager for community gardens and horticultural services in Portland Parks and Recreation. And I'll be presenting today with my colleague, Emily Sandy, the BDS code and policy analyst.
 We're here today to present a potential amendment to Title XI trees, the city's new tree code that was implemented starting in January 2015. And the presentation today and the proposal is specifically in regards to regulated trees in private property development situations. And I'll note that Parks and the Bureau of Development Services are the bureaus responsible for administering Title XI trees, which is why you're hearing from us today.
 We will give an overview of what brought us here today, also a scope of the amendment, and finally we will talk about what the current code contains in regards to trees and private development situations, as well as the proposal before you and the recommendations that were submitted by the Planning and Sustainability Commission and the Urban Forestry Commission.
 The Planning and Sustainability Commission and Urban Forestry Commission in Title XI have a review role for any amendments that are made to the code. Title XI frames the goals and purpose of tree regulation and development situations as follows. The regulations of this chapter support and complement other city development requirements with a focus on achieving baseline tree preservation and total tree capacity on a site, considering the anticipated use and level of development.
 This chapter regulates the removal, protection, and planting of trees through the development process to encourage development where practicable to incorporate existing trees, particularly high-quality or larger trees and groves, into the site design to retain sufficient space to plant new trees and to ensure suitable tree replacement when trees are removed. It is the intent of these provisions to lessen the impact of tree removal and to ensure mitigation when tree preservation standards are not met.
 As you've heard already from the commissioners, there was significant concern among the citizens of Portland regarding especially large-sized trees being removed in development projects. Commissioner Fritz asked the Parks Bureau to create an initial proposal to change that code, and the Bureau of Development Services developed an alternative proposal as well.
 The Bureau of Development Services is in charge of administering development-related portions of the code on private property, and the City Forester administers development situations involving trees on city property and in rights of way. The presentation before you today and the proposal is intended to be a stopgap measure to bring into effect quickly and until such time as a more comprehensive review of Title XI can be conducted.
 And a note, when we talk about tree sizes in this presentation, we're referring to the diameter at breast height rather than height or other size measurements. Diameter at breast height is four and a half feet off of the ground, which is about this high. The initial parks and Bureau of Development Services proposals were presented to the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee, the Urban Forestry Commission, the Development Review Advisory Committee, and the other city infrastructure bureaus.
 These stakeholder bodies had an opportunity to review and comment on the proposals. The Oversight Advisory Committee was created by Commissioner Fritz of Volunteer Citizens as an ad hoc group intended to review the implementation process and give input on that first year of new code implementation. The Planning and Sustainability Commission and Urban Forestry Commission both submitted recommendations regarding amending the code pertaining to large trees and development situations, and Council has those.
 And finally, you have before you today for your consideration the proposed amendment to Title 11 that Commissioners Fritz and Salzman created using the preceding work of the stakeholder groups as well as city staff. The proposed amendment addresses tree preservation in certain situations, and those are in development-related situations, meaning not in non-development situations, and also on private property rather than on city or other property ownerships.
 The proposed amendment also does not address code content regarding where tree preservation is required or when trees are exempt from tree preservation standards. For example, Title 11 provides that trees are not regulated on sites that are less than 5,000 square feet in development situations. That's not contemplated. Changing that is not contemplated by the proposed amendment. And the same applies to exemptions in the code for some commercial industrial zones, dead, dying, and dangerous trees, and also nuisance species trees.
 Other code amendments have been indicated, and the plan is to undertake a broader comprehensive review of those concerns at a future date. The Fritz Haltzman proposed amendment will affect these specific project types in private development situations. Demolitions, new residential construction, new residential accessory structure construction, residential additions, new commercial construction in the community,
 Zones that are not exempt in the code and also commercial additions that are in non exempt zones We should note that before title 11 preservation related standards only applied to new residential construction And in those cases it was an option to plant or preserve trees rather than having any requirements Title 11 has increased regulation of trees and development situations from the previous city codes that it replaced now going to turn it over to Emily. I
 Well, now we're going to get into a little bit more detail about what the proposal is. And there's a table. You should have a sheet in front of you that is the same as the screen, just whatever is easiest for you to look at, the screen or the handout in front of you.
 So what I'm going to do is just reiterate what the current code is. I'm going to touch briefly on the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation and the Urban Forestry Commission recommendation, and then go into a little bit more detail on the Fritz Saltzman proposal. So the current code requires that of non-exempt trees that are 12 inches or greater in diameter, you must preserve one-third of those on the development site. For every tree...
 that is required to be preserved that you elect not to preserve you have to pay a fee in lieu and that fee in lieu is equal to the cost of planting and maintaining two trees and that translates into twelve hundred dollars and that fee is based on the current adopted tree permit fee schedule um that's subject to change and amendment periodically just like any other fee schedule
 So what this does is there's no, it's sort of a one-size-fits-all. There's no incentive or disincentive to preserve larger trees over smaller trees. There's no requirement for notice. City and street trees are treated differently. They're governed by the administrative rule, which was just adopted in October 2015. And that is about it for the current code. So the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommendation did a couple of things. One is...
 They said for trees up to 36 inches, those were still only subject to the one-third preservation standard. So you only have to preserve or pay a fee in lieu for one-third of the trees up to 36 inches in diameter. For trees that were 36 inches or greater, that standard would apply to all trees. So every single tree that's not exempt due to health or other reasons would have to be either preserved and protected or you pay a fee in lieu.
 The other thing that the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommended was a tiered schedule for mitigation payment. And that was based on the cost of replacement trees anywhere from $2 to $15. And it contained a cap on the fee. So the tiered mitigation schedule was tied to the size of the tree that was being removed.
 And then anywhere from 2 to 15 mitigation trees would be required, depending on the size of the tree that is being removed. But it would top out at 15 mitigation trees, which would equal, according to the existing fee schedule, $9,000. They added a notification requirement for removal of trees 36 inches and greater of 30 days.
 They added a sunset date, and they also recommended applying the amendments to city and street trees as well as private trees. The Urban Forestry Commission, they recommended that the one-third preservation standard apply to trees up to 30 inches in diameter instead of the 36, and that at 30 inches, you would need to either preserve or pay a fee in lieu for all trees, not just the one-third that were required under the current version of Title XI.
 Instead of a tiered mitigation schedule, they elected to go for an inch-per-inch mitigation requirement, and that would start at 20 inches. So up to 20-inch diameter tree would be the same at $1,200 per tree removed. And then beyond that, it would be inch-per-inch mitigation at the current rate of $300 per inch. That translates into a fee of $6,000 and up, depending as the tree size goes up.
 They also added a notice for removal of trees 30 inches or greater and applied the amendments to city and street trees and added a sunset date. So the Fritz Halsman proposal combines some elements of the two commission recommendations, and that's summarized on your right-hand column. So up to 36 inches, you need to preserve or protect or pay a fee in lieu of preservation for one-third of the non-exempt trees on your site.
 At 36 inches, you're required to preserve and protect or pay fee in lieu for all trees that are not exempt. And then the Fritz Halsman proposal combines both a tiered mitigation schedule and an inch-per-inch mitigation requirement.
 So from 12 to 50 inches, there's a tiered schedule. And again, it's based on the cost of a number of replacement trees. And that cost ranges from $1,200 to $4,800. And I'll show you a table that has a little bit more detail on this on the next slide. Okay.
 But then at 50 inches, it switches over to an inch-per-inch fee. So from 12 to 20 inches, you're going to pay, depending on the size of the tree removed, anywhere from $1,200 to $4,800. Again, this is based on the current fee schedule. And then at 50 inches, it's going to switch over to inch-per-inch. And at 50 inches, that translates into a $15,000 fee, and that would increase at $300 per inch as the tree size increases.
 There's a notification requirement for the removal of trees 36 inches or greater. That's a 30-day notice that's posted on the site and sent to the Neighborhood Association and District Coalition. It does not apply to city and street trees, and there is a sunset date of December 31, 2019, in anticipation of this larger project that we can hopefully get going soon. So if you flip to the backside of your sheet...
 This just has some more detail about the mitigation schedules, the tiered mitigation schedules for all the proposals. I'm just going to concentrate on the Fritz Saltzman proposal, which is the one on the bottom. So here you see for trees that are 12 to 20 inches, the mitigation payment is based on the cost of two replacement trees, which is currently $1.
 valued at $1,200. From 20 to 36 inches, it's four trees, which translates to $2,400. From 36 to 50, it translates to eight trees, or it is eight trees, which translates to $4,800. And then at 50 inches, it changes to an inch per inch requirement, and that's $15,000 plus. And then finally, our last slide is just some data for you to take a look at.
 It's a limited set of data, but it's pretty useful, I think. It's residential new construction and demolition permits that were issued in August of 2015. And what this shows is it shows the number of trees in each of the size categories shown that were shown on site plans for development permits. So it's not the trees that were removed, it's just the trees that occurred that we saw on sites. And so what it's showing you is what...
 what the it's an indicator of what the distribution of tree sizes are out there in the world So it's not making a distinction about whether those trees were proposed to be or actually were removed in development That's just the inventory of what was on those lots. Correct. They were there so what it shows you and we didn't have a measurement of more than 50 inches, but if you look at the over 42 inches of
 you'll see that that's 3% of trees, so 50 inches would presumably cover less than 3% of trees. And once you go down to 36 inches, which is what this proposal triggers, both applying the preservation or mitigation requirement to all trees and the notification requirement, that's covering about 7% of trees, and I think you can generalize, you know, it's less than 10% of trees. And then as the tree sizes get smaller, you see their occurrence decrease.
 So that's it for staff, if you have any questions. One more thing to point out over here on my right. We made some paper tree cookies to illustrate the relative sizes of the trees, their diameter at breast height that you've just heard mentioned. So clearly the largest of those is the 50-inch tree. And the 36-inch diameter is here on the floor. Okay.
 20 inches is up on the stand, and 12 is on the 50-dBH plate. Again, the 50-inch tree is something we don't see very often in Portland. I'd say that Parks Bureau really needs to stop spending so much money on displays. We thought about getting timber, Joey, and we decided not to. That's really lavish. Thank you. You're welcome. Job's for that.
 All right. Other questions? Actual substantive questions for this team, if any. We may have more later. But do you want to turn to invited testimony now? Do you have some? Yeah, we do. Thank you both very much. Thank you. So we have invited testimony from the Development Re-Advisory Committee, the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and the Urban Forestry Commission. And they'll each get about five minutes each. If you want to run the clock just as an example.
 illustrative point, although we tend to give our hardworking citizens, volunteers the time that they need to be able to explain their positions. Can we acknowledge Mary Helen Kincaid's recent award and honor? Please go for it. Recipient of this year's Compass Award from the Port of Portland for community service. Mayor, can we give her a round of applause for that? Yes, you're here.
 i'll take a couple seconds just but um my closing line at that award ceremony is you're only as good as the company you keep and i think i've kept some really good company including members of the council been supportive so couldn't have done good work without people supporting me i appreciate that
 So I'm here, Mary Helen Kincaid, I'm the chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee, and I was asked to present the sort of sentiment of DRAC.
 We at our, but first before I do that, I want to thank Emily Sandy and the other staff who presented information, kept bringing us updates. There were a variety of people involved and making charts so that in a two-hour meeting we could comprehend something that took seven years to come to fruition. And I have to admit that even in trying to prepare my testimony and looking at all the different reports, I was confused. So...
 it's a difficult thing before you and i admire your ability to make a decision based on all this information we received a report the
 Planning and Sustainability Commission, Urban Forestry, and the BDS proposal at our February meeting, both January and February meetings. And I think you have a copy of the letter that we sent to the Planning and Sustainability Commission supporting the BDS proposal.
 at that time. So that was the official DRAC vote. Since then, we received information about the Fritz Saltzman proposal and there seemed to be, and this is my summation of conversations with many of the DRAC members, informal and email, is that there was support for that. They had a couple of concerns and I'll tell you those in a minute.
 I think that it was a good compilation of the two. And since we have neighborhood and all sorts of people in the development community, the concerns that they had with the current amendments, and one is, and it always bubbles to the top, how this affects affordability.
 DRAC has now had their first meeting of their subcommittee on fees and regulations and how all of those are going to affect the development process and how we can bring that information back to you that says, these are all the things that are contributing because you see them one at a time, different months of the year. How do those all pile up and how are they affecting the whole affordability issue that we're facing? So this was a concern that this was yet another fee that would be passed on to the next committee.
 homeowner. So there was concern about that. The other concern was the leaving out of trees in the right of way from infrastructure bureaus. A tree is a tree and if it goes down, there should be some sort of compensation for it. And that was kind of the sentiment.
 aiming at only a new development, not taking into consideration the homeowners that take a large tree down because it's messy, it's bothering them, the roots are bothering, whatever the case, that there should be some sort of consideration for that, and that might be one of the things you can look at a later date or maybe address now. But there are no figures, I've been told, of how many trees went down because, and I can give two examples in my neighborhood,
 trees that were planted 14 years ago when the subdivision was developed. They were 20-inch trees, so they weren't really large, but there were also a couple trees that we went and measured the stumps, and so they weren't breast high, but they were larger than 36 inches because they'd been there on the previous land. But they shaded their patio, and they didn't like them, so they took them down. They weren't subject to any kind of fee other than their...
 tree permit fee so um that's one thing i think needs to be addressed so that we aren't always targeting new development and the issue with new development is is the city is um
 wanting infill development and density, and some of those trees are, quote-unquote, and this is not my words, it's somebody else's words, interfering with that. So if we want to build more residential structures on these infill lots that are historically older in older neighborhoods that have that underlying lot line, there needs to be some sort of thought of, do you want infill or do you want to save the tree? That was another concern. Okay.
 The notification purpose was the purpose of the notification, and that was a little bit of the issue with Claire Carter, who's the other neighborhood rep and I. It only starts an argument because there's no recourse. You notify people, and it's kind of what's a little bit has been happening with remodeling notifications. We're telling people a bad thing's going to happen, but we don't give them any option to do anything. And there's no way for a neighborhood to respond.
 purchase that tree to say don't take the tree down um we're just saying that the tree is going to go down and somebody's paying whatever it is they end up paying nine thousand sixteen thousand twenty thousand um do i need to stop one more um quick thing the the other issue is that the
 There needs to be some kind of certainty in the process. So we heard at our last draft meeting that the fees for the caliper per inch, $300, could go up to $600 in a couple months. And so I don't know if that's addressed, and I think you're going to tell me. Let me just dispel that rumor. There was a discussion at the Tree Oversight Advisory Committee about what does it actually cost to do the replacement value and the staff time that's due, and it's more like $600 per caliper per inch.
 per caliper inch. I will not be bringing any changes in the fee schedule to change the $300 until we do the ongoing process and we see if these changes work. I have no intention of bringing even a minor change to council in the near future. And then that would dispel all those fears that the people have. So in summation, I believe DRAC will support the Fritz Haltzman proposal with
 how it is, but if there's, and because it has a sunset, but maybe look at that notification process for 14 days, because I don't know, 14 days gives somebody plenty enough time to react, but they really don't get to do anything when they react. They just get notified something bad's happening. Thanks very much.
 Andre, welcome. Andre Baugh, Plains Sustainability Commissioner. We did a review of the proposals, and to start, we had two proposals from us, and we found it honestly difficult. We had one from the Bureau of Development Services, and we had one from Parks.
 And the commissioners just found it an odd and difficult process. But at the end of the day, we really did understand and we believe the current regulations do not, you know, we think support the community view and ensure tree preservation. So we're supportive of some kind of change, and that change today being a stopgap measure as we proposed it
 But we really, and I do want to emphasize, the reason for the, in our proposal, looking at a sunset date was to really push to get a full vetted review of Title XI and come back and look at some of the actual costs of tree mitigation and some of those things. And impacts, we had concerns to...
 you know, affordable housing and to minor issues that may be affected by a homeowner. But we did, at the end of the day, really look at tree preservation. The other part, I want to thank BDS for giving us some information. You've seen the chart of diameter trees and preservation and preservation
 Proposal A in front of us was the parks proposal. Proposal B was the BDS proposal. And our approach was to modify B a little bit versus trying to recreate a wheel. So we looked at the chart of diameters and thought 36 inches was kind of our starting point from that proposal.
 We looked at the public notice time and thought that 30 days was ample. We should move it to 30 days. We just thought, you know, a neighborhood association included in that notification process gives someone time to, yeah, it doesn't say how do you stop that removal, but at least gives them time to kind of format that.
 if they can go and talk to a developer about other alternatives. We also recommended that the amendments apply to the city and to street trees, those city-owned or managed property. And we did hear testimony from a beautiful woman,
 Transportation said that they felt that the LIDs would, that would be a hardship on the LID process by adding those costs. But at the end of the day, we thought everybody should participate in tree preservation, including the city on city land. We also, and again, looked at how do we, at the end of the day, we want transportation.
 that full review of Title XI and full vetting process because part of our concern and just part of our discussion was,
 We had two hours to kind of look at two proposals, hear from testimony, and come up with a third proposal. And the lack of kind of public process to get there was of concern to some of the commissioners, including myself. And that full vetting of Title XI will give us maybe the same answer or different answers. But we really didn't touch the BDS proposal down below. When you look below there, we'd
 stayed with $300 an inch. We basically kept the formatting, but as we got up, we increased it. We felt the burden, capped the burden at $9,000 for the trees. But there was a lot of, we had a lot of questions that we couldn't answer because of the short time frame. But as a stopgap measure, we felt we could move this on and send it to you for review. Thank you.
 thank you very much questions rather at least folks thank you both very much appreciate your help with this other invited do we have anybody from the urban forestry commission fine you could just give them to the council clerk and she'll pass them and i have extra copies here in case anybody else would like to see them likewise and if the two of you can try to keep your testimony to five minutes that's very helpful thank you
 My name is David Diaz. I'm a forest data scientist with EcoTrust, and I've served on the Portland Urban Forestry Commission for two years. Thank you for inviting us to provide our comments to you today and for holding this hearing to take some emergency measures to address some glaring shortcomings in Title XI.
 The Urban Forestry Commission would really like to commend this new proposal for establishing several key principles. In particular, these include providing a meaningful time frame for public notice, the recognition that larger trees provide a greater value of services than smaller trees, and that that should be reflected in the mitigation schedule,
 And although there is still no circumstance where trees are actually required to be preserved in the city code, this proposal recognizes that especially large trees are of such value that we cannot afford to permit any significant trees to be removed without a disincentive and at least partial mitigation. Vivek and I were selected among the 10 UFC members because we're the data geeks.
 With that in mind, I offer the following suggestions to improve this proposal based on an analysis of data on the value of services provided by trees, the results of which are summarized in that handout in front of you.
 these improvements to the proposal would ensure that the tree code more accurate accurately reflects the value of our trees and the values articulated in our own city code in title 11 the intent of tree preservation requirements were spelled out clearly in the commentary mitigation rules for tree removal were designed quote to offset the loss of the established tree and the time lag for new trees to provide benefits
 The mitigation schedule proposed in this latest proposal for 36 to 50-inch trees offers a trivial disincentive relative to the value of development projects, and it would permit widespread, unmitigated losses from the removal of significant trees. In non-development situations, Title XI permits the city forester to require up to inch-for-inch mitigation for trees that are 20 inches or larger.
 This newest proposal would establish a maximum of eight saplings following the removal of trees that are 36 inches in diameter. This is less than half of what would be the case under inch-for-inch replacement, which the UFC unanimously recommended and which might otherwise be required in non-development situations.
 In the policy brief in front of you, I've illustrated a comparison of the mitigation scenarios now proposed versus the inch-for-inch recommendation of the UFC. These graphs show the cumulative present, that is, future discounted, value of ecosystem services from a 36-inch Douglas fir tree if it was removed in 2015 and the value of services that would be provided by the trees planted in mitigation. Under all of these scenarios, it takes more than a decade for even the most ambitious replanting scheme to resume providing services at the rate of the removed tree.
 When we also consider the time lag of those services, as Title XI originally intended, even inch-for-inch mitigation takes decades to mitigate the full present value of services that were lost. If the mitigation schedule proposed here, losses are only mitigated if all eight replacement trees are large-form trees and it will still take more than 50 years.
 Now consider not only that the average lifespan of urban trees is 10 to 20 years, but also that the trend we are observing across the city is the removal of large trees and the replacement with small trees. This is a vicious cycle. We urge you to strengthen this proposal to ensure that all trees, 36 to 50 inches in diameter, permitted to be removed, are subject to inch-for-inch mitigation. Anything less will entrench unsustainable losses into the city code that was specifically supposed to preserve them. Thank you.
 Hi. I'm going to build on David's comments here. My name is Vivek Chandas. I serve on the City's Urban Forestry Commission. I'm also a citizen in Southeast Portland, research director for the Institute for Sustainable Solutions and a faculty member at the Toulon School of Urban Studies and Planning and Portland State University. I'd like to read a statement that builds on David's testimony in less than two minutes.
 I begin by asking you the significance of the number 11. You might think that it has to do with the title that we're talking about. As David was talking about, we have done tremendous analysis of the city trees using a very recently acquired LIDAR dataset. And 11 is also the number of trees that are greater than 200 feet tall. We're not talking about DBH here, but greater than 200 feet tall that are on private property in the city of Portland.
 Compare that to – that represents 3% of all the trees in the city that's on private property, large giants. Compare that to the 97% of trees, about 811 total, that are on public rights-of-way and parks.
 that are city-owned land, these large trees, the larger the tree, the greater the likelihood, as you saw in a previous graph, that it will be on public land. I have a figure there to show you just as you go from 50 feet to 100 feet all the way up to 200 feet and above what the ownership of those trees are.
 Large trees matter to the health and well-being of the citizens of Portland, and that's the argument that I want to make today. The city has an obligation to protect these remnants of Portland's past. Our research group has found that Portland's urban forest provides up to $24 million in public health benefits through improving air quality.
 We believe this to be a highly conservative number. They can also help in discovering the distribution of pollutants, as we've recently learned through the controversy about heavy metals of arsenic and cadmium in Portland's air. Second, our large trees are also the city's direct line of defense against extreme climate events, which are predicted to increase in magnitude, frequency, and duration.
 Large canopy vegetation, for example, can reduce temperatures by upwards of 15 degrees Fahrenheit, which during a heat wave can be the difference between life and death among the city's most vulnerable populations. So the tree code represents a significant opportunity for us to improve the health and well-being of our citizens. The current code does not value our urban forests for its role in improving our health, economy, infrastructure, or quality of life.
 If Title XI can help save the 11 remaining giants on private property, it can surely also conserve the majority that are on public land. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Questions? Thanks very much. Thank you. That's it for invited testimony. All right. Thank you. Let's move to the sign-up sheet, please, Carl. 20 people signed up. And the first three, please come on up, are Jim Levy, Sean Sullivan, and Jordan Winkler.
 and they'll be followed by Robert Bernstein, Darvell Lloyd, and Sam Noble. Good afternoon. Welcome. Who would ever like to go first? Go ahead. Mayor Hale, City Council, thank you for the opportunity to testify today. My name is Jim Labbe. I served on the citywide advisory committee that developed Title XI and also in the last year the oversight advisory committee. I want to thank Commissioner Fritz and Talsman for participating
 putting together a proposal that i think represents a genuine effort to moving responding to the community's concerns i know from looking at 10 11 last year there's a lot more to do and we need to stay on this as especially as the city projects go forward around the comp plan
 I want to support the Urban Forestry Commission's testimony, Audubon's testimony today, in terms of improving this proposal. But I want to focus my testimony on really one key issue you've already heard a little bit about, about a key weakness, and I think it's a very important weakness that needs to be readdressed in this, is the decision not to apply this graduated mitigation standard to city street trees, publicly owned trees. And I think you can understand...
 appreciate the politics uh why i think that's that's bad politics in terms of having holding the city to a lower standard in a city that really should be be holding out a higher standard in terms of its own operations and that was that was a key recommendation of the oversight advisory committee that the city should really set an example but practically too it's really important that just like
 developers, the city bureaus need to really incorporate the value and the cost of trees into their designs, into their budgets, and into their overall proposals that we need. It's about really integrating trees into how we build and design cities. So
 I think we could hold the bureaus to the same standard that we are at private developers in development situations and still retain the flexibility that's in Title XI for them to meeting that mitigation standard. So Title XI already has allowances for the bureaus to work with the city to plant their own trees instead of paying a fee in lieu of preservation. And I think that for bureaus like BES in particular, that makes –
 Well, for all the bureaus, there's opportunities to do that. And I think you can hold the same standard but be flexible in terms of how those trees get planted. It doesn't have to be urban forestry. You know, it's often claimed that the bureaus – I guess that's my time. No, no, 30 seconds. Oh, that's 30 seconds. Well, I'll just – there's more of my written comments. But I think, you know, the trees are complex, right?
 But the politics are making them unnecessarily complex. And I think this issue in particular is a good example of that, that making these little exceptions, and it compromises the integrity of the code and the fairness of it, and it also just makes it more complex. So thank you. Thank you. So, Mayor, I'm sure we're going to get more testimony in this. It might be helpful if I...
 give some context as to why the proposal is this way. And part of it is that I agree with you. And part of it is that the rest of the council agrees with you and that I don't want to be the commissioner in charge of a bureau that's going to cut down a whacking great tree like one of these. Because I know I'm going to be held accountable by the community. It doesn't take an incentive of $15,000 or even $50,000 or $150,000 or however much the
 cost would be, I'm going to hear it from my constituents and I'm going to be held accountable that way. And so part of my comfort in putting this
 forward with Commissioner Saltzman is there is significant concern from the utilities, from PBOT, that there would be a huge increase in expense in some situations. And so they and the council, I believe, want some more time to be able to figure that out. But there's a separate mechanism for council to be held accountable and for bureaus to be held accountable compared with private developers.
 You may not agree with that, but I just wanted to see if that's... Yeah, I hear that. I think the key thing is when it gets down to planning and budgeting, when it gets down to the nitty-gritty of developing projects, having that incentive there versus, obviously, the political feedback system, which is... Well, I know it's hard for community members to...
 always accept that Bureau staff actually are Portlanders who care passionately about trees too, and that they're going to do as much as they can to avoid especially large trees. In my experience, that's been the way projects have been designed. And so that, as I say, we may not agree on this issue, and it's certainly something that I would expect an ongoing process to look into. That's why the proposal is on the table. If the council, having heard all the testimony, wants to change it, we should have that discussion.
 Commissioner, I'd just like to add that what PBOT explains is that in a number of cases, you've got trees that were—
 planted in the right of way without approval. They were illegally planted there. They're there 20 or 30 years later, and the question is, should PMOT have to pay out of its nonexistent budget a lot of money in order to make sure that it can build a sidewalk that makes it possible for people to walk and reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions and makes it safer? Should PMOT have to pay a lot of money and move money from one city pot to another, which is what we're talking about, because of a tree that was planted illegally years and years ago?
 Okay, we're going to give you a chance to weigh in on this debate now. My turn. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Sean Sullivan. I'm the Development Manager for Cedar Sinai Park Robeson Jewish Home Renovation. And I think Commissioner Fritz coined it as an unintended consequence. That's my project. Okay.
 We submitted for permit in the spring of 2015 for substantial remodel, renovation, and addition to Cedar-Sinai. We did that very intentionally because it's built on a hillside. It was originally constructed in 1954. We know that the soils are extremely sensitive, and so our timing was to get the permit and get into the ground well before the rains. Okay.
 When Development Services got past eight weeks without our check sheets all getting back, we tried to change our direction and we went in for a site development permit. As you might know, when you go for a site development permit, it stops your permit process. They won't do both of them simultaneously.
 We were told that the site development permit would take approximately three weeks, but they understood our sensitivity and our client. Our client's a nonprofit serving Medicaid elderly continuing care. They didn't want us to be into a position of exposure and that we could expect maybe an expedited process that beat the three-week time period. Unfortunately, that three weeks took closer to about nine.
 And the reason why was because no one in, I can't say no one, let's just say that it was a great struggle between our team, which were arborists and award-winning landscape architects and architectural firms, and meeting with people at the city and development services that were the planners and the planners' administrators, that they couldn't seem to figure out how to work through the dynamics of Title XI.
 In the end, that delay did push us into the winter. We went as fast as we can go. But unfortunately, right when we were building our last retaining wall, we had that inch and a half of rain in September. It washed the hillside down. And we had a $250,000 change order and about $60,000 in delays, which makes me sad when you have to go back to a nonprofit and say, by the way, there goes a big chunk of your contingency.
 During the process of going through Title XI, I truly struggled with how people were trying to work their way through the process. I had my team go in and sit down with development services. They met. I said, please just figure out whatever it is that we have to do. Let's just get to the completion of this. We'll change things. We'll remark things. We'll do this.
 But it finally came back that it was Development Services' recommendation that we eliminate three of the trees that we were trying to save, take them out of the Title XI consideration, pay the fee for the mitigation, and then it was up to us if we wanted to turn around and save them. So that was one of the actions of which we took. I think that as we talk about trees and we talk about what you're doing here today, that there is the process. I felt...
 Development services was unprepared, maybe unknowledgeable of how to pull the process through, how to apply that to a project. And as much as my consultants, I thought, were expert at it, I think they did too. And the loser in all of this was a nonprofit that just wanted to build an expansion. Thank you for your testimony. I apologize for the interruption.
 challenges that we experienced in working through the new code and for what happened on your project and that we will be looking at that in the ongoing process to figure out what kinds of things need to be changed in the overall process. I appreciate your testimony. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Jordan Winkler and I'm going to talk about one shortcoming of Title XI in particular and explain my situation in which Title XI is so inflexible that it bars
 urban forestry from considering at all the merits of our proposal to remove trees that will eventually be cut down in any case and transform them into art and sculpture to be incorporated into an on-site you know on-site in a development that we are working on my company had Gabriel 45 LLC owns a development site directly across the street from the Southwest Community Center in Gabriel Park
 And the site's bisected by the unimproved stub of southwest Florida, where, you know, it's an unimproved stub, and then what it would have connected to has already been vacated. And we put in to vacate this, you know, it's just dirt right there at the moment.
 And in the center of the unimproved right-of-way and near the center of our development site are two trees that will need to be cut down either when there's development on the site or the city eventually builds this, you know, would build a road to nowhere, which seems pretty unlikely. Okay.
 But as an alternative to, you know, inevitably turning these trees into bark dust when they're removed, we'd like to salvage the trees now and repurpose them as material for art and sculpture to be installed in our development, sort of like as advanced form of recycling. And we're working with Pacific Northwest College of Art and the Oregon School of Art and Craft to fund a curriculum for their artists and their students to take the trees and turn them into bark.
 into whatever creative uses in terms of public art or as part of architecture that they come up with.
 And we think this will be like an innovative model for balancing on the one hand the need to preserve and honor Portland's natural heritage with the real needs of infill development on the other hand. And we hope that this would produce public artwork and sort of jumpstart a cottage industry for local artists to replicate a similar concept in other new construction where there is on-site trees. But because of the long timeline involved in,
 curing trees, preparing them to be transformed into artwork, and then the need to install them as part of a construction process. We applied in advance of the street vacation and in advance of the development permit to remove the trees, and our application was denied. But it wasn't denied based on the merits of our concept,
 because Title XI prohibits urban forestry from considering our concept or any concept at all. The sole criteria in this case is whether the trees are dangerous, dead, or dying. So I think in the end, because we can't remove the trees now, I think we're going to have a much worse outcome. And I think that it's sort of unduly limiting the discretion of city staff to weigh what's in the public's best interest versus this very prescriptive and inflexible set of rules. Yeah.
 that they work with. Thank you. Thank you. That also is a new issue brought to our attention and something that the ongoing process could well look at. I appreciate your testimony. Next three are Robert Bernstein, Darvell Lloyd, and Sam Noble, and they'll be followed by Ellen Gentry, Joe Brody, and Denny Barnes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Robert Bernstein, a Southeast Portland homeowner. Thanks for this opportunity.
 I was part of the group that helped protect the big sequoias in Eastmoreland, and I saw a picture this past week of a pair of eagles perched atop them, which was pleasant to see. So my understanding is that Tidally Leaven is part of the implementation of the urban forestry or urban forest plan.
 And the wording there is protect, preserve, restore, expand our urban forest. It's nice words and it's something to feel good about if it actually occurs. So shortly after the Sequoia incident, there was a news article that I saw on one of the stations about a woman, a mother, who was almost a victim of a carjacking and her child was in the car. Okay.
 Unfortunately for the carjacker, she actually chose to protect her child. She didn't ask the carjacker, um, hey, can I get a smaller child somewhere else as mitigation or something? No. She unleashed a can of you-know-what on him and sent him packing. There's a huge difference between mitigation, which is gobbledygook to me, because it's not real time and you've heard that before, um,
 And it sort of makes you feel good, but it doesn't really do anything in many situations. We don't even know the survival rate of the mitigated trees. We're going to be facing more and more drought years. I would like to see all trees valued. You're not going to get to that size tree unless you take care of a 12 or 20 inch tree. It doesn't take a brainiac to realize this.
 And in the Portland plan, it states no loss of habitat. And we've lost hundreds of acres to infill. We've lost tons of bird habitat, squirrel habitat. You know, those redwoods, when I was by them, there were nut hatches. There were those eagles. There were stellar jays. You're not going to find those in some little ornamental tree that somebody leaves on the property to take care of the one-third.
 It's just not going to happen. In terms of accommodating the growth for Portland, I think it's a red herring.
 I think that greed will dictate how much houses go for. The demand is so high that all you will do, because this is not a closed system where there's 10 people moving in, you're going to build 11 houses, and that'll drop the pricing. That's not the way it's going to work. There's thousands of people who want to come. All you will do is cheapen the standard of living, the quality of life for Portlanders,
 Part of why housing goes for a lot of money here is because of the trees and the greenness of Portland. It's a community resource. It should be treated so, and we should incentivize people for leaving trees, not just have penalties high enough to hopefully, and I don't even think that would work for a 50-inch tree in a development situation. It would still be worthwhile, crunch the numbers for a developer to take out that tree. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. My name is Darval Lloyd, and I live in southeast Portland. Thank you very much for holding this hearing to decide on these stopgap measures. Even though I am very distressed that, except for designated heritage trees, that two-thirds of all the trees, large and small, in development situations are still legally unprotected,
 however in the interest of time i urge you to adopt the urban forestry commission's recommendations for immediate stop gap amendments but i would even go further may be too late now but i'll throw this out lower the proposed new mitigation threshold for large trees to 20 inches in diameter instead of 30 inches
 This will include many more mature tree species in the one-third preservation standard. A lot of species don't even get to be 20 inches in diameter. The public notice requirement should be increased to 45 days, I think, rather than 30 days, because it's so complicated to get through it and to get an appeal going with the neighborhood association and so forth.
 I agree with the Portland Audubon that...
 All trees greater than 20-inch tree threshold that are not designated to be preserved should be subject to public notification standard and the mitigation schedule, and is based on the inch-for-inch planning replacement using a graduated no-cap system with larger fees than are now in effect.
 These new preservation and mitigation standards should be applied to trees on commercial and industrial lands, as well as the city and street trees, although after hearing about the costs to the PBOT, I'm not sure if this is okay. The amendment should be applied to lot sizes down to 3,000 feet, I feel.
 A comprehensive review of Title XI must be made as soon as possible
 with added amendments that will truly preserve the city's mature tree canopy rather than just mitigating for its loss. Recent studies have proven that preservation of large trees instead of planting new saplings brings in a much larger return on investment for the city, the neighborhood, and the affected property owners.
 New homes and other buildings must be designed to include existing, mature, and older trees rather than excluding them.
 In closing, you all know the overall value of large trees to our fragile, rapidly warming environment. So we must preserve, we must strive to preserve, to exist, to preserve all the existing tree canopy at all costs. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Sam Noble. I also live in southeast Portland. I want you to know that I'm not in the business of developing property. I work with computers. I really like trees and so that makes me incredibly conflicted about my testimony here today.
 Every proposal before you tying mitigation fees to tree diameter is going to hurt me in particular and probably be detrimental to the long-term development of the city's canopy by disincentivizing the planting of large trees in the first place.
 In 2014, I bought my current home on Mount Tabor specifically because I was able to purchase an adjoining vacant buildable lot. The vacant lot has several trees with a diameter of about 20 inches and another that may one day reach a similar potential. None of these trees are more than 20 or 25 years old. I was told that one of the larger trees is a Douglas fir. It's a really beautiful tree. I can't tell you its growing potential, but I think that it could get really large.
 I have no plans to build anything. I wanted space for an unshaded garden, for my dogs, maybe someday for my kids to play. Please understand an empty buildable lot is an expensive thing, one I could only afford because I expect it will still be in demand when it's time to move.
 But a developer will know which trees need to be removed and how much they're worth. Any offer I get will take this into account. I really want to keep my trees, but every day I'm going to wonder if I can afford to let them get any bigger. Large trees are lovely and amazing, but they're also a burden. They require significant maintenance, time, and money. And many of us consider this a fair trade. I mean, currently, like, it's well worth my while. But please don't make them a financial liability as well.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you all. Next, folks, please. Ellen Gentry, Joe Brady, and Denny Barnes, and they'll be followed by Greg Snyder, Merle Reddish, and Bob Sullinger. Good afternoon and welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Ellen Gentry, and I'm representing the Multnomah Neighborhood Association, and I'm here to urge your support of the Urban Forestry Commission's original proposal
 to uh excuse me i'm gonna have to get my glass uh proposal uh to uh reduce the lot exemption from 5 000 to 3 000 square feet commissioner fritz and salzman's proposals included some barriers to tree removal but it did not respond to citizen input and that of the local audubon society
 asking for a reduction in the size of the lot exemption from 5,000 to 3,000 square feet. We in Multnomah Village have seen several examples in which developers have built on 5,000-square-foot lots and have removed all of the trees, including large mature trees. And to illustrate the importance to the tree canopy of individual lots,
 A recent urban tree canopy analysis commissioned by the City Parks Department of Seattle found that most of the tree canopy growth in recent years has occurred on single-family lots and their street frontage. All the city's parks and their street frontage accounted for just 21% of the tree canopy, while 63% occurred on single-family lots.
 The implication is that single-family homes with lots containing mature trees are the core of the urban forest. So the question is, do we want to pack as much development into the city as possible while losing the tree canopy that's a signature of Portland and so important to the local environment? So I believe that your decision about whether to adopt the proposal
 to reduce the exemption from 5,000 to 3,000 feet will reflect your vision for the future of the urban canopy, particularly as it relates to individual lots. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And that's certainly something that I know the next project will consider. There are a lot of implications to changing the size of the triggering size of the lot, which we discussed back in 2011. So it's not part of the stopgap measure, but it's definitely something that we can look at in the ongoing project.
 Hi, I'm Denny Barnes, and I'm representing Collinsview Neighborhood Association, where I'm on the board, and I actually chair the Collinsview Tree Committee. Yes, we have our own neighborhood tree committee, and we like to say Collinsview is a neighborhood where trees have standing. Right.
 We'd like to keep it that way, but we're horrified at the destruction of our native evergreen canopy these days. And the current tree code has really failed to protect the many majestic dougfurs and cedars and other native conifers that stand over our neighborhood. And this destruction is really affecting the quality of our lives, so...
 Let me just say, while we recognize the Fritz Salzman proposal is definitely an improvement, we feel most comfortable with the Audubon Society's proposed amendment, so it would afford the most protection.
 The things that our neighborhood association is really concerned about is we're not getting any notification. So most of the proposals seem to mandate 15 to 30 days. The gentleman had mentioned 45 days. That would be even better. It was said, why in the world do you want to notify the neighborhoods because they can't do anything anyway? Maybe not with Citi, but we definitely can talk to the developers and talk about mitigation plans.
 We now have a grant from the Southwest Neighborhood, Inc. to plant native conifers. We're trying to plant them faster than they're being cut down, and I'm afraid we're not making that standard yet. So we need to work at preservation as well. Allowing two-thirds of the trees in a developmental situation to be cut down without consequences –
 It's numbing. We don't understand that at all. We think all trees should be mitigated for. $1,200 doesn't begin to represent the value to our neighborhood. Adding mitigation based on cal per inch will improve that a little bit, but...
 We're seeing dramatic changes. We're seeing summer temperatures going up. In December rains, we're seeing flooding because the big conifers are really good at mitigating stormwater runoff. They hold a lot of rain in the canopy, and the roots suck up a lot of water. With the rising commuter traffic through our neighborhood going to Lake Oswego, we're seeing more traffic noise, more air pollution, and, of course, big floods.
 native conifers mitigate all that? We're supposed to be a critical link in the West Side Wildlife Corridor? Well, yeah, we take that seriously between Triune Creek and Riverview. We would love to get some help in protecting these big dugfurs and cedars and hemlocks and grandfurs that are so important. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Hi, my name is Jo Brody. Thank you for this hearing. I spontaneously came here when I read about it in the Southeast Examiner, and I definitely wasn't planning on speaking. But I'm an artist in town. I live in Mount Tabor. I value birdsong and the
 the canopy that I live under, and I think things are happening faster than we can even imagine. Yesterday, I drove down Hawthorne and saw a row of stumps that were about 36 inches each, and everywhere I look in Portland, this is happening. I can't write it down fast enough, the number of incidences where trees are disappearing, and what I'm hearing
 I'm here because I'm a visual person. I work in symbols. Trees are a symbol of our humanity. They're like standing sentries to our experience as humans. And I think what I want to reiterate is the specifics of what people are talking about, about lowering the lot size requirement for people to be –
 that they're allowed to cut down trees there's a very small subdivided property in my neighborhood that a very large probably 30 inch tree is going to be cut down on mount tabor and i've seen eagles and hawks nesting there and so i would really recommend you get as disincentivizing as you possibly can um because what we're talking about is preservation we live in this city because it's different and special we live in a forest and we all appreciate it
 And my personal project is that I'm going around researching heritage trees and documenting them visually, documenting the things that happen under trees every day, conversations, love stories, etc.
 and these trees were planted when these neighbors, the Burels who planted the Burel Elm opposite the art museum, they had no idea that their tree was going to grow into an incredible canopy unto itself. It's a statuesque tree. And if we don't preserve these little,
 tiny 20-foot trees that the developers can just wipe away with a dollar sign. We're going to look around in 100 years, and I think we all need to think about this, and we're going to find that we're just like every other city. And I look up to see those two trees standing in the mural, and I realize that Title XI is a symbol. The one and the one look like a giant tree.
 And we are all here for the same reason. We love Portland. And I just want you to be as stringent and as outrageously diligent as possible in requiring developers to do the most that they can because they will take what they can get. And, you know, I understand that. It's a dollar sign world. But let's just absolutely be reminded that we live here because it's special. And please...
 be as outrageous as you can in your requirements. Thank you. Thank you. We'll try to apply outrageous diligence to everything we do. That's a good term. Thank you. Three are Greg Snyder, Merrill Reddish, and Bob Sollinger, and they'll be followed by Elizabeth Collins, Robert Buell, and Paul Grove. Welcome.
 Go ahead. My name is Greg Snyder. I live in southeast Portland. I'm part of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association, although I'm not here representing them. I also noticed this beautiful painting up here. I wonder if those trees are still there. Under the current code, I doubt it. It's been very troubling watching what's happened to the Portland tree canopy since I've lived here for the past 19 years, and it is currently just under siege. Thank you.
 And while a property owner may technically own the physicality of a tree, they do not own the effects that a tree has on a neighborhood. This includes the creation of oxygen, carbon sequestering, cooling shade, neighborhood property values, the air that's cleaned by those trees, habitats for birds, mammals, animals. And these effects may go back decades and generations. And
 I was thinking about coming over here. It's like, how bad is this crisis? And I think it's so bad. You know, this summer, somebody held hostage three giant sequoias and extorted ransom from a neighborhood. I'm a pretty cynical guy, but I never saw that one coming. It's unbelievable. So I think that fines are not a deterrent. I don't think this plan is a deterrent. Those size trees, they're all still for sale. Money trumps all.
 And this is, you can lay those on a developer and that just comes out of their cost. I mean, it's not going to protect trees. Maybe one or two won't get cut down, but this is not what I would call protection. This is for sale. Trees are still for sale. I would say that what should happen is that there should be a requirement that no tree over a certain diameter, whether that's 36 inches, probably that's a good place to start, or 24 inches.
 be allowed to be cut down for development. If a tree is on your property that you want to develop on and is over that size, you can't do it. And maybe you should just go find another place to build your building. If you do cut it down, you are not fined. It becomes part of your permit. You are not fined, and your permit is denied and rescinded, and you are not allowed to renew it.
 That is the only thing that is going to stop people that would hold trees hostage. That is the only thing that will stop greed in this case. The idea of notifying the neighborhood, neighborhood associations meet once a month. A clever developer might just mention that they're going to take down this tree the day after a neighborhood association meeting. Thirty days rolls around.
 What can a neighborhood association do? I mean, really, they can't do anything based on this new plan anyway. It doesn't really give them any recourse to stop the tree. The best they could do is what happened in Eastmoreland, and people would have to take to the streets. So I ask you to look at this again and realize what this really is. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Meryl Reddish. I'm currently serving as the chair of the Urban Forestry Commission, and I also wanted to say thank you and great appreciation for taking really positive steps towards addressing this really difficult and complex issue. Thank you.
 So I participated in the planning, revision, and the crafting of the original tree code five or six years ago. And I was really pleased at how well the Urban Forestry Commission collaborated with the Planning and Sustainability Commission to produce a document and a new code that has a lot of good things in it and things that are working really well. And I'm willing to do that again. That said...
 I wish I knew then what I know now. And if that was the case, I would have taken a stronger, more activist and stood more firmly on the things that we compromised on and I personally compromised on back then. So today I have another opportunity to do just that, to take a stronger, firmer stand and really urge you, strongly urge you to stand.
 Reconsider and look at the Urban Forestry Commission's recommendations. Mitigation at inch for inch, starting at 36 inches. The amendment to apply to city and street trees. You heard Vivek and David's rationale and research and reasoning for why we put forward that recommendation. And I ask you to think seriously about that, be open-minded, and take action. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the conservation director for Portland Audubon Society. First off, I just want to thank you and all the other folks that have worked on these amendments. I know a lot of work's gone into it. I'm going to echo some of the things that have already been said today. You have our written comments, but I'll repeat some of them here. I think there are some good things in this proposal, but also some things that still need to be remedied. One is the inch-for-inch over 50 fee. That should be lower to $30,000.
 50 is just too big a tree. How many 50-inch trees do we have in this city? Very, very few. If you load it to 30, you'd still only be capturing 20% of the trees in the city.
 And also, I think there is an equity issue here. You only find trees like this in very, very well-treated, fairly wealthy neighborhoods. They don't exist in poorer neighborhoods. I live in King neighborhood. We have very, very few trees. And over 10 years, I've watched most of them disappear. If you don't regulate down to 30, you're basically leaving those neighborhoods out. The ones that have the least will also continue to have the least protection. And they're the ones that are going to need it most as we get urban heat island getting more and more exacerbated.
 These regulations should be applied to all bureaus. We like to see BES allow to mitigate itself, not pay into a fund because they do a tremendous amount of tree planting. I hear you, Commissioner Novick, but nonetheless, we do need to hold the city accountable to the same standards we hold the community accountable to. I want to point a couple of things out here in terms of Dutch Elms.
 the city right now is proposing to cut the dutch elm program and that's not on the agenda today but as far as the part of the five percent cuts for portland parks we're going to cut the dutch elm inoculation program the dutch elms are some of the biggest and most valuable trees in our city if we cut that program we will lose three thousand five hundred of the biggest trees in the city within three to five years everything we're doing here today becomes a complete and utter joke if we do fund that program we can preserve those trees for at least 60 years
 and that allows us to do replacement over time. So it's sort of amazing to me that at the same time we're having all this consternation about trees, the city is also proposing cuts that would devastate our urban tree canopy. So I hope we take a really careful look at that in the budget cycle.
 Last thing I'll say is we need a tree preservation standard. I agree with the gentleman to my left here. Some trees should just simply not be cut. Some are too valuable, and we need to find a way to get there. We protect other things, historical sites, historic buildings. Let's find a way to protect the trees that are really, really incredibly valuable to our communities so they can't be cut, period, so we can't be extorted. And so we say that some things are so valuable we're not going to put a price on them. We're just going to preserve them because they matter to our community.
 So thanks a lot. Thank you. Thank you all. May I just make a comment about two things? One, I noticed the Dutch Elm cut and the proposed 5% cuts, and I totally agree with you. And I'll do whatever I can to make sure that that cut doesn't get implemented. On the equity issue, I hear what you're saying, but there is a competing equity issue, which is that the parts of the city without complete sidewalk networks tend to be the poorer parts of the city, too.
 So there's something of a trade-off between our ability to put in sidewalks for people who need them and the cost of pre-mitigation if we adopt the proposal you're talking about.
 I think we're sophisticated enough to do both, honestly. I mean, I think there are places where you've got to figure out how to do it and how to balance those things. But we pit these things against each other too often. And it's disturbing to me that, you know, the environmental resources in the neighborhoods that need them the most, often because those are poor neighborhoods, it's used as a justification for not protecting them. We need to find incentives and funding so that we protect those things along with doing the things we need to do to make those neighborhoods more functional. Thank you.
 Funding is a key part of that. Funding is. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. The next three are Elizabeth Collins, Robert Buell, and Paul Grove, and they'll be followed by Linda Robinson, Catherine Garvin, and Jessica, I'm not sure the last name, 41st. Anyway, she'll be next. Thank you.
 Okay, welcome. Go ahead. Thank you. My name is Elizabeth Collins. I live in northeast Portland, and I got very interested in trees when this was cut down a block from my house, and the resulting house that was built looks like no shade, a big, bloated couple of houses got there instead of this massive hemlock and oak. So that's when I became concerned. But my
 talk is about the mitigation issues. In this case, they mitigated with a few flowering, deciduous, short trees. And in my opinion, that is not equal value to those two trees that we lost. They don't have any value to wildlife. As people have mentioned with the tall firs, they have eagles and hawks living in them. But it's more than that. The insects care, the birds care, the mammals care. And if you mitigate with a little tiny plant like that, it provides zero habitat.
 for the species that rely on the big old firs, hemlocks, cedars, everything we care about. So my wish is that mitigation required inch-per-inch replacement, but that it took into effect the mature size of the tree that's planted instead. If you can mitigate with just an inch, you can plant 100 little trees that account for no habitat, whereas if you care about the mature size, you may only have to plant one or two.
 But in the end, they will provide far more habitat than a dozen little flowering pears. So my wish is that the mitigation be reevaluated to provide better end results for the habitat. That's a really great suggestion, which I think should be considered in the next process. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. My name is Robert Buell, and I'm sorry. I didn't know that I was going to get to speak today, but I want to thank you and also thank
 I want to congratulate each and every one of you for the work you've done for the city. I know you have to deal with a lot of different people. So anyway, I'll try to make something out of this. I've heard some really good speakers today, except for maybe the two builders that left early for some reason. You know, you go by some of these areas of development, you see whispering pine, tall firs, wandering oaks, and there's nothing there. There were trees that were once there, and they got these little non-native trees planted there now.
 I'm working with the Audubon Society in my yard. I built my own house back in the early 90s. I had 18 tall Douglas firs and a lot of maples. I didn't have to cut anything down. They can do it. You know, they might have to take a shovel out to dig around some things rather than taking a big piece of equipment and just destroying it. Um.
 I also have a concern, like a lot of these people I've heard today, we're seeing these big box houses all around, not just in my neighborhood, which is Multnomah Village, Gabriel Park area. And they immediately come in and cut every tree all the way around the perimeter. They're gone. I don't know why we can't limit a footprint size of a house on a lot, or I'd like to see a limit of size of houses, period, for the...
 carbon footprint that we are just creating, not just displacing those trees that are immediately there, but all the materials that they're taking to build these houses, the energy costs, the transportation, the whole nine yards. I know the city has got a lot of people moving in here. I'm not against people moving here. I love it. I grew up here. But we can't just tear everything down to just keep building and say we can pile more and more and more. I don't think we can.
 I worked 37 years in the construction industry. I worked in everything in this state. Lumber industry, but I'm also an environmentalist, and I believe in conservative conservation type of growth. Like I say, I love trees and birds and wild animals, and the people that talked, the two gentlemen earlier, EcoTrust gentleman and the other, they know better than me, but you cut down on one big Douglas fir tree,
 You can send it to a mill. It's worth about 100 times more being alive. The reason is it's a dead snag than you'll ever get out of it. Anyway, that's about all I have to say. I just commend everybody here today. Thank you. You'll be happy to know, I think you'll be happy to know, we have a task force of citizens working on a revision to our zoning code that will come to the council later this year that deals with the mass and bulk of infill houses. All right. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales, members of the City Council, for the record, Paul Grove, Portland Home Builders, here to talk about the proposal today.
 and appreciate the opportunity to testify. I realize it's a very difficult spot where folks are at on this and appreciate Council's effort to try to reach a compromise solution on this. It's not difficult, and you've heard a lot of testimony today. I want to highlight a couple of items with respect to the proposal and what we think would be enhancements moving forward on this.
 The first item is around certainty and certainty in the process. And I know folks have heard a lot about the process it took to get to this point and then revisiting the code moving forward.
 One of the items that we would recommend that council look at is the cap on those trees 50 inches or larger. We're certainly supportive of the initial BDS proposal, but would also welcome a visit to the enhanced, I think it was $9,000 figure that came out of PSC on those trees 50 inches or larger. We would...
 I think be supportive of something along those lines certainly appreciate Commissioner Fritz's comments around the if Council does elect to go down an inch by inch path on those larger trees the
 The intent is to not increase it to $600 or more moving forward. I would suggest, though, to ensure certainty in the process that if we do look at a 300-per-inch measurement or fee, that that be tied and tethered to the sunset date and so that it's, in essence, codified and fixed at that $300 figure.
 To clarify, I didn't say that it was going to be for the next four years. I said pending the review that's going to be coming up very shortly. I appreciate your clarification. I think then that would even, I think, strengthen our suggestion to have something tied to that sunset date. All right.
 Um, the, the second issue, and it was touched upon earlier is, are the, uh, the impacts to affordability. Um, and I think we look at these policy issues in isolation too often, and we have to look at these, uh, collectively and what these additional costs look like to the cost of a home. And, um, frankly, they are borne out in those costs of a home and ultimately in the purchase price. And so I think to understand that we have to have affordability, um,
 at the tip of our tongue in any of these proposals, whether it be trees or otherwise, to ensure that we don't have the unintended consequence of impacting housing affordability, not just for current residents but for future residents, in particular in that middle-income housing range. Paul, can I ask you a question about that? Because we tend to look at this question in terms of assuming there's a subtraction
 of a house from a property in order to accommodate development. But I want to ask you the reverse for a second. When we bought our first home in Portland, in a street in northeast Portland that has 1920, the homes are mostly in the 20s, and a mature tree canopy, and in the summertime the mature tree canopy is full and lush, and in fact it's one of the great selling points of the street because it feels complete and it has a sense of history. Okay.
 And I think that emotionally we were drawn to the house in part because of the trees in the right-of-way and the house. And it was the combination. Just my luck, we bought the house and the tree collapsed into the house. And then the city billed me for removing the tree. So it was my welcome to Portland moment. But it still was part of what drew us to the street, to the house. So turn it around for me for a second and just tell us, based on the experience of homebuilders,
 What's the value to a homeowner of having a mature tree and tree canopy as you develop homes? Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish. You don't have to do that here. It's a legislative habit. That's a relic of state legislature. I'm sure it's a terrible habit that I would hope to break but unfortunately can't seem to.
 I can't speak for each individual owner and homeowner. I think that it's fair to say that individuals do have a connection to a tree, and they see value in that as part of their kind of, I think –
 analysis, if you will, if they're looking at a particular property. I just will go back, though, and I know that you've heard from individual builders as well that have highlighted that, you know, if and when there are trees that are going down in these development situations, those get built into the costs and those are going to impact affordability.
 Really briefly, two last items. I think it was touched on earlier as well, the density piece. And I think we're going to accommodate growth, and we want to be mindful of these density objectives. And as part of that, we want to ensure that the policies are reflective of achieving those density objectives.
 effective data. And I'm not sure what the direction is on this front, but I would suggest that we look at something 60 to 90 days out, I think for folks that have pro formas that they can build certain things into it. And then I also think from a staff perspective, these things do indeed take time at the end of the day for them to ramp up and get up to speed on things. You know, we look forward to
 to potentially partnering on issues with the city, whether it's the Half Street piece, whether it's the infill committee that Mayor Hales noted, and frankly having been a partner with respect to the inclusionary zoning stuff down in Salem. Unfortunately, under the proposal today, we can't be supportive of it, but you do know those items we think we would suggest. Sure, please. We have a benefit in it.
 When you talk about certainty, we think of certainty in at least two respects. One is having code that's clear and easy to follow, and second, having code that's easy to administer at the staff level. We've had some testimony about some hiccups along the way in terms of administering the code. Do you have any suggestions for us in that area? Sure.
 at present i do not but i'm more than happy to get back with counsel on some suggestions because i think it's i think it's both sides of the ledger it's it's whatever that whatever changes the code we agree to also have to be easy to interpret and easy to follow and that that regardless of where we land in terms of the restrictions thank you thank you thank you something really quick sure go ahead well with our growth and everything
 I'm just dismayed at seeing all the luxury houses, people living good, and I've never seen so many people in the city growing up here living in tents. I see it now. You can walk from a nice neighborhood and you can walk down the street and see people sleeping in their sleeping bags there. It's just saddening me. It is. It is. I appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Okay. Who do we have? Next three are Linda Robinson, Catherine Garvin, and Jessica on 41st Avenue. And then the last two I had sign up who will be next are Eileen Stark and Ted Labby. Okay. Okay.
 Good afternoon. I'm Linda Robinson, and today I have a couple of my hats on. The Hazelwood Neighborhood Association, I chair the Parks and Environment Committee, and I'm also involved on the board of Gateway One, which is the new name for the Gateway Eco-District.
 So I wanted to mention that I, too, was one of the people who was on the task force that spent a year or two, a few years back, putting together this plan that led to the Title XI agreement.
 new code, and it has changed a little over the time, and I appreciate the fact that you're trying to fix one of the problems that seems to have come up as one of the major stumbling blocks as it went forward. I did want to say one thing about the affordable housing issue. People ...
 need both livability and affordability. I live in East Portland, which is where we have a lot of affordable housing, and I live in housing that's relatively affordable compared to the rest of the city. And one of the criteria my husband and I had was that we wanted a property with mature trees, and we were willing to give up some other things if we could have some mature trees. So...
 One of the things, I was really concerned when I saw the charts about the jump in cost when you go from a 49-inch tree to a 50-inch tree. It looked to me like it was up to $4,800 for a 49-inch tree, but suddenly it was up to $15,000 for a 50-inch tree. And I have some concern, particularly I agree with Audubon and others, that that area between 36 inches and 50 inches, maybe it should be a little more gradually expanded
 stepped up, it just seemed like a strange jump to me, and especially since a lot of trees never get beyond 36 inches, even when they're mature. I would like to see this applied to city trees as well for a couple of reasons. In the Gateway area, the Gateway Urban Renewal area, we probably, I think we're lucky if we have 10 large trees, and I would say that at least half of those are on city property. Some of those are on PDC property, which is a lot of trees.
 which they have purchased for redevelopment, to me, those trees should be covered like any other developable property. I mean, I understand the limitations and the concerns when there's one in the right of way that really shouldn't have been planted there in the first place. But these are properties that are slated to be developed, and the trees –
 We have a very large Atlas Cedar on a property that PDC owns. We tried to make it a heritage tree. They would have no part of it. They intended to cut it down eventually. So I have some real concerns about city trees not being covered. Linda, can I just follow up on that for a second? Because you're describing a situation where PDC has some land and then either sells it or leases it to a third party who develops it.
 which is a little different than the issue we've been taking up in terms of city bureaus as developers or taking action. And I don't know whether the sponsors consider that distinction or whether that's something that merits a little more of a look. Because PDC technically doesn't develop things. It contracts with third parties and either sells land or leases land. And I think you're –
 you're hitting upon a third category. And I think we're all nodding because we're not sure where it fits. So I think that's something we need to look at. Because they own a number of properties in the Lentz area, the Gateway area, and many of those have trees of significance. And one of the things I'd want to know is –
 Because they start as city-owned property, does the rules that apply, in essence, pass through to a private developer, or was that our intent? Or do the rules shift once it's been leased or sold? So I think that's a great question.
 And the final thing that I wanted to mention was there are some people who mentioned how difficult it was to work through this process. Well, it's not nearly as difficult as many people ran into before we had Title XI, where the bits and pieces of tree code were scattered here, there, and in many cases were contradictory in different parts of the city code. So, you know, there are going to be some glitches.
 when you have a new process. And I still think it's much better than what we had before. And I thank you for putting it into place and for now trying to fix it a little bit. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, I'm Catherine Garvin. And thank you so much for this opportunity to talk about something that's really important to me, nature and trees in Portland, where I was born. Thank you.
 And what's also important to me is a shift in how I perceive trees and why is this important. When my perception shifts to view trees to include values like safety, beauty, balance, and bliss, four of my favorite words that make me feel really good.
 And what I feel is missing and what I don't hear being talked about, aside from the physical value of trees or the mental analytical part of trees, but the emotional and sacred self that trees contribute to a community, whether they're owned by public lands or private. And I wanted to make mention of this card my mom sent me,
 And she wrote in this card that in 1915, Japan gifted America, probably not Portland maybe, dogwood trees and flowering cherry blossom trees to Japan.
 connect a friendship through nations by having the symbol of trees. So it's an example of how not only is it just a physical thing that people can buy and sell and trade and whatnot and cut down and make things out of,
 It has a sacred self too, an emotional self, a connection that we can't maybe contain in a box or put in a number. It's just a feeling that feels bad or good or what have you. So that felt really good to me and I wanted to share that. So I promote the full life cycle of trees. I understand that trees don't live forever. But when trees die in the forest in natural setting,
 They have long deaths, so they help other things live after they die. They don't just go away. They leave roots in the ground and keep the soil with the microorganisms that create a setting for carbon to be stored and then oxygen to be released. So I wanted to bring this other really cool picture I got out of the news register in McMinnville.
 And it says here the Madrone tree is called the tree, life of a tree, but I kind of inverted it and called it a tree of life because here it is. It actually used to populate this whole area along the west coast. And as you can see, it has frogs and raccoons and birds. And honeybees love this tree in October. It's a nectar-bearing honeybee tree and butterflies.
 And so I'm here to ask that we amend the code. I think it's just great that the people put in a lot of effort to do a good job, and now we're at a point where we can amend it and include some more things like the emotional and sacred self of a tree. So thank you. Thank you very much for being here.
 Welcome. Hi. My name is Jessica Deltak. I'm here with two of my daughters. We homeschool. So our classroom is, by and large, outside of the home and outside of mainstream education. We just moved here four months ago, and one of the things we were looking for were some old growth trees on our lot. So I can speak to the question you asked the developer earlier about.
 We also would take an annual trip to Sequoia National Park. So when we found out this summer when we were making our plans to move here, which by the way, Portland won out over Maui for certain reasons that the people voted fluoride out of the water. I was so impressed to be potentially with a group of people who can collectively get together and who can change referendums and can change policies based on,
 you know, actual data and studies that are done and not necessarily go because it's whatever's commerce is leading. And so part of the reason why when we found out this summer that there were the three sequoia trees and that they were threatened, we got as involved as we could from the distance that we were. It just so happened we were here this summer with
 on 41st and Clinton and watched one of the hundred-plus-year-old Douglas firs cut, and it was a really sad, sad movement. What was even sadder was the fact in order to protect the other ones on the corner of the lot, which if you were developing with a normal house,
 That corner lot, it would be really hard-pressed to say that the roots in the very far corner are definitely going to mess up with the construction. And I know that's part of the issue with the developers. And it's really easy to say, let's just cut it all out so it doesn't mess with the foundation. But what was scary was the fact that in order to protect those trees, I had to go against, like –
 the legality of the city to be able to stand there, prevent people from doing their job to take down the other trees. The people who are there to cut the trees, that's their job. They're getting paid. I mean, there's all these people involved in the cycle, but unless you have something in place, I want to protect these large heritage trees forever.
 for my children. I mean, part of their education comes from understanding biospheres and how we're all interconnected and how, like she was saying, you know, the roots, the way that a tree decomposes, all of these things are a part of what makes this such an amazing place. The reason why we moved to Portland, in part, is the trees. And to think that these amazing trees that are over 100 years old are threatened, and we watched one, that Douglas fir was 105 years old.
 I mean, the nickname of this town was Stumptown, something that I don't think anybody wanted to recreate. And I feel like we're coming in the middle of this battle of preventing Portland from being another Stumptown. It's not a great word. It's really sad. And part of me bringing my children here is also to know that
 My voice, the probably about 100 homeschoolers I have connected with who support wanting to have better tree protection in this city and the whole metro area, this is part of their legacy, their future, my grandchildren. You know, and we don't...
 If the sequoias or that Douglas that was cut, we can't get 100-plus tree back. Like someone said earlier, with what's going on with the weather, with the changes, with the climate change, we don't know if the trees people are replanting to replace them will actually make it to 100 years or 35 years. So I'm invested in protecting the heritage trees and as many of the large trees as you can. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Thank you.
 Okay, anyone else? The last two I have signed up are Eileen Stark and Ted Labby. Okay. Ted already spoke. Come on up. Oh, sorry, other Jim Labby. All right, brothers. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for holding this hearing. My name is Eileen Stark, and I'm a local landscape designer and author. I'm here to speak for friends, clients, neighbors, and voiceless wild animals.
 As you've heard, Title XI doesn't require tree preservation, despite its original intent, and a comprehensive overhaul needs to be funded and instigated as soon as possible.
 I'd like to see the focus expand from retaining massive trees, of which there are very few, to retaining younger trees and ecologically valuable native species, some of which never mature to a big size, such as madrone.
 Other trees, especially the majestic Oregon white oak, grow at such a slow rate that to reach even 30 inches could take as long as 100 years, depending on conditions. Mitigation is not preservation, especially when replacements are mostly small-form non-natives that may never provide the ecological functions of the tree destroyed, including carbon sequestration. A recent study partially performed in Oregon
 on trees, including Douglas firs, found that yet another reason to retain mature trees is that as trees mature, they found that they actually grow faster, which is the opposite of what we previously thought, and thus store more carbon as they age. Preservation means respecting and retaining trees and requiring that builders work around them and protect them.
 not pay to remove the measly one-third that are supposed to be preserved. Of course, none of the recommendations and proposals before you could completely protect trees from development, but I believe that the Urban Forestry Commission's recommendations comes closest.
 I've worked on some very small sites, and I can tell you that valuable, healthy trees certainly do exist on tiny lots. So amendments should not include an exemption for lots less than 5,000 square feet. I can also tell you that there are a lot of people, like you said, who choose their home because the yard or the neighborhood has a lot of trees, whether they're mature or younger. One of the main reasons my husband and I bought our home was due to the leafy neighborhood.
 but sadly it's quickly losing many of its trees. Amendments should apply not only to trees on private property, but also trees in city, commercial and industrial land. Wildlife that needs trees to survive doesn't care what type of land it's on. Finally, the 30 days notice to neighborhoods is great, but really doesn't give people the tools to do much more than send nasty emails to the developer.
 I'd like to see a Type 2 review be implemented whenever there are plans to destroy trees greater than 30 inches. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi there. My name is Ted Labbe, and I live in North Portland. And today I'm here to represent the Portland nonprofit group D-PAVE, which works to grow green spaces from our neglected pavement plague corners of the city. Thank you, Portland City Council, for taking steps to protect large, healthy trees. The city's Title XI tree code suffers from inadequacies that require a fix,
 In order to protect big trees in our neighborhoods. I share the concerns expressed We share the concerns expressed by Portland Audubon Society and the requests outlined in the February 23 urban forestry Commission letter And specifically we'd ask you that you require an inch inch for inch mitigation for cutting down large healthy trees in development and non development situations with no cap and
 I'd encourage you to apply the new tree preservation and mitigation standards on commercial and industrial lands as well as to city and street trees. The city's comp plan economic opportunities analysis indicates there is a surplus of commercial industrial lands, so an adequate supply cannot be used as an excuse to exclude these lands, which are among the city's most pavement-plagued and need more efforts to grow and preserve tree cover.
 Next, I'd encourage you to fully fund comprehensive development of Title XI reform this year so that we can move ahead with the other things that need fixing. I appreciate your work, Amanda, on this, but I think we have more work to do, and we need the funding in order to do it. Lastly, I'd like to kind of come back to a point my brother made at the outset, which is let's not let city bureaus like PBOT, BES, the Water Bureau, follow a lower standard.
 I'm not in favor of sacrificing big old trees just so PBOT can put in a green street, or BES for that matter, can put in a green street feature. We should consider alternative street design standards in those situations before we go and start removing big old trees. And just to clarify, there are…
 There are already allowances in the code that allow PBOT to plant instead of pay. So the exorbitant costs that you talked about earlier, Amanda, there are opportunities for PBOT to do mitigation in lieu of payment. And specifically, this is referenced in Section 11.50.040, Section 2, City and Street Trees.
 Two areas where we're not meeting our urban forestry goals are public right-of-ways and commercial industrial lands. So it's really important that we apply these fixes in those areas so that we can better meet our urban forestry goals. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone else? So anyone else want to speak? Come on up please. Sure. Come on up. Go ahead. We'll take everyone.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Whoever would like to go first. Oh, okay. Well, hello. Thank you, commissioners, for allowing us the opportunity to discuss tree code here in Portland. My name is Allison. I'm a core activist with a bunch of local NGOs. I was part of the Eastmoreland Traduction. I don't know if you remember, Mayor, but my son gave you the Happy Divesting Day balloon. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 I have been attending. It's not disappointing to us either. No, no. Actually, I told him that we were coming. I picked him up early from school, came out here, and he was like, we don't cut the trees, mom. So serious. So serious about it. But I'm glad that he's picking it up. Yeah.
 i i wanted to speak to uh the commissioners or commissioners about this because i have a few questions um i'm a hydrology student i've been an activist within the environmental sector for a really long time and during the tree action in eastmoreland um for me as a scientist i wanted to see a little bit more discussion i mean i know i know everybody did what they could
 But the impacts that the environment will, in the surrounding neighborhood area of trees that size being removed, it's like setting off a carbon bomb. Those trees around it are going to get sick. Wildlife is going to start to move and struggle. You're going to start to see neighbors really unhappy because birds aren't chirping, basically. And...
 I really wanted to discuss the fact that we really need to rethink the impossibilities of neighbor having a say in the preservation of mature trees on private property, especially when there is a majority in favor of preserving those trees. We shouldn't be fighting with our neighbors in the name of nature, but rather be rallying to celebrate it. We really need to consider what we are really doing to the environment by demolishing our trees when our air and now our water are so polluted.
 Ultimately, we don't need to only be divesting from fossil fuels, but also bias development and environmental racketeering.
 I guess at the end of the day, when I see trees this big, they're over 30 inches in diameter, being ripped out of the ground, I'm wondering why these aren't heritage trees. I'm wondering why we don't have an annual program designating a heritage tree. Every year, Portland should get a heritage tree. Like, happy Arbor Day, here's a tree. You know what I mean? Why aren't we having more community programs to educate the public and children about the importance of these grandparent trees? Right.
 So for me, commissioners, that's what I would really like to see. I mean, we're going to go back and forth over tree code for time and all eternity. But having the education, having the discussion is more important at the end of the day. Thank you. We do have a heritage tree program that the challenge is that the property owner has to agree to the heritage of the tree. I just think that at the end of the day, like I've seen...
 Off of Vancouver and Lombard, I saw an entire three trees ripped out of the ground. And the neighborhood all, I mean, it's lower income. It's North Portland. And I saw neighbors come out and they were like, we've been watching this for months. Nobody cares. You know what I mean? We've tried to buy the property. He jacked it up $20,000 a week. We didn't have it.
 so now we have to watch these trees and it is the saddest saddest spot right now because they were the largest trees within a half mile of that neighborhood of that spot and every day I won't even drive down Vancouver anymore because I just it's a constant reminder so thank you thanks very much
 welcome thank you my name is lorna lyons and i returned i went to read back in the 70s and stayed for seven years and i returned two and a half years ago from hawaii where i was caring for my folks and i wanted to just mention that their exceptional tree program
 I get the sense that there's sort of comparables in the way that they also have a community where there's a lot of folks who have these trees who can't necessarily afford to take care of them or, you know, there are issues around this, obviously. But they have a much more robust tree, exceptional tree program. I'd understood that you guys had had to put a cap on the heritage trees here, I guess.
 So I just wanted to sort of introduce this as something that you could perhaps look at for useful information around the way that Honolulu did it, and that in fact I think they call them the mayor's exceptional tree list. Yeah.
 If you want something positive, I offer that. But the main thing that I wanted to say is my big point was basically time is money. We all know this. And with the exceptional trees, it is literally true. And what I specifically wanted to connect the dots on, in case no one else had done it, is that suddenly Portland is really concerned about air quality.
 issues around how we scrub the air and the trees do this for us and these mature trees with these huge biomass can do a lot to allow us to have communities where our city planning benefits from jobs and in the in
 in income generated by small industry in mixed-use neighborhoods. We want all of that here. We don't want to have to keep everything all separated. It's part of the beauty of Portland. And so I just wanted to make the point that the biomass of these trees has a significant financial value on the surrounding air quality for the community and that it's time to take these trees –
 to to grow to a point where they can act as big air scrubbers in our neighborhoods and that that should be taken into consideration as well as somebody else pointed out the stormwater runoff
 Those are both just huge impacts. So I don't envy you what you're working on with the fact that you're trying to balance, you know, the needs of the development and the needs of more housing in this city, while we're also trying to support the quality of what this city represents for a lot of people, and the trees speak very much to that.
 And so my last point is just to thank you for your time and once again appreciate your commitment and dedication to our beautiful city. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Good afternoon, and I thank you for letting me speak here today. My name is Madison Weakley. I did not intend on speaking, but after hearing some of the commentary today, I found it prudent to bring up a few things. First of all, I was a member of the City Council, and I was a member of the City Council for the past year.
 was recently a member of the Northeast Coalition Neighborhoods Land Use and Transportation Committee. I had to step down to go back to school, but while I was there, I really noted that most of the members on there were working full-time jobs. They had children. They were really taxed. Someone made the point that 30 days if strategically hit
 only gives a neighborhood association committee or a committee like NECN one day to act, and that's really not a lot of time to really empower a community. So I really urge you all to consider a 45-day period
 notice that gives, I mean, in that strategic scenario, there's still two weeks of action that the public can take. And then my second comment is with regard to the public tree exemption, I certainly understand the challenge of competing bureaus' priorities, especially only because Commissioner Novick spoke about it, but like the way that trees and sidewalks sort of
 compete at times for space. And I certainly don't want to take funds away from PBOT,
 So I am wondering why no one has asked the question of, well, why don't we still apply the public notice to those trees and give the community that we're really concerned with giving equity to, why don't we also allow them to be empowered and to sort of, you know, contribute to the conversation of, well, we'd rather have this tree or we'd rather have this sidewalk and or assisting in creating alternatives like encouraging a sidewalk to curve around a tree or to give some space for roots. But...
 So I just think that, you know, coming from this community action that I did with NUCN, I think that providing some opportunity for empowerment is key. And if we're saying that we're not going to hold bureaus to the same standard as the community, we should at least provide an opportunity for empowerment and for conversation to happen. So, again, I really appreciate having this opportunity to speak, and thanks for considering what we have to say. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks. I think there's one other person who wanted to come up. Come on up, please. Yes.
 Welcome. Sit in the middle. Sure, take it. Thank you guys so much. I know this is a really loaded area. I did submit comments. Just give us your name. Oh, I'm so sorry. My name is Lisa Scooby. I live in the Hillsdale neighborhood. I'm a homeowner. I am a communications person. I am a nature enthusiast. And I also do a lot of facilitation and really mixed and political challenges like this.
 I've been tracking this particular issue for some time. I've been greatly supporting a lot of the efforts that you folks are doing and the different folks within the community. Urban forestry has been amazing.
 as have been many other advocates, the chair commission, and all of the various forces that are working around this. It's personal, it's economic, it's emotional, it's cultural, and ultimately it's going to be our legacy. And you guys are sitting in front of that, and it's an amazing opportunity, and it's also a really big challenge. I did submit comments.
 And I did also submit images. I've been personally impacted in my neighborhood. We've had about a dozen trees all over 100 feet taken in the last couple years. The worst of that was happening right before this tree initiative, tree rule, went into effect. But the things that I see that really are of great concern is when we see that we have a 30-day notification, we do have to realize that these are trees which have stood, many of them, for over 100 years.
 So 30 days seems like a very, very small and perhaps inadequate amount of time, considering the length of the time that that tree has provided, the measure of value that it does to our amazing city.
 20 inches and up seems like a start point. These trees just aren't going to get that big if they're smaller. It's a very, very difficult time to be finding land to even be building or putting in the trees, and the buildings that are going in are preventing those opportunities at a rate which is pretty alarming. In my neighborhood across the street, we lost three mature trees with a home that was put on a 5,000-square-foot lot, which has pretty much been destroyed.
 pretty much persecuted that lot within an inch of its life. And I look forward to reviewing the images that I've shared with you so that you can see what that looks like. We do have buildings that are eligible for the historical registry at 50 years. And again, our trees at two, three times that seem to be at risk in a way that there aren't that many of them. So it seems a really good idea, as one gentleman said, to perhaps consider not taking them out or building around them.
 the cross-bureau coordination in our experience in my neighborhood was very challenged, and it's a difficult thing that you guys are trying to do, but it seems that whatever
 process design is created that the opportunity for you guys to all work together and to work in a coordinated way needs to be supported through infrastructure and with community voices incentivized to be a part of that in a way that is amicable, forward-looking, and proactive. So it isn't always crisis and crisis mitigation and the developers can be a part of that in such a way that we create better communication across the groups.
 urban forestry's recommendation or proposal I think is the one that is best suited to help us in this stopgap opportunity. And again, the notification part to allow our neighborhoods to have more time to weigh in, I think would do a great deal of good for communities and for the future of our beautiful trees. Thank you very much. I appreciate the opportunity to share my thoughts with you.
 thank you thanks very much okay time for some discussion uh not up for a vote today but for vote next week uh questions i guess i would have a potential amendment i want to sound my colleagues out on it but i i guess i've been persuaded and listening to the testimony and also looking at those cutouts of the diameters of trees i think we should have a
 inch for inch mitigation fee based on 36 inches in diameter rather than 50 inch diameter second okay that's an amendment i guess it's an amendment on these in turn or or hear them all and then discuss let's let's let's put everything on the table i want to raise a couple of questions um so that amendments before us will take action on it um
 It wasn't raised in testimony, but I want to raise a question about a potential unintended consequence. And that's – oh, I'm sorry. No, you have gone to 5,000 square feet or greater. That's what it is now. Sorry, you're sticking with 5,000 square feet or greater. So are we creating a perverse incentive to –
 in situations where lot splitting is possible and somebody can create two 3,500 square foot lots out of a 7,000 square foot lot? Are we biasing towards development in that situation while our changes to the zoning code that might come from the infill project are still pending? My experience has been that developers do not need any incentive for doing that lot splitting and
 cramming two houses in where one would do well i understand that i understand that that incentive already exists but we're not making it any tougher on that situation no that concerns me a little bit well i i think as i said that this is a much bigger question than just yeah i get that so definitely that's just something that i would support and that we we need to look at very closely both in the infill project that you're doing and in the the um
 ongoing project with the tree code but there's a lot of potential implications if we were to just do it now without looking at the entire rest of title a lot of times they got through so the infill project recommendations we get to us later this year uh we'll act on those that'll be before we get back to the tree code the tree code i'm hoping will start um in the beginning of july
 So it's possible that we could ask that particular question to be first on the list and to discuss it at the same time as your info project. That will be pretty close to synchronized. Yeah. Mary, also, I appreciate the testimony about potential impact of cuts in general fund bureaus to the overall cause here. And I think particularly was called out the money we spent on Dutch Elm.
 And in fairness to Commissioner Fritz, we have given instructions to every general fund bureau to identify a 5% cut. That doesn't mean we're taking a 5% cut.
 And also, in fairness to Commissioner Fritz, if her advisory groups were not suggesting a cut to that program, they'd be suggesting closing a pool. And if it wasn't closing a pool, cutting back on some other cherished program. So in parks in particular, there's no low-hanging fruit. It's already been cut to the bone. So the 5% cut packages that she's required to show the council are,
 are all challenging, including this one. But I appreciate that that was called out as something that we shouldn't be making progress here and then retreating there. So I appreciate that.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And I want to be very clear as I had the Parks Budget Advisory Committee and I were in our transmission, we don't support any of the cuts that are proposed in parks. There's a couple of increased revenues that I support. But as you say, everything in parks is important to somebody and certainly I don't support the cuts of the Dutch Elm. Mayor, I suggest we move the amendment. I have some additional questions on the testimony, but
 Since we're in about the 15th hour of testimony over two days, my brain is getting wishy. Before we do that, I have one other potential amendment. I just wanted to raise two other issues real quickly and see particularly what the sponsors thought. One is the notice time issue, and the other is the city bureau's issue. We got good testimony on both those issues.
 Um, what, what are your thoughts about, um, 30 days versus 45 versus something else? Uh, and, and what about city bureaus, your thoughts about those? I think, uh, I mean, 45 days seems to make a lot more sense given the cycle of neighborhood association meetings. And I, uh,
 And I don't know if you asked, when you said what about city bureaus, do you mean the notification? No, I mean the applicability to right-of-way treaties. Well, let's do one at a time. I agree that 45 days makes more sense than certainly. Okay. We have two amendments on the table. Commissioner Fish is in an action mood, I can tell. And then the city bureau issue, is that one that probably needs a little more time?
 I'm not prepared to act on that. I hear the point. I think it probably needs more time. Okay. I'm interested in exploring that issue further, but I understand the point that this is a repair effort, not necessarily the final discussion of tree ordinances by the city council. Right. And that's certainly something that we could have some more discussion about. We heard a lot of testimony on it. There is the issue of the Portland Development Commission sites, and that needs to have some discussion.
 discussion and the potential for we could enact a public notice requirement and discussion outside of Title 11. Oh, it looks like the city forester has a comment. Would you like to come to the cap team? Come on up, Jen. Just give us a little feedback on that, please. She's going to tell us that PDC property is city property, but that got the text. But the question that I still have is, since PDC generally is not the developer,
 what happens when the property is either sold or transferred, and what becomes its status then? I think that requires, and you could give us an answer, but I still think it would be useful to have the city attorney just scrub that real quick. I would agree with that, but...
 The inclination probably with 90% certainty is to say if it's leased, PDC is leasing it to someone else, it's still city-owned property. And if it's sold. And if it's sold, it's not, and so it would be a private tree. But there's still, but I think the Mayor Hales will remind us since he's in charge of PDC, it still can be sold subject to certain conditions. So we want to make sure that whatever the conditions are, they don't work across purposes with what we're trying to affect here.
 Yeah, that's an issue. I want to let everybody know I'm going to take a very close look at that question with PDC in particular in the meantime, no matter what we do today. So I appreciate people raising that. Other questions for our staff? Okay, then let's take action on the amendments. First is the amendment to change it to 36 inches and inch by inch beyond that, right? Right. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 We're not going to get a chance probably to make comments in front of this gathering. Again, many of you won't be here next week, so I'll just say I appreciate this hearing, and hearings do matter at this council, and we do listen, and we do act on what we hear. Aye. Solzman? Aye. Novick?
 I'm going to vote yes because instinctively it sounds fine, but may I think that we've missed an opportunity by not putting this on the table at the beginning of our discussion to hear testimony on it. So I reserve the right next week to say no, I've heard more about it, and so I want to revisit it. So with that caveat, aye. Nails. Yeah, I appreciate the great testimony on that and other subjects today. Aye. And then the second amendment to change the notice period from 30 days to 45 days.
 Well, again, we did actually have both the Planning and Sustainability Commission and the Urban Forestry Commission's proposals on the table for discussion as well as the proposal that we put forward. So I believe there has been, despite the fairly rushed process, a significant amount of discussion in the community and with the development community with development review of the bio-ecosystem.
 Advisory Committee. So I'm really pleased with the council's responsiveness to the testimony that we've heard today. As Commissioner Fishnotes will be voting next week, and we will obviously be thinking about it some more since then. I particularly want to thank Mike Hayakawa and Mika Keenan, who were very instrumental in the first year of the tree project, as well as Jen Cairo, our wonderful City Forester, and Alan...
 Emily Sandy, who's taken over, Jill Grenda, and Rebecca Esau have been absolutely fantastic in the Bureau of Development Services. And again, the partnership with Commissioner Saltzman and between the bureaus, in some ways,
 The tree code was set up to both resolve conflicts, as Linda Robinson pointed out. If you think this was bad, look at how it was before. It has solved many of the problems, and I really appreciate everybody coming out to acknowledge that and to continue to remind the council this is why we did this in 2011. This is why I helped start it back in 2006 when I was a young community activist with no gray hair. Well, not as much as I have now.
 So it's been an amazing process and thank you for reminding us why we do it. I also want to thank Patty Howard and Tom Bozo on my staff who again have moved on and have done great work. And so have Pooja Bhat and Tim Crail who are now helping to staff this issue for me.
 I'll have an even longer list of thank yous next week, but I wanted to thank everybody who's been here today and for this entire process. It really is an example of Portlanders at our best, considering all of the different aspects of what's important to us, to our city, to our environment.
 And so I'm glad that we're also doing this amendment to add 45 days as the notice requirement, because it is part of the development process, and we shouldn't be just chopping down whacking great trees with very little notice or thought, and that this accomplishes that. Aye. Thank you.
 We heard that an extra 15 days ensures that community groups, neighborhood associations have a meaningful voice, so that makes sense. And since we're talking, since we're thanking some of the unsung heroes, I'm going to a farewell party this Saturday for Hannah Kuhn. Hannah's email address is Hannah in Germany, which is odd because she's been living here for many years, but she's actually moving to Germany. And as the council knows, Hannah did a lot of the hard unsung work behind the scenes for
 actually hammering out the inter-bureau stuff when it was not very sexy, but helped lay a foundation for this day. And I want to thank Hannah for what she did, my former chief of staff. Aye. Saltzman? Yeah, there's a lot of people who have worked very hard on this from before we had an ordinance to an ordinance to this.
 into more comprehensive revisions in the future. So I also want to acknowledge the hard work of people in the Bureau of Development Services, Portland Parks and Recreation, Urban Forestry, staff members, Matt Grumman, my office, and sort of the Hall of Fame that was just ticked off by Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish. And I do want to say that since we're voting on the notice requirement, I was intrigued by –
 what our last testifier said about perhaps it should apply to uh trees in the public right away too um so i i kind of want to think about that between now next week but right now i understand we're doing this for respect to as the code provisions in front of us for trees that are on private property but i guess i want to think about that a little more next week hi no thank you
 I also agree that people should have notice about trees in the public right away so that, as somebody said, they have the opportunity to determine whether they'd rather have a sidewalk or that tree. I suspect that those discussions already happen in the course of public notice of particular projects and I think probably the time to have that discussion is earlier in the project rather than when the project has been approved and funded.
 But I will check and make sure that that kind of notice is, in fact, given in the course of our project work. After that aside, I certainly agree that there should be sufficient notice to allow the neighborhood associations, the median monthly schedule, to weigh in. So I appreciate this amendment. Aye. Niels? Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman, for your good work on this. And thank you all for coming and having a good discussion. It made a good proposal better today, thanks to your advocacy. To this amendment in particular, it's about 40 years ago when the city council decided to actually give power to neighborhood associations, formally in city code, in land use intervention programs.
 is one of those places. And in a city with 600,000 people, five city council members, and 100 neighborhoods, it's really important that that balance of power remain there, that neighborhoods have actual power in the land use process, whether it's working on a neighborhood plan or, in this case, land.
 a development issue that affects neighborhood livability so we have to keep looking for ways to refresh that and making sure that it's still true that neighborhoods have a say and this is a small change but one more sign that we mean it about that role of neighborhoods so I'm pleased about that and I just think that this has made made a difficult balance better and I just want to appreciate the work that's been done look forward to seeing it put into action and we'll make sure on
 as the commissioner in charge of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, that when we bring our infill requirements forward, that we make sure that those two fit together well and create the result we want in terms of quality infill and environmental quality at the same time. So well done. Aye. And we're adjourned until next week. Good job, guys. Great outcome. Really happy.
 Attorney General came in and said we're doing a good job. The IZ passed in this. It's going to be 36 parking spots on one side. Okay, that's fine. Thank you. Right. It looks like it'll take out about 30 on tour, eight trees. Oh, yeah? That will certainly be a medium, but it'll change in one of the trees. I hope there can be discussion before that happens. Okay.
 well if you flag something there can be discussion often that can't be altered so-called naturally that seems
 thank you very much thank you thanks for moving it I'm going to dial I sent three photographs just here man I wanted to tell you I'd like to be a show there
 Thank you.
 I'm really looking. Thank you.
 Okay. Does that have to get an answer? I don't know. Because of the question about PVC. Those are considered... No, no, I asked you about it. Oh, I know. It was just a short answer. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah, and that much at times. I love it. I'm always impressed with what you find.
 that yeah I bet it was every bit of it yeah thank you I was trying to show you like holy cow just love that those are really especially literally yeah you're probably right you should see me getting them in here
 Just fancy parking. Good job. Okay, thanks.
 I'm going to go. Yeah. I'm going to narrow it down. They need to know there's a big deal. Please invite our panel. There's a 30-to-80. I'll go out on the plate. So if you could just... Okay. All right. Good. Look at that. You can start gathering. Did you carry that right away? Yeah. Who's going to... Where they're going at. Sure.
 Thank you.
 I'm going to go to the 60th.