I think so. Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the March 4th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Before we start the formal calendar this morning, we have a proclamation, and I think we have Debbie Castleton, Megan Fertal from our Women's Affinity Group here come on up.
 We have a proclamation, and I've got some comments on the importance of this proclamation from a couple of women that work in this organization and advocate for opportunity for everybody.
 It says, whereas residents of this region know that its greatness and success is a direct result of all resonance regardless of gender, making creative, intelligent, and revolutionary contributions to society. And whereas women have been historically underrepresented yet have played and continued to play important roles internationally, nationally, regionally, and locally in furthering knowledge and promoting positive social change.
 And whereas to foster the next generation of women, the City of Portland seeks to encourage and support professional, educational, and social opportunities for women in order to ensure that opportunities that may not have existed in the past are available in the present and into the future. And whereas Women's History Month is a time for all Portlanders to remember the stories and teachings of the many women who made and continue to make improvements for the livability of the city, region, and world,
 And whereas during Women's History Month, all Americans are encouraged to reflect on past victories and struggles of women, to create a society where our daughters can reach their full potential, unobstructed by gender. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim March 1 to 31, 2015, to be Women's History Month in Portland, and encourage all citizens to observe this month.
 So congratulations on this observance and welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and council. My name is Megan Fertel. I'm an employee for the Revenue Division for the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. And I recently accepted the honor of being the chair for the Women's Affinity Group for the city.
 Thank you so much for having us here today and formally proclaiming and celebrating Women's History Month for March. Women's Affinity Group for the City of Portland has organized a variety of events, starting with our kickoff breakfast that was yesterday here in City Hall, and we'll have social hours, craft events, and panels to remind and educate city staff on the roles of women in creating the city that we live in today. For 2015, the national theme of Women's History Month was,
 is weaving the stories of women's lives and presenting the opportunity to weave women's stories individually and collectively into the essential fabric of our nation's history. Of the few events that I wanted to share with you today, we'll be holding three panels that highlight female city employees, the first being a police panel featuring the women of the Portland Police Bureau tomorrow, Thursday, March 5th,
 Another panel featuring women leaders in our government, which will be Wednesday, March 11th. And the final panel featuring women in Portland Fire and Rescue, and that will be Tuesday, March 24th. We will also be holding a Story Slam event on Tuesday, March 17th, and encourage all city employees to come and share personal or professional victories, focusing on themselves as a woman or an amazing woman in their lives.
 Lastly, I want to encourage you and all city employees to nominate female mentors, leaders, exceptional coworkers for the Wonder Woman Awards. For me, personally, it's a very important event. It's very significant. It's very special. It's important to say thank you. It's important to recognize others for their hard work, their dedication, and their talent. And the Women Awards do just that.
 So the nominated women will be honored Tuesday, March 31st, and all of the events that I spoke about will be from noon to 1 at the Portland Building's second floor auditorium. And I look forward to seeing you all there. Great. Thank you. Council and Mayor Hales, I am Debbie Castleton. I work in the communications division for the Bureau of Environmental Services, and I also volunteer my time to chair the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland, as you know, is DEEP.
 for the past nine years. DEEP's mission is dedicated to enhancing a work environment that is inclusive and supportive of the City of Portland's diverse workforce that is committed to quality public service. And I want to share some numbers with you all. Portland, Oregon's population is 50% female. The City of Portland employees are 41% female, and 35% of the managers and supervisors are female.
 Commissioner Fritz's office is made up of 71% women. Commissioner Fish is 44%. Commissioner Saltzman, yours is 64% women. And Commissioner Novick, yours is 62% women. And Mayor Hales, your office is made up of 66% women. I think it's a good example of leaders leading by example.
 There are approximately 10 bureaus in the city that are led by women. Of those 10, here are the top three percentages of women-led organizations and the high percentage of women employees. The Bureau of Housing is 73% female workers. The Emergency Communications is 67%, and Planning and Sustainability is 63%.
 The top three bureaus with higher percentages of women employees that have male bureau directors are Fire and Police Disability and Retirement at 94%, and Revenue and Financial Services with 64%, and Parks at 57%. The two bureaus with the lowest percentage of women are the Fire Bureau and the Bureau of Transportation.
 Historically, these two bureaus have been male-led. However, both have newly appointed female leaders. Chief Janssen and Leah Treat both work very hard to recruit women into the predominantly male organizations. Chief Janssen has been a standout leader by example in working with young women in Portland Fire Rescue's fire camp for girls between 16 and 19.
 Now on to the wage gap. Nationally, women typically make only 78.3 cents for every dollar a man makes. In Oregon, women make 81 cents to the dollar, and African-American women and Latinas make even less than that, with African-American women 64 cents to the dollar and Latina women at 56 cents to the dollar of white men.
 Washington, D.C., women fare best at 91.3 cents for every dollar. And you can learn more about that at the whitehouse.gov about equal pay for women. But I just want to say both Megan and I would like to thank you for the opportunity for proclaiming March as Women's History Month. It is valuable both personally and professionally to educate, discuss, thank, honor, and grow from the events that occur during these empowering months. Thank you.
 Thank you. I don't think I had a chance to tell you this story, but last year during Women's History Month, we had a national conference here of this organization called the Women in Transportation Seminar, which, of course, has a chapter here in Portland. And one of the reasons they came to Portland is because we've had such an active chapter. And so, you know, I got to do what I often get to do with a visiting conference, you know, a welcome to Portland event.
 And so I had a little fun with it. And some of our bureau directors were there, or quite a few people from PBOT were there. But I started off and I said, welcome to Portland, the only city in the country with a woman transportation director. And I paused. Well, that's not true, of course. My friend Robin Hutchison from Salt Lake was there, and there were a bunch of cities that had one. But then I just went down the list, and a woman planning director, and a woman emergency management director, and a woman city attorney, and went through the whole list. And, of course, at the end I said, and wait for it.
 A woman fire chief. Top that, Minneapolis. That's great. So all you other upstart progressive cities. But it was fun because the reason the conference was here was because of the professional advocacy of women, particularly in PBOT but also in TriMet and some of these other organizations, doing this kind of peer support work. And so the reason that WTS came wasn't that we had that list of bureau directors, though they enjoyed hearing about it,
 but because of the work of professional women within this organization and those others, had really advanced into a field, engineering, where women have been really underrepresented, have made a lot of progress thanks to that work. So thanks for what you're doing. Thank you. I want to throw a comment in if I can. First, I want to brag on Debbie. When BES does a project typically in combination with PBOT,
 We send out a newsletter to the affected community. Debbie is often the person who signs the front page. She's come up with a model that has a personal note from her with her phone number and her contact information to personalize the relationship between the people we serve and the Bureau.
 And recently she sat down with Elders in Action and they gave us additional pointers about how to improve the communication, including font size, the shading, the way information is organized. So I want to thank you for that. Debbie, as you know, my wife teaches women's history at Portland State and she worked with Melody Rose to set up a program that honored women in leadership.
 and it led to the archives of people like Gretchen Khafre being placed at PSU, and it led to the autobiography of Senator Gordly and many other projects. But to your point about women in leadership, I just want to offer an observation. There are many ways in which we can strengthen opportunities for women to serve in leadership.
 We have a program in our office where we reach out to PSU's women leadership program and say, could you send us qualified candidates? So that's one way of getting that pipeline. But the other one is when we do searches for key leadership positions, making sure that there are no barriers that prevent any qualified applicant. The last two directors of the Housing Bureau were outstanding women leaders who,
 But they weren't chosen because they were based on their gender. They were chosen as the outstanding people to lead the Bureau in a process which did not put any barriers in their way. Once upon a time, my law school had less than 50 percent of the class, graduating class was female. And one of the barriers that they identified was that women were choosing to have families and come back to law school at a later age.
 and they were considered nontraditional candidates because they were coming in their 40s and 50s. And law schools were routinely saying, we don't want students that are older, we want younger students. Why? Because the longer time you practice and built up your practice and your earnings, the more likely you were to be a better donor to that law school over time, right? But that was saying to women who chose to take a time out and chose to raise a family that they were not valued as much as any other candidate.
 Today, Northeastern Law School is 60% of the graduating class is female. So remove the barriers and allow women to compete equally with everyone else. And so that's important. And I just think it's – we have a lot of work to do both on pay equity and on removing barriers. Yes.
 But it should not be the exception that the most qualified person selected to lead a bureau or to be a chief of staff or to serve in some other senior position is a woman. It should be the norm, not the exception. I agree. Thank you for your good work. Thank you. Thank you very much. And I have to reflect that it will be a great day when we can have Women's History Month or Black History Month and think, gosh, weren't they strange back then? Yeah.
 Now what you're telling us is, of course, not news to us, and it's helpful to be reminded of those numbers. A couple of days ago in the New York Times, there was an article that started, fewer large companies are run by women than by men named John.
 a sure indicator that the glass ceiling remains firmly in place in corporate America. Amongst chief executives of Standard & Poor's 1,500 firms, for each woman there are four men named John, Robert, William, or James. Wow. Wow. We've got a ways to go. Thank you very much for your help. Thank you. Other comments? Thank you both. Thank you. Proclamation for James. Good work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm so sorry to follow these two leaders.
 I'm afraid we will in a moment. Thanks, ladies. Good work. Okay.
 So we'll now move into the regular calendar. We have some communications items up front where folks get to come in and talk on a subject of their choosing. Then we'll move into the regular council calendar. If you're here to speak on a calendar item, typically we allow three minutes for citizen testimony and ask that we be civil to our fellow citizens even if we don't agree with them. If you're here as a lobbyist representing an organization, please disclose that because it's required under our code. Okay, let's start with item 231.
 Request of Patty Burkett to address counsel regarding human trafficking. She called and is not able to make it. 232, request of Mike Summers to address counsel regarding homeless issues. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, I'm Mike Summers. I live at Right to Dream 2. Imagine, if you will, a world where it is illegal to sit down. Could you survive if there were no place to fall? No.
 Asleep, store your belongings, or stand still. For homeless people across America, these circumstances are an ordinary part of daily life. In America, people are criminalized on a daily basis for just trying to survive. Sitting, standing, sleeping, and eating in public in many cities in the U.S. are illegal. According to the National Law Center on Homeless and Poverty, homeless people are criminalized, let's see,
 punished or being in public, even when they have no alternatives. Homelessness is caused by a severe shortage of affordable housing and fewer emergency shelter beds than homeless people. Despite a lack of affordable housing and shelter space, many cities have chosen to criminally punish people living on the street for doing what any human being must do to survive.
 In Portland, for example, there used to be a sit-lie ordinance that made it illegal for people to sit or lie on a sidewalk. There is still a law that makes it illegal to cover yourself if you're lying in a park or public space. Other laws affecting homelessness include camping in public, sleeping in public, laws against panhandling, sleeping in a vehicle, and food sharing. These laws are against the very Constitution.
 that everyone has against people's basic human rights as afforded by the United Nations. I would like to read from the Declaration of Human Rights put out by the Human Rights Resource Center at the University of Minnesota. Article 24, everyone has the right to rest and leisure including reasonable limitation of working hours and public holidays with pay.
 The part that I want to bring emphasis to is the right to rest and leisure.
 Article 25 states that everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, sharing, housing, medical care, and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, or death.
 old age, and the lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. In three states, homeless bill of rights have been passed. These states are Rhode Island, Connecticut, and Illinois. Rhode Island was the first state in the nation to pass a homeless bill of rights ensuring that no one is discriminated against based on their housing status. For the first time, basic rights such as the right to vote,
 to access to gainful employment or gain housing can't be denied because someone lists a shelter or a street corner as their address. Oregon is trying to pass a very similar law that will allow people to shelter themselves, cover themselves, and sleep in a vehicle that is legally parked. Our bill is Senate Bill 629, and it's backed by Senator Chip Shields.
 You've used your time, so I want you to wrap up soon. Okay. Basically, I was going to just give some ideas, but I think the one or two that I can give you that I would be more than happy to back is a housing first model that pairs people with housing, and then if there's any other issues, those issues get resolved after getting them housed.
 The other thing I would say, and I've heard Commissioner Fish ask this question about inclusionary zoning laws. I would like to see the ban lifted for inclusionary zoning laws. Can I just, on that point, tell you that that made its way into the city's legislative agenda. Oh, good. And the legislature is, and Commissioner Saltzman went down and testified on behalf of the city.
 And we anticipate that the preemption will be lifted and that we will then later this year have a chance to take that issue up. Okay. It's a priority at the city and we think it's going to happen. I do believe it does need to happen because I think our stock of affordable housing, and I do mean truly affordable housing, is growing.
 you you we don't have enough housing to put every homeless person in a in an apartment or a house so that is one of the the main solutions I can come up with I know it's a temporary thing and the other the other thing is is I think we're you know like right there's we need more right places like right to dream to to get temporary stability in people's lives to where
 once they're stable, they can go out and look for employment or housing or get, you know, the services that they do need. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Item 233, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding street fund. Good morning, Mr. Rogers. Mayor, commissioners, Craig Rogers with you in Portland. Thank you.
 I'd first like to say that I had the pleasure of being down here a week ago when the young lady recited her poem, and you should all be very proud that you're all part of that, in that it's hard for young people to learn how to navigate this life, this culture, and the arts and so forth, help them have high self-esteem and be proud of themselves, and I'm proud of you for helping young people get there. Thanks.
 So I also want to mention that I was here while the streetcar gave their presentation. And when the gentleman here at the table said we have nothing to hide, well, that's because of the auditor's report. And I really suggest that you continue to take a close look, encourage your managers, take a close look, and watch where the money goes. And now it's budget time.
 And that's kind of where the rubber meets the road. And we've been having a problem now for 20 years funding the streets. It's accumulated to where now apparently it's $12.5 million we're in the hole each month. And that's a pretty deep hole. And I think we need to start climbing out of that. You know what they say, if you keep doing the same thing over and over again, what it is, we all know that.
 And basically, I feel that it comes down to priorities versus limited funds. And we need to really take a look at that really close. So maybe we can change something here. So, you know, we don't end up with front page Sunday paper, three-page article, the politics of potholes. I think we really need to get serious about this issue.
 have a come to Jesus meeting and start to resolve some of these problems. And I was getting my hair cut down in the Pearl, a place called the throne. And I was down there getting ready to leave and a lady comes in and she's promoting the Pearl. And she's a very prominent person in promoting the Pearl. And I asked her if she knew about the street fee. Oh yeah, she knew all about it, more than most people.
 So then she whipped out her phone right here and showed me a picture where she just stepped off a curb a week before, and she stepped into a pothole and twisted her ankle. She took a picture of it, and it meant that much to her that the streets are in disrepair. So let's do something good here. We have something, an opportunity. Let's take it. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate that. Thank you very much.
 Okay, let's take item 234. Request of Michael Bloss to address council regarding proposal to help everyone. He also has called and will be rescheduled. All right. And 235. 235, request of Mike O'Callaghan to address council regarding city attorneys. Good morning. Come on up. Thank you.
 Beautiful sunshiny day out there. I want to start out, though, with some kind of fun stuff. I dropped off a thing for you on Earth Cycles, a program I did in Alaska in the 70s and 80s, because this bicycle program is getting stalled. You can set it up quickly. Another thing, Amanda, this kind of might fall in your zone. Could you please let us have the seawall walkway instead of giving it to...
 Commercial interests repeatedly, could you please close Nato Parkway and move them half a block on Nato Parkway, give up half the grass, then we get during the summer, this is our crown jewel.
 You know, come on, let's have all the people want to use it. Okay? And I apologize when I talked to you earlier about getting no response. Okay? Indeed, I found out, you know, I'm in litigation with you, I found out through discovery, boy, I got some pretty high responses today.
 You weren't here, Charlie, but I had a box out here, a 2x2x6 that I sat on to show how cheap housing could be, $49.66. Called it a Cadillac shack. Caught the police stealing it and videotaped it. And in discovery, found out that indeed it was the chief of police that told City Hall security to call the police to steal it.
 And indeed, the police in their conferencing went up to the mayor's office and the mayor apparently told them to give it back to me. So I do see a response from City Hall. I also see a response from City Hall through the city attorney's office. Indeed, Dave Warbrough came out and arrested me with a policeman, arrested me for a warrant that wasn't valid. What's a city attorney?
 attorney doing going out arresting somebody? Another, Jim Rice is the city attorney here. He also was involved in the sweep and property. I was living on 306 I-Bahn. He represented himself as the DA to the
 police. He also represented somebody as a property owner who was not a property owner, so that they could sweep me off the place where I was living. Now, in continuation of this, the sweep along Springwater Trail corridor that just happened where I got swept out, it shows how much energy you guys are putting toward this. So I'm sorry to the gentleman that spoke to wanting to be housed, but this is where the city puts its energy. Okay.
 Okay, and so I just wanted to make it clear that the city is responsive to me But in a most egregious way, thank you. Thank you So let's move on to the consent calendar and we have I think one item we're gonna pull off 237 Anything else to pull off of consent?
 If not, then let's take a roll call vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And then we'd like to take 237 out of order and before our time is certain. Appoint Linda Bauer to the Adjustment Committee for a term to expire March 3, 2019. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor. And if I could ask Ms. Bauer to please come forward. Thank you.
 I've been waiting a long time for this. Ms. Barras, I've been a very active land use volunteer in the Pleasant Valley neighborhood for longer than I've been participating in city government issues. And so I'm delighted that her schedule now allows her to accept this huge responsibility to join the Adjustment Committee. And I just wanted to thank you for your service over many years and tell you that I'm very excited that you're going to be serving on the Adjustment Committee. Thank you. And thank you, all of you...
 City Council for the appointment. Thank you. Thanks, Linda. We appreciate you, and it takes a huge amount of time to serve on these committees, and we appreciate your commitment. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Thank you, Linda. Let's take a roll call vote on the acceptance of that report, please. Do I have a motion to accept? Motion to accept. So moved. Second. Okay.
 Well, again, thank you. And for those who may not be aware, Pleasant Valley is in outer southeast Portland, and so it's particularly wonderful to have somebody serving who has to come a long way to downtown for meetings, and I very much appreciate it. Hi. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, I probably get more e-mails from Linda Bauer than anyone else here, and that's because she is a tireless watchdog of the city's utilities, public utilities. Yes.
 And as a result of her vigilance, we've actually discovered from time to time things that we did that we shouldn't have done, and we've corrected that. And just to make a comment about her leadership style, a week or two ago I got another email from her in which she extended a compliment for the way one of my bureaus had dealt with surplus property.
 And so I really appreciate it. That's a sign of a really effective citizen advocate. Keep your feet to the fire, but then when there's a win, make sure that the people doing the work, the employees know that their work is appreciated. So I appreciate you, Linda, and this is a great assignment for you. Aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you, Linda, for all your service to the city, and we appreciate you serving on the Adjustment Committee. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Linda. Aye.
 Hales. Unlike Commissioner Fritz, I might have been involved in neighborhood advocacy as long as Linda, but I'm not sure. But it's been a long time, and we appreciate your commitment. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to our time-certain item, number 236. Okay.
 approved funding in an amount of $1,955,509 to reach Allen Fremont LLC to acquire and rehabilitate the Allen Fremont Plaza. Mr. Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. Earlier this year, Portland was named one of the most rapidly gentrifying cities in America. And while no part of the city is immune from this, few have felt its impacts as much as North and Northeast Portland. One month ago,
 We unanimously approved a plan to address longstanding issues of housing opportunity in north and northeast Portland that was inspired by Mayor Hales. Issues that have transformed the racial and demographic profile of these neighborhoods and have made it especially hard for the elderly to remain in place in their neighborhoods, near family, community, places of worship, and other essential services. Throughout the process of tackling displacement and gentrification in north and northeast Portland,
 we have heard time and again from the community about the need to support the elderly to help them age in place with dignity and safety. While this council item that we are considering today predates the North Northeast initiative, it nonetheless captures the spirit of that work. Since 1997, the Allen Fremont Plaza has provided affordable housing to low-income seniors from in and around Northeast Portland's Boise neighborhood.
 Decades ago, when revitalization efforts first started to take shape in inner Northeast, the General Baptist Convention of the Northeast, a consortium of African American Baptist churches, partnered with J.M. Woolley and Associates to develop land the convention owned for affordable housing. Their goal was to serve older African Americans and other seniors who attended their churches regularly.
 and who had needed affordable housing to remain in the neighborhood. It was the first project done by an African-American nonprofit sponsor group in Oregon. More than two years ago, the General Baptist Convention approached REACH Community Development to buy the building and preserve the affordable housing for current and future elderly tenants. The Portland Housing Bureau, which is the item before us today, is proposing to invest nearly $2 million in
 towards the $4.15 million redevelopment and acquisition cost, and in doing so, we'll extend the affordability of senior housing in a rapidly gentrifying neighborhood through the year 2075. To talk more about this project, Housing Bureau Director Tracy Manning, Pastor J.W. Matt Hennessy of the General Baptist Convention, and Senior Pastor of the Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church,
 and Dan Volare, CEO of REACH Community Development. Welcome, and Tracy, you're first. Thank you, Commissioner, City Council, Tracy Manning, the female bureau director of the Portland House Bureau. I had no idea how cool. Thank you.
 So this project was selected for funding by the Bureau in a competitive process. And normally an investment of this size actually doesn't come to city council. But for the funding structure, which is atypical, it's a loan product, actually a grant product that you approved for us a bit ago. It's competitive.
 in alignment with the recommendation of the auditor's report regarding our loan products and that we have a grant product.
 So normally this wouldn't come to you. This product means that it does, and I'm really glad that it does. While it is our intention to very rarely recommend a use of this product, and frankly, all of the projects that we bring you for funding, people have put a lot of work into and are really wonderful. I am here to commend this project and this partnership to you over and above, and thank you.
 Both partners have done extraordinary things to make this really important building and
 Pastor Hennessy will describe the tenants so you clearly understand how important this is to this community. They've put a lot into it. I'm just going to roll off a few of the reasons why we are recommending that you approve what we call an equity gap structure, which is effectively a grant for this project. Okay.
 It will not put off much cash flow because REACH Community Development has agreed to lower the income requirements for this building, which is suitable for the tenants that are currently living there. REACH is not requesting a developer fee. They're adding resident services. They're contributing $100,000 cash to the project.
 NOAA, which is a consortium of private lenders, is also putting up a really unusual structure for them, allowing for cash flow dependent payments on the loan. And Greater Baptist Convention, which has been an outstanding steward of this building, is accepting less than appraised value and has been working incredibly hard to make sure that this building got put into good hands.
 So I will let them talk a lot more about why we're making this recommendation today. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. To each of you as commissioners, it's a pleasure to be here today for the record. My name is J.W. Matt Hennessey, the senior pastor of Vancouver Avenue First Baptist Church in Portland and also the president and chair of the board of the GBC, Inc.,
 We have been in partnership together for, as Tracy has mentioned and Commissioner Salzman has mentioned, since 1997. I've been the chair of the board since 2009. And in our understanding of what we wanted to do, we were able to achieve that.
 the things that we set out to do in 1997. Many of the people who were a part of our original agreement are now gone, but those who came afterwards felt the same way. Very important to have.
 affordable housing for seniors in inner northeast Portland and be able to do that in a 64-unit complex where the majority of people are really their rents are between 30% and 47% of MFI. In this case, what we know is that the lower end is related more to those who have certificates
 The general sweet spot is right around 40 percent, meaning that they are able to pay rents somewhere between $450 and $550 per month.
 We knew from the beginning that we were going to make some decisions about rent structure and do it in such a way that it would maintain as many people as possible. The demographics are 70% of the members of the Allen Fremont community are African American. It's also the case that their average annual income is $13,500. Okay.
 It's also the case that because of those decisions, we've been blessed with about a 92 percent average occupancy rate, which I would say is pretty significant given the kind of work that we're in.
 Our nonprofit corporation has never generated revenues or profits from any of the activities or enterprises. We've been able to pay for our general partner responsibilities and expenses over the last 18 years through a co-development fee that was funded out of the original transaction in 1997.
 Anticipating that these fees would be exhausted about 2014 and the partnership, the general partners who were there in the beginning would be on their way because of the expiration of the tax credits, we made a decision as a Board in late 2011 that it would be best for us to sell the property because of our own incapacity to do the greater work that we think needs to be done there.
 But we wanted to make sure to sell it not just to any other high bidder, but really to sell it to another non-profit affordable housing developer whose main focus was to develop and operate quality affordable and rentable housing and would have the financial capacity to continue to operate it the way we intended from the beginning. We're blessed to have worked with Gina Woolley for all these years. She's done a great job.
 We have been blessed to work with REACH, and even though Dan is not a female, he's done a really great job as the leader of REACH. I want that to be clear. We have really enjoyed the relationship with him and his staff, and also to understand that many of the very things that were important to us are also important to them.
 We did not want to walk away from our residents and see an owner literally come in and the majority of the community there would be displaced. We really wanted to see an opportunity where they could be maintained for many years to come. That is the approach that REACH has taken. We are delighted today.
 for the partnership that has been able to be developed here between REACH and the Portland Housing Bureau. We're grateful to you for the great work that you have been willing to do, and I can assure you that we've done our part to make sure that this building that's 18 years old, that when you walk in it, does not feel like an 18-year-old building.
 It's been maintained well. It's been a great community that lives there. We are excited about this day and really excited about the opportunity that we have before us. And our encouragement there is for you to give your blessing so that this legacy may continue. If there are any other questions you may have of me, I'll be here to answer them. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you, and thank you, Council, for allowing us to come here today for this. I would also like to introduce Jessica Woodruff, who is in the audience here, too. She is the Housing Development Director at REACH. I'm the speaker today, but she's done a lot of the heavy lifting, and then the project manager at REACH, Leah Greenwood. And then you already heard Gina Woolley on the GBC side, who's been instrumental to make this happen. Thank you.
 It's a privilege for me to be able to be the speaker about such an important project. So why is REACH taking on this challenge? The simple answer is organizations are most sustainable when they stay focused on what they do best, and preserving affordable housing for the long term is one of the things REACH tries to do best. It's been part of who we've been since we were founded in 1982.
 And as several of you actually know very well because of your past involvement and even involvement on the board, in some cases in the 80s and 90s, REACH preserved hundreds of units of affordable housing in inner southeast Portland, and all that housing remains today affordable. And so that's vital housing, some of the last affordable housing in inner southeast Portland.
 We're now also doing some of that same work in northeast Portland and have been for several years. We're currently the long-term owner and steward for several properties nearby this one in northeast Portland, such as McCullough Crossing Apartments, Walnut Park Apartments, and Albina Corner Apartments in the city of Portland. And PHP has been a huge partner on making those happen. So, you know, again, this is just part of what we do. Okay.
 I will also say another reason we're taking this on is this is more than a financial transaction. It really is a mission transaction. We were inspired from the beginning to see what GBC had already accomplished, and that, more than anything, really pushed us to look hard at what could we do beyond what we might normally do. And, you know, we quickly understood that.
 in talking to Pastor Hennessy and Gina and others, the importance of Allen Fremont Plaza because it's in one of the most rapidly changing parts of the neighborhood and is one of the few options left for very low-income elders, as you heard. Also, GBC has...
 taken impeccable care of the building, and you do not always see that after 15 years. So that just showed the level of commitment that they've had all along, and that was a huge thing for us. And then lastly, you heard it referenced, but I cannot say this enough, the rents that GBC maintained, the rent levels they maintained in this building, are well below what you would see even in other affordable tax credit finance projects. You do not see this very often. So that also struck us, that this is pretty unique.
 So that was why we decided to do it. Now, that being said, that was also the challenge. How are we going to maintain these rents? They're very low, and that's a good thing.
 average about $525 a month for a one-bedroom. So that meant we were going to have to be creative on the financing. And you already heard it mentioned, but I really want to call out Network for Affordable Housing, NOAA. They're based here in Portland, and they pool funds from several banks. They also have gone beyond what they normally do and have offered terms on the financing that I won't go into the detail, but that is impressive, and it's beyond what they normally do even for us.
 some really unique things that have allowed us to stretch the budget much farther. So that's critical to making this happen. And, of course, and then REACH, as you heard, putting in $100,000 cash of our own, not charging for our development staff time this year that we've been working on it,
 But it all comes back to GBC agreeing to even do this sale at a price that's well below the appraised value. Even with the affordability restrictions on it, it's still well below what the value would be. So, you know, that's what made this possible, quite honestly. It's truly a team effort. Your support will have a tremendous long-time impact on Northeast Portland. Thanks for considering it today.
 Thanks for your leadership, and I encourage you to continue to take initiative to help lock in affordability wherever you can as you move forward. It's needed now more than ever. Thanks.
 Thank you. So just a moment to commend my staff, Siobhan Bedow, one of the many people. She's with us today, hiding in the back. But one of the many people that worked really over and above to make this happen. And Gina Woolley, I think, can't be called out enough. She has shepherded this building from the beginning. So your action today will add 47 years of affordability covenants.
 to this project, which is extraordinary. And I would say, as Commissioner Saltzman noted, even though this project was awarded prior to the work that we brought to you in north and northeast Portland, it is right in the heart of the mission of what you've challenged us to try to accomplish in that part of town. So thank you very much for your attention this morning. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for this panel? A couple. Sure.
 We have this kind of gathering. We have to ask you some questions. So first question is on the equity gap contribution. Tracy, the city sometimes puts grants into projects, sometimes puts loans and gets the money back. Could you just explain the difference in why this project qualifies for a grant?
 Right. So we exceedingly rarely put grants into projects. What we typically do is loan the money in, and we may have a portion of it that is a regular debt service payment, not unlike a mortgage.
 And then a portion of it that's what we call cash flow dependent. So over time, if the building needs change, either because the revenue goes up or because there's extraordinary expenses, the repayment to the city is able to take those changes into account in order to maintain the kind of affordability that this project does. Specifically, an equity gap structure.
 requires that the project exceptionally further the goals and objectives of Portland's comprehensive housing plan. And it's that word, exceptionally, that was designed to give you the flexibility to approve this kind of project that is truly different than our normal structure. And just to underscore perhaps the most remarkable part of what you're asking us to approve is that for an investment
 of just under $2 million of community development block grants, you are able to secure 60-year covenants on 64 units of at-risk housing in an area that's rapidly gentrifying. So I don't – I'm trying to imagine another time you've come back to us with a better leverage and a better deal for the taxpayers. The other thing is –
 The accompanying paperwork makes clear that this was done through a competitive process, but I think it's worth celebrating because this project had to compete against every other project that came in. So this is the best of the best. And could you just take a moment to explain the NOFA process?
 Sure. So our typical process of putting money out the door, obviously we have extraordinary need in our community and very limited resources. And so one of the things we do to get the most public benefit per public dollar is create a competitive process. It is as transparent, clear, and competitive as we can make it.
 My goal, I always say, is to fund the very best projects that are out there. We have extraordinary development capacity in our community. We're very fortunate. We get, unfortunately, what that means is every competitive process, we get a number of great projects that, frankly, we'd be happy to fund and can't. So that process is generally annual. We are a little low on funds this year outside of North Northeast.
 So we haven't had an OFA process recently. This was from the last process. Thank you. Thank you all. Thanks very much. So are there others that want to speak? Gina, others that are here and would like to speak on this item? Anyone else that would like to testify on this? We have two people signed up, Mr. Lightning and Joe Walsh. Okay, come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning. I'd like to say...
 Thank you and congratulations to GBC. I think you've accomplished what you wanted to do on this project. Oh, Lightning, put your name in the record, please. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the concerns I have is nothing to do with GBC at this time, is that on the grant that's being approved, as you know, I've stated many a times, I don't think we have ample resources to be doing grants, but...
 In this situation, I do approve of this grant, but I would like also a condition possibly put in. I'd like to see a percentage of the grant paid back in the event of a sale if REACH ever sells the property. The reason why I do that is to kind of recoup some of the money. I mean, if somebody gets a grant, that's a great day. I mean, they're getting a grant. They don't have to pay it back.
 I'm just saying if REACH decides to sell it down the line, there should be a percentage of that grant paid back. Whether it's 25 percent, 50 percent, we know the property is going to appreciate. Who knows where it's going to be in the future? So that's one of the concerns I have is I just want to see money recouped and funded back to the city, which I think is a reasonable thing to ask upon the sale.
 I noticed the unit price on this, you know, we're talking of $4 million, maybe $200,000 project with a rehab included. So we're talking of probably around a $60,000 per unit price average with the rehab. Without the rehab, it's, say, approximately $2 million. We're talking about a unit price of $30,000. Again, to GBC...
 As many units as you can provide at this unit price, please do it. This is a great opportunity for REACH and provide more units if you possibly can. So, again, I'm not questioning GBC. I'm questioning the grant possibly being paid back at a certain percentage. I know it is a grant, but upon a sale, just a percentage paid back.
 And, again, to keep these unit prices low, I have no concerns whatsoever, and you're locking in the affordable housing. Again, I do commend all parties involved on that. So, overall, I absolutely agree on the grant going to GBC. In fact, in my opinion, they should get the full appraised value, but that's something for me to be concerned about, and I think that would be more reasonable on this transaction. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, morning.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. When we looked at this, we saw, and please correct me if I'm wrong on this, because activists really like to be proven wrong, believe it or not. We see one nonprofit buying property from another nonprofit, undervalued, and being supplemented by the city. Now, which part of that are we wrong on? I don't think you're wrong on any of this. Okay. Okay.
 It seems to us that we get very nervous when nonprofits come to you and ask for money. We think nonprofits should be self-sustaining, and if they're not, they should go under. When government gets involved in nonprofits, there is a negative effect on that because anybody that contributes to another person or entity likes to know what's going on with their money.
 we get very nervous when nonprofits get government grants government loans we would prefer loans so you would get the money back because you're really messing with taxpayer money here so we would ask to say the same thing as mr lightning said is make sure that you are guaranteed that these rents are going to be low kept low
 by statute, by ordinance, by regulations, by not just somebody's word and not somebody's reputation. It's by rule, law, ordinance, whatever you want to do. But if you have 40 or 60 units and they are low income, 10 years from now, I want to be here. Well, five years from now, I want to come back to you and say, hey,
 Those rents are skyrocketing. Why is that? And I don't want you to say to me, Joe, I'm sorry, we had no statute to lean on. So that's what we're asking you. We're asking you to make sure, very sure, that these rents do not skyrocket after this sale goes through, because you're messing with taxpayer money on this one. $2 million worth. And if you do it right...
 Great. If you do it wrong, it's going to be noisy. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Anyone else? Further discussion? Anything else? Then let's take a roll call vote. It's an emergency ordinance. Fritz? Well, thank you all very much for your partnership. I particularly appreciate the General Baptist Convention, which started this project with the best
 and has shown true to those goals and now is passing it off to another nonprofit, my understanding is that the contract does guarantee the affordability for 60 years. A week or so ago, we were talking about changes in the Central East Side Industrial District, Urban Renewal District, which is now projected to start paying back in 2051. And I calculated I would have been 93, and I'm like, I'm sorry.
 Thinking about that, well, this one's going to go to 2075. There is no way I'm going to be here in 2075, unless modern medicine becomes a whole lot better in the next 10 years or so. So it's good to know that this project is going to live on past any of us and that it's going to continue to fulfill the purposes of the Baptist Church.
 and our community. It's absolutely worth spending taxpayers' money on this, and it's absolutely the best thing to do it as a grant rather than as a loan, because it's fulfilling our goals, too. Thank you very much. Aye. Fish? I mentioned to Commissioner Saltzman that I wanted to see if I could embarrass him in my comments. So you'll be the judge. Okay.
 I think on the face of it, this is one of the most promising and comprehensive asks that we've had in a long time because if you look at it, all of the values that this Council has articulated and defends are represented in this proposal.
 And because Dan and Tracy chose to bring it to council and to educate us about this, let's take this moment to celebrate that moment and celebrate what leadership looks like with Dan Saltzman and Tracy Manning. First of all, this was awarded through a competitive process, and it is through a competitive process that we can ensure the taxpayers that we're getting the best possible project. So we should celebrate that. Second, we are targeting people that need our help.
 folks that otherwise in this market would not have another option. And they wouldn't just be displaced. They would likely be on the street. So targeting low-income families and individuals and investing in their success is a core value of this council. Number three, we are preserving units, which in our world with limited resources, preservation is just as valuable as new construction and in many cases is less expensive.
 So we better be preserving units, and REACH has a distinguished history of helping us preserve units across the city. Number four, the leverage on this. Our public investment is leveraging other kinds of financing, so the overall benefit to the public is well beyond just the city's contribution. That's another example of a good stewardship of limited dollars. Commissioner Fritz mentioned the 60-year affordability covenant
 That has been a requirement of all of our preservation in the last 10 years, and that is, to Joe Walsh's point, that is locked into a regulatory agreement. There are no ifs, buts, or ands. It is in a legal enforceable document, and that's for 60 years.
 And 60 years is considered in the industry pushing the envelope very far. That is a very ambitious goal, and I think the Bureau is to be congratulated. With respect to equity gap contribution and the complexity of that thing, I just think it's worth noting that we are sometimes criticized for not recycling dollars. But there are some projects that if we don't put money in by way of a contribution, they just won't happen.
 And we cannot be so inflexible that we don't seize those opportunities at the same time that we're looking to recycle our limited dollars. And finally, as the good pastor reminds us, almost 80% of the people we're serving here are African Americans who have worked hard, helped make this community what it is, and would be at risk of being displaced if they didn't have this home.
 Hopefully all of them worship at a certain church around the corner. And finally, to those who raised the question about accountability generally, I want to note that the Housing Bureau has a Housing Investment Committee that scrubs all these deals and that has recommended to us that we fund this. And if that weren't enough, the fact that REACH CDC is the partner is like the icing on the cake. Thank you.
 And Dan is the successor to a great tradition of executive directors, going back to a guy named Ed McNamara and then most recently Dee Walsh. And we know what REACH is capable of because we've partnered with them so many times. Gina Woolley is here, and the only thing I'd say about Gina is I think she has a son at some Ivy League school I've heard of, and maybe even graduating this year.
 Next year is to be congratulated. And finally, just a little plug since it's budget time. Tracy said that we don't have enough money to do as much of this as we would like. So let's be clear, Mayor and colleagues. This is what success looks like. And what the Bureau has told us is the only thing that prevents them from doing more of this is resources. So I hope as we go into the budget season, whether it's Commissioner Saltzman's ask to fund the HIFF,
 or other requests to put additional resources into the pot, or, frankly, as we do the endgame on North McAdam and the amendments, let's make sure that this high-performing bureau has the resources to bring more deals like this to us. This is a proud day, and I want to thank Dan, I want to thank Tracy, and I want to thank our partners, and we wish you the best success. Bye. Saltzman?
 Well, I want to thank the quality partners in this project, Gina Woolley, J.M. Woolley & Associates, REACH Community Development, Portland Housing Bureau, and the General Baptist Convention. I think I was approached shortly after I became housing commissioner by the principals I just listed about this project, and it had a lot of appeal, but as I told them, we do things competitively, but my instincts told me this would be something that would probably –
 rise to the top because of the attributes of preserving affordable units for low-income, largely African-American seniors. And that's what we have before us today, and this is a proud investment that we are making in long-term affordability in an area of Portland that is undergoing rapid, rapid change. So this is a great project, and I'm really pleased to support this investment. Aye. Novick.
 Thank you to GBC and REACH and PHP. Good to see you again, Pastor Hennessey. It's been too long. I was just doing some math here, which is always dangerous, of course, but...
 We're putting in about $2 million in order to preserve affordability for 63 units for 47 years. And I think that comes out to about $675 per unit per year to preserve affordability. And that, to me, sounds like a bargain. So I'm very pleased to vote aye. Thank you.
 Hales. Oh, it's the perfect storm of good people doing a great thing. So thank you. Really, really wonderfully done. I think it's just a privilege for all of us to approve your good work and to send this excellent deal on its way to inking and completion. You know, the people that actually are going to see the best benefit of this now will be a whole series of REACH property managers who will watch happy seniors –
 come home for a really, really long time. And that's going to be a great job, Dan, for your property manager and their successors because there's nothing better than coming home, and that's what these folks are going to get to do. Well done. Thank you. Aye. Done. Thank you very much. All right. Let's move on to the regular agenda. Thank you.
 Item 1037, sorry, 1044, amend contract with Brown and Caldwell, Inc. for additional work and compensation for the Southwest 86th Avenue Pump Station and Apprentices Project number E09051 for $316,194. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to introduce Scott Gibson, who will make the presentation, but summarize the
 This ordinance, if approved, would increase the amount of the design contract with Brown and Caldwell to address a number of construction issues that have come up during the course of the Southwest 86th Avenue pump station project that require additional design. Scott, welcome. Thank you. Good morning. As Commissioner said, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me today is Mr. Dan Hebert,
 He's a senior engineer who oversees our pump station engineering program, as well as the project manager for this contract and project. As Commissioner said, we're here requesting additional authorization to amend our contract with Brown and Caldwell to increase the scope and the cost for their work on the Southwest 86th Avenue pump station. This amendment will increase...
 Their level of effort in support of the construction phase. The first thing I wanted you to know is the pump station is in construction currently, and our current request is associated with their support for those construction activities. And we'll also add a design task required by recent negotiations with Tualatin Hills Parks and Rec to do some mitigation on an adjacent trail to the pump station.
 So I'll lead off with the discussion of this project, its history, and how we have addressed the changes to date. And then Dan will present the current proposed amendment, and we'll both be available for questions. Now, the City of Portland owns and operates the Fano Pump Station. This station is located west of the city limits in unincorporated Washington County. The neighborhood there is known as the Garden Home neighborhood, and the station is just west and south of the Portland Golf Club.
 and it's adjacent to the Tualatin Hills Nature Trail. It's a heavily used trail. The station pumps wastewater from a combination of City of Portland and Clean Water Services customers, and it's pumped up over the West Hills, where it flows down into our collection system and north to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. Yeah, that's okay.
 The existing Fano pump station has a current pumping capacity of 24 cubic feet per second. Our modeling analysis has showed that we would need to pump at 47 cubic feet per second in order to meet all the needs at that station. So our plan is to build a new pump station adjacent to the existing one, which would provide that 23 cubic feet per second capacity. At this time, I'd like to talk a little bit about some of the project's challenges.
 the first challenge is the need to meet a schedule that was outlined in our agreement with the department of environmental quality and clean water services and without the ability to adjust the schedule and response to change options for how we have proceeded has been limited and that's been a driver for the amendments that i'll describe also we were also faced with the challenges associated with major construction in a residential neighborhood in this case homes are very close to the construction and also the fano creek trail
 And accommodations for homeowners and trail users were difficult to identify when we started the design process. And incorporating these needs as they have been identified has been a major second driver for change in this. Finally, a series of other BES projects in the vicinity have created both construction fatigue by residents and an organized opposition to our project and to the negative impacts on the neighborhood. So that's all challenged our ability to move forward in a responsible way.
 In this photo, you can see the project under construction, as well as the close proximity of the homes and the neighbors. The white roofs are residential single-family homes. Many of these are the Troomer-style slab-on-grade, 50s, what do they call them, atomic ranch-style houses. And there's some unique challenges with those that we've been addressing.
 And also along the north side, the trail runs immediately north of the project. You can see the existing pump station, and our current pump station is under construction. In the first of these photos, we see the access road, which is Southwest 86th Avenue. That has come up in one of the amendments I'm going to describe. And in the remaining photos, you can see construction activities along with the timber sound wall that we constructed to mitigate noise.
 The residents, as we said, are very close to the construction. We've worked very hard with them to minimize our impacts on their life. And as we go forward, in June of 2012, we executed our first amendment. It was signed by the purchasing agent, and it increased the contract amount by $412,000, or 22% of the original amount. This work was
 This change was driven by land use requirements that were received from Washington County, and we needed additional services to help address those. And then the second driver was the existing pump station at that time was suffering from some maintenance issues. We have four pump sets in that existing pump station at one point approaching the winter. We had two pumps out of service due to moisture failures and seals.
 So at that time, we decided we needed to replace the existing pumps in the pump station, and we added the design of that work to the Brown and Caldwell contract and ultimately ended up adding the construction phase of that work to our existing contract with J.W. Fowler for the new pump station. Amendment 2 was executed in December 2012. It was authorized by council ordinance. It increased the contract amount by $297,000, an additional 16%.
 At this time, we're responding to issues, again, in the existing pump station where we had vibration and pressure surges, transient surges at the headers, and we were relying on Brown and Caldwell to help us understand and analyze what was going on and come up with mitigations.
 and actually they recommended that we construct a temporary buried surge tank, once again on the existing pump station, and we amended the contract to allow for design of that facility. That facility was constructed and is now in service. Amendment 3, once again authorized by ordinance in June of 2013, increased the contract amount by $359,000, or another 19%. This was...
 associated with additional work and compensation needed to address Southwest 86th Avenue, which I showed in the slide. As a part of our land use, Washington County required that we bring that substandard street up to county standards. We needed design services to do that, and we amended the contract with Brown and Caldwell to do that, and that has been designed but not contracted.
 We also had, we're going through the final building permit with Washington County, and we had an increase in number of building permits, which was also included in that amendment. We had over 55 building and trade permits that we needed to apply for, and that process ran long. Finally, the Fourth Amendment, which was approved in February of 2014, was $464,000, increased by 9%.
 This was essentially we had a failure on an on the existing force main once a man with the existing pump station and Because Brown and Caldwell was there and was working. We asked them to design a chain a repair to a manufactured man way and They implemented that repair as well. I
 One of the reasons why I brought up the schedule constraints was that there would have been options to go to additional or alternate engineering firms, but at the time, Brown Caldwell was the firm with the expertise. They were performing extremely well, and because of the schedule deadlines, we thought the best option for us was to amend their contract. These were all approved by the council in the past, and Dan's here to talk about our current status and our current requests.
 Thank you, Scott. Again, my name is Dan Hebert. I'm the senior engineer in charge of the pump station engineering section and the project manager for this particular project. Right now, as Scott mentioned, the projects in construction were about 55% complete, or we were in the middle of January when I started preparing the presentation. The public improvements on Southwest 86th and the Southwest 84th
 Scott mentioned we're a permit requirement those plans are done and they're approved by the county and permitted But we don't have them under contract for construction at this point We haven't decided whether it's going to be a change order to the existing contract or whether it would be a new contract At some point in time we have until the July 1st of 2016 to get that work completed We're most recent change again. We've been in court in
 discussions with 12 and Hills Park and Recreation District for a number of years over several projects related to the Fano Basin Pump Station project. Most recent changes, there's a portion of the work on the Southwest 86th Avenue Pump Station project that's in a large diversion manhole west of the creek, and the only access to that is through the Fano Creek Trail.
 so we negotiated an easement with 12 Mills Park and rec to use that trail for construction purposes and one of the Compensations for that use was the agreement to design and upgrade that trail to their current standards So we need to get that design work done and there's also some permitting Work required for that because there's two wetlands areas immediately adjacent to the trail and a few trees will have to be removed that are coming to the jurisdiction of the
 Washington County and Clean Water Services. So that process will take a little bit of time to achieve. Again, that easement was only finalized just about six weeks ago, so we've added that work as a proposed new task in this Amendment No. 5. Last bullet here about engineering support for construction services. This has been a large project and a very constrained site and a very highly technical project, a high-pressure pump station
 It involves series-type plumbing and fairly large motors. And while the contractors perform very well, it's required an awful lot of coordination on proposed changes they've made. Brown and Caldwell has to go back and change some of the design work. A good example of that is we have a 60-inch diameter influent pipe that was designed to be installed in a trenchless technology inside a casing pipe.
 And the contractor proposed an alternate method. We had to go back through Brown and Caldwell and geotechnical engineer to redesign that whole process to achieve the savings that the contractor proposed for that piece of the project. But again, so those were the types of things that came up. And we've had a challenge in trying to get a number of the equipment submittals reviewed and approved and has taken sometimes as many as six or seven resubmittals on some of the more
 intricate equipment or the larger pumps in particular are still in that process. So it's been a much higher effort than we had originally estimated when the scope of the contract with BNC was negotiated originally. Again, I've already talked about adding the new Task 11 for the Fano Creek Trail. Okay. So the proposed amendment amount is $316,194, which is 17% of the original contract amount.
 And if it's approved, the authorized amount for the contract will be $3,412,374, which with all five amendments together represents 83.3% of the original contract amount. Just a few dollar facts about the contract, the construction contract with J.W. Fowler. The contract amounts a little over $15.6 million through January. We'd spent about $8.6 million on the project. Okay.
 Change orders on the project are really very low for a project of this size and complexity. Approved change orders are just over a tenth of 1% and right now our total change order exposure is about 1.5% on the project. We're very pleased with.
 Right now, if the council approves going forward this amendment, BNC's costs for construction services, or actually for two hall phases of the project, will be $2,934,000. Construction services, that is about $620,000, roughly 4% of the construction costs. And if the decision is not to approve or go forward with the amendment, I'll have some challenges to deal with and that we'll have to discuss
 bow back Brown and Caldwell's construction support services to only those services absolutely required to comply with permit requirements, since they are the engineer record on the project. And we would have to severely limit the scope of their services during the startup and testing of this project, probably in December of this year, which is going to be a fairly intricate task to start it up and integrate it with the existing pump station, which is the plan.
 And I would, we'd need to execute, select a consultant, execute a separate PT agreement for the trail design that we're obligated to do. So I should have put request instead of recommendation on this slide. So the request is to authorize Amendment Number 5 to contract with Brown and Caldwell. Great. Thank you. A couple questions. Others may have some too.
 Obviously a big, complicated, expensive, pretty significant investment project. What's the useful life of this new pump station once it's done? I understand pumps and those kinds of things have to be replaced, but we're actually building a whole new structure replacing the previous one. What do you estimate is the useful life of this investment? Well, the useful life of the pump station equipment is roughly 50 years. The buildings, if they're maintained properly, the useful life is –
 much longer than that and it depends on the level of maintenance and the structures. The way the City Bureau generally maintains their pump stations, the physical life is indefinite with some significant remodels on about a 40 to 50 year cycle as the electronics and control systems are the ones that change most often and actually custom sewage pumps in this size range have a predicted service life
 without severe problems in somewhere in the range of 50 years. Okay, that's great. And then we've had a number of projects both from water and BES lately that are in effect reconfiguring the system a bit. I assume that our system planning work in water and BES is...
 fully attached to our comp plan work in the sense of how much growth we're going to have in development over a very long period, at least the planning period of the next iteration of the comp plan, so that in terms of what capacity we'll need in the water and sewer and stormwater systems is as expected, properly synced up with what the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is doing.
 yeah and dan actually modified the basically infrastructure portion of those plans um that's a part of this project very early in the project right yeah so yes we're we're very in sync with the future land use projections and like i said we went through the process of modifying that plan to accommodate to address our needs in this in this area we are scheduled i think next week i think it's the 12th or something
 I forget when, but the rate hearing review process that we'll do. And I hope at the appropriate time with both bureau directors there after the presentation, you pose that question. I think that's essential for understanding the five-year capital spending plan and also just the priorities for capital spending within the bureau. And I think it would be also something the public would benefit from hearing the answer to. Okay, good. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you.
 Anyone want to speak on this item? Joe Walsh requested to speak. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I just have a couple of questions maybe your staff can answer. It seems in the presentation that this project has been going on since 1989. Is that accurate? In the presentation, they used the year 1989.
 And then they went through the historical background of how much we had to increase in order to do the modifications. So it seems to go all the way back to 1989. If that's accurate or close being accurate, our point is when the prime contractor is given the contract, let me finish first, when they're given the contract,
 Does that ever change or are they locked in? So suppose you want to build a pump station and you go in and you estimate, well, okay, it's going to take five years to do this.
 but now you're into 10 years or 15 years, do the same contractors just roll over or are they open up to further bids? And our concern is that if you look through that presentation, there's a constant increase of hundreds of thousands, and in some cases millions of dollars that are involved in this thing. And it never goes down. It always goes up.
 You know, so when you're doing construction, say, in a pumping station, things go wrong. No problem with that. Anybody that's ever changed a washer and an old sink knows things go wrong. However, first, I would like to have an answer to that question about the prime contractor, and second,
 We get very nervous when we see these things going up and up and up and up over the years. And if this thing's been going on that long, how is the relationship with the neighbors? I mean, I get really annoyed if somebody is doing construction outside our place after two days. If this thing's been going on since 1989, you must have new neighbors every six months moving into this place.
 So, anyway, that's the question there, and also we're concerned about the constant upgoing, and also we're concerned that if the prime contractor has a lock on this thing, then that excludes other contractors coming in and trying to do some work. So we're worried about that. Thank you. Thank you. So, Scott, could you come back for a second, and I'll walk you through the questions that Mr. Walsh has posed. Please. Sure.
 and they're all good questions, and let me take a crack at framing them and just ask you to respond. So when did this project first begin? Okay.
 The design contract with Brown & Caldwell was executed in 2011, August of 2011. Can you remember when the NTP for Fowler was? Yeah, the construction contractor, Fowler, their notice to proceed was in July of 2013. Okay, so that clarifies that it doesn't go back to 1989 but to 2011. Okay.
 And there's a contractor and there is a company providing engineering and design services. Could you just identify them both? Sure. The engineering and design services contract is Brown and Caldwell Incorporated. The construction contractor is J.W. Fowler. Okay. So this particular ordinance seeks additional funding to pay engineers
 Brown and Fowler excuse me Brown and Caldwell that's correct to to provide some services correct it's the bulk of this proposed amendment is to provide additional services during construction to support our construction services and construction inspection services now mr. Walsh asked about the prime contractor so where do we stand in terms of the cost of the of what we're paying the prime contractor on this contract
 The prime contractor, that's the $15 million. Let me go back to this slide. The construction contract, Fowler's bid was $15,632,000. This is slide 15. And so right now we have a total change order exposure on that for things that we know about halfway through the project of about $240,000, which is about 1.5% of the construction.
 So if nothing else changes, it may be that we're as much as 1% to 2% above the contract amount that we would be paying J.W. Fowler. For the construction contract, that's correct. That's the $15 million contract. Correct. That's not what's before us today. It is for the services of a second company. And Mr. Walsh also asked about...
 The relationship with the neighborhood, now that could, we could spend a whole day on that, Scott. But the reality is there have been impacts that we've been trying to mitigate. Could you just give a concise answer to that question? We're doing our best to work with the neighbors and doing everything that we can to minimize our impact there. Last week, I think you approved some mitigation for immediately adjacent neighbors. They were individually affected.
 crafted plans to work with our construction, say an autistic child, a man who had a studio. So we've done a lot, an audio recording studio, so we've made some improvements to help minimize our impact to them. And that activity has been ongoing and it's been a major source of these changes is to continue to revise our product to make it as compatible as possible. That said, we have been in
 We have been out there doing construction and it's been challenging and so far it's gone well with this contract, but there's been a series of other BES projects under separate contracts that have been underway for six, seven years now. Yes. We're in Washington County. We're subject to a different set of regulatory requirements. There is a residential area abutting. There is a natural challenge and tension of having a pump in a residential area.
 There are things like vibrations and other things we have been trying to mitigate. Mr. Walsh raises a good point. In fact, the council has authorized on more than one occasion some mitigation funds to address the concerns of neighbors.
 One thing I'd add there that Scott didn't talk about is Debbie Castleton is involved as the public outreach director or person on this project. And we've also, they've formed a citizen advisory committee that meets regularly of citizens in the neighborhood to talk about the project and to offer guidance and suggestions for things that might help them. So that's another step we've taken on the project. Okay, great. Any other questions? Yes.
 Thanks very much. This moves to second reading next week. And now item 245.
 authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Southeast Hawthorne Salmon Sewer Reconstruction and Green Streets Project, number E08668, for $4,590,000. Mr. Fish. Mayor, I'm pleased to welcome back Scott Gibson. It's been a while since he joined us. Today, the ordinance before us would authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to,
 to contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the southeast Hawthorne Salmon Sewer Reconstruction and Green Street project. This project will replace aging sewers and add nearly two dozen Green Street planters to manage the stormwater and keep the runoff out of our sewer system. This is an example of how coupling traditional pipe construction with green infrastructure can actually reduce construction costs, make the sewer system work more efficiently,
 Protect watershed health and save ratepayer dollars Scott. Would you please give us a brief overview? Yes. Thank you As Commissioner said my name is Scott Gibson and with me today is Bill Owen Bill owns a senior engineer He's our program manager for the Tabor to the river program, which was conceived under Mayor Sam Adams and he's gonna give us a brief overview of the project and his request. Good morning. I'm
 this project is located in southeast portland located between 41st avenue 50th avenue and clay streets and almost belmont to the north this work includes both
 sewer replacements for approximately 7,000 feet of pipe in this area shown on this slide, as well as 23 Green Street facilities that we've identified. This particular project was crafted in a pre-design project that finished in 2007 as part of the integrated Taggart pre-design report.
 that was the foundation for the Tabor to the River program. In that report, as part of the analysis, we identified just over 110 properties that have a higher risk of sewer backups, as well as approximately 20 manholes that have a higher risk of street flooding based on the storms that we use for our designs.
 So this particular project was incorporated with several other projects in the Tabor to the River program to the goals that Commissioner Fish outlined just moments ago. So this particular project, as I mentioned, focuses on relieving sewer backups in this area as well as addressing structurally deficient pipes that are within the project limits.
 These segments are at the end of their design life and could fail, and so it needed to be addressed. What's not noted on this slide is that we also are addressing some sewer extensions that have been identified as part of the non-conforming sewer program.
 So just like the rest of the Tabor to the river program, we look for opportunities where surface infiltration facilities or Green Street facilities could be used where effective to reduce stormwater coming into the combined sewer system. And it could be cost-effective to implement these using service life costs rather than just construction costs. So it could be cost-effective over the long term.
 one particular piece i wanted to highlight about this project is work along southeast hawthorne there's just over five blocks of work between 41st and 49th avenues that will need to be doing some pipe work in this area it's divided into three sections in our plans section one is towards 41st avenue which is a signalized intersection
 In this area, we need to replace some manholes with larger manholes and realigning the pipe towards the center of the streets. In doing so, we need to remove quite a bit of trolley tracks that have been paved over the years. Section 2 also requires some movement of the pipe to a more traditional location towards the center of the street. Currently, it's closer to the north side where there's a 30-inch section.
 water transmission line and so we prefer not to have our assets co-located in that area that section in section two we've been able to develop a traffic control plan that allows continuous one lane of traffic in each direction during during construction and as a result we can do the work during normal business hours or normal construction hours
 Section 3 is closest to Southeast 49th Avenue on Hawthorne and is also a signalized intersection. Similar type of work there. We have to move the sewer towards the center of the streets. We end up removing a traffic island, a pedestrian traffic island for safety there.
 which will need to rebuild. But in this area of Hawthorne, there are more traditional curb extensions, concrete curb extensions, that narrows southeast Hawthorne in this area. And as a result, it's more difficult to have two-way traffic continuous during that period.
 So, as a result, we recognize that Sections 1 and 2 would be challenging to construct without affecting businesses significantly. So Debbie Castleton also is the public outreach specialist in this project as well as in the previous one, and through her work and our coordination with PBOT.
 and others, we did an extensive public outreach to examine what options they would prefer in order to complete the work in Sections 1 and 3, which is near the signalized intersections at 41st and 49th Avenues.
 And the three options we gave the public to respond to include just doing work during the days. That would involve up to nine weeks of construction. Option two involved both daytime and nighttime work in these areas, but just doing one of those segments at a time.
 That would be approximately six weeks of construction. And option three would be both day and nighttime work, so 24-hour work just like option two, but the contractor would have to do work at both sites at the same time, so simultaneously. Okay.
 The results of that outreach effort, we had about just over 1,200 respondents, which is depicted on the map you have here, primarily in green.
 option three, which meant the general community in this area preferred for us to come in, do our work as quickly as possible, and be able to get out. And so 88 percent of those respondents responded in that manner. And so that's how we finished our design and submitted our noise variants accordingly. That's interesting. I'm kind of surprised by that. I don't know if you were, but I am.
 Another feature I wanted to highlight on this project dealt with tree mitigation. There are cases when we build Green Street facilities, we have to remove existing trees. And when we do that, we have to mitigate for that loss. Southeast Hawthorne is deficient in tree canopy relative to other areas of the city.
 And so we explored some options with our partners in urban forestry, in the Transportation Bureau, and others to find out if there's a way we could increase the canopy along southeast Hawthorne as part of this mitigation project.
 So this particular slide, and I apologize if it's a little difficult to read, but this slide indicates that we're going to have two tree wells that we will be building in the street just past the curb.
 where We be putting a tree in each location. This is the location on the south side of Hawthorne between 46th and 47th avenues and as part of that the planting those trees we can address the mitigation needs as long as other trees will be planting for this project and
 In order to complete this type of design, we made sure that we reached out individually to each of the businesses along this block to see if they were comfortable with this arrangement, and they were. So we decided to go ahead and finish this design, and this is the result. So the next steps, we plan to advertise later this month.
 The ordinance requests indicate that the project will be, engineer's estimate is $4,590,000 and that level of confidence is optimal for that estimate. The purchasing agent will be back to report regarding the lowest responsible bidder and bid for the project. Our current schedule is that construction notice to proceed will be issued in July of this year.
 And our estimated contract period is 12 months. So thank you for your attention. Thank you. Other questions? I have a couple of questions. And I appreciate the level of detail you've given us about the public outreach. I share the mayor's, I guess, surprise at the outcome. Was there a difference of opinion between the businesses and the residents? Let me go back to that slide if I could.
 The short answer is no. Our initial outreach suggested that the residents – so this was the second round of outreach we did for this project in this area. In the first round of outreach, the residents were not as comfortable doing nighttime work, but
 The businesses were mixed about that, the hour of the day to do construction work, depending on the type of business they had. But the second round of outreach, when we laid out the duration, the type of work that was going to be done,
 Generally, both residents and the businesses responded that they prefer for us to come in, do our work, and get out as quickly as we can.
 So you identify 130 businesses on this strip, and my recollection is they include small restaurants, medium-sized restaurants. There's a new grocery store. Famous chocolate shop. Famous chocolate. And it's become a very hot destination, particularly in the evening, because of all the restaurants. And are you satisfied that –
 We have an adequate plan that we've developed with PBOT to address the parking and the circulation so that the folks who are, you know, running their businesses, the pizza place, there's a Tex-Mex. There's some very, very hot places up and down that stretch, which means a lot of traffic. Are you satisfied we have a plan to address circulation and parking? Yes.
 I am satisfied with that, but your point is noted, and I will make sure that we circle back with Debbie and some others as we move through to make sure that we continue to communicate with those business owners to accommodate their needs the best we can. And I'm guessing we brought Venture Portland in on this? We've had some... Hawthorne Business Association. Or the Hawthorne Business Association? Yes, sir. Okay. So I think if the start date is not...
 If under the best of scenario, you get a bid, we move forward, you're looking at starting mid to late summer, correct? Hopefully midsummer, that's correct. Midsummer. So that gives us a little more time to make sure we've done all the outreach to both the business district and to Venture Portland. I also want to make sure that whatever construction schedule we have doesn't interfere with whatever they're doing for a summer festival.
 and that has that has in the past created some challenges so we're going to want to make sure that the day that that that has been selected for the hawthorne festival street fair where they where they shut down a portion of hawthorne we take that into consideration because we're going to be creating a significant backup on hawthorne if if what what what you face crossing is a single lane
 And a single lane that presumably is going to – a single lane each way or just a single lane that alternates? During Section 2, it will be a single lane each way. That's going to have a – I mean, Hawthorne has already backed up quite a bit, as I can attest. Late in the afternoon, this is going to have a significant impact. So we're going to want to make sure that it doesn't have an adverse impact on what they're going to do through the business association. And we'll take another look at just make sure, colleagues, that the business district and Venture Portland –
 have done the proper outreach to the businesses because it's great to do it. I understand the logic of doing it as quickly as possible, but if it's going during the day and at night, it's going to have a significant impact on commerce, and we just need to make sure we mitigate it.
 So I agree with you, and so we'll make sure to follow through on that. I'll note that the summer festival date has been set, and it is in our bid books. So the contractors will be aware of it, and so we'll keep an eye on it. Are they precluded to do work during that period? They're precluded to do work during that period as well as during the holidays. Okay.
 Okay. Yeah, so there's a blackout period for that. That's right. The night work, is that on Hawthorne alone, or is that also on the side streets? Hawthorne alone. Yeah. Okay. So backup beepers will be audible, but maybe won't keep everybody in the neighborhood awake. Correct. Correct. And things like cutting into trolley tracks won't be allowed at night. Yeah.
 Well, I appreciate this discussion. We've had a lot of these kinds of projects around the city lately, but this is probably the one, at least in the last two years, where...
 You know, there's a lot going on in that area, as you just described. You know, this work's been going on in my neighborhood for the last year or so, and it's worked out well, by the way. It's been well managed. But I think just in terms of the concentration of activity, like Commissioner Fish was talking about, this one's going to be a challenge. Well, and Steve and I have some experience most recently with Division Street where Yeah, that's true. Going the extra mile and making sure that we've factored in the holiday shopping season
 any unique promotional things that are being done, the festival that the business district is running or the neighborhood association, and then making sure that the circulatory patterns, if people are being diverted for any reason, making sure that we really thought through the best circulation that doesn't adversely impact a business or a particular resident. This is a
 Not a science, it's an art. This is one where I think the close working relationship between PBOT and VES will be very important. I have two questions. One is, have you talked to the private utilities to see if they're planning to do any work in that neighborhood around the same time that could be coordinated?
 Yes, sir. We have spoken with the private utilities there. It turns out that we were able to avoid any conflicts with those utilities with a couple of exceptions. One is at 41st Avenue, and that's the Signal Eyes site, and CenturyLink will be doing some work on their vaults there just prior to our construction in that area.
 Commissioner Novick, if you're talking about a broader enterprise or citywide look to see that they have their own needs that they would want to accomplish at the same time. I know that's a focus of ongoing innovation grants and other activities. I don't know that we pose that question to them, but we have questions.
 We've notified them that the project's coming numerous times in an attempt to make sure that everybody knows what we're doing, and we're coordinating for locations. That's what Mr. Owen has described. Commissioner Novick, maybe this is one where we can do an informal test drive of the collaboration that we're working on, where we do some additional outreach to see. And the theory would be if we're going to dig up the streets and there is a utility that wants to come along and piggyback off that work,
 Let's do that so that we don't have to dig up the street twice. And perhaps we could do this on an informal basis and check with some of the utilities that were likely to want to perhaps do some work in that area. My second question is one that I think people in most neighborhoods of Portland would be concerned about, but particularly in this neighborhood. Can you assure us that this project will be gluten-free? Especially here. That's great. I'm sorry, I can't. Okay.
 By the way, just conceptually,
 When we did the Division Street project, there was always that tension between the level of bioswales and the design location and the impact on parking. I assume that we've had the same discussion here. Can you give us a sense of how you've reconciled the two competing needs of both managing stormwater on site and also preserving adequate parking space for the businesses?
 I can. So we were keenly aware of that tension and you'll notice on this particular slide here that I brought up again.
 the curb extensions which are the green street facilities that take up space where parking would have been would have existed are located at least two blocks away from hawthorne in either direction for this project you will see there are a number of black rectangles on this slide which indicates those are planters which are facilities that are behind the curb and do not affect parking so that was one of the
 the chief things that we were keeping in the back of our minds even before 30% design had been finished. Thank you. Great. Thanks. Other questions? Thank you both. Appreciate the presentation. Thank you.
 All right. And that is an ordinance, but it's not an emergency ordinance, so it comes back for second reading next week. I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Oh, I'm sorry. I don't know if anybody wanted to testify. I didn't call for any testimony. Didn't think we had any. Okay. Thank you. It comes back for second reading next week. 246.
 Authorize a contract with Reptiles Financial Consultants, Inc. for the Water Bureau Cost Allocation Audit Project in the amount of $169,490. Mr. Fish. Thank you. Cecilia is here to walk us through this. Here's just a brief comments. I've been furnished. Mayor and colleagues, through wholesale contracts, the city provides water to 20 cities annually
 water districts, and companies with almost 400,000 customers. This is in addition to the approximately 570,000 city customers. In 2006, the city and its regional wholesale customers signed the Wholesale Water Sales Agreement for long-term water purchases. Terms of the agreement are explicit about rate setting. Wholesale customers work closely with city staff and consultants to develop a rate setting model consistent with the terms of the agreement.
 The wholesale water sales agreements between the City and its wholesale customers require a third-party audit of cost allocations at least once every five years to assure that the cost allocation is consistent with the terms of the agreement. The allocation of costs to wholesale customers then informs annual wholesale rate setting. That's a mouthful, Cecilia. Did I miss anything? No.
 I'm Cecilia Huynh, the Water Bureau's Finance Director, and as Commissioner Fish had mentioned, I'm here to request for authorization to contract with Rapitalis Financial Consultants to perform a cost allocation audit. The Bureau administers the Tony wholesale contracts or water sales agreements that Commissioner Fish alluded to that were signed in 2006.
 The agreement is very specific, and it does require a third party to perform a cost allocation to ensure that our costs are allocated according to the contract, to the water sales agreement, which is the basis of establishing the wholesale rates. So this is very close and dear to their heart, of course. This is the second audit that we'll be performing.
 that will be conducted. Our wholesale customers are stakeholders in this project. They were part of the selection committee, and they were involved in negotiating the contract as well. They also cost share in this project, which we have included in the wholesale rates that they are paying. I'll take questions. Thank you. Any questions? So my understanding is that the subcontractor is an emerging small business company
 Yes. Or is Raffetelis Financial an emerging small business? That's a primary consultant. Primary consultant. The sub is Randy Hawley. Right. Engineering. Can you tell us about that? Randy Hawley is a retired Waterbeer employee. He was our operations manager that managed our SCADA system, our
 and they have basically teamed up with Raft House Consultant. Randy will primarily be doing a lot of the engineering work on this project. A key part of this project is understanding how we deliver the water to our wholesale customers because that is the basis of how costs will be allocated. And how long has Mr. Hawley been retired? It's been a while. I want to say at least five years. Okay.
 Thank you. And were there any of the other two firms that bid on this contract that had minority or women subcontractors or partners? I don't recall. I'll have to go back and look at the proposals. Thank you. Will there be a report back to council? If you like, certainly, but...
 COMMISSIONER MAY. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT. CHAIRMAN BRYANT.
 If not, then it passes to second reading. Thank you. Okay, item 247. Authorize application to the Oregon Office of the State Fire Marshal for a grant in the amount of $86,000 for highway emergency response specialist training for the Portland Fire and Rescue Hazmat Team and flammable liquids bulk storage specialty training for Station 24. Mr. Salson.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is an important grant application, and we have Emergency Operations Division Chief Jim Forquet here to answer any questions. Good morning, Jim. Good morning, Mayor. Commissioners? Jim, is there any reason we should not authorize this application? Absolutely not.
 So why just Station 24? Is that because they're closest to the tank farms? Station 24 is the station that houses our current flammable liquids capability with the apparatus, and they also receive special shipboard firefighting training, and they're the most likely folks that would be able to bring apparatus into the tank farms and the bulk storage facilities. Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay.
 Training we hope we don't need absolutely but need to have might come in handy if there was ever say an oil train fire, too Yeah, there was I think two train derailments in Oregon as recently as yesterday nothing significant, but it's a very real risk. Yeah Other questions for Jim. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thanks Jim anyone want to speak on this item Okay
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the biggest concerns I have is just that, and possibly this training can apply in that direction, is I have a real concern on that Pembina propane storage facility, and I wanted to see any type of information provided, what may happen in the event at a facility like that if an accident does occur, and
 We've talked about on that facility on the blast zone areas, and I haven't really seen a whole lot of data pertaining to what the blast zone area would be, say, talking about Pembina. I'd like to maybe see some more data pertaining to that and get a better understanding on if it would actually affect all the way within the city parameters in the event an accident was to occur, because I've heard a lot of different conflicting opinions
 statements and seeing different studies, but I haven't heard anything from the local fire marshal or any of the fire department on those type of issues. And we're talking a $500 million project that's being discussed at this time, and I'd just like to see some type of information or have some understanding on the effects of that propane storage facility project.
 and what the public needs to be aware of at this time. Thank you. Okay, thank you. All right, this is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Thank you, Jim. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? We will get that safety analysis on the Pembina case, by the way, but this is about liquids, and they require specialized training. Aye. Okay, 248. Okay.
 Authorize contracts as required with Pavement Services, Inc. and Geo Designs, Inc. for on-call pavement testing and analysis of city streets. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, we do visual inspections of pavement to determine if we need to do grinding and repaving.
 If we do a less than two-inch grind and pave, that's something that we normally do in-house, and we can tell basically through visual inspection if that's what we need. If we conclude through visual inspection that we need more than a two-inch grind and pave, then we contract that out, and also we know from experience that if we know it's more than two inches, we might not necessarily know for sure whether it's three or four or five without doing additional inspections.
 And we used to do payment and testing. And we used to do that testing in-house, found that it was not cost effective. So now that's work that we contract out. And I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Lyles to elaborate. Thank you. Todd Lyles, PBOT, supervisor with the Bureau of Transportation. As described in the ordinance, PBOT requires professional services to support implementation of our capital improvement program, an example of design data that feeds into our capital improvement program,
 is our pavement management system. As part of that system, PBOT tests our pavements to verify design assumptions prior to letting construction contracts out to bid for pavement rehab. These are our grind and overlay projects, otherwise known as our contract paving work. In addition to our physical deflection testing, PBOT also performs visual distress evaluations, which is tracked in our Street Saver database. We can categorize pavements as good, fair, or in poor condition.
 These pavements have a service life of a known deterioration rate that is measured. We test our pavements according to industry standard practices using what's called a falling weight deflectometer. We test for structural deficiencies in the existing roadway, and we use these tests to confirm our pavement design.
 Pavement testing occurs in our streets plan. Like for a three-inch grind and greater, testing is an important step in determining the right design because, as you know, the cost of testing and rehab multiplies with increased thickness. PPAT does not own a falling weight deflectometer. It's very expensive to own and maintain. Nor do we have the expertise in operating the equipment and interpreting the data.
 Therefore, PBOT's requesting the use of these on-call services contracts to perform the work. We've been doing pavement testing for these types of contracts for more than 10 years. Our outreach efforts, which are included in the impact statement, include posting the RFP at the OAMI website, the Oregon Association of Minority Entrepreneurs, the NAMCO, National Association of Minority Contractors of Oregon,
 researching the state's OMWESB website for certified firms and candidates, contacting ODOT and WSDOT for other potential firms, both those DOTs perform their own work, and contacting the Oregon Asphalt Pavement Association for other potential firms. We published an advertisement in the DJC, posted advertisement on the LAPS PDX website, which is the Lateral Agile Partnerships, an online small business consortium for MWESBs,
 We also posted on the procurement services online project calendar. Through this effort, we didn't identify any additional firms. Using an open and competitive procurement services process, PBOT received two proposals. The public process consisted of a selection committee, including a representative from the minority evaluation program, who evaluated the firms based on the performance in the criteria of the RFP.
 Again, this is very specialized type of work. Only a few companies in the Northwest provide these types of services. Of the two firms selected, Pavement Services is an ESB. GeoDesign is a non-certified firm. These two firms are the same firms that have performed work on the recent expired contract. And as you can see in your handout at the –
 The bottom table in attached exhibit B, the recent 2009 to 2014 performance, achieved a total MWSB utilization of 56%. This is in the yellow box at the bottom. The table at the top represents the current contract proposal for MWSB utilization based on a hypothetical million-dollar contract. Again, PSI being an ESB, the total utilization is estimated at about 47%.
 as you're aware on-call services for contracts for engineering services facilitate long-range planning increased control and provide for an uninterrupted supply of needed services in addition to saving time and money by reducing the cost due to repetitive selection process this ordinance would authorize a three-year contract to two individual firms psi and geodesign incorporated in the amount of not to exceed five hundred thousand dollars each
 Money would only be spent when authorized in the budget for capital improvement or contract paving work. Currently, an emergency exists because we have two firms on assignment producing reports awaiting PBOT's review comments. Their existing contracts expired at the end of this last year. So we thought it would be better to go out for the new contracts rather than come to City Council for an amendment. At this point, do you have any questions? I don't believe so. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 And this is a non emerge. No, this is an emergency ordinance So let's see if there's any public testimony and then take a roll call. Come on up. Mr. Walsh For the record. My name is Joe also representing individuals for justice. We would prefer To keep this in-house whenever possible The last part of the presentation was that it's some specialized and
 requirements in this contract that only two corporations or companies have the qualifications to do it. We would ask you to have staff look at that again and see what parts we could break off and either do in-house or put out for bids in the local area. We don't particularly like
 contracting out when we have this huge problem right now. And every time you talk about roads or streets, everybody's hair goes up because we're in this debate right now of what we can do, how we can do it, and what money is available. You're talking about $500,000 a million here, $500,000 there. Pretty soon you're talking about serious money.
 so we're suggesting that if in-house you can do some of this stuff then do it it keeps our employees busy and i like that i like employees who are busy and contracting out is sometimes just too easy and also the limitations on the expertise bothers us and makes it nervous
 Because a lot of times we go to corporations that have been around for a while that are friendly with us, that we know that they're going to do a good job, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. However, when you do that, you exclude a lot of other companies that may be run by women, may be run by minorities, may be run by people that need work. So this, again, is something that...
 should be re-looked at very carefully. Thank you. Thanks. Okay, anyone else? Let's take a roll call, please. Prince? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And then 249.
 Grant Bureau of Transportation Regulatory Program designated employees authority to issue civil penalties in the enforcement of private-for-hire transportation and other regulations under their jurisdiction. Roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. And we are recessed until 2 p.m.
 Okay. We will come back to order for our afternoon session, please. Would you call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Would you please read the item that we have this afternoon?
 Item 250, appeal of Northwest District Association against Design Commission's decision to approve with conditions the Tess O'Brien Apartments at 1953 Northwest Overton and 1950 Northwest Pettigrove Streets, LU14-220722DZAD.
 Okay, this is a quasi-judicial land use hearing, so we first, before we turn it over to the city attorney for procedural instructions, need to check to see if any of us have potential conflicts of interest or ex parte contacts to report. I did discuss the project with Mr. Kehoe back in December before the decision was made and the appeal was filed. Any others? Anyone have any questions about the council members, about our objectivity for this case? No.
 If not, then Catherine, would you walk us through the procedure, please? Good afternoon. I have several announcements I'm required to make by state law. These concern the kind of hearing we're having today, the order of testimony, and some guidelines for presenting testimony. First this is an on-the-record hearing, which means you must limit your testimony to material and issues in the record.
 Secondly, in terms of the order of testimony, we'll begin with a staff report by Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present the appellant's case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak to the Council.
 The applicant will then have 15 minutes to address the City Council and rebut the appellant's presentation. If there's no, if there, well, in this case, and then the council will hear testimony from supporters of the applicant for three minutes each.
 Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the applicant, and the council may then close the hearing and deliberate and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If the council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before the city council. Finally, as to guidelines for those who will be addressing the council today,
 Again, this is an on-the-record hearing, and the hearing is to decide only if the design commission made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to the commission. This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled by the commission. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the design commission, but you may not submit new evidence today. Thank you.
 If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. The council will not consider the new information, and it will be rejected in the council's final decision. If you believe someone who addressed city council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence that's not in the record, you may object to that argument.
 Finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the design commission may be raised in this appeal to the city council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the commission, you may object to the council's consideration of that issue. That concludes the bookkeeping statements I need to make. Okay. Thank you very much. Questions? Then let's have the staff report, please. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Stacey Monroe with Bureau of Development Services, Land Use Services. I'm here to provide the staff presentation for the appeal of the Design Commission decision for approval for the Tess O'Brien Apartments. I'll briefly get you acquainted with the proposal. It was for two six-story buildings, about 67 feet tall, 123 residential units, one of which was live work,
 A large outdoor courtyard between the buildings, a little over 6,200 square feet in size. 153 bike parking spaces for residents both within the building and in the courtyard. The building is composed of brick, stucco, precast stone, storefront system, aluminum storefront and vinyl windows, and other detailing. No parking was provided, as none is required within the Northwest Plan District. And no loading was provided on the site. An adjustment was requested to that development standard.
 The image on the screen, the property is highlighted in red. The zoning of the property is central employment zone, EXD, with a design overlay. It's located within the Northwest Plan District. Within this district, there was a 45-foot height limit. However, within the bonus area A of the district, which is evident or indicated with the blue outline on the screen.
 which this property resides in, there is an increase to 75 feet in height if over 50% of the floor area in the building is residential. You may also exceed the maximum 5-to-1 FAR in the district within this sub-area for an additional 1-to-1 FAR if the majority of the building has a residential component.
 The property is located within the Northwest Pedestrian District, and its frontages on Petty Grove and Overton are both local service streets. Here is an image and aerial of the vicinity. The property, again, is highlighted in red. The site consists of two tax lots that share an internal or rear property line. Together, they total about 18,000 square feet. Again, they're bounded by Petty Grove and Overton, with the additional boundaries of 19th and 20th.
 The remainder of the block is developed, as well as the surrounding area, with older one- and two-story industrial and commercial buildings and residences, older multi-story residential buildings, as well as some newer six-story development. On this enlarged area of the site, you begin to kind of see how the block is developed. The abutting conditions of the northern portion of the lot on Pettygrove,
 is bound by a six-story building to the left, which was approved in 2010, and a four-story older residential apartment building to the east. For the south portion of the site, it is flanked with two one-story structures, both on the west and the east sides. One, I believe, has an office or residential use, and the other one has an industrial use with a surface parking lot.
 Another item to note, at the southeast corner of the block, which is in the right-hand side of the screen, the Design Commission approved a six-story building back in January on this same block. So these are some images of the existing conditions along the Pettigrow frontage. The image in the center of the screen are the existing conditions, which is a surface parking lot.
 The images on either side of that represent the existing development, the newer six-story building on the right and the older four-story residential building on the left. The images on the bottom of the screen show the predominant commercial characteristics of the street, which include buildings at the street lot lines, storefront conditions, and active ground floor uses. You can also see the predominance of the brick and stucco materials and the more pedestrian-scaled elements such as the...
 the canopies these are some context context images of the Overton frontage again the southern portion of the site is represented by the image in the center of the screen it's got surface parking and an industrial building on both sides of that image you'll see the existing conditions the smaller single story residential structure which I'm not sure is occupied by residential it could be a commercial use at this time
 And on the east side, or I'm sorry, on the right side of the screen, the industrial building. Again, at the bottom, you'll see the more residential characteristics in the existing development. These characteristics have setbacks, residential stoops, covered porches, and landscaping. And those elements differ from the other frontage on Petty Grove. On the right side of the screen, you'll also see an image of the recently approved six-story structure at 19th and Overton.
 um that was approved by the commission about two months ago so on the right is a site plan as you can see the building masses are focused along the street edge both along petty grove and overton the building has zero side setbacks and zero street setbacks except for the southern building on overton where there's a five foot setback to allow an entry sequence with residential stoops to those units within that ground floor as you can note or as you can tell by the green overlay on this site plan
 That is the outdoor space, and it occupies about a third of the site, which preserves it for a generously sized outdoor amenity space. As the neighboring properties redevelop, this depth and size of the courtyard ensures that the open space will remain viable as a central component in the middle of this block. So these are elevations of the building. This is the final product after four hearings with the design commission.
 On the left side is the Overton building. It's the larger of the two. It's about 100 feet wide and contains the most units. This building differs from the other building in that it has residential units at the ground level, and these units have a vertical separation of about three feet from the adjacent sidewalk and a horizontal separation of about five feet, which allows some buffer and privacy within those units from that adjacent public space.
 And the building on the right is the Pettigrove building. It's the smaller of the two, and its frontage on Pettigrove is more consistent with the commercial nature of that street. And the residential unit was converted to a live-work unit with a storefront system, as you can see in the center bay of that building. So over the course of the design review process, as I mentioned, this is the final product. The project significantly improved.
 terms of the quality of the materials the ground level transitions the detailing and the finer scaled elements and the overall composition particularly on the street so this product this project went through a type 3 design review with an adjustment the approval criteria that staff and the design Commission based the approval on where the community design guidelines as well as the adjustment approval criteria for the loading space
 The land use review appeal findings must find that a nexus to relevant design guidelines or modification approval criteria have been met. The appellant states that specifically community design guideline D7, blending into the neighborhood, has not been met. And an additional component of the appellant statement is that a procedural error in the design review process occurred. So regarding the first point of the appeal, the community design guideline D7,
 This guideline reads or seeks to reduce the impact of new development on established neighborhoods by incorporating elements of nearby quality buildings, such as building details, massing, proportions, and materials. The appellant statement includes or states that the combination of the height of the buildings and the fact they're built up to the side property lines with no setback suggests that little has been done to reduce the impact on the adjacent development.
 It is suggested that at least six-foot side yard setbacks are provided and the height of the Overton building is reduced in order to meet this guideline. So the commission, during their review and numerous hearings, they concluded that D7 had been met, along with blending into the neighborhood, along with the planned character area statement, and
 by by the buildings meeting um the parameters of the the infill development parameters that reinforce the partial block massing that's prevalent in the area typically 100 foot building widths are in the area this building is less than that with eight with 80 on the northern building and 100 on the south the maximum height of 75 feet this building is 67 feet
 the buildings are both broken down into distinct wall planes that are no greater than 50 to 100 feet these are much smaller in 22 and 37 feet wide additional aspects of the project helped to meet those guidelines and have this project blend into the character of the neighborhood as well as into its immediate surroundings by having high quality materials such as brick brick and stucco which are the predominant building materials in the area
 It included finer scale details like canopies, lights, precast stone surrounds, which are very common in residential developments in the area, cornice lines and recessed windows. And particularly, it responded to the different frontages, as you can see in the images on the screen. On the image on the left, the Pettigrew frontage, you can see that it's got a more commercial character that responds to the more unique character of that frontage on Pettigrew with the storefront condition and the zero setback.
 And on the image on the right, again, the Overton building has a more residential character with a setback of the building, a vertical separation of the residential units, and more residential characteristics such as landscape areas and landings and stoops. So this project had four formal design review hearings beginning on November 6th. At this hearing, a tentative vote of denial occurred, which was non-binding since there was no staff report supporting that denial.
 After the first hearing, the applicant decided to make some changes in an effort to seek an approval for the project. As such, they signed an extension to extend the process. In general, at each hearing, the projects made improvements, and at each hearing, the neighborhood association was very involved, and they participated in the hearings and provided testimony at those hearings.
 Some of their concerns did align with the Design Commission, which in the end contributed to the improvements, particularly along the ground level, as evident in the final design. The final approval of the project occurred January of this year. At this hearing is when the Neighborhood Association testified with the massing concerns that is part of the appeal today. In response to that, the Design Commission did make a statement, and I'll read that into the record.
 They stated that the fundamentals of the zoning allowances, in particular height and setback, were put into place with the neighborhood's involvement in order to achieve housing and density goals. Discussions about the intensity of future development are currently underway and nearing its end with the comprehensive plan, and now is the time to get involved in that process with BPS if these are concerns of the neighborhood. The final decision occurred or was mailed on the 21st of this year, and staff received the appeal on February 4th.
 The options before council today are to deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve the Tess O'Brien Apartments with conditions, to deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve the Tess O'Brien Apartments and add modified conditions to modify the approval, or to grant the appeal and overturn the design commission's decision, which would thereby deny the project. And that's the end of my presentation. Okay. Questions for staff?
 question is sort of slightly off topic but and maybe we'll hear testimony about this but the adjacent building on Pettigrew the six-story building appears to have been designed with no expectation that there would be a zero lot line building next door even though that's what the site's owned for looking at the sidewall of the six-story building that's we're talking about the six-story building on Pettigrew yes correct
 Yeah. It just seems strange to me that the design commission would have approved a design for that building that had windows all along the wall where a future building was expected. It's not so much a problem of this application as a head-scratcher about a previous one on my part. Any light you can throw on that question, Tim?
 The planner who did that review is in the room. Ah. Just let him speak. Bonus. The Tim Heron Bureau of Development Services. Yes.
 It was during 2009, I believe. You know, it was the developer's prerogative to pull the building back and add windows, and I think it had to do with the party of their foreplate for the residential units. Knowing that it was a zero-lot line development, they had that option. And so we fully knew that another building could occur to the east that could also have a zero-lot line development. In contrast...
 This project worked with a north-south egress window and east-west double-loaded corridor. So they took advantage of the plaza, which is internal to both these buildings, and the street fronts, which is kind of the unique kind of schism of the site plan. Right. So there aren't windows on the side walls in the proposed buildings, right? Correct. One of them has a recess for the hallway. Is that correct, Stacey?
 I don't want to miss. There are windows at the corridors. At the courtyards. Right, and that's a lot of light in the hallways, so those would not be for a bedroom per se. Okay, good. Thank you. Other questions for staff? Thank you. Thanks, Tim. Okay, we may have more questions of you later, but let's go ahead and call on the appellant. Okay.
 We're almost there. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Gustavo Cruz, and I live at 2224 Northwest Johnson Street. I'm the president of the Northwest District Association, or the NWDA, and I am testifying today in that capacity along with other NWDA representatives. We are here today because our neighborhood association voted to appeal the Design Commission's approval of the Tess O'Brien Apartments Project. As you consider this appeal, I hope you will reflect on the unique qualities of our neighborhoods and the trends affecting them.
 An improved local economy has spurred rapid development, and as a city, we've become increasingly concerned about affordability and how new development will alter the fabric of our neighborhoods. The recent trend toward demolitions reflects a push for increased density, and at times this trend is conflicted with other values like the desire to retain the historic character of our neighborhoods. Several active corridors in Portland are now virtually unrecognizable from their appearance just two or three years ago.
 In this case, in addition to concerns over procedural issues that will be addressed separately, we feel that the proposed Tess O'Brien Apartments Project is incompatible with the existing neighborhood because of its mass and scale. This project includes two six-story apartment buildings to be built mid-block on Northwest Overton and Northwest Pettigrew Streets between Northwest 19th and 20th Avenues. There will be 123 residential units with no parking, and the apartments will be built virtually to the edge of the property lines.
 The building on the Overton side towers over its neighbors and the residences across the street, while the building on the Pettigrow side occupies virtually the entire footprint, with only a 10-inch separation from the four-story building to the east. The applicant will argue that there is already a large apartment building at Northwest 20th and Pettigrow, so it would be unfair and inconsistent not to allow this development to go forward.
 However, we encourage you to consider what is referred to as the fine-grained pattern of development in the neighborhood. In other words, just because a six-story building may be acceptable at one corner of a block, that does not necessarily mean that a similar structure would be appropriate on the other side of the block or even a few blocks away. Each development should be considered in its immediate context and judged on its ability to blend into the neighborhood. We feel that this project does not satisfy that criteria. Thank you for your time and consideration.
 Good afternoon. I'm Steve Finger. I live at 2669 Northwest Xavier Street. I'm representing the Northwest District Association. There have been several documents that have been submitted to you, the three sets of testimony from the hearings in November, December, and January, and a brief summary.
 regarding our appeal was submitted last Friday and hopefully you've had a chance to review those. I wanted to focus specifically on a couple of broad items regarding what we, the NWDA, feels this appeal is about, a little bit of the background, and then focus in on what we feel is the specific guideline that is in question here, which is guideline D7 and its intent.
 And I'll try and keep this fairly brief. So what this appeal is about, well, it's about a proposed apartment building, two buildings being proposed mid-block in an area of the transition area of the Northwest District Association. But more broadly, we feel that the appeal is also about the intent and purview of the discretionary design review process. And secondly, how in established neighborhoods,
 The transition from existing patterns of development to new higher density patterns of development is to be managed. I think this can generally be considered to be an issue throughout the city. A little bit of background on some of this. Stacey has already gone through in her report, so I'll try and go fairly quickly. But this project got off to kind of a rocky start initially.
 The project was originally submitted and accepted as a type 2 procedure when I think its previously stated evaluation was well above the type 3 threshold. The November 6th design commission hearing the staff report concluded that all the relevant guidelines of the project have been met and recommended approval of the project.
 The Commission, upon their review, however, voted unanimously to reject the staff report and deny approval of the proposed project. In our testimony, NWDA expressed its position that the three guidelines were not met by the proposal at that time. The D7 guideline regarding the need for a more compatible scale of the buildings in relationship to the neighboring buildings.
 The D8 guideline regarding the need for clearer composition of building facades. And the E3 guideline regarding the need for a less awkward relationship between the residential units on the ground floor and the directly adjacent public sidewalk. Several hearings later, in our testimony at the January 15th hearing in which the project was ultimately approved,
 The NWDA commended the project team for their response to these issues and the improvements to the building designs, and truly the building evolved considerably to a much, much better project. We felt that the buildings now met the standards for guidelines D8 and E3, but we did not feel and do not feel, however, that the buildings as proposed meet guideline D7.
 So guideline D7, I think as has already been identified, refers to reducing the impact of new development on established neighborhoods. And doing so by, amongst other things, incorporating massing, proportion, and materials. We feel that this is the fundamental question that is at play here.
 I also feel that the D7 guideline, the compatible massing provision of this guideline is the relevant guideline in this situation in which significant increases in the density of development are being proposed and most importantly where there are additional considerations and values to be weighed other than simply what massing is allowed.
 In this instance, the combination of the height of the buildings and that they are built up to the property lines with no setbacks suggests that little has been done to reduce the impact of the new development. In brief, in a kind of diagrammatic representation of the existing conditions and the proposed conditions, on the right of this screen is the proposed six-story development at zero setback from the adjacent property,
 generally speaking too close to the adjacent buildings too tall on Pettigrew Street similarly there is an adjacent six-story building so the issue of the height of the building is not a question but its relationship to the neighboring building to the east to three and a half story apartment building which it will be built directly up to or within 10 inches of
 This is a diagrammatic depiction of the proposed massing from an overhead to the south, showing the pair of six-story buildings. This would be a depiction of a conceivable compatible massing, showing side yard provisions at both buildings and potentially lower height on the Overton frontage that exists.
 was identified as having, I think has been referred to, significantly different characteristics than the Pettigrove Street, amongst them being a much smaller scale of development all the way along the street. So as I said, back to the kind of larger questions at hand, discretionary design review, at the
 At the December 6th hearing, the disparity between the staff reports assessment of this project and the design commissions was far too great. The guidelines, we believe, need to be applied more rigorously. They are not intended to be decorative. They're not intended to simply deal with facade materials and sizes of windows, but to establish the proposed project's general appropriateness with regard to scale and compatibility.
 And we feel that the staff did not take this into consideration in their recommendation to the Commission. In discretionary design review, the application of design guidelines is not constrained to what is simply allowable. And secondly, how to manage the transition between existing patterns of development and new, more dense patterns of development. And this is an issue that
 It's throughout the city and we'll be dealing with on an ongoing basis. But the NWDA is appealing the commission's decision on this proposal because it felt that the application of the provisions of this specific guideline have citywide applications on how this transition is handled and can be achieved with some level of grace. And guideline D7, I'm almost done.
 We envision the necessity for mediating the transition between development patterns and would not have been written the way it was had the intention been otherwise. The NWA, therefore, is asking Council to direct BDS to apply this guideline effectively and for its intended purpose. Thank you. Questions? I have one, which is maybe more than one, but there's some questions.
 This block is a bit of a hodgepodge, if you don't mind me calling it that. There's some undeveloped, or rather there's some low-scale industrial property on the block that has not yet been subject to redevelopment. I assume you expect that that will be subject to redevelopment, right? Some metal buildings and...
 other existing industrial development that I assume is going to give way to something anticipated in the plan and the code. What would you expect to see in terms of scale on the adjacent parcels?
 My own position would be that it's relative to the sequence of development. I think that, to me, what D7 suggests is that there is a progression in the transition between the existing patterns of development. But the pattern of the development on this block is going to be there's going to be six-story buildings on diagonally opposite corners unless the other buildings appeal. Very true. I mean, I think our position, and it's, I think, exemplified here is that
 The relationship of the building on Petty Grove and its height and bulk is not really the same as our view to the building on Overton, where the smaller scale buildings to the west are probably not at play for redevelopment. Okay. And then the other question I would have is that it's not directly germane to the approval criteria, but...
 I don't think it is, but the Conway redevelopment is one block away and begins with 67-foot heights at the nearest corner and transitions up to 150-foot heights at the farthest extent of the master plan. Wouldn't a six-story building be compatible with the intended pattern of development in the rest of that part of the neighborhood? No.
 It would be, and I was involved in the Conway Master Planning, I think, as you know. And, again, I mean, our position is that, you know, if you go the other direction, the alphabet historic district is two blocks away, and this is truly a transitional zone trying to mediate between these two patterns of development. So I think that's really the question that we're trying to bring forward is how can we do this gracefully.
 because it seems as though there's plenty of examples of rather drastic juxtapositions and awkward relationships that aren't going to go away soon. So if the council were to grant your appeal or otherwise go in that direction, what would satisfy you would be a shorter building on the Overton side? Is that what you're seeking? No.
 I think there's probably several different approaches that could be taken, but the things that seem to be in question here are the height of the Overton building and the lack of side yards on both buildings. But the issues of materials and form of the building you're less concerned about at this point? Absolutely. Absolutely. I mean, our concern at this juncture is really compatible massing.
 I think the project team has done a terrific job at bringing the building forward and evolving it into a good project. Great. Other questions? Just following up on that, if there were a five-foot side setback, what would you envision the use of that be? Light and air. Well, it wouldn't be though because it wouldn't be that much light and air getting down between two tall buildings in a five-foot setback.
 I would imagine at the southern building on the western side, it's very much a question of light and air and the juxtaposition to the smaller frame buildings. On the northern building, the larger building that was built in a few years ago is six feet off of the property line with windows and openings into the units there.
 There, and, you know, I certainly agree. It's, I think part of our question here is that is what is allowable what should be approved? And yes, I mean, you can, it's allowable to build to the property line, but is that in the general public interest to approve that?
 On the other side, I would just add on the northern side of the block, that building to its east –
 There's a smaller three and a half story building. It's only 10 inches apart from the proposed building. So I was looking at that building today, and there are meters on that side of the older building. I mean, I think they're going to have to be moved or some new meters will have to be purchased that are a fair bit smaller, because literally they will not fit within 10 inches. And who knows what they'll do as far as access goes. They'll probably just have to move all the meters somewhere else.
 But it's really awkward, and I think it looks bad. You're talking about the brick, the smaller brick building? Exactly, yeah. There are also windows on those side walls. And granted, they're on the property line, so the expectation that those windows would not at some point be covered is questionable. But again, should we allow that? Other questions? Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Are there individuals signed up in support of the appeal in addition to these? I have one person signed up, Ron Walters. Anyone else? Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Ron Walters. I live at 2057 Northwest Overton Street, about a block from the proposed development site.
 During the design review process, I have testified on behalf of NWDA, as well as personally when NWDA did not have sufficient meeting notice to develop testimony that abides by public meeting rules. My testimony today is once again personal, so I can candidly share my personal experience regarding the troubling procedures that I perceived during the design review process. First, I wholeheartedly agree with NWDA's concerns about the height, massing, and general incompatibility of the Tess O'Brien Apartments with our existing and future neighborhood.
 However, my greater concern is the design review process was flawed. I was the sole NWDA representative that attended the first design commission hearing on November 6th. At that hearing, design commission was deeply concerned about many aspects of the proposed design, including those raised by NWDA with the developer, as well as prior to the November 6th hearing. As the hearing proceeded, it became increasingly clear that design commission was not going to approve this application.
 Chairperson Milius encouraged the applicant to consider seeking continuance on three separate occasions. On all three occasions, the applicant declined. In fact, they ultimately insisted on a vote, and Design Commission voted to unanimously deny the application. I was surprised the applicant didn't seek a continuance, which would have provided all parties additional time to find common ground. I believe everyone was caught off guard. As far as I've been able to determine, the situation is unprecedented.
 In any case, Mr. Herron said the record would be kept open so the BDS staff report could be updated to reflect the denial. So from a layperson's perspective, the Design Commission did not offer continuance at the November 6th hearing. They voted to deny the application. On November 13th, a full week after the Design Commission decision, the applicant filed a request for an extension to the 120-day timeline requirement, which BDS says triggers a continuance.
 I fail to understand that logic or the administrative procedure as why an extension request after design commission has already decided to deny an application would trigger a continuance and essentially vacate the design commission's decision. From my perspective, BDS should simply not issue a continuance on behalf of the design commission outside of a hearing.
 I'm not a lawyer. I'm not looking to win a legal argument. I'm a layperson and a neighborhood volunteer that has a strong sense that this is not how the design review process should work. If design commission denies an application, BDS should not intervene to effectively overrule the design commission's decision. BDS should have simply supported design commission's decision, updated the staff report if necessary, and moved on.
 To that end, I respectfully request that you vote to support the NWDA appeal, to remedy the procedural errors, and to deny a flawed project that is still not compatible with our neighborhood. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. My name is Steve Spence, and I reside at 1932 Northwest Overton, which is directly across the street from the proposed development. These are the three-story walk-ups, which just as a matter of –
 Interesting coincidence, when they were constructed in 2004, the height limitation for the neighborhood was three stories. As a prospective buyer, I was a little concerned about what might happen to the neighborhood in the transition from residential to industrial. We took some comfort in that height limitation. So as you consider the issue of gradients and the neighborhood in transition, it's of also interest that the same developer, Marty Keogh, was the person who developed our units.
 And so now we have an interesting situation where across the street we go from height limitations that are three-story to six, seven stories and whatever eventually has those properties become built up. I think you're correct. I think the neighborhood will continue to build out. It's on the light rail line, and we love living there. So I think that one of the issues I would ask you to consider is that the same developer who built these properties felt that that was marketable, economic, good use of the property.
 The design review commission agreed with that, and now the character of the neighborhood is changing dramatically. This is not a gradual. It's not a transition. So that's one of the factors I would like to ask you to consider. Another factor in this issue has to do with the setback issue. These are aesthetic issues. Not everything fits the same to every person in the eye of the beholder. And to build out to the lot line, essentially in terms
 those directions which are public facing, not the courtyard on the inside, but the public facing areas. The impression of the neighborhood, as you might imagine, is that it's just being squeezed in. It is not in character with the way this neighborhood was historically built out or the way our homes fit into the neighborhood. So in my view, the biggest single design flaw here, which was brought up and addressed in the design review process extensively by that commission, and I believe to be part of the reason for their 7-0 vote, was this very issue.
 In fact, they went so far as to discuss what type of window coverings would be put up, what sort of mass with these windows being closed for privacy reasons. How will that property present itself to the street? And I ask you to use your imagination in that regard and think what that means. One of the questions asked here is how might a setback be utilized, whether that setback is utilized for vegetation or whatever else it may be.
 At least it creates a transition. That's been successful in other buildings in the neighborhood, and I see no reason why that shouldn't be required at this building. The last thing I'd like to bring up is there was a requirement for loading spaces, which was requested to be waived and was granted. I believe that to be a huge mistake. Overton is one of the bicycle pathways. It is used very heavily.
 To have someone double parking, a FedEx truck or anyone else, causes pedestrians, bicyclists, cars near an intersection to come together. I can see no reason, since the city does not permit double parking, not to uphold the requirement that the loading spaces be included in the approval became. Thank you very much. Thank you. Questions for these men? Thank you both. Anyone else?
 In support of the appeal. Okay, so then let's call up the applicant for rebuttal. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Marty Kehoe. I'm the developer. First off, I think I should probably give you just a brief background as to why we're here.
 When we started this project almost a year and a half ago, we went to the city and applied for the early assistance program, which is great because it tells us everything we need to know. We pay several thousand dollars, and we get all the information, guidelines, criteria. We started developing it according to exactly what the criteria and what the guidelines and what the city told us to do. About six months later, after we had completely developed it and consulted with the city frequently, we applied for our permits, and we're ready to go.
 We then were told, oops, our bad. We made a mistake. We gave you wrong information. You can't do it under community design guidelines. You have to go through a type three. So after having spent over $450,000 designing it exactly the way the city told us to and having gone through the early assistance program, which is heavily encouraged and is typically a great thing to go through, we wasted $450,000. So we started all over again. We failed.
 Started by reaching out. We talked to the Neighborhood Association. We sent them a letter in March to the NWDA. We've had so far over 55 meetings with the city, with the Design Review Commission, staff, Neighborhood Association, individual neighbors. We've been available anytime, anyplace, anywhere to meet. And we have met at a lot of different places. We listened to what everybody said, and we did not go through the Design Review Commission directly.
 having them tell us no and just keep coming back trying to get our way we listened to everything they said and we regrouped after every single meeting and we changed it as best we could and as you some of you may know it's very difficult to interpret what the design review commission says at one meeting we were told to pull the buildings back because it would give a greater a better residential feel at another meeting we were told to push the buildings forward as to give it more a better street appeal so
 We've done it all. We've been at it for almost a year and a half on this thing. We've gone through multiple staff meetings, four design review commission meetings, and we have made changes to the building that go on and on and on that we might go into with you. I wanted this building to look like a building that when you drive by it after two or three years after it's built, you don't know if it was built 10 years ago or 40 years ago.
 When you talk about blending in, that's all it was about. That was our first conversation with the architects was that we make it blend in. The massing on the building is extremely compatible with what's going on in the neighborhood and in that area. We pulled the buildings back so that we separated them, and that's an enormous cost to do that. But I wanted to create a courtyard in between the buildings so that there was a ton of light and air and open space that would come through in the middle of the buildings.
 And I think we've done it very effectively. Directly to the west of us, the 20 Petty Grove building is built at about 86% of its allowable FAR. The MUSE at the far side of the block that was just approved is also built at about 86% of its FAR. We come in with 61%. So the argument that we're not compatible is only credible if you say that we're smaller than what's been built on that block.
 We have not built this – designed these buildings to come out anywhere near their maximum massing scale that's allowed. We have not even touched the size that we could. Okay.
 the buildings are I think they're I think they're beautiful I think they look great and I really want to emphasize the fact that we listened to every single person we met with the only person that we did not listen to was the man who wanted us to put windmills on the on the roof to generate our own power inside the buildings I just drew the line at that it didn't didn't seem to make sense but we met with everybody we listened we responded and I think we've come up with
 a project that is as good as we could possibly come up with. We are at the end of a year and a half of working on this, and I ask that you give us your final vote and support the staff and support the DRC because we have all poured our heart and souls into this, and we ask for your support. And if there's any questions you might have, I'll be more than happy to answer them. Thank you.
 other points you want to make yes um my name is troy ainsworth i'm with ffa architecture we've been working with the development team through this process and i wanted to elaborate a bit on some of the discussion about the massing expression of the building the proposed buildings in the neighborhood and the image you have
 In front of you is an aerial view that includes the 20 Pettigrove apartments that were built recently as well as our proposed project. And ghosted in beyond there is the Muse, which is the project that's been discussed that was recently approved. This view we feel really strengthens the idea that as has been discussed, it's a transition area and there are a number of different building types of different scales.
 that are represented in this neighborhood. Our goal, as Marty has stated, was to create a very respectful and appropriate infill project that is encouraged by the design guidelines and the zoning that apply to this area. Next. This is another view of this long block.
 with the proposed Tess O'Brien apartments on Overton and Petty Grove, 20 Petty Grove to the left, and then the MUSE to the right, just to give you an idea of kind of the scale of the recent construction. And this image is to also illustrate for you the two recent projects, 20 Petty Grove on the left and the MUSE at 19th and Overton on the right, the proposed project that will be moving forward.
 We feel as though we're very much, we're literally right next to 20 Petty Grove with one of the buildings, and then the Mews is just down the block. So this image gets at what we were looking at, precedents, northwest Portland precedents. There's been quite a bit of discussion about what is the character of the neighborhood and what is the massing and expression of the buildings of similar types.
 And these images show a number of precedents that we were looking at. We were looking at apartment buildings that were built early in the 20th century. They're very prominent in this neighborhood. We looked at the materiality of these, the composition. Materiality, brick, stone, stucco side and back walls. Composition, classic kind of base, middle, and top expressions.
 and brick and stone facades that are on the main street. And sometimes they had minor setbacks, like a few feet for planting areas, that kind of thing. Next, please. Were these shown to the Design Commission? Are they in the record? Yes. The following images are addressing another topic that's been brought up, and that is the zero lot line construction issue.
 And this is also prominent in the Northwest neighborhood and in other neighborhoods, of course, in Portland. And it's very common. These are apartment buildings that are built one next to the next, and that's a very common urban response. And so we were looking at that as a very applicable and appropriate precedent as well. Next. Thank you.
 When it came to the composition of the facades, particularly the street front facades, we were looking at built examples nearby, and these are some. Some are historic and some are not, but we were looking at the importance of the openings and how they're expressed and the fact that the windows are very generous and they provide light and air to these units. The bay spacing and the proportion were all in response to what we saw around us.
 So just for orientation, this is a site plan, floor plan of the proposed project. The Overton building on the left is the larger, the longer building, Petty Grove on the right.
 The primary differences I wanted to point out here is that the Overton building, the two buildings respond differently to the street. The Overton building is pulled back five feet from the sidewalk, and that five feet is used for stairs and stoops that lead to the ground floor units, which we raised above the finish grade level.
 so that there was a more optimal relationship for the residents of those units, so they're not right on the sidewalk. There was some discussion earlier about pulling curtains and that kind of thing, and this is one of the improvements that we made to the design, was to figure out how to maintain the other parts of the design but be able to raise those ground floor units on the Overton side. On the petty – sorry. Sorry, before you leave that slide. So I'm assuming, again, back to my earlier questions to staff,
 that you've designed the building on Overton Street adjacent to the one-story warehouse and with the courtyard adjacent to the one-story warehouse with the expectation that a multi-story building is going to be built on that site, right? There are no windows on that wall. Is that correct? That's right. There are windows on both the Overton and Pettigrow building at the end of the corridor, but not windows out of the units. So, yes, the answer is yes. Okay.
 I just also wanted to point out here the generous courtyard that by pulling the project into two separate buildings, we have provided an amenity for the residents and really a mid-block amenity of access over a long period of time of light and views to the adjacent property owners.
 Lastly, the Pettigrove building on the right, there's one residential unit there. We were responding to the more commercial nature of Pettigrove, and we have a live-work unit at grade on that first floor of the Pettigrove building.
 So just some elaboration on the Overton building here. You've seen this image before. It's three brick bays with slots to help define the breakup of the facade. We have a base, a middle, and a top expression that is similar to the precedents that we showed. And then the base level, as you can see, the entry is on the right at grade. And then we have our two walk-up units with stairs, porches, and landscape areas.
 The loading door is off to the left. And we just wanted to mention that the request to not include a loading function was actually that was requested by PBOT as part of the review process we went through. Why was that? Why was that? Is the rationale there? Do you recall? I don't know.
 I'm Carl Raffi, an architect with FFA Architecture and Interiors. I believe the rationale was that they wanted to reduce the number of curb cuts that were introduced into our frontage and able to preserve more street parking and reduce traffic across the sidewalk. So the expectation that people moving in and out of the building are going to park at a curbside space? These people aren't going to be moving in with semi-tractor trailers. They're very small apartments. They'll bring a van or a station wagon and park curbside space.
 we maintained the roll-up door as sort of a staging area where they could drop off their couch as they were moving in. I'm embarrassed to say I wasn't aware that that was PBOT's request. Who at PBOT was involved? I can't speak to that. I don't recall. So I wonder if there's a potential to have a truck loading spot on the street because that –
 is of concern if they're, you know, what do people do and what do delivery trucks do? They can't necessarily park several blocks away to deliver. So do you know if there's been any consideration to having a truck –
 No. I mean, we would prefer it something so that people could unload and load. But the most that people will be loading in is a couch because they're fully contained small studio units. They have their own bathroom, their own kitchen and everything. We don't see them moving a lot of furniture in. No, but when the UPS brings a package at Christmas, they might need some of that.
 The PBOT asked for it. Yeah. And setting aside an entire space for the periodic UPS truck, I think we need to think about that. And I will be interested. I think we're going to get some more testimony later about the adjustment criteria and whether there was any mitigation for the loss of the loading. Okay.
 It's hard for me to see how not having a loading space equally or better means the intent of having a loading space. MR. I think one of the considerations was that PBOT was looking to get the maximum number of on-street parking spaces available in the area. We're, as the developer and as the owner of the building, we're okay either way. MS. Right. I figured. MR. Yeah.
 I'll continue here just to explain in a little more detail. The image you have now is the on-street or at eye-level experience of the Overton building. As you can see, it's pulled back. It has an urban feel to it with canopies overhead protecting the entry areas and the main building entry. The street edge is softened by the fences and the planters.
 And as you can see, the sill of the windows for those walk-up units is at or above eye level, depending on how tall you are.
 The next image is the similar view of the Pettigrove building. As you can see, it's also three bays, but the building is narrower, so they are three equal brick bays. And again, you have a base, middle, and top. It is one project with two buildings that have different appearance nuances because the developer's goal was to have a project with an identity on both streets that had similar characteristics.
 This is the one also that has the one-live work unit at grade. And that's about – those are the items I wanted to mention there. And then here's the sidewalk view of the Petty Grove building. And next, the courtyard. So this is really a unique aspect of this project. And we feel as though it's one of the most positive things about –
 the scheme by pulling what could have been one much larger building into two smaller ones. We created a level of intimacy of the buildings and a great outdoor space for the residents and as a resource to the entire block of what has been discussed to be, will be heavier, more dense development as time goes on.
 So this also has a number of amenities for the residents, bike parking, as well as other items for their use.
 The bike parking is there in the courtyard? Yeah, the bike parking, part of the bike parking is inside, but part of it, because there's requirements for 153 bicycles, the parking also is in the courtyard itself. It's in those elements that you see that have kind of opaque roof panels. So around the perimeter, we have the bike parking undercover area.
 in those areas and also along the edges of the buildings. But about half of it is entirely within the building. Okay. So we feel as though when here's an eye-level view of the courtyard, landscapes, pavers, community gathering places, nice edges with trellises and, as we mentioned, the bike parking, which is softened by plantings and fences. Okay.
 And then lastly... That looks like a very grown-up space. It's not envisioned to be a play space? Probably not, because the units are small. Probably the apartments will likely be occupied by individuals or possibly two people.
 But it's also, if I could just say one thing about it, the way we designed the building with the courtyard and the amenities that go with it, it's designed to be less of a transient type of apartment building. The average person moves in and out of apartment buildings like that once every 14 months. And what we're trying to do is design something so that they stay much longer and it's more of a sense of the community and the feel. So that's all the tones and the warmth of it that we're trying to do.
 So to wrap up, we feel very strongly we're big believers in this project, and we feel very strongly that we've designed a project that is entirely responsive to the historic precedents in the neighborhood, built precedents not only in the past, but of the recent past, and that this is going to be a very good neighbor to the buildings, the context that is there, and the context that will be there. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further questions? Do you have anything else to add? No. Could you address the concern about the side setbacks and the 10 inches between this building and the adjacent one and the meters on the adjacent building that may have to be moved? What was your thinking in why you decided to have no side setback?
 The side setbacks has been discussed are usually awkward spaces. They're little slots that kind of gather garbage. The existing apartment building, a very small one, is an old, old building, and it's
 it's allowed to be next to that building. It was probably built as a zero-lot line building originally, and some of the things that have been brought up about windows and gas meters and things, we are guessing were things that were changed about that building later with maybe not an appreciation for the fact that someone was fully allowed to build a zero-lot line building next to it in the future.
 Some of that's conjecture, but the building is, I believe, Carl, it's over 100 years old. Wasn't it built around the turn of the century, the little brick apartment? It was not in his head, yes. So who knows the changes, but it probably didn't have gas meters and things like that to it when it was originally constructed. Who knows what may have been done over time?
 So what will – have you had discussions with the owner of that building? They'll have to move their meters? We, the architects, have not had detailed discussions. Okay.
 Our general contractor has not had a discussion with them yet, but we will and try to do what we can to not make it as impactful for them economically. PG has to be involved with regards to the meters, and our electrical supply company that will be doing the electrical work on us for our project might also come into play to see about moving the meters to an inside space that might accommodate the meter readers. So it's in flux, but we're not...
 We're not going to build a concrete wall and thumb our nose at them. Okay. Other questions for the applicant and his team? Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else here to speak in favor of the application and in opposition to the appeal? I have one person signed up, Jason Larson. Come on up, please. Hello. My name is Jason Larson, and I just wanted to come and speak in favor of the building being built. I have an office here.
 in the area and I think when you take a look at this project, as you said, you know, the block is sort of a hodgepodge or does a general
 direction of development in the area. This is what is being built with the six story beside it. And like you were mentioning about the Conway project, this is somewhat of the direction of where things are going. I think what's unique about this project is the building looks age appropriate for the district. I had, I'm one of the 55 meetings I got to take where I got to learn more about the building.
 And I think it fits the general character of what's going on in the neighborhood now and what has been going on for a century. It was interesting to hear earlier, as I'm at the three-story units across the way, if you go back a few more decades, there were gigantic homes in the area. But, you know, where I look at as having an office there and talking to people that work in the district –
 This is somewhat what the housing need is evolving to, is these smaller units, lots of bike parking, and things that weren't even considered even a few years ago when, like, the three-story townhomes were built. So I think, you know, there's a lot of excitement for this project and all the projects that are coming in. Generally, they bring new vibrancy, a lot of new restaurants on the retail level, and a lot of accessibility for the huge amount of jobs that are being created all through this area in the Pearl District and the CBD in general.
 I just think it was important to note that there are a lot of people that are excited to see this stuff come. From a size and usability standpoint, I think it actually fits the character of the street and the neighborhood very, very well. Thank you. Chair Greg Musil:"Thank you. Okay. Anything further in terms of public testimony? Any further questions for staff? Do we need the staff to come back up? Ms. Yes, please. Chair Greg Musil:"Please, come on up." Ms. Is there a rebuttal? Ms. We have a rebuttal.
 Oh, I'm sorry. We have the appellant's rebuttal. Sorry. We have no rebuttal. You have none. Okay. Sorry. All right. Then staff, please. So I wanted to briefly address the loading adjustment. So to not provide loading was not suggested by Transportation or PBOT. It was the response to the concern about pedestrian conflicts. There was originally one loading space provided within each building where the overhead doors currently proposed.
 And since the truck would be reversing out onto the sidewalk, across the sidewalk into the street, PBAT had big concerns with the conflicts associated with that. So given that the project is entirely residential and that the units are small, what they have learned over the years,
 the past years with residential development, is that the loading needs are frequently highest at occupancy of the building, and then those kind of peter off until just when units are changing over. Also, given the size of the units, the loading vehicles are rather small. They're not these large trucks. They're vans and other smaller trucks. So given that fact, PBOT felt that loading could be provided on the street by securing some on-street facilities
 loading passes from transportation, and that would fill the need for these two buildings rather than punching a hole in the building and having that reverse motion occurring. In addition, it also provides more on-street parking, which has been a huge concern in this neighborhood. It will provide about seven on-street parking spaces to this neighborhood, so that was another factor in the decision.
 Thank you. Retail loading is expected again to be smaller trucks for the small amount of retail space there is? Correct. So there is only one potential retail space and that's on Petty Grove. It's a live work unit. Right. And as a live work unit and the size of it, it wouldn't generate much loading. Transportation has also witnessed that the smaller delivery trucks, UPS, FedEx, all of
 Those delivery trucks never use on-site loading spaces. They most frequently double park or use on-street because they're in and out really quick, just the nature of their business. So they also felt that this on-street parking would also provide some loading opportunities for these types of delivery trucks as well. And then could you please address the procedural question as far as granting a continuance after the tentative denial vote? Can I jump into that?
 Sure. I'll take that one. Yeah, that was unfortunate that the neighborhood felt confused by the process and how it moved forward from there. And what I would say is the commission has been struggling with ground floor residential issues.
 in main streets and corridors and different spaces. And so when staff presented a report that was for full approval, we thought we had it right in working with the applicant and working the design over. We did not in the eyes of the design commission. The applicant asked for the vote to be called because there was not a report that could be adopted by the commission on that moment and on that day. It was a tentative decision. The hearing was continued.
 I specifically asked the commission to be very clear with what their concerns were so that we can write a thorough denial response because our report needed to take a 180 degree turn.
 In that deliberation and specificity, we took that back to the applicant, and I think they realized we're not that far from approval. Maybe we don't want a denial to be formalized in a final denial and ask for the record to be held open vis-à-vis extending their hearing date. That is their right. And when we returned before the design commission and explained that situation,
 You know, the design commission has an ethos of getting to yes, not to mention state law allows the applicant to extend the timeline. Were they to ask the question again and had not made the changes that we heard the commission needed to be changed, we would have had to denial them. We would have been done. But I disagree with the assertion that BDS told the design commission what to do. The design commission is in charge. They are the review body.
 But I didn't see and the Commission didn't see why we should deny it if the applicant is willing to make changes. If I might paraphrase, it was the design Commission made a tentative decision on November 6th that the record was kept open and that's when the applicant asked for the ‑‑ to return to it and exercise their rights to extend the one in 20 days. Thank you.
 Any further questions for staff? Now, Commissioner Fish is excused, so we'll see if there's a majority of the council that has an opinion one way or the other on this action. And if not, we might have to continue our own hearing. But we'll see if that's the case. So is there a motion? I would move that we deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve with conditions. Second. Okay. Further discussion of the motion? Roll call on the motion then, please. And this will be intended for...
 Fritz? Thank you very much. The Northwest District Association, as always, a very thoughtful and well-reasoned presentation as to your concerns, and I think many of them do have merit. I know that you are participating in the comprehensive plan update process and will continue to do so. And so I...
 appreciate your ongoing volunteer effort and your diligence in protecting the character of your neighborhood, even as it develops and changes. So thank you for that. Thanks to the applicants who did want to be responsive, and what I heard was today and
 in briefings was that the design did improve, and indeed it was said today that you acknowledged that the design has improved over the course of the discussion, so I appreciate that. I am a little concerned about that side setback piece, but for me, the courtyard space ongoing, which will do the light and air better than a five-foot setback would,
 potentially eventually set between two six-story buildings, which would not be very lighty or airy. And so I'm not entirely comfortable with that, but I'm willing to accept the Design Commission's recommendation. And thanks to the Design Commission for all of their work on these issues and trying to get to yes and sometimes saying no, and that's...
 amazing diligent work there are volunteers putting in hours and hours and hours of time and a lot of expertise and I certainly appreciate that. Hi. Well I appreciate the issues that were raised today. I do feel that in looking at these proposed buildings
 It looks like the design commission, the architects and the developer, with the input of neighborhoods, have produced something that I think, to me, looks like it fits in with this neighborhood. And...
 is appropriate for this transition zone, which is still somewhat of a zone in state of flux. And I think that these buildings, as I think somebody stated, they look like they've been here for a long time. And I also appreciate the thoughtfulness of the courtyard connecting the two buildings. That's something I've never seen before, frankly, in a design here. So I appreciate the good work that's been put in by all, but I ultimately agree with the decision of the design commission and vote aye.
 Novick? I appreciate the hard work of everybody involved, and I especially appreciate the thoughtful and respectful nature of the discussion today. These land use proceedings can be pretty heated, and I really appreciate the fact that although obviously people had different views, everybody was respectful of each other and presented thoughtful arguments, so thank you very much for that. Aye. Aye.
 Yeah, the process sounds like it was long and maybe expensive as well, but I think it resulted in a better design thanks to the advocacy of the neighborhood and the diligence of the design commission and the staff so that we got to a better project.
 I don't read D7 the same way that the NWDA did in this case, and that is when it says reduce the impact of new development on established neighborhoods by incorporating elements of nearby quality buildings such as building details, massing, proportions, and materials. I don't read that as a mandate for stepping down.
 scale i read that as a mandate for looking at the neighborhood and trying to incorporate elements architecturally into the project and i think the applicant has done that in this case and i just want to second the comments about the courtyard i think that's not only an amenity
 to the project, but actually is a rather generous gesture to the buildings around it, one of which looks like it was designed with a hope that nothing would ever be built next door, as I brought up earlier, and they got lucky, frankly, in this case, that the applicant has proposed a courtyard for at least half of the frontage of that building on that side. So they ought to buy the neighborhood a pie for the welcome party because otherwise they would have had
 the applicants entitled, at least in code, to a blank wall along the entire frontage of that building. So, again, that's not the issue before us, but I'm still a little mystified why whoever built that building did it that way, but they got lucky in this case, and I think this building is designed thoughtfully to the context of what's there and what's going to be there as the Conway development and other projects
 development takes place in the area, I think it's important to remember that in this case, the underlying zone, yes, it's a design district, but the underlying zone is EX, which is downtown commercial area.
 That's, along with CX, the two most aggressive, most urban zoning designations that we have. So if we're at 61% of allowable FAR in an EX zone and the building has been sensitively designed, then I think it has met the criteria. Aye. And we need to set a date for findings to come back to council. Got one. March 25th. Would that work? That would. Commissioner Fish is gone, so...
 1045 in the morning? Sure. Yeah, it's just for findings. So we'll have findings on the council calendar for March 25th, and we are recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Thank you. Did I throw in that name? Thank you very much.