2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. He's muted. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Udaly? I'm here. Oh, okay. It's unmuted now. But I couldn't unmute myself. Wheeler? Wheeler.
 I am also here. We'll now turn it over to legal counsel for some of the rules of decorum. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary.
 Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. Thank you.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. Carla, I understand all five communication slots today may want to come up together. Is that correct? That's correct, but there may only be two of them who are here today.
 All right. Why don't you read all five names, and those who are here may come up. Okay. Item 215, request of Sally F. Fransman Cecil to address counsel regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Item 216, request of Anthony Benson-Vango to address counsel regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Item 217, request of Mariah Allen-Claire to address counsel regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Item 217, request of Mariah Allen-Claire to address counsel regarding Portland Gray
 218, request of Mary A. Avalon to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 219, request of Lou Church to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Good morning. Good morning. Name for the record, three minutes each. Sally Fronsman Cecil. Thank you.
 Would you like to go ahead and start, Sally? Sure, that's fine. Sally Fransman Cecil, I think I'm supposed to report my name for the record again. Elders are too often invisible and stereotyped. Portland Gray Panthers urges that you view issues coming before you through a lens that takes the lives and needs of elders into account.
 especially those of the most vulnerable of elders. Those who are low income, have disabilities, are people of color and veterans of our generation. We are particularly concerned with the increasing population of houseless elders, the continuing shortage of affordable housing, long waiting lists for public housing meant for elders and people with disabilities, and the often dreadful state of living conditions in available public housing.
 To this latter end, we unequivocally support the efforts of public housing tenants and indeed any low-income tenants to organize tenant unions such as Community Alliance of Tenants to empower themselves for collective demands for better living conditions and treatment. We urge you as members of the City Council to really see elders in all our diversity.
 There are conflicting interests between even elders who own their own homes, low-income housing elders, and people whose circumstances are that they are living on the streets. Portland Grey Panther sees older's life situations as a fluid continuum in which people's circumstances can flow from one end to another.
 It is in the interest of social justice that societies and therefore government are responsible for creating that flow in an upward direction to better life circumstances. I think that's taking almost all of my three minutes, so I don't think I'm going to ramble on. You have another minute or so, if you'd like.
 Excuse me? You have a little more time. Oh, I still got 48 minutes. Well, I can talk a little bit more about the issue of stereotyping. I do feel that there's a lot of times an assumption that there's a safety net that doesn't really exist for everybody. And, of course, the safety net of being eligible for public housing doesn't help you very much when there's a two-year waiting list. You're liable to be...
 in some situation of housing insecurity or even on the streets while you're waiting. So, you know, that is definitely a concern for, you know, why are people there when there's supposedly a safety net? Because there isn't a big enough safety net, too many holes. Very good. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Lou Church. I'm with Portland Grey Panthers as well. Due to inconvenient things like work, some of our scheduled speakers signed up. People didn't make it in today. However, we've been looking at things vis-à-vis think globally, act locally. For example, Francisco Aguirre, immigrant rights activist, has come to our PSU strategy sessions twice now. He's from El Salvador and, along with ICE, is concerned about Venezuela.
 In terms of think globally, act locally, Panthers have noted that the Gang of Five, Trump, Pence, Pompeo, Bolton, and Elliott Abrams, seem to be focused on grabbing Venezuela's oil, a country with the largest oil reserves in the world. This is not what the President of the United States once stated himself, I need to grab women's pothies, quote-unquote. This is just an attempt to grab oil by handling Trump's sock weapon in Caracas, the self-declared President Guaido.
 Backing a self-declared politician is akin to our own Nick Fish here declaring himself a self-declared mayor, especially since Donald Trump has already expressed dismay towards Ted Wheeler and Nicolas Maduro. No matter how much Nick Fish may or might want to be mayor, he still has to run for that specific office first. Panthers in Portland are also following local issues, gun control in Salem, housing, the disarmed PSU campaign, and transit tri-met issues.
 On housing, we want to express sympathy for politicians like Alyssa Kennegar and Nick Fish, who have cancer diagnoses. Like Frances Aguirre, Alyssa Kennegar has been able to come to two Panther meetings at Portland State on housing. Alyssa has been a great voice for rent control in Salem. We urge the legislature in Salem to ban assault weapons and high-caliber magazine sales in Oregon. Like rent control, we need gun control now.
 The Disarm PSU campaign continues to get the three-card Monty from PSU's $600,000 a year president, Rahmat Shoreshi. We urge Rahmat to take away guns from campus cops today and for Diego Hernandez-Bill in Salem to pass to do that for both U of O and Portland State campus cops.
 We also urge Jordan Schnitzer, Portland State and Mega donor, to stop flying Shoreshi on the Schnitzer private jet to California's Bohemian Grove conclave. Shoreshi needs to get off his tuffet and disarm campus cops now.
 Lastly, since we turned in 1,400 signatures on petitions to the unelected TriMet board to try to keep Fairless Square a while back, the board said no. We hope to work with Chloe, or Commissioner Daly, to systemically reform TriMet and keep the four max stops downtown that have been targeted by TriMet general manager, Doug Mussolini-Kelsey, for what he wants to make the max trains run on time.
 TriMet's not a Starbucks, circa 1935 in Rome, Italy. TriMet's our transit system in Portland, Oregon in 2019.
 Thank you both for your testimony. That's all. And the other three individuals did not show up. Is that correct? Two were at work and one sick. Sorry. Very good. Marie's been sick for three weeks. I can relate. No problem. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? We've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Commissioner Fish. We have a...
 A couple minutes before the time's certain, could we read 232, and I'm going to pull it back to my office? Yes, please, Carla, read item number 232. Authorize Commissioner in Charge of Portland Parks and Recreation or designee to execute agreements for the acquisition of real properties to expand the park system. And Commissioner Fish has requested that that be pulled back to his office. Yes.
 And so we will do that. We stand in recess for three minutes until 945 when we can commence with the time-certain item. The second reading. All right, folks, we are now back in session. Carla, could you please read our first time-certain item, number 220? Age-Friendly Portland Initiative Report to Council.
 Good morning. Our first item today is the Age-Friendly Portland Initiative Report to the Council, which is introduced by Commissioner Fish. Just a brief bit of background here. In 2013, the Portland City Council adopted the Action Plan for an Age-Friendly Portland, which aims to move our city towards being a place where older adults can continue to thrive in our community. And this is our updated report. Commissioner Fish, take it away. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 Mayor and colleagues, I'm proud to serve as the council liaison to the Age-Friendly Portland Initiative. In 2006, the World Health Organization started the global age-friendly project based on two trends, population aging and urbanization. In 2011, Portland became the first U.S. city to be certified as age-friendly, and two years later, the city council, as the mayor noted, unanimously approved an action plan for an age-friendly Portland.
 Today, that action plan is moving us towards becoming a better community for people of all ages and abilities.
 I'd like to welcome all of our panelists this morning. Alan, I understand that you're going to do the introduction, so take it away. Yeah. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor Wheeler, City Council. It's my honor to be here today. I'm going to skip some of the introductions because I know we're tight on schedule about myself. But I want to explain that we have a great group today. So the first two presentations will include presentations from myself and from Metropolitan Family Service.
 Then we have Ruby Houghton-Pitts and Shana Pittman-Frank, who will come from AARP Oregon and Elders in Action, and some very brief introductions from some of our volunteers. We'd like to leave time for engaging with you, answering questions, to move forward.
 To talk about these demographic imperatives, I think it's important to move beyond what the WHO's 2006 demographic trends were and to understand what we in Portland and the region are dealing with. There are two major demographic imperatives. We will continue to diversify as a region and we'll continue to age as a region.
 Metro estimates that our seven-county region is going to grow about 40% from 2020 to 2060, and the proportions of Asians and Pacific Islanders, Black, Latinx, and Native American populations will grow as the proportion of white populations will decline. We're going to see a decline from 2010 of 77.8% in the white population to about 57.1% in our region.
 So I think it's important to consider as we look at aging, that intersection with race and a number of other intersections as well. To get to the demographic imperative related to aging, it's really important to note that both the number of older adults and the proportion of older adults within each race category will continue to grow through 2060.
 Those look different when we're looking specifically at different race categories, which I'll describe next. Also, we're going to see a tremendous amount of cohort changes. So right now we're kind of in the midst of a real interesting, some might call it, generational battle. The pulls between boomers and millennials
 kind of understanding where Gen X and the next generation kind of fit here. So the graph that is currently in front of you shows the changes of birth cohorts over time. So cohorts are essentially a generation or a group that's defined. And you can see by the time we reach 2060, the baby boomers will cease to be a major part of our age structure, which is interesting.
 But a very important thing to note, and we talk about generational conflict and we say, well, millennials are larger than boomers currently. That is true. They're the largest cohort that we have that exists. But boomers are the elders of the future, right? As of two years from now, boomers will be covered by the Age Discrimination and Employment Act.
 They are becoming elders before our eyes faster than we note. So this is an intergenerational conversation. It's about folks who are younger and older, not just older adults. Dr. Del Torre, could you just remind us or tell us what are the approximate spans of each of those things? Because I think some of us...
 don't even know which group we're in. Yeah, so that's a good question. I do not know which group I'm in. And don't leave out Gen X because they keep leaving us out. You know, it's interesting. Not here, but elsewhere.
 I'm a Gen Xer. I watched an amazing kind of skit on Saturday Night Live where Kenan Thompson was basically saying Gen X is just sitting on the sidelines and letting everything burn down around us, which is not the case. We just happen to be a smaller cohort sandwiched between two very large cohorts. So cohorts tend to range from about 15 to 20 years. The boomers are from 1946 to 1964, the birth years. And I couldn't tell you with any specificity what the other
 birth cohorts were as far as the years started. But that's the anchor, and obviously the greatest generation is the World War I folks. Exactly, yeah. So we're losing some of the value and the wisdom and experience from some of these cohorts, which is important to note as well. Thank you.
 It's a good question. So I'm going to get a little geeky here and talk about population pyramids. And the concept of a population pyramid emerged originally because we had more younger people at the base of the pyramid and less older people at the top of the pyramid. So it literally had a pyramid shape.
 As we move forward, the demographic transitions that are occurring in the United States and the world have us going from high mortality and high fertility rates to low mortality and low fertility rates. And what's happening is the rectangularization or the changing structure of our age pyramids. So they're no longer big on the bottom and skinny at the top.
 So what's in front of us here are the black and Latinx populations as estimated by Metro. You can see in particular the 2060 population of the black population is very kind of skinny in the middle. It's almost a rectangular going up and down, which means there are more older people
 on the top than there were previously and less younger people to support that population. We talk about dependency ratios sometimes, which are the number of working people in a population. It requires us to think about working beyond a traditional retirement age, but also how we're able to support those communities.
 On the right is the Latinx population, and this has more of a structure that's akin to a pyramid, big on the bottom, small on the top. I think the most important thing to note is that this will continue to shift over time, and we won't have those large groups of younger people balancing out like we had previously.
 I'm going to lay off the review of Age-Friendly Portland, but I do want to note that starting in 2016, the City of Portland has provided support for the initiative. There has been work around housing and some of the things I'm going to discuss today. So that's an important context as we think about where we go next.
 With respect to the 2017-2018 funding, there are six major areas that we focused on. An Aging Well Conference, the Age-Friendly Business and Age-Smart Employer Awards, age equity efforts, civic engagement efforts and new opportunities that are emerging, consultation with city bureaus and partners, and housing visitability. And I'm adding this image to the right. This is a...
 a paper that I co-wrote with a student who is finishing her master's in public health. And it just underscores the fact that Portland State is able to do unfunded work with the city of Portland to bring students to the table to work on field experiences, capstone projects, and other projects that I think is a real resource to the community. This is not something we're asking for funding for, just something I want to note because PSU is an amenity for the city and the age-friendly efforts. Thank you.
 With respect to our consultation with the city bureaus and partners, I just want to note that our work with residential infill is focused on visitability, the concept of a barrier-free entrance and some other accessibility features within the home. We are working with Better Housing by Design, the multifamily project, to understand how social spaces and design for older adults, including visitability, should and could be implemented here.
 And then more recently, we've been working with various folks from the Portland Water Bureau, as well as convening project staff across bureaus to look at new opportunities for alignment. The image that's at the right is very important to note. This is the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability doing a forum with older adults and members of the disability community. They were bringing them in to really explain what residential infill was and to try and get their input directly into that project. Thank you.
 Additionally, we've been working with the Portland Housing Bureau on a report called Age-Friendly Living, Breaking Down Barriers to Accessibility Codes. For anybody who's wonky and inaccessibility, it's very complicated and difficult to understand. So we brought in some planners and some architects who essentially for $1,500 helped write a report to the Portland Housing Bureau to help align some of this.
 We continue to be a liaison to a number of different organizations that are age-related in the community, as well as state, national, and international organizations. And I'm working actively on the OCCL Code Change Committee and looking at how age in particular might be an area that we look at to include in our civic engagement of the future. Thank you.
 Very briefly, I want to note that our Aging Well Conference in 2018 was excellent. We had Dr. Fernando Torres-Gill come out from the UCLA Center for Policy Research on Aging. Dr. Hill was the Assistant Secretary for Aging under President Clinton, so he was an amazing speaker to bring out. He has family here, which was a big reason why we were able to get him fairly cheaply. I think he really made some concessions for us.
 With respect to the Age-Friendly Business and Age-Smart Employer Awards, I'm going to defer to my colleague, Shana Pittman-Frank, to discuss that later. With our work on age equity and civic engagement, I would like to say that in that 2017-2018 funding, it was a chance for us to start the conversations and to start working with folks in the community. And so we've been able to begin some of those conversations, but we've got a long way to go.
 I think it's important to know that the coalitions of community of color have invited me to be a part of their board meeting and to try and start working with their member organizations to better understand what they're doing, where they're doing it, before we start thinking beyond what next steps could be there. It's really important to listen to those communities, and I appreciate Marcus Mundy's kind of embracing of the age equity work that we've done.
 With respect to civic engagement, in addition to the Civic Life Code Change Committee, our Civic Engagement Committee has made a really important point. They said civic engagement should be a part of everything that we do. It shouldn't just exist within a committee. So what can we do to go beyond our committee's work and to infuse this into what we're doing moving forward?
 So where do we go from here? It's important to note that Generations United International Conference is coming to town in June. I know that there are invitations out to a number of people that we'll either be speaking at or attending a kickoff and or the conference. We have a report that was funded through special appropriations this year called The State of Aging in Portland 2019. That will be released in the summer. It's a collaboration between the Institute on Aging and the Population Research Center at Portland State.
 We're on track for an October 2019 Age Friendly, Age Smart Business Awards, kind of second award ceremony. We are really interested in improving this understanding of age equity, civic and social engagement across the life course.
 We will continue to advance age-friendliness in the work we do through our partners. And I'd like to leave my comments off by saying I highly encourage you to consider the age-friendly city government position that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability had developed as a part of their Directions to Develop package. I know that the City Budget Office did not recommend that, but I think it's an important thing to consider moving forward. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Judy Strand from Metropolitan Family Service. Thanks, Steve.
 Good morning. It's a pleasure to see all of you and an honor to be here. I'm Judy Strand from Metropolitan Family Service. And my co-presenter, Koi Vu, is the director of the Asian Family Center from ERCO. And we're collaborating on something we call Experience PDX. I have to find the button, don't I? Oh, yeah, sorry. Down or space. Down or space. No.
 Got it? I got it? Perfect. Yay. Good. That's not it. Ellen, you've got to help me. Here comes Keelan. She'll come to the rescue. I just need the one that looks like this. Green. There you go. There we go. So should I just push? Which one? Push there. Oh. Then we're... Okay, great. Thank you. So...
 Experience PDX is a model that's built upon a long-term program that we've had at Metropolitan Family Service called Experience Corps. 1995, it started with the Secretary of State.
 saying that we should unite older and younger people for the benefit of both populations and also for the benefit of the whole community. And it's been a long time since 1995 when Portland was one of those five pilot sites that started Experience Corps. But I'm reminded that...
 At that time, we had a local leader in Grandma Cherry Hendricks from North Portland who was an educator in Woodlawn Elementary. And she really inspired the way that we at MFS have crafted Experience Corps locally, which is to focus on the mentoring as well as the academics and to build a natural community connection.
 The aspect that we wanted to really hone in on with the opportunity of Age Friendly was to expand intergenerational connections across cultures.
 And our idea was to further youth success through the mentoring model that we were using that basically brings groups of elders not that old, 50 plus, into high-need schools to help them with particularly literacy but also development.
 confidence about learning, interest in learning, and general development, as well as help them access needs. Many of the kids that we're serving have very little, and we often find that our mentors are discovering that children are hungry or lack clothing, and they're helping with those essential needs as well. And as we think about the model and start to question what does our community need today,
 We knew that we had this evidence-based model for literacy because the elders are reading with the kids and we're getting the results, those third-grade reading benchmarks that we all are striving for. And we know that the model was evidence-based for older adult health and wellness. So those were all proven by national and also by local evaluations.
 But what we felt we needed to do was to build on the cultural responsivity of the model as Alan shows us who we are today. So I'm going to take a minute to talk about that very briefly and have Coy share a little bit about our partnership. For those of you that are numbers oriented, what we're talking about with this particular investment from the city was basically four sites,
 21 hours of mentor training that was collaborative with ERCO. We reached 72 children through one-on-one mentoring and offered classroom support to 768 kids.
 and a lot of individual and group and classroom academic support and mentoring. This is part of Experience Corps. We actually serve 2,000 children in the overall metro region. All of the mentors, all 52 mentors, benefited from ERCO's consultation and training. Thank you.
 We basically found that after working with ERCO, who we asked to help us connect with the elders from their communities, we wanted to find out if
 there was a way for us to adapt the model, which we were not able to do with the national model because the national model has prescriptive requirements such as dosage and how we deliver it. How could we adapt the model to speak to the...
 refugee and immigrant elder vision about what that connection should look like from an intergenerational perspective. So ERCO came in and did training about this, but they also asked their elders, what would you do if you were working with children? And their response to us was we would not read to them.
 We would do oral storytelling. We would come to family night and we might read stories there. We might teach some songs, but we certainly aren't going to volunteer. That just doesn't make any sense. If the kids need help, tell us what they need and we'll be there. And that's a total shift from the model mindset that we had from 1995.
 So that's the challenge that we were trying to harness through this experiment in the last two years, which I think, as Alan says, is still needing more work, but has stepped forward in some leaps and bounds as evidenced by these results. So you see that the students are improving in reading, they're improving in their confidence, and 97% of the mentors indicated improved health and well-being.
 The growing partnerships with culturally specific organizations has now fanned out ERCO as our partner for this, but because of our work with three other culturally specific organizations, they're now helping us figure out how to make inroads into those groups as well. So SEI, ANEA, and Latino Network have been working with us to think about how do we reach their communities in new ways with this intergenerational approach.
 Three quick things that came out of the qualitative study we did. Major shift on the part of the mentors, who are primarily majoritized white culture, although we do have some elders from a variety of different cultural backgrounds, and that is growing.
 We saw an awareness of inequity shift. We saw an effort to understand and an ability to understand the context with which the children were coming to school before. Sometimes I think we heard we don't understand why they don't have clothing or why they aren't coming to school on time. Now we hear, oh, I understand what's going on at home and in the community. Right.
 We also saw a shift in a sense of the abilities of the mentors to meet the needs of the kids, which I think is very vital to the success of this work. I want to give a minute to Koi to share a little bit about her perspective. Thank you, Judy.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I am Koi Vu. I'm the director of Asian Family Center with the Immigrant Refugee Community Organization, also known as ERCO. We're a nonprofit social service organization that is led and is for the immigrant and refugee communities of Multnomah County and Oregon with direct services such as housing, employment services, senior services, educational enrichment programs,
 many of which are supported and funded by the city, so we continue to appreciate the city's support. I consider myself a 1.5 generation refugee, for those of us who are unfamiliar with that term. Some of us call ourselves a first generation refugee, but for those of us who identify as 1.5, we are...
 We were not born in the United States, but grew up here and was raised here in the United States. I was, I've been in Portland for almost 38 years now. And we are oftentimes called the Bridger generation, where we are living in dual identities.
 with the old tradition speaking our mother's tongue, as well as Americans can be, like anyone else in this room, with Western values and ways of living. That's how I also feel ERCLE has contributed and played a role in our communities. We are oftentimes...
 the Bridgers within our communities, with our diverse communities that we serve, but also with the organizations that we partner with and within generations within our communities as well. And for those of us who no longer live in our homelands, our generations, our immigrant and refugee generations, only go as far back as federal immigration policies allow. So what that means is our grandparents sometimes are not here with us,
 Our biological grandparents are not here with us. We have grandparents that we call Grandpa and Mama, but they're not biological grandparents.
 And so sometimes these coordinated experience and community events are the only experiences that our youth actually have with their elder generations. As Judy mentioned before, what perhaps works for mainstream communities, it may not always effectively work for newer generations of immigrants and refugees, whether it's because it's lack of transportation or poverty.
 lack of mobility, or being uncomfortable in navigating spaces like a school system or a school, it's oftentimes not the most appropriate way for our elders to come and serve and support our communities and our youth themselves. Sorry. Yeah.
 What they would prefer, as what we have done in multiple generations in the past, is to pass down those stories through oral history to oral storytelling. What I heard, I went to the Women's March just about a week and a half ago, and a Native American elder there said,
 spoke about how our elders are our wisdom keepers, and they hold our histories and our traditions. And that's the same way with our communities of color. That is the same way with our elders community and our API, African immigrant, Slavic communities. Storytelling offers many benefits.
 We talk about the cultural benefits or the historical and social benefits of it, but for children itself, it allows them to explore their own cultural identity. It increases their sense of identity and sense of belonging, which some of us may not have if we grew up here in the United States, in connection to our rooted communities, and then offer insights to universal life experiences.
 I can't give you a list of other reasons why storytelling is important culturally to us, but it also provides us an academic tool. It enhances listening skills, encourages active participation, increased verbal proficiency, and then use of imagination and creativity. All what we know is important in a holistic learning experience of a student.
 of a student. For our elders, who are often time newer to the country, it also increases socialization, decreases isolation, and gives them a sense of purpose, which sometimes may not exist as well in this new country that they are still trying to learn to adapt and integrate to. So, you know, one of the things that I think Judy and I want to continue to express to our community partners and those of us in the room and to our community partners
 to you all here today, is a collaboration. This collaboration brings light to us that there is no one way of doing things, especially when we're talking about diverse communities. Each of our communities are experts to our own experiences and our own learning, and if we listen and allow ourselves to adapt, we together are able to not only be creative and do something special, but also effectively and responsibly and respectfully serve our community as well.
 Thank you. We thank you for your investment. Appreciate it. Both of you, thank you. Thank you. I'm wondering if there's any questions specifically for MFS. We'll keep moving through at this point. Okay. We're in a very tight time.
 Sounds good. So I'd like to invite up Ruby Houghton-Hicks from PITS from Age Friendly, sorry, AARP Oregon, Shana Pittman-Frank from Elders in Action, Kathy Moyd and Leroy Patner, community volunteers. Our volunteers are only going to very briefly introduce themselves just to keep things moving along, but I would like to say that they've submitted testimony for the record. Thanks, Alan, and I look forward to speaking at the Generations United Conference. That's going to be great. Thanks for plugging in.
 Good morning. Welcome. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I also want to say thank you to the Gray Panthers and to Elders in Action for being in the room, and I want to pay them respect as well. It's a pleasure to be here today. It's a pleasure to be home. Thank you.
 My name is Ruby Houghton-Pitts and I'm the new director, statewide director of AARP Oregon. I've been away for a little while, but I'm glad to be back. AARP is a non-profit, non-partisan social change organization with a nationwide membership of nearly 38 million individuals. And 65,000 of us are right here in Portland. We work to improve quality of life for all people of all ages.
 helping to strengthen communities and fighting for the issues that matter most to Oregon families. An important aspect of our work in Oregon is advocating for livable and age-friendly communities. We have been a proud partner of Portland's age-friendly effort since the beginning.
 even before you were involved in the global and national age-friendly network of communities. And as usual, Oregon was a frontrunner, so thank you for that. AARP's network of age-friendly communities consists of villages, towns, counties, cities, and even states throughout our great nation. Where and how we live as we age is critical to our well-being. And you might say that after 13 years of being away, that's why I'm back. Thank you.
 I want to share with you real quick, in story form, because that's the way I do it, just some of the aspects of an age-friendly community and some of those that actually are a part of each one of our histories, no matter how old we are.
 We all maybe grew up where there were some outdoor spaces and outdoor buildings, recreational facilities that were safe. We also had transportation where we lived, whether it was mom and dad driving us or riding bicycles or something in that realm of public transportation. There was also housing. We had housing in our neighborhoods where across the street the granny lived, or maybe upstairs is where my grandparents lived.
 But there was a range of housing in our neighborhood that was actually of value. And it was of value not because of how much it cost, but because of the people who dwelled inside. We also had social participation, like we have here today, up and down. And people did it in different ways. But now we're beginning to look at new ways of doing it. We had respect for social inclusion in our communities. And today, we're trying to do that again. We also had civic participation.
 So there was employment and there was opportunity for volunteerism. And then there was communication. Back then, people read the newspaper, they watched the 6 o'clock news, and somewhere around 11 or midnight, your folks said you ought to be home because the TV went blank and there was fuzz. Now what we want is accessible technology for people as they age. And we want it everywhere so that they don't become disconnected. Thank you.
 And lastly, we wanted community support and health services. Because you know the doctor used to live down the street from us, and he was kind of wealthy, and we weren't. But he was in the neighborhood, and so was his office. And we want those things to be around us now as we age. What I just ran through here were the eight domains of a livable community.
 And certainly we are all looking for places and spaces where we can live, work, and play as we age. Now we have to be more deliberate in that attempt. And that's where AARP comes in because we want to collaborate with you and anyone else who wants to make a community livable.
 At AARP, we believe that when a community considers the diverse needs of all of its people, every last one of us, zero to 100 plus, no matter what we look like, no matter who we love, and no matter what we think, we just want to stand with you.
 and push forward to make our communities here throughout the state more livable. Thank you for your time today. It is my pleasure to be home. We're glad to have you. Thanks for being here. Commissioner Hardesty. I just wanted to probably welcome Ruby back home. Both of our last names have changed a bit in the time that you've been gone, but how wonderful. Thank you so much for being here. It's great to see you. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Good morning. My name is Shana Pittman-Frank with Elders in Action, and I'm also the program manager for the Age-Friendly and Age-Smart Employer Business Awards. Elders in Action envisions an equitable society in which older adults are civically engaged, deeply woven into the fabric of our communities, and recognized for their inherent value. A voice for older adults in the Portland metro area, we recognize that the entire experience of getting older has changed.
 People live longer, work longer, and remain active and engaged citizens longer than ever before. This past October, we were thrilled to collaborate with Venture Portland, our age-friendly partners, and the city in the inaugural Age-Friendly Business Awards. And thanks to Commissioner Fish and Mayor Wheeler for being there.
 This innovative awards program recognizes Portland businesses that lead the way in serving older adults and those that build thriving multi-generational workplaces. With over 25 award applicants and winners such as New Seasons Market, Unitas Community Credit Union, and Urban Development Partners, we showcased best practices and harnessed the desire of businesses to contribute to a thriving and equitable Portland.
 As a result of this program, businesses made new connections and learned about programs that elevate the work that they do. For example, Unitas Community Credit Union learned about Multnomah County's Public Guardians Program and held trainings for their managers on the critical role the financial community can play in identifying fraud, abuse, or neglect of older adults.
 The city's commitment to age-friendly work has helped build bridges between Portland's economic development and the growth of a community where all ages can thrive. As our community strives to be an equitable place for all to live and work, age cannot be overlooked as an element of experience that causes people to be marginalized. For those already on the margins of programs and services, getting older adds a new layer of barriers and exclusion.
 Elders in Action and Age-Friendly Portland Partners are committed to ensuring age is not a barrier to living well in Portland. Economic concerns, finding work past the age of 50, having flexible work opportunities, and being able to retire are of critical importance to older adults. While some employers recognize the importance of retaining an older workforce, many still do not.
 What it means to be an age-friendly Portland will evolve as our population grows older and our spaces and our programs change. Portland's work thus far has been a model for other cities, and since the awards in October, leaders from across the country have sought to learn more about the work we are doing here. We are all clearly doing something right.
 Elders in Action is honored to be a proponent of this work and is grateful for the city's commitment to ensuring older adults remain a valued, engaged part of our community. We urge you to continue this support, and we are enthusiastic about the city's consideration of an age-friendly position within the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We look forward to working with the city in 2019, and I hope you'll save the date for the next Portland Age-Friendly Business Awards on October 30th here at City Hall. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kathy Moyd. I'm 74 years old, so I'm definitely a senior. I moved to Portland three years ago after having served as a system engineer for 36 years at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. Two years ago, I moved into a downtown apartment. Okay.
 And I've been extremely pleased with how easily I've been able to make a life for myself, even though I didn't know anybody. I've gotten involved in volunteer activities like Elders in Action, and I'm an AARP tax aid. And I take advantage of being halfway between the Schnitzer and Powell's to go to book signings and lectures. I've gotten involved in some movie groups and book groups. And between the MAXs, you know, the public transit,
 the compact nature so I can walk to a lot of things and meeting a few people who live downtown. I no longer have a car, and I'm finding myself perfectly able to participate in pretty much everything I want. So I'd like to encourage you to consider downtown Portland as a community for seniors in addition to
 the concerns about the people living in outside areas by themselves and in retirement communities. Absolutely. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, I'm Roy Patton, co-founder and co-founder of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, which is a statewide organization that addresses discrimination in housing. I'm also a member of the Governor's Commission on Senior Services for the State of Oregon.
 and I've been a member of the Age Friendly organization since its inception in 2013. Without going through all the things that you've heard before about age-friendly communities, I'd just like to say that an age-friendly community is one in which older adults are respected, their knowledge, skills, and resources and contributions are looked forward to, and they are integrated into the fabric of the community.
 Recognizing that our population is aging and public resources are limited, the economic, social, and personal benefits to be gained make clear the wisdom of taking action to create communities that are more age-friendly. I'm just here to encourage you to continue to support and guide the age-friendly effort
 and ask you to support them in any way you can. Thank you, Leroy. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to say thank you for your years of community service. You are certainly an icon, and I'm so thrilled to be able to say that from here. Thank you for being here today. Thank you. I made you blush. I made you blush.
 So that's what we've got for you. Very good. That's excellent. Colleagues, any comments, questions, or I'll entertain a motion. Move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly. We have a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion? I'll reserve my comments for my vote. Please call the roll. Fritz. Yes.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fish, for putting on this report on the council agenda. Thank you to everybody who's here, and I echo Commissioner Hardesty's lauding of all of your work. And thank you for being great partners with the city over the last year.
 many years now. And this is to me is an example of how the commission form of government can work really well. That I was able to pass the initial resolution and then Commissioner Fish has absolutely taken it and run with it. So it's fun to see what you, and satisfying to see what you're doing. Thank you to all of the community partners
 We do need to continue to work on it. Happily, since the majority of council is over 60, you're kind of preaching to the choir here.
 certainly in partnership with people working, people with disabilities of all different kinds in the community looking at how can we become an all abilities friendly community and certainly aging is part of that so thank you so much for your work, thank you for being here and again thank you Commissioner Fish for a really inspirational presentation. Hi. Fish. Well I too would like to thank all of our special guests this morning
 Alan, thank you for really organizing the presentation. Ruby and all of our friends, thank you for taking time this morning to present. I love these early morning council presentations on uplifting things because they hopefully set a tone for the rest of our day.
 But as Commissioner Fritz said, growing older is something that many of us are experiencing, and I'm experiencing it personally. I'm now 60 years old and a proud, hard-carrying member of the AARP, and recently put together a trip to Los Angeles with my daughter and was taking advantage of all the great discounts, so I'm very appreciative. Because.
 Because of your collective efforts, Portland continues to be a leader in planning and developing a community that is welcoming to people of all ages and abilities. And I am, just speaking as one member of the council, pleased to see that there is a proposal for an age-friendly position in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's proposed budget. I think that's something that is worthy of us debating and hopefully taking up.
 It's been one of my priorities to have such a position, and it will help to expand our collective good work. I want to thank all the individuals who serve on our age-friendly Portland Advisory Council.
 And I think we actually have a number of people here today that did not participate in the panel but are very active. Could you raise your hand, Jay Bloom and others, if you're here but you didn't actually testify just so we can acknowledge and thank you for being here? Thank you. Thank you. You know, I got my start in this work many, many years ago before I had the honor of being elected to council when –
 Then-County Chair Ted Wheeler put together a task force on vital aging, and Jay Bloom staffed the task force, produced an excellent report. One of the things that I took away from that is that there were cities across the country that were seeing the graying of their population as somehow a burden, that somehow it was going to end up taxing their ability to provide services and other things. Portland was one of the first cities to view it as a great asset.
 The social capital that comes from having older adults that have life experience. The fact that older adults want to live downtown, want to access arts and culture, want to contribute and volunteer in so many ways.
 You're a classic example. So in Portland, we see the aging process as not just inevitable, but as a great asset to the fabric of our community, and I think your presentation makes that eminently clear today. I want to thank Ascenta Lawrence on my team, who is the person on my staff who does coordination with Age-Friendly Portland. I'm just proud to be on a council that has –
 that has worked hard on these issues for many, many years and continues to support the good work that you're doing in the community. So a big thank you, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Hardesty?
 I just want to say that the work that you're doing is vital. As our population ages and lives longer all across the board, it is absolutely important that we maintain that community fiber, that community vibrance. And I love being a community elder, I've got to tell you. There's a lot of power that comes with being a community elder, right, because you don't actually have to wait for permission. You just do what you need to do. Okay.
 And I hope that all Oregonians, especially those who live in the Portland metro area, have that opportunity. I live in East Portland where those opportunities are not as broad for seniors. Transportation is a big issue.
 Infrastructure is a big issue. Having access to the arts and to music is all a big issue. So I applaud the work that you're doing, but I hope we don't end it downtown, because we have some fabulous seniors in every corner of this city who absolutely need to have access to build community and to know that they are valued and that they continue to contribute to our community. So I'm also very happy to vote aye.
 You daily. Well, as two months shy of my 49th birthday, I guess I'm the youngster on the council. But with the recent passing of my great uncle, who was the last elder in that generation, I have now advanced one step closer to elderhood, I suppose. Yeah.
 Thank you for the report. Thank you all for being here. Mr. Patton, it's an honor to have you here, and I hope that I can continue to affirmatively advance the fair housing rule. Maybe you could come back in April for a little something we're doing. Okay. Yeah. I guess I'll just say, you know,
 If we think of the average person as the norm or the majority, we're really failing to develop policy that's going to serve our whole community. What we should be doing is addressing the needs of people at extreme ends of the spectrums, which would be perhaps young children,
 our elders, people with disabilities, and the middle will take care of itself. So I'm really excited to work with all of you, excited about the possibility of this position, especially if we're going to be talking about universal design principles that will help not just elders, but anyone with access challenges in the community. And...
 Yeah, that's it. I vote aye. Wheeler. Well, this has been a fantastic presentation. Commissioner Fish, thank you for bringing this forward. And Senator Lawrence, your policy director, I know worked very hard to put together what I think was a fantastic panel presentation. So thank you for that. Slight non sequitur.
 You've all been reading about this scandal that's unfolding around college admissions. And it's really hit a nerve with people in this country.
 And the larger narrative is it's causing us to reassess our values around privilege, around hyper-competitiveness, around what it means to support young people as they seek to gain footing in the world. And I believe on a whole host of fronts, including related to aging, we are reassessing some of our cultural assumptions about aging.
 And what I love about this presentation is really twofold. Number one, I just learned that I'm part of the youth movement on the city council. So I cannot wait to tell Katrina that. Number two, aging is a strength. It is a strength. And it is also the only thing that binds us all together, every one of us, without exception. We are all aging. We are all aging.
 And we will all become, God willing, older adults. And with age, as has been said for thousands of years, comes wisdom. Aristotle said it way back when. It is still true today. Okay.
 So there's that wisdom, there's that knowledge, there's that lived experience. Yes, there are the battle scars, there are the trials, the tribulations, the great losses, the great sadness, the great joy. And sharing that experience with younger people in our community is extremely valuable and it's also an imperative experience.
 And by making aging something vile, something bad, something to be fought against, we have actually removed from our society and our spectrum, our arc of values, this notion that in the absence of older adults interacting with, supporting, and bringing up the next generations, we have actually disconnected from something profound and something critical to the development of our own culture, in my view.
 And this idea of an age-friendly community is one that is extremely important to all of us. Another sort of aside, I got invited to a birthday party this week, and I couldn't say no. I'm going to a hundredth birthday party over at the Providence Elder Place.
 for a resident of Portland. She's a lifelong resident of Portland. She's contributed to this community, therefore, for 100 years since basically the end of the First World War. And I was honored to be asked. I was honored to be included in that experience. And I just want to thank all of you for the leadership you're providing in reconnecting our generations and in so doing, connecting us back to a value that we used to hold dear. Right.
 at a time when we revered our elders and we valued aging, and we've got to get back to it. And it's never been more obvious to me than it is right now. So thank you for all of that. I look forward to continuing to engage in the work with all of you. Commissioner Fish, thank you for being such a fantastic advocate for our age-friendly initiatives here at the City of Portland. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Carla, could you please read the next time, sir? Item number 221. Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements from East Burnside Street to south of Northeast Everett Court in the Northeast 97th District.
 Avenue Phase 2 Local Improvement District. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to bring forward this first step in the lengthy process of considering a large local improvement district in the Gateway area. PBOT LID Administrator Andrew Abbey will get into the details shortly, and it is an impressive effort in an area long in need of investment, but I want to highlight a couple issues and concerns I have at the front end.
 And I'll keep it real brief. I have two concerns. One is displacement. City Council adopted a variety of anti-displacement measures with our comp plan in recognition to historic...
 and negative impacts for communities of color and low-income renters, and I want to make sure that we are bringing all of those measures to bear when we are considering this project. And the second is the potential for affordable housing. Currently, the proposal suggests that we could get up to 2,000 units and 40% of them would be available at some point
 level of affordability but that's not a promise or a guarantee. It's a possibility and given the city's investment in this area I want to not lose sight of the potential especially given the fact we've got a light rail stop there and it would be just a prime area for affordable workforce housing.
 So with that, I want to invite Andrew to begin his presentation, and then we can open it up to invited testimony, followed by public testimony. Hello. Thank you, Commissioner Daly. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. It's a distinct pleasure to be here this morning. It was almost five years ago to this day that council closed out the first LID that we had in Gateway, which is the
 Northeast 97th Avenue Green Street LID, which is why we're calling this the Northeast 97th Avenue Phase 2 LID. And one of the developments that arose as a result of that LID was the Rose Apartments, which is 40% affordable housing.
 And that has been an unqualified success in Gateway, a rare success story in Gateway. And I've been talking to the property owners since then, and there's a waiting list for that affordable housing. So one of the catalysts for this new LID was to help address that waiting list for affordable housing. Okay.
 So with that, why don't we switch over to the presentation and I'll kind of walk you through that in a little bit more detail. So the map that you see here on this slide, there's actually two maps there. They're the same map, but what they highlight are the two different LIDs that we are planning to bring to council. The one on the left is the LID we're considering today, which is the Northeast 97th Avenue Phase 2 LID, which would complete...
 all of the street improvements on Northeast 97th Avenue from Burnside to Gleason. And then on the right you see the new east-west streets that we proposed to build in Gateway. So right now what you have in Gateway are super blocks. So you have your Hamden by I-205 on the west, you've got Burnside and Gleason which are arterials running east and west, and then you've got 102nd Avenue.
 There's little to no on-street parking on either one of those three arterials. So in essence, what Gateway is, it's an area that you can drive through, but it's not an area that the street network really lets you stop anywhere. We just have very inadequate access and circulation into Gateway.
 So what we want to accomplish between these two LIDs and actually a third and fourth LID, which I can explain in a moment, is we really want to break up that super block that I just showed you on those maps. We do want to build 1,500 to 2,000 new housing units. Again, 40% of those affordable. The Gateway Urban Renewal Area is going to expire in three years.
 Kind of at the 11th hour, we'd like to get a big win for Gateway before the URA expires. Commissioner Daly mentioned that we have three MAX lines nearby. And earlier this year, TriMet implemented a new 24-hour bus line on Burnside Street. So we really want to capitalize on the investment that TriMet has made in this area. We want to improve pedestrian and bike safety at the light rail crossing at 97th and Burnside.
 We want to encourage more bike ridership in this area. Right now the I-205 multi-use path between Burnside and Gleason has been described as a quote cattle chute unquote. We want to improve the drainage and lighting on that multi-use path so that it's a more attractive facility to be used.
 And we also want to address equity concerns. So this particular area in Gateway has an equity score of 10. It's the maximum possible equity score that we can have. We have a very diverse community here. We really want to build infrastructure to serve this community.
 So I just, I wanted to put this into perspective that as we all know we have a real shortage of housing in Portland. If you were to take the area that you saw on the maps two slides ago, if you were to take that area and make it the 37th county in Oregon,
 What we're poised to do here in the way of additional housing units is to deliver more housing units than currently exist in three individual counties. Sherman, Gilliam, and Wheeler County is shown on that map. So we're really talking about something transformational.
 And while those counties are small in population, they have been outsized in terms of their contributions to Oregon. So Wheeler County, for example, is where Bill Bowerman, the founder of Nike, and the gentleman who invented the waffle sole for Nike shoes, that's where he grew up.
 Gilliam County is where Linus Pauling grew up, the famous scientist. Interesting story you may not know, but Linus Pauling had to move out of Portland in 1905 because his father died and his mother couldn't afford housing in Portland. So the reason he moved to Gilliam County is because he couldn't afford to live in Portland. So bottom line is these are wonderful counties to live in, but what we don't want to have happen is people have to move far away from Portland because they can't afford a place to live in Portland. So, yeah.
 This is a recap. This is not a new problem, is the point. I have said many times we've always had a housing crisis for someone, but I didn't realize it included Linus Pauling. So, thank you. And full disclosure, Mayor, I did a little research on you and I see you have no connection to Wheeler County. None whatsoever. Thank you for the disclosure. So here's the financial overview of this particular LID. It's a $5.6 million LID.
 And we have a very generous contribution from TriMet to improve rail safety at 97th and Burnside on this LID. This comes on the heels of the recently formed LID in Cully, so we really appreciate TriMet partnering with us so soon after the most recent LID. So if we are successful, we're still tying up to loose ends on the second LID that we want to bring to council soon.
 for Cooch and Davis streets, as I showed you on the map. If Council winds up forming this LID and the Cooch-Davis LID, the combined effect of those two LIDs, this will become the largest LID, combined LID, in the city's history. And it will surpass the number of LIDs that Council has approved over the past few years. So this is a picture of what 97th and Burnside looks like. It's not a very attractive environment.
 You can see that the drainage is poor, and the bikes come down southbound on 97th Avenue. They have kind of a strange angle crossing there where the MAX train is. We want to improve the safety of that. Moving forward, TriMet is going to have a track refurbishment project in this area, and so we saw this as an opportunity to improve that safety in conjunction with that upgrade.
 So on the top left, you see a picture of what the Gateway Shopping Center looked like in 1954. And I think Council knows that I'm a bit of a history buff. So I looked and found out that Fred Peterson was the 43rd mayor of Portland when the Gateway Shopping Center was built. We are blessed today with the presence of the 52nd and 53rd mayors of the city of Portland who are with us today, Charlie Hales and Ted Wheeler. Wait, where's Mayor Hales?
 There he is, ladies and gentlemen. He's in the chamber. Thank you. Thanks for being here, Mayor.
 So here we are, nine and ten mayors later. I think we're finally poised to solve the gateway puzzle. But what you can see is that the shopping center has been in existence for 65 years, but you go a little bit south of the shopping center, and we still have really derelict infrastructure. You may be surprised to learn, looking at those pictures, that those pictures are an area that's been designated as a pedestrian district and is anything but pedestrian-friendly.
 As a matter of fact, the Hazelwood Neighborhood Association, in which this LID is located, actually has a lower sidewalk coverage ratio than the city as a whole, despite being a designated pedestrian district. So this is another picture, and I just want to bring this up to address the displacement issue. We have a lot of lots here in this area that are vacant.
 We also have houses that are just simply boarded up. We're not going to displace anybody if we tear down a house that's boarded up. What I've been hearing anecdotally is some of the people who live there have been moving out because the conditions are so unattractive. I wanted to just show you the Title 33...
 Gateway Plan District. It says that Gateway is Portland's only regional center. As designated in the Outer Southeast Community Plan, it is targeted to receive a significant share of the city's growth.
 Gateway is served by two interstate freeways, Max Light Rail and TriMet Bus Service. Gateway is positioned to become the most intensely developed area outside of the central city. But looking at these pictures, that development and all the housing that we want to bring will not happen without first building the infrastructure to bring it. Thank you.
 So I was talking last week with a former colleague of mine at TriMet. I used to work there many years ago, and we were having a conversation about what's been successful with light rail and what hasn't. And he made the comment to me that if you were to look at the major MAX lines in the system, the one station that's done well is the Renko in Hillsboro. What hasn't done so well is Sunset Transit Center and Gateway Transit Center because there's no active space around them.
 So that kind of intrigued me. So last Saturday I had a little bit of time to kill and I rode the Max out to Gateway and I just kind of wanted to see what it looked like from a pedestrian's point of view. So I got off the red line at Gateway. I crossed this crosswalk. I was greeted by three abandoned shopping carts and a barbed wire fence.
 And then when I walked around that wire fence, I was standing in a surface parking lot looking at the back of a Fred Meyers store. So, I mean, there's nothing there to draw you there that is not an active space. There wasn't a single car parked on that parking lot. So then what I did is a little later that afternoon I took my daughter out to Arenco. We took a long MAX ride out to Arenco in Hillsboro and I wanted to see what Arenco was looking like. And I'm not suggesting that we build exactly in Gateway what we built in Arenco, but
 What you've got there in Arenco is you've got mixed use right up against the MAX line. You have shops, restaurants, you have a range of housing options in Arenco, and again including affordable housing. There is a strong partnership between the City of Hillsboro TriMet and affordable housing partners. You have a real community there in Hillsboro. And what I really want to show you here is that what we're proposing is this initial area in Gateway is what we show on the map as initial development shaded in green.
 We are hoping that this will kick start at some point the future development area shaded in purple. It's about a one-third mile walk from the Gateway Transit Center down to the area of the proposed LIDs. Again, if you jump back to the Arenco slide, the initial Arenco Station development is also a third of a mile away from the MAX line, and then that gave rise to the development of what you see in those pictures many years later. Andrew, could you just go back two slides please?
 On that one, I just wanted to point out to everybody that underneath where it says Northeast Wydler Street, that's Halsey Street, and right under there is the new Gateway Discovery Park. So that also is going to provide a huge amenity for this future development, and I'm really excited to see it. Thank you, Commissioner. I couldn't have said it better. So what we really want to do is we've got the investments coming at the north end of Gateway. Okay.
 The feedback I've been hearing from the community is we need a downtown type development to link together Gateway with Mall 205, and we need to make that connection as well. Right. And I just want to also add that there's a human solutions building that's going up there with affordable housing. So I know that this community has been really intentional about the concern that Commissioner Udalli and I share. And so...
 Thank you for addressing head-on the displacement issue. Thank you very much, Commissioner. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I have a question. The initial development spot that you have located on the map, is there development? Who owns that property, and is that development already approved? Good question. You're going to be hearing from those folks in just a few minutes, Commissioner Hardesty. I think part of the reason we're here today, Commissioner, is...
 What you had in Hillsboro many years ago is the city of Hillsboro went in and started assembling all those parcels where you had a concentration of ownership. That has been sorely lacking in Gateway. But what we've had is we've had some passionate residents and developers of Gateway who have wanted to transform their community into something better. And what they've been doing the past five and ten years have been assembling those parcels themselves to put us in a position where now we have a concentration of ownership where we can now move ahead and do this development.
 What we've learned from other transit centers is that if we're not proactive about having housing that people can afford to live in first before the development happens, then what happens is we displace the people who are there now.
 Correct. And what I'm, what we've been very intentional, Commissioner, in our discussion with the developers about incorporating affordable housing. I'm not, I don't work for the Housing Bureau, but I'm obviously well aware of the need for affordable housing. So that has been front and center in our discussions all the way through. So when you say affordable housing, what do you mean?
 Again, I'm not a housing expert, but whatever the definition is of affordable housing, the intent here is that 40% of the units that are built will be affordable. It will probably be 60% to 80% MFI, which is basically... The median family income. So we're talking 40,000 to 45,000 would be what somebody would have to make to live in those apartments? Yes.
 I mean, I think it's important that we actually say the number as compared to using the term affordable housing because that's such an oxymoron statement, right? Because I can't tell you what's affordable for you, and you certainly can't tell me what's affordable for me. But we need to know what is the income you need to live there. Thank you. I take your charge on that, Commissioner. Thank you. But, again, I just want to emphasize affordable housing in no way, shape, or form has been an afterthought to this discussion. So...
 So you saw the pictures of what this area of Gateway looks like today. This is an architectural rendering of what we would like Gateway to become. So this particular photo, I shouldn't say photo, architectural rendition is standing south of Burnside Street looking north through east of I-205. This is what we want to have happen in Gateway. So I can't stress this enough.
 But when we're talking about market rate housing and affordable housing, when we're putting 1,500 to 2,000 housing units in here, that creates a lot more housing options for everyone. And then my last slide here is the other corner of this area of Gateway. This is at 99th and Everett Court.
 What we also hope to do is have a third and fourth LID. The third LID would build Northeast Everett Court, which is a required component of achieving the 1,500 to 2,000 housing units. We also would like to do something pretty innovative, which we'd like to do a second LID in the city's history to help fund park improvements.
 We'd like to build one park along the west side of Northeast 97th Avenue and also build a park in the vicinity of 99th and Everett Court. So that we're not only building housing options for people, but we're also building recreational spaces for people. If you're going to have enough people moving here that it could become the 37th largest county in Oregon, we need to have green space and open space for those people there.
 of all income levels and backgrounds to have a place to recreate. And is it envisioned that those park improvements would be parts of the developments and paid for as parts of the development? Yeah, those are the discussions that are unfolding. They're pretty early discussions, but the idea is that the development coming in the door would also partner with the city on funding those park improvements. Yes.
 I know you're going to have more presenters, but the question that occurs to me right now is, why is this coming as a local improvement district, which you usually think about as streets, where in fact it's an area plan, a development plan?
 well again we have more details to work out on this but really my intent here is just to inform the council that we're trying to think of this comprehensively so that we don't build part of the infrastructure and not think about the other aspects of the infrastructure in effect what we're really trying to do here commissioner and
 I haven't done this effort. You'll hear more from former Mayor Hales. He's been doing a massing study of this area. We've been trying to do our own little mini master plan, if you will, to see how all these components fit together. So it's a work in progress. And is Prosper Portland involved? Yes, and thank you very much. That's a great segue into my final comment, which was I wanted to thank Thea Munchell at Prosper Portland. She is relatively new to Portland and to Prosper, and she
 She has done an excellent job of engaging with us. The discussions are still early, but those discussions are proceeding well. And there's a lot of moving pieces to this. We've got transportation involved, we've got parks, we've got Prosper Portland, but as far as I can tell, all the discussions seem to be going well and aligning. So I hope council approves this, and I hope we can also hopefully bring back second, third, and fourth LIDs to you in the coming months to
 Fully realize their vision and gateway. Happy to answer any questions you might have. Andrew, could I just put a couple of comments on the table? First of all, to be very clear, for the benefit of the council, we are here to talk about the LID. That is what we are talking about today. But I appreciate that we're also dovetailing that with a larger vision for what this neighborhood could be.
 And yes, Prosper Portland is engaged and responsive to Commissioner Hardesty's question. The Housing Bureau is also engaged in what I would describe as very preliminary conversations. So the answer to your question about what constitutes affordable, that has not been.
 at this point. The second piece I'd like to mention is that the development vision that you are showing here is actually long-term development vision. This is not something that is imminently coming before the council for a vote or approval.
 but this is an effort by advocates in the Gateway area to show what a potential vision for this area could be like. They've already assembled the land. They've already thought long and hard about what the open space, what the green space, what the park-like opportunities would be, and they've engaged proactively with us on the housing and the development front to talk about how that development might unfold. But there's a lot of...
 that happens between here and there before anything is finalized in that regard. So I want to bracket this a little bit and say what's before us today is really just the LID question. But it is also nice, and frankly, I appreciate hearing the bigger vision so I can connect the dots between now and, say, 20 years from now, what the completed picture will actually look like. So I appreciate that. But I wanted to make that clarification. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. I mean, the...
 Just to be even a little more clear, the resolution today is simply to declare our intent to initiate a local improvement district formation. So we're not committing to specifics. We are just getting a picture of what's possible if we were to invest in these improvements in partnership with private entities.
 Yeah, the only thing I would add to that, Mayor, is what we're really trying to do is to avoid greenlighting a whole bunch of housing and then the infrastructure being an afterthought later, you know, where we take a waiver of remunerations and we're here five or ten years talking, you know, gee, we should have planned this all out and had the infrastructure. We're just trying to have a more...
 proactive, coordinated, and planned approach. Yeah, and I just wanted to give a shout-out to the people in the community who are bringing this vision forward, that they have actually sought to reach out to us both on the development threat through PROSPER as well as thinking about displacement and affordability issues around the housing question. We're just a long way from actually making any final determination, and none of that would go forward without bringing it back to the council for a full discussion.
 I have, oh, go ahead, Commissioner. Thank you. So is the city putting any money into this local improvement district? I'm sorry? Is the city putting any money into that? Yes, so if you go back to... Sorry, I didn't have these slides memorized. There you go. Yeah, on this particular local improvement district, PBOT's putting a little over 5% into it. If we bring back the second LID...
 We are anticipating that we would bring that LID back with Prosper Portland funding if it's approved, and then also with PBOT system development charge funding as well. One thing I really want to stress is it's hard enough to make these developments pencil when you're only having to improve one street, which in this case is an existing 97th Avenue that's north-south, but then if you're also building an east-west street and you have to buy land and demolish buildings,
 fill in cesspools, build new east-west streets, extend water mains and do utility undergrounding is a heavy lift for the infrastructure. And we're planning for that. We think we can pay for it. But that's why we need some public investment on the infrastructure side. And by overhead funding you mean non-system development charge funding?
 What I mean by overhead funding is that is funding that's applied to the personnel on PBOT. So generally it's an 80% rate on personnel charges in PBOT.
 And we've had a long tradition of using overhead funding to help move LIDs forward. Okay, and so then my last question is, this is unusual that usually, that often, we have a development agreement. Going back to Commissioner Hardesty's question about who owns the property, who's going to benefit, we don't have a development agreement on this yet.
 Yeah, Commissioner, we traditionally haven't done development agreements on LIDs, but there are certainly deal points, if you will, on the funding. And so the funding of the second LID that we want, I mean, the first LID is fully funded, so that's not an issue. But if we think about bringing that second LID forward, we're looking at some markers in terms of number of certain blocks developing and a Commissioner Hardesty's point about,
 ensuring that affordable housing is part of that component as well. What guarantee do we have even in the first phase of what's going to get built? Because those guarantees would apply to the LID funding. And I think the important thing to remember, Commissioner, is LIDs are liens on properties. So for the many LIDs I've done over the years, having a lien on the property is a real incentive to develop.
 And we also have zoning in place, by the way, that has high-density zoning in this regional center, et cetera. So my experience over the LIDs, and I think the original LID in Gateway was a good example of that for Northeast 97th. You know, once you have that LID formed by council, it's really a commitment at that point that,
 We're moving forward and you're going to develop. So I just simply haven't seen the need for development agreements in the past because the development has materialized. But that said, there are these deal points that we need to continue working out. And there will be the opportunity to do that with additional LEDs coming before council. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor.
 I greatly appreciate your presentation, and I do understand that we're just talking about the LID today. Yes. But what you're doing is making a commitment. What you're doing is having property owners tax themselves to do improvements with an expectation that something else is going to happen. So even though we have a very narrow vote today, it's all in context. And by the way, that is my community. Yes. It is in context.
 of how is this going to benefit the community, both short-term and long-term? And so my question is, I appreciate the mayor's clarification and Commissioner Dudaily's clarification, but I'm always concerned. We're just saying approve this today, and we'll deal with the details later, right, because we're still working those out. Because as soon as you make that commitment,
 you're off and running, right? And then you'll be back with little other pieces. But just know that I'm concerned that we don't have a model yet of how we've done this right. So I would love to see this one be a model of how we've done it right. And that real affordable housing, a real housing that people can afford to live in is a result of the actions that were taken. And if we don't have a commitment around that, then I would have some concerns.
 Thank you, Commissioner. And let me just say this, that we can include whatever we want to include in the formation ordinance for the subsequent LIDs. So if council wants to include a finding or a directive in there that says it's going to be 40% affordable housing, you know, whatever...
 Whatever issues are important to the council, we can absolutely embed those in a formation ordinance for sub-signalities. I want to raise a cautionary flag on that. I do not support that strategy because that backs us into a financial model that we may or may not be able to afford, and it may create a market dynamic that that community just can't support. So I would be very reluctant to put that level of specificity in. Okay. Okay.
 Unless the housing director tells me otherwise, but I think she'll tell us it's a crazy idea. Andrew? So can I just – I think this is one of those rare examples of where –
 We had this set aside for 30 minutes today because it was, I guess, from my briefing, supposed to be the least controversial part of the LID. But what you've done, however, is you've laid out the vision. So, in effect, what we're doing is commenting on the broader vision and where we make sure we get the public benefit. If we weren't doing that, this would actually be a very straightforward LID. We'd be done now. We'd be done by now. So I think that's where the disconnect is a little bit –
 One thing I'll just note from the briefing that I got, the developer doesn't actually control all the sites. Yeah. So before we put the cart before the horse here –
 This is a long-term vision where people are attempting to assemble land and are thinking about financing, have preliminary conversations with Prosper Portland about investment. I share the concern of my colleagues to make sure that we have clear guidelines in terms of what the public benefit is with public investment.
 To me, this particular LID is a no-brainer, and you've cooked it the way you do all other LIDs, and it's going to – I plan to support it.
 But by giving us the sort of larger vision, you've salted in the conversation much bigger questions that we're not going to address today, but which we're signaling to the developer we may address in Phase 2 and 3. And so it may not be a 30-minute LID conversation. It may be backing into sort of what does a master plan look like? What are the public benefits? And if Prosper Portland is putting money in this, what kind of guarantees are we getting? So –
 Thank you, and I want to be respectful of Council's time. We have a few folks for invited testimony. I'm wondering if we could bring forward Steve Witter from TriMet and former Mayor Hills to make a few brief remarks. You bet. Thank you. Come on up. Mayor Hills, you know the drill. Three minutes. Name's the record. I never call it Mayor Wheeler. I do.
 Good morning. I'm Charlie Hales with HDR. Mayor and commissioners, it's a pleasure to be here with you today. It's also a pleasure to be with Andrew Abbey, who's enabled the city to build so many streets and so many partnerships. And I know you're all familiar with the negotiation book, Getting to Yes. I think Andrew actually could write the sequel, which would be Getting to Yes, Please Tax Me More, because that's what he's enabling you to do in this case and many others.
 I got involved in this project for two reasons. One, I have a long history with Gateway. And two, my company was hired to do some preliminary urban design and massing study diagrams, some of which you've seen here today, and to do some preliminary engineering calculations for the project.
 I'm also mainly here today because I think that this project and that the community that these property owners are interested in working with you to create is really finally the main chance to make something significant happen in Gateway and to fulfill the promise that we've all been harboring for this part of our city for a very long time.
 That promise will be realized, in my opinion, only if you form a long-term partnership with the property owners and neighborhood leaders who are here making this commitment to the LID today. Because to achieve a big vision in community development, you have to have not just the vision and the plan, but also good partners.
 Let me illustrate that by comparing Gateway to a few other places. Twenty-five years ago, as a newly elected city commissioner in charge of the Planning Bureau, I was put on the Metro 2040 Plan Committee.
 And we looked at the map and listened to the community's hopes and dreams about taking that 1950s suburban model and turning it into a neighborhood center. We brought in Peter Calthorpe, the preeminent urban designer in the country, and we looked at the situation on the land, two interstate highways, one light rail line then, not three, close to the airport, lots of redevelopment potential. And so we drew a circle on the map and said, regional center, the one and only in Portland.
 Later, the council adopted the Gateway Urban Annual Area and the Gateway Action Plan. So if good planning alone were enough to set the table for achieving the community's goals, our work was done. Here we are, 25 years later.
 In those 25 years, a lot of other visions have become real. The Pearl District, the South Waterfront, Burnside Bridgehead, Lentz, but not Gateway. What's the differentiator? In every case, for-profit developers or non-profit institutions who were, one, local, and two, interested in achieving their goals by helping the community achieve ours,
 partnered with the city to make it happen. In the Pearl District, Homer Williams, Ed McNamara, Tiffany Schweitzer, John Carroll, they were great partners. South Waterfront, Homer Williams again, Peter Kohler and Connie Seeley and Brian Newman from OHSU.
 Burnside Bridgehead, Brad, Liz, and Jonathan Molson. Kevin Cavanaugh and the crazy young team at Gorilla Development. What a company name. And Lentz, Chad Reneker, and Dr. Eric Zito. In each case, we've had partners, either profit or nonprofit developers, who are willing to work to achieve the long-term vision.
 and I believe that today you have the opportunity to join forces with those kinds of principled private sector partners to make the gateway vision real. To accomplish that, yes, you'll need to approve this LID and the others that will follow it. You'll also need to share in the cost of the infrastructure and affordable housing because it's impossible to simply get that by planning and requirements. Otherwise, we'd have it there by now.
 Mainly, I just encourage you to get to know these property owners, and they're going to be here today. It's not one developer. It's several different families that have accumulated this property over time. Take their measure. Reach across the table in partnership with them. And if you do, I believe you will take for what has, for 25 years, been colors on the map and words on pages and make them into a place that we'll all be proud of.
 So I look forward to your engagement with them and the Livable Gateway nonprofit that hired us to draw some ideas for what might be there and make that idea real. Thank you, Mayor. We appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, members of the Council. My name is Steve Witter, TriMet's Executive Director of Capital Projects, and I'm proud to be here today in support of the LID and continue our partnership with the city to improve pedestrian safety and access, not only at this location but system-wide.
 This particular project is part of a program of improvements that TriMet has undertaken in the last couple of years and foresee to do in the future at all of our light rail stations. And this is part of the oldest part of the system. And so improvements to pedestrian access and safety are certainly due at this location. Okay.
 We have not designed the crossing work yet, but the improvements that we'll typically see there are pedestrian, improved pedestrian wayfinding and signage.
 improved pedestrian crossings at pathways, including bicycles, and folks with mobility challenges. So we'll look forward to bringing this up to current standards for safety and accessibility. We are proud to be a funding partner in this project and look forward to working with you in the future. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And I think our last two are Jennifer Stedman and Gordon Jones. And that will conclude our invited testimony. Very good. And I understand there's a number of people signed up to testify under public testimony. I want to make sure we get everybody in. So please think about keeping your comments to two minutes.
 Good morning. If I seem a little nervous, it's because I am. It's my first time in front of council, so I'll do very well. No worries. We're glad you're here. Thank you for being here. Thank you. My name is Jennifer Sedman, and I'm the Director of Operations for JMW Properties. Joe Westerman is a partner in this Gateway project.
 In the past, I have worked for a developer that has built multi-use tax-exempt properties in northeast Portland, and instead of, I took it upon myself to not just allow them to be
 allow the affordable housing. I wanted to make sure that I was reaching out to the community, that I was doing what was best for our residents. So in the past several years, I've had open communications with Teen Insight, Central City Concern, Catholic Charities, NAACP, the HUD-BASH program, and REACH, and many more. And that was to help build a community that helped support one another.
 Over the past couple of years, specifically in the Gateway, we have quite a few homes in the Gateway area. I have...
 develop some friendships with the residents that do live down there. And so they don't look at me as necessarily just the landlord, but as a friend. And going through there, I've heard firsthand as I've heard about their living conditions and what they'd like to see and some of the issues that they come up with.
 They have unconnected sidewalks. They have no parks to walk to, to take their children. And sometimes they don't feel safe moving throughout the community, and one of them being the I-205 multi-use path.
 It takes it to a different level when you're not just a landlord, but you're an advocate for your friends. I take this to heart and I'm moving forward every day to make this project a reality.
 I've also joined forces with Join, and they, our property management company in the Gateway area specifically, calls Join, and they have the first right of refusal every time we have a vacant home. So it's been a neat relationship to build with them. Okay.
 Let's see. So out of the – in the Gateway District or in the Gateway area in this development, there are roughly –
 Let's see, 32 homes that would be displaced, which we're committed to as the property management company to create an anti-displacement policy. And what that means is we own roughly 233 apartment units within two miles of that area. So as this continues, we would be willing to help
 offset the relocation costs for the residents in that area, helping them move, not doing any types of rental increases, and also keep an open dialogue with them as this progresses to get them moved within their community and then move back into the Gateway area.
 area. So of those 32 homes, we own 17 of those at the moment. So these people have already qualified, they're already paying the rents, and we're committed to making sure that there is no displacement. And that seems like a small price to pay for being able to build such a large community of which 40% would be affordable. Yeah.
 Our goal and my goal is to provide affordable, integrated housing with a safe and stable community with the mindset of helping one another. Thank you, Jennifer. Thank you. Morning. In the interest of giving more time to some of the people that are activists in Gateway, have worked on this for well over 20 years, I'm going to keep my comments pretty short. But anecdotally, I want to tell you a couple of quick stories. Okay.
 I currently live in Gateway. I've lived and worked in Gateway for well over 20 years. Sort of my proudest accomplishment is the Rose Apartments, which is built right in the center of this neighborhood and has been a functioning 40% affordable, very socially and economically integrated housing community. And I'm sorry, did you say your name for the record already? Gordon Jones. Thank you, Gordon. Gordon Jones. Thank you.
 So I live in another residential community called Gateway Arbors that I built. When I built that, we displaced about nine homes that were in the area, older homes. But two of those, I moved one and moved some people with it when we relocated it. Two others were elderly people.
 women living alone, and we did this in phases. I moved both of them into the first phase, and they lived there until they passed away, both of them. So I tend to get very involved with things that I work on. I live in that very project, if you will, right now, and it was condominium homes. But
 We also had worked with on the roads, we worked with Metro, Portland Bureau of Transportation, Portland Housing Bureau, Bureau of Environmental Services and Prosper Portland on that project and everything I've done in Gateway has been a city partnership. So this is nothing new and this vision is the neighborhood vision has been going on for as you know well over 20 years.
 It's taken a long time to assemble all these small, older homes, many of which are vacant or boarded up. So it's something we've been working on and a vision we've held for many, many years. And I think we're getting close. It takes one LID and one street at a time to make it happen. So thank you. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it.
 Thank you. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for public testimony on this item? We have six people. Very good. Two minutes each. Please name for the record. Come on up. First three are Curtis Faith, Bruce Johnson, and Christopher Masiochi, I believe is the last name. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Curtis Michael Faith, and I have been a real estate developer on a small scale –
 I've been in finance. My primary background is in tech, and I've written three books, mainly about my early experience in finance. The reason that I'm addressing this particular issue is because I have walked the city probably 1,000 miles in the last six months because I'm intending to bring in a lot of business associated with –
 technology and entertainment businesses that I have been gestating in my mind as I've been working on a book on poverty for the last 11 years. And I find that this particular site is very interesting because there's –
 a lot of the problems of the city are present on the site currently and yet there is a tremendous opportunity there. I saw that as one of the prime areas that I would like to personally participate in bringing in some businesses. I think that the timing of some of the development is something that the council could certainly push in a direction that would make it much easier to get things to happen more quickly and to address the affordable housing. For example, if you
 put the affordable housing units up first, then you're not going to have a whole bunch of people worried about, um, not being able to have housing. And it also provides, uh,
 places for workers to live, potentially if they're coming in from out of town. Likewise, the problem of the homelessness in the city in that particular area is particularly acute as you're near the highway. There's lots of danger or perceived danger in the homeless. I've actually been underground as a homeless person.
 four or five of the last years in Rotterdam, in Europe, in various places in Germany, and also in D.C. and in Portland for 80 percent of the last six months, even though that wasn't my intent when I got here.
 There are some specific things that need to be addressed, and I'd like to talk with them about the council later. Okay. Thank you. Great. We'd appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Bruce Johnson. I'm the president of the Columbia Corridor Association, and I figured you were tired of hearing Corky all the time, so I came in his stead. This additional housing we're talking about and the breaking up of these, I'll say non-Portland super blocks, when the city is sold by Travel Portland, they talk about how Portland has walkable blocks.
 What Andrew presented with the super block is not a Portland thing. I think Gateway needs to be a Portland thing. We're desperately needing safe places to walk in that area. Those puddles, it would be fun as a kid to ride my bike through, but we're talking about adults and families. That needs to improve. My employees live there and come to the airport every week, every day. We need something done in Gateway, and I think LID is what we need. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler and Council, my name is Christopher Mashaki. I live and work in Gateway, and I've been engaged in trying to uplift that area for about 13 years. I'm a member of the Council of the United States, and I'm a member of the Council of the United States.
 I know we're here really to talk about the LID, and my notes here have largely to do with the bigger picture, so I'll try to pare it down. But one of the things I really appreciate is that the folks involved in this have really reached out to the community, and we feel genuinely like they care about all the issues that have been brought up here today. What I love is that the vision for this...
 is of a really high caliber, and it resonates with the original vision of Gateway as a true regional center. When Metro designated Gateway as a regional center over 20 years ago, it did so because of the area's intrinsic values. It was a profound and unparalleled transportation hub. It's even more of one now, and it's increasingly important as we focus on
 creating transit-oriented development. During those years, Outer East Portland has become the most diverse place in the entire state of Oregon, and that in itself is a huge asset that we need to look at. Of course, all of that growth comes with a challenge, and one of those things, if you look at PBOT's equity matrix map, if you look at it today,
 Portland is basically divided into two sections, split right down I-205. And the fates of those two areas have been really different, the west side prospering like never before, and the east side experiencing a lot of disinvestment. So it's interesting to me, though, that Gateway lies right in the middle of those two things. It's a really, really unique opportunity to –
 As Commissioner Hardesty said, take all the lessons we learned from revitalizing other areas of the city and really applying those lessons that we learned, right? This is where we can do it right. We can make something that's truly equitable. And from what I understand of this project, that really is the goal, that this is something that will integrate people. It will be sustainable.
 you know, affordable and market rate and have amenities. They're thinking about families and those green spaces that they're talking about, you know, they're juxtaposed. They've got daycare and those sorts of things. Thank you. You know, so it's really, really important. Got it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Your time is up. Next three people, please. Our Linda Robinson, Frida Christopher, and Courtney Shannon.
 Do you just need a desk here? Might be, because I'll be back tomorrow. We can't. Thank you. Welcome. Would you like to start? Yes. Good morning. I'm Linda Robinson, and I, too, am a resident of the Gateway area. I have been working with Prosper Portland and others recently.
 for more than 20 years to make something happen in this urban renewal area. And I am really excited that this project is coming forward. I'm excited partly because the developers live and work in the area.
 I'm really excited about the mixed housing. I know we need a lot more affordable housing, but we also need market rate housing. We need to have a good mixture of both. And the projects that will follow this LID will have a good mix, not a separate building for the people who can only afford the affordable and another building for the people who have a little more money, but they're mixed together in housing units.
 This is really something that we need in the Gateway area. And the improvements to the Max Crossing at 97th is really... That whole section from Burnside to Gleason is a problem area. Really unsafe. The crossing the streets in particular, really unsafe. And these improvements will be greatly appreciated. And sidewalks and all of that. So I'm...
 Very much in support of the LID, and I know a lot about the projects that will follow, and I'm excited about those as well. Thank you.
 Gosh, Linda kept it under two minutes. My name is Frida Christopher, and thank you, Mayor and Councilmembers, for having me here today. I'm co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee, as well as have been on the Gateway URAC for its whole existence and was part of the
 was part of the writing of the consent plan for Gateway. Excuse me, Freda, just for the people who are listening, what's a URAC? Oh, sorry. It's Advisory Committee for the Urban Renewal Area. They no longer exist out there for Gateway, Lansing, I believe, Interstate.
 I also have been on the school board of David Douglas, which Gateway is in, for the last 28 years. I support and our committee sent a letter of support for this LID. But I want to just broaden it a little bit and look at the next LID, which is very key, because that is where city investment will be needed. Thank you.
 $2 million from Prosper Portland and $2 million from PBOT. But in that, the private developers will be taking responsibility for $8 million. And that's just the infrastructure. It has nothing to do with building the units themselves. The...
 The district, people say, well, five years ago we were talking about overcrowding. We're seeing displacement occurring now, not from this project, just from gentrification in the area. It is happening now. Our housing bureau is looking at a preference policy for affordable housing in East Portland because of that displacement. What is...
 Very nice about this project and its location is Douglas has a piece of property at the transit center that is for a future urban-built elementary school.
 When we build this, this project, as it comes to fruition, will also drive when we build our urban elementary school. So they are all connected. I just happen to be on several committees that connect them all together and the different input. I'd like to see both of these LIDs move forward with the city investment. It's what is needed in this area for something to get going.
 Thanks, Freda. I'm trying to finish quick. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Since we're throwing around credentials today, my name is Courtney Shannon. I have a degree in computer system engineering, and I will speak for anyone and everybody in this town and have regarding houselessness and people being displaced. So name any agency I've spoken for. I work with Joanne writing some laws. Yes.
 And I figured maybe if I dress better, you won't kick me out today because I went off subject, in your opinion, which it wasn't, by the way. But I want to speak to the money. I mean, I don't think that having that much affordable housing with that kind of criteria is realistic, especially not in this town. How about people with no income like me? How about people who fall in the cracks like me?
 What are you going to do with them? And I have to agree. Please don't put people in different buildings. That's stupid. How better to educate people that houseless people and people of low income are no different than you and me than to put everybody together in one box and have them play together? But I don't understand why it is that more people aren't being helped through this. Certainly.
 I heard the man with my own two ears. He said, we will make anything possible that you want possible. So go for it. The city does have the money. You know you do. If you didn't spend all that money sweeping and killing people and taking it out of the housing fund, you would certainly have more money to throw towards this. It's inexcusable. And I really hope that you lean towards doing that.
 Because people are dying out here because you refuse to stop the sweeps and give them housing. Have a good day. That completes public testimony, Carla. Is that correct? Yes, that's all. Very good. Colleagues, any further discussion or questions? This is a resolution. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Oh, this is a really pleasant surprise. I agree.
 expecting a fairly routine local improvement district. That's what it looked like from the documents and so I'm really excited to see that this is in fact the long awaited gateway development starting off and congratulations to the community because I know that there's many, many organisations and individuals who've worked really, really hard on this.
 property owners, community members and a lot of people coming together. We want to particularly thank Chris Scarzello who was here earlier today who's been a long time planner in East Portland and has been a part of this and also Corky Collier and just
 It's a lot of Starbucks. I could just go around the room, and it's fabulous that you all, many of you were able to be here to see this actually starting to happen. Commissioner Charlie Hales took a chance with a 38-year-old young, well, I was young then, environmentalist neighborhood activist and put me on the planning commission right when the Gateway Plan was coming through. And so it's like going back to our age-friendly resolution plan
 There's certain advantages to living to be 60 to find out that things actually do take a lot of time to come to the right point, but it looks like this is actually going to start to happen. My parents-in-law live at Cherrywood Village in the Gateway District. There's many affordable senior living situations in this area. Yeah.
 I go there often and especially since the Gateway Discovery Park was finished and is now just such a magnet for good activity in this entire region. So I'm really excited that we're getting going. I look forward to hearing many more details about the proposed development and what the requests from the city will be because obviously it will need to be a public-private partnership.
 Staff time for the Bureau of Transportation is definitely needed for street improvement projects, and also there's a whole lot more going on, and so I'm really looking forward to getting more information about it. Fish? Well, first I want to thank Commissioner Udaly for bringing this forward today. I also want to thank Andrew Abbey, who is really a model public servant.
 I think every bureau wishes they had a handful of Andrew Abbey's to help us build consensus. Hands off.
 I'd also be remiss if I didn't publicly thank Linda Robinson, who is here today. I think it was Commissioner Fritz who first introduced me to Linda. In the last few months, Linda has turned over the mantle of leadership in a number of organizations to some new faces in East Portland. But frankly, I can't think of someone who has been consistently successful.
 so often on the right side of issues involving East Portland equity and East Portland parks. And she is also one of the driving visions and driving people behind Gateway Green. So, Linda, thank you very much for all of your great work. We don't often have former mayors come back and testify, but I really appreciated something Mayor Hales said, and I think it helps us –
 And what he was doing was preaching a certain level of humility about the development process and the planning process. And I think it's worth taking a moment just to reflect that there were a number of years, particularly when I was serving on this body over the last 10, when there wasn't a lot going on in Lentz. There wasn't a lot going on in Gateway. There was some criticism about the pace of development in South Waterfront.
 when Veterans Memorial Coliseum was the subject of a lot of well-intentioned plans but no clear vision about how to fund it and where it would fit in a rejuvenated Rose Quarter. And what Mayor Hales reminds us is that without market forces driving good planning, things don't happen. Without good private and nonprofit partners willing to invest, good things don't happen.
 What we have is well-intentioned plans that remain on the books. What has happened in the last three or four years is with a vengeance, the market came back and private capital flooded into our community. And you've seen development in South Waterfront and Lentz. You see, in my view, a very compelling vision for how to build out the Rose Quarter. You're seeing the innovation quadrant and plans for the post office site. But that's because people are ready to invest. Right.
 And all the planning in the world does not ensure that people are willing to invest. People invest when market conditions are right, and we've had an unprecedented run of good fortune really in the last three or four years. So now we have folks in Gateway willing to invest in Gateway's next chapter, and I think it's very exciting. What I think you've heard, though, today is that while this particular LID is relatively straightforward –
 Once we start talking about significant contributions from the Portland Development Commission and other public resources, the council is going to be more likely to ask the tougher questions about what are we going to get long term? What's the return on investment? So I look forward to having that conversation. But today I'm very pleased to support this LID. Hi. Hardesty.
 Thank you so much. I also want to appreciate Andrew. Being in the hot seat is probably never fun, but I appreciate your grace and your thoughtfulness in making this presentation. I care about Gateway not just because I live in Gateway, but because I have lived in the city for over 30 years.
 And I have heard the promises of development. I've heard who was going to benefit, who was going to get the jobs that were going to create these new beautiful buildings. And over and over and over again, we have failed to live up to what it was we said we wanted to do. And so I am...
 cautiously optimistic because I've worked with Frida and I've worked with the East Portland Action Plan and I've worked with Linda for the last nine years as part of the East Portland Action Plan. And I know that there are people as part of the East Portland Action Plan that will hold us accountable to doing what it is we say that we want to do.
 We do have an opportunity to do something good and meaningful for the people and residents who live in Gateway. And I hope that this starts that process. But I can assure you that when you come back for the next LID, that there will be some hard questions. And I'm going to be looking for, like, real numbers and not just terms like affordable housing. Because, again, I don't think that term means anything anymore, right?
 I think what we need to talk about is making sure we have housing at every income level, in every neighborhood in the city of Portland, and that Gateway could possibly be that model. Some of the developments that we've talked about that have been successful, they've been successful for some people. And certainly some of those developers have made a bucket load of money off of those developments. Yes.
 But the people, the low-income people, the services that were supposed to be there are still absent. And so I will vote yes, and I will look forward to our next conversation. Aye.
 Well, thank you to Andrew Abbey and all our partners on this project. I want to also thank community members who came out today to testify. I put a lot of stock in what Frida and Linda have to say, and the fact that you support this step is heartening to me. I'm looking forward to working together with all of you on the next steps
 and I commit to holding the project accountable to our equity and housing goals and helping craft an LID that brings meaningful community benefits for everyone in East Portland. I vote aye. Wheeler? I want to thank everybody who testified today. Andrew, thank you. I appreciated the opportunity to go out and visit the site, walk around with both the prescriptive –
 Thank you very much.
 It makes perfect sense to me that we do this. And by the way, the long-term vision is one that is very compelling. My suspicion is as PROSPER becomes more engaged, as the Housing Bureau becomes more engaged in this process, and they're already, as I said in my introductory remarks, having the conversations, this is a bold vision because there has been a lot of talk around Gateway and East Portland that has not been realized yet.
 We have a location that is central. It is on a transportation node. In fact, several transportation nodes. It is a diverse area, and it is an affordable area. And therefore, the opportunity before us is obvious. But I want to be really clear. Realizing the vision is not going to be easy. There will be lots of tradeoffs, lots of questions, as you heard today from our colleagues, and
 And despite common perception, resources, particularly resources for housing at very low levels of income, are scarce. And we as a council will ultimately have to decide whether
 on our own as well as in partnership with our regional partners when we're talking about the deployment of the regional housing bond dollars, we're going to have to pick priorities. And that's the conversation that we'll have in the future. That's not today. Today's about the LID. I vote aye. The resolution's adopted. Thank you. Carla, could you please read item number 226 from the regular agenda? I'm sorry? 226 is being...
 Okay. Move to the end of the agenda. So you want to move to, you want to go, what are we doing with 226? Okay, fair enough. We'll move to items 227, 228, and 234. We're going to read those together. Okay.
 Item 227 requests the federal government update studies on the potential health risks of 5G radio frequency wireless emissions and publish findings as federal guidelines push for more rapid deployment of 5G. 228.
 grant a temporary revocable permit to new singular wireless PCS LLC for wireless communications services in the city.
 And 234, amend transportation fee schedule to charge fees associated with the master lease agreement and wireless small sale permits and associated fees. Colleagues, these are all related items. 227 is a resolution. 228 is the second reading of an ordinance. 234 is also an ordinance.
 The items we're hearing today are part of a concerted effort to thoughtfully manage small cell technology in the public right-of-way.
 I'm going to ask Commissioner Fritz first to introduce a resolution that urges the Federal Communications Commission, the FCC, to take timely action to study and regulate radio frequency emissions from small cell technology to protect human health. So I'll ask you to introduce item number 227 for us first, please, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor.
 In May 2009, the Portland City Council unanimously passed a resolution. In fact, we passed it twice. We passed it unanimously 3-0 and then we introduced it again so we could pass it 5-0 because the council felt very strongly that we should ask the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Drug Administration to update studies related to potential hazardous health impacts of radiofrequency radiation emitted from wireless equipment.
 The FCC and the FDA have not done that. And we have had that on our federal lobbying agenda, I believe, every year since then. And despite the assistance of our federal delegation, have not been able to push the FCC to look at it. In my mind, it's very similar to in the olden days when the tobacco executives said that they didn't believe that tobacco was harmful because they hadn't read the studies. Well, this goes even one step further in that if we don't even do the study, then, of course, nobody can...
 read it. So ten years later we find ourselves again asking our federal government to prioritize the health and safety of our communities. In the blink of an eye it seems wireless technology has permeated nearly every aspect of our lives. It's hard to imagine existing without it. When I'm on the bus every morning I see almost everybody is looking at their phones despite David Morrison having taught me in 2012 not to use mine because it's dangerous.
 Now the fifth generation of mobile internet connectivity, or 5G, has many people intrigued with the promise of even faster data download and upload speeds and energy savings, and it will boost the capabilities of driverless cars and other cutting-edge technologies. But at what cost?
 Federal law preempts states and local governments, including the City of Portland, from considering health concerns in the regulation and placement of wireless facilities. We simply are not allowed to consider that when we look at the remainder of the agenda on this topic. And this is despite scientific research that has demonstrated exposure to electromagnetic radiation may increase cancer risk and other poor health outcomes.
 The results of the longest and most expensive study to date on the link between radio frequency radiation associated with 2G and 3G cell phones and cancer were released on November 1st of 2018 by the National Toxicology Program. The study found evidence of cancerous heart tumors, as well as some evidence of cancerous brain tumors in male rats exposed to high levels of radio frequency radiation like that used in 2G and 3G cell phones.
 The study did not examine 5G, which relies on the deployment of many more antennas and transmissions, resulting in much closer human contact to radiation, and nor did it study 4G. In response to this study, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued recommendations to limit exposure of children to cell phones.
 Representatives Alyssa Kenny-Geyer and Tona Sanchez and Senator Laurie Monozaniston also recently introduced bills to the Oregon legislature to project children from electromagnetic radiation in schools.
 The harmful effects of electromagnetic radiation may extend to the environment. After reviewing over 97 studies on how electromagnetic radiation may affect the environment, a European Union review body concluded that this radiation causes disorientation in birds and insects and compromises plant health. Their report warns that the switch to 5G may intensify this threat.
 There is still a gap in research to help us more fully understand the effects of exposure to wireless technology, especially 4G and 5G. That is why we are again calling on the Federal Communications Commission and relevant federal agencies to update studies and make results publicly available.
 We join other elected officials who have recently made similar requests, including Sioux Falls Mayor Paul Tenhaken, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Congresswoman Anna Eshoo.
 Thank you to the many, many community members who have reached out to our offices on this issue and to my colleagues for supporting this resolution, particularly Mayor Hales. Mayor, dang it, he was here earlier, and that's a long time since I've made that mistake. Mayor Wheeler, I apologize. Particularly Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udaly for co-sponsoring the resolution. Any questions for Commissioner Fritz on 227 before we introduce 234? I've got some opening remarks as well. Please, Commissioner Udaly. Yeah. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 And thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for your work on addressing the potential health impacts of new communications infrastructure. As we know, there's ample evidence that the mobile phone industry has systematically suppressed medical research into the impact of mobile devices and the wireless networks that support them. Much like the tobacco and gun industries, the industry is choosing to obfuscate health issues instead of trying to understand them.
 It's an embarrassment that our national government not only won't do the research, but also is preventing us from even considering the issue at a local level. The resolution before us today, like a similar resolution passed by a previous city council, is unlikely to have an impact on national policy. The goal of the resolution is to explain the council's practical options while helping the public understand the situation that we're in.
 Shortly, Interim Assistant Director of PBOT, Noah Siegel, and Elizabeth Perez will be here to discuss the 5G items in great detail, but I'd like to make a couple of introductory points.
 First, the agreement and fee schedule in front of us today were written by city employees and the city attorney, not lawyers at the FCC or a wireless company. That's important because the FCC recently set a national rate for 5G carriers to compensate cities for access to infrastructure. Corporations have successfully lobbied our current administration to preempt local governments' ability to control our infrastructure.
 That is unacceptable to me and I believe our whole council. Generations of Portlanders have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in building and maintaining our infrastructure, city streets, water and sewer lines, parks, and we need to take aggressive steps to resist relinquishing control of our own assets to corporate interests.
 That's what's in front of us today. The agreement with AT&T will compensate Portlanders at roughly 10 times the rate the FCC is trying to impose on us, and they will preserve our freedom to manage property owned by the people of Portland. That concludes my remarks. Very good. Any further comments on 227 before we bring up Noah and Elizabeth? Very good. So now we'll hear from...
 Noah Siegel, who is from the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and Elizabeth Perez, who is my operations director and currently the acting director of the Office of Community Technology, who are going to talk a little bit about our city's strategy around small cell deployment. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. As the Mayor said, my name is Elizabeth Perez. I am the Mayor's operations director and current acting director for the Office for Community Technology. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz already outlined, but I'll reiterate that the city lacks legal authority to regulate small cells based on radio frequency emissions. The city does, however, have legal authority to ensure that the residents of Portland are not stripped of their voices when decisions must be made related to their streets, sidewalks, and light poles that they use and they pay for every day.
 The Office for Community Technology is charged with maintaining local control over local infrastructure and ensuring that private corporations who ask to use the public right-of-way for private profit are not unfairly burdened to the city's residents. The current FCC has issued recent administrative orders that undermine the city's ability to maintain local control over local infrastructure. The FCC's actions have not gone unanswered by this council or city staff.
 In October 2018, City Council directed the city attorney to challenge the FCC's actions in court. The litigation does not seek to block the deployment of small cells or 5G, but rather challenges the FCC's misguided invasion of local authority. The litigation asserts that the local control of Portland's largest physical asset, the public right-of-way, is the best way to benefit local residents.
 In its administrative orders limiting local control, the FCC also suggests that the reasonable cost to local governments for each small cell deployed in the right-of-way is $270 per small cell per year. According to the City Budget Office, a conservative estimate of foregone revenue to the City due to the FCC's opinion is $3.7 million over five years.
 However, the FCC did go on to acknowledge that residents should not subsidize any corporation's costs to deploy small cells. Accordingly, the FCC authorized local governments to recover its reasonable costs associated with small cell deployment. And Noah will elaborate on these costs for the City of Portland. The City of Portland has been recognized as a national leader in asserting local control over local assets. We will continue to fight for local control in court.
 The city also works to maintain local control over local assets when it grants permission to entities to access the public right-of-way. That work is evidenced in the balanced approach before you today to deploy small cells in 5G in a manner that benefits all Portland residents.
 Thank you, Elizabeth. Noah Siegel, Interim Assistant Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation. I'd like to just pick up where Elizabeth left off and say that staff from the Bureau of Transportation, from the Office of Community Technology, with assistance from a city attorney, worked hard to bring...
 The best possible options, choices we could here to council today, as Elizabeth was saying, we are the guardians of the public right-of-way. Some approximately one-fifth of the city's real estate belongs to the people of Portland in the form of its sidewalks, streets, and everything above and below that space as well. Thank you.
 which is increasingly important to the digital economy. So that wealth belongs to the people of Portland, and we took very seriously the city's position in negotiating the value of that, the cost recovery of that, as the private sector sought to advance plans for 5G. We have a window of opportunity, I should say, because our market is valuable to the carriers. They want to come into the Portland market and other key markets,
 So it's an opportunity for us to be proactive in setting what we think is the value of that cost of entry. I do want to say that we were guided from the outset in our negotiations by clear principles that were laid forward by Transportation Commissioner Chloe Udaly and Mayor Wheeler, that we should be guided by our focus on digital inclusion as a moral and economic imperative, that the...
 of the right-of-way is to support the well-being of our residents, that we need to secure fair and reasonable compensation for the city and its residents when we carry out these negotiations, that 5G should support our digital equity plan, and that the city should continue to fairly and responsibly protect public health, as Commissioner Fritz, your resolution points to today. So those were the things that we kept in mind as we took part in these negotiations
 I would say very aggressive negotiations. And while we have very good relations with our counterparts, the carriers here locally, working to a good outcome, I should say that we were not dealt a great hand, that the Trump administration's FCC has put us at a disadvantage. We had, counsel had approved several years ago, established rates for small cell technology based on market value.
 and geography. So at $5,500 a year in the central city for an attachment, $3,500 a year outside the central city. This was based, again, on market value. The FCC told us that we could only evaluate costs based on cost recovery. So that whole methodology was unacceptable under the FCC rule. We vigorously disagree with that point of view. Portland is leading the way in court.
 leading other cities to challenge it, and we will fight it quite hard. But that said, the FCC ordinance, the FCC rule is the law of the land at the moment. So we're forced with a difficult choice, and we decided to be proactive in our negotiations under the current FCC rule to bring you the best possible option that we could in negotiations with the carriers.
 So what we landed on was a franchise fee of $1,250 per small cell, which was a continuation of the logic of the pilot franchise fee that council approved and was endorsed by the carriers at the time, despite the fact that they then at a federal level said they wanted to only pay $270. So we thought $1,250 for the franchise fee based on that precedent –
 made a lot of sense, and that in addition we charged a $750 lease fee to cover cost recovery at PBOT for running this program, which will have to scale up very quickly as Singular and other carriers enter the market.
 So you put those costs together to $2,000, significantly more than the FCC's $270, and by our estimations at the high mark of national fees charged to 5G small cell carriers. So we considered that to be quite a success.
 In addition, we have the one-time fees that cover all costs for installation and attachment under the master lease agreement. That means that the public doesn't subsidize in any way the installation of these small cell attachments.
 So this question of the cost to the right-of-way, cost recovery is a challenging one. It's a new methodology. We've always charged market value, and we, as I said, will continue to challenge this approach around cost recovery. But that said, we also think costs to the city are quite extensive for operating in the right-of-way. Of course, you have...
 The obvious cost of street maintenance and digging up the street and putting in fiber and covering it back up and all of that stuff. But in addition, we have the more expansive costs, things that go unseen every day, emergency services, lighting, all the things, the stormwater, all the things that keep the right-of-way up and running.
 We are doing a study right now to evaluate those complete costs, and we may come back to you to revise what we think is the true cost recovery. But at this point in time, we believe we've brought you the most competitive
 contract, the most competitive franchise and lease fee that we possibly can. It's leading in the country. And I just want to say that, again, it's not circumstances of our choosing, but the choice that we've brought to you is the following. We can take the rates that we've negotiated aggressively on behalf of the people of Portland with the values that
 that guided us, or we can be reactive to the industry, which will then be able to attempt to enter our market. If we don't approve that, they can then sue us, most likely win, and then we will be in the process of trying to negotiate back up our rates from 270 to what we believe to be the true cost recovery. So I think that we could – I understand there's a clear choice here, and it's not –
 entirely tasteful, given the circumstances. But those are the options, that we can take the hardest deal that we've been able to negotiate while the market is in our favor and the carriers want to enter, and we can set some terms that we think are largely fair or as fair as can be, or wait and react and hope to achieve a better outcome later. Not an easy decision, but I do have a huge amount of confidence in the staff.
 that brought this forward and can answer any questions about that. So thank you for your consideration. We think that we've worked hard to deliver the best value for the right-of-way for the public good of all Portlanders. Thanks, Noah. Noah. I have a question. Commissioner Fritz. Has there been any discussion to make sure that the companies deploy this technology everywhere? In other words, that they don't avoid the less affluent neighbourhoods?
 If we're going under the assumption that it's a good thing to have the higher speed internet, which I think obviously that's something to question, but has there been any discussion of equitable distribution, whether this is a good thing or a bad thing? Well, certainly we think it's a good thing, and we have been pushing hard on the issues of digital inclusion. I do think that you could make an expansive case that –
 some of the cost to the public that's incurred by deployment in the public right-of-way is inequitable deployment, and so does the public then have to carry that? So I think we've brought that up. We're not in a strong position on that issue with the FCC, where they basically say the carriers have the right to deploy as a starting point. But my question is, are we making sure that they're going to deploy in outer East Portland as well as they are in East Portland in a
 No, that's what I'm saying. It's very hard for us to set that condition. We have an offer from AT&T that put forward an investment of $200,000 to fund digital inclusion work. We'll continue to negotiate using the market entry advantage that we have to say this is important. But we don't have the ability to negotiate where and when they deploy. That's market-driven. Okay.
 And that's an issue for us. And do we know what's happening in other parts of Multnomah County? I know for the cable system there's a Metro East as well as Open Signal. So have there been negotiations for the rest of Multnomah County, for Gresham or anywhere else?
 Based on the cable franchise? A bit for 5G. Are any companies pursuing 5G in our neighbors to the east? I mean, I think they're pursuing it in most everywhere. I know that Hillsboro and to the west they've pursued, as you're saying, because of the market demand. To the east, I think they are in talks, right, with Gresham and further east. Jennifer. Hi. Hi.
 Jennifer Lee from the Office for Community Technology. In regards to your question, Commissioner Fritz, I believe in our conversations with other jurisdictions, the carriers are talking to everybody. We're not alone in feeling sort of the pressure and the desire to deploy 5G. I think various cities are in various stages. Gresham...
 I think move to a code provision, so I don't recall offhand if they negotiate franchises. So we might actually be helping our neighbors in setting a standard that will help their economies and also make it so that companies can adopt ours as a model code and do it in less affluent areas. Yes, that's true. Portland is the largest jurisdiction, so I think other cities will look to us. Thank you.
 But we don't have, as on the cable franchise, a unified approach to working with all of them. But I think that that's right. Setting the standard, we've been in touch with many other cities about our approach, and I think that can help them. I think we're also, because we are working with the carriers on design standards, we're doing a pretty good job at that. And other cities are looking to us as a model for that.
 I remember when we started with the previous iteration of cell phones, and a lot of the concern from neighbors was that the boxes were the size of refrigerators, that they made a lot of noise. How big are the boxes that 5G uses? Yes.
 Have we set the design standards yet? We are in the process of working on design standards, and they are significantly smaller than that now, but this remains a consideration for us. So we've had...
 It'll be part of our rulemaking rollout around, you know, that it has to comply with design standards. So that's been an issue around some of the historical polls. Yes. And with cell towers, we've got design standards in the zoning code on cell towers. Will these design standards come back to council? They don't have to.
 I would suggest it might be in all of our best interests that they do come back to council for a decision so that we then don't, all five of our offices, get lobbied about this box is too big, too small, too noisy, whatever. And I would say that the FCC has parameters around design standards and size, and what we are doing is working with the carriers to try to shrink that down. So legally, they're allowed to go much bigger, but they're coming to the table and talking to us about...
 ones that we think are more appropriate. So it might be helpful to you and strengthen your position to be able to have a public hearing where lots of neighbors, based on past history, will come in and say, we don't want refrigerated sounds pervading through our neighborhoods. Right. Thank you. Commissioner Herdsty. Thank you, Mayor. My question has to do with the $200,000 digital inclusion. What is that supposed to do?
 It was an offer that the carrier, Singleton in this case, put on the table. And we don't have a direct way of accepting an offer like that. So what we recommended is that they work on a plan with the Coalition of Communities of Color to come up with a strategy for how that could be best deployed. So that's where it currently stands right now. But to be honest, it's open for discussion with the company. Okay.
 I would hope that there would actually be a plan, right? When we talk about digital inclusion, we're talking seniors, we're talking people with English as a second language, we're talking...
 We're talking a whole host of folks who don't have access. And A, I think that's way too low. AT&T has, you know, they could do better if they were really about digital inclusion. And so I think that figure is way, way too low. And I think it's not clearly clarified. So just giving some money to some organization does not actually equate to digital inclusion.
 I'm very concerned that, A, again, it's way too little, and B, that there's not a plan to actually make sure that we're really engaging the folks that are going to be most left out.
 I would agree with you, Commissioner Hardesty. I think that the purpose of those funds, and we could talk about how best to tease them, is to write that plan. We don't have an updated plan for 5G digital inclusion the way that we did 20 years ago for the rollout of cable, where it was under the federal law that a certain percentage of the proceeds had to go to
 community access. That's not true for 5G. So we need to develop a new plan for how to do this. And just to be frank, we don't have one. It's coming at us pretty quickly. So can we do that? That's the purpose of those funds. Why do we need to plan another plan for 5G when we've already got one for digital equity? So I was going to say that we have asked them to use the guidelines of our digital equity action plan. Thank you.
 So there is an outline, and they'll be working with the Office for Community Technology, and then they've been working with the Mayor's Office and Commissioner Udaly's Office. And it seems like the money could go to the Matt Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, which already does the grants for the action plan implementation. Yes.
 Why couldn't the money go down? We can look into that. Or East Portland Action Plan as the, you know, if it's going to – I mean, I just think that there should be a bigger conversation about where it goes. I'm not sure if that would be the right approach, but I'm just concerned that there's no plan, right? But there is. We've got a digital equity action plan, so why are we not just put –
 Commissioner Salson. Yes, and we have asserted that that is what we would like them to use. But I'd like to clarify, though, that I agree we have the digital equity plan. What we don't have are legal and financial mechanisms to require the carriers to fund any of that. And so there's no requirement of them to carve out a piece of
 profit and now we're in this scenario where the FCC is saying it can only be cost recovery. So that's where we need a plan. How are we going to address these questions of digital inclusion as things shift over to 5G? It's going to be a financial and technical challenge. Well, when they're going to give us $200,000, we have a plan for how to... For this money, yes. Correct. Yeah. Yeah.
 Very good. Any further questions of this panel before we open it up to public conversation? Commissioner Udaly, I have in my notes it was your intent to remove the emergency clause from Item 234. Is that correct? Yes, I moved to remove the emergency clause from Item 234. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. No, from Commissioner Udaly. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly. It's contagious. It's one of those days. It must be Wednesday.
 Carla, please call the roll on the amendment. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. The emergency clause has come off item 234. With that, we are now opening it up to public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? We have 11. Very good. Two minutes each, please. Name for the record. The first three, please, coming up are Alan Barr, Curtis Faith, and Brian Liu. Okay.
 And they'll be followed by Tracy Fleeman Garcia, Maggie, and I believe the name is Tina Darcy. Good afternoon. Would you like to start? Yeah, good afternoon, Mayor Daley and commissioners. My name is Alan Barr, and in defense...
 I totally deserve that. And what a shame your time is up. Hey, now. I am Mayor Udaily, so we're having life. Sorry. No, it was good. I totally deserve that. Sorry. I was thinking of Mayor Udaily. I mean, I was thinking of Commissioner Udaily. I'm an engineer. I don't normally do this. My apologies. That's my excuse as well. I heard Mayor Udaily, so that's fine with me. I may be related to them, but it's...
 All right, start all over again. We'll give you your two minutes back. Thank you. Yeah, so like you, Daley, I'm a Gen Xer. So I was a little like, you know, we got the apathetic rap here today. But I'm a Gen Xer who's not sitting on the sidelines. I'm out there trying to make the world a better place. So Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I'm also an engineer from Verizon here in Portland. And thank you for this opportunity to comment. I'm commenting on item 234.
 This is a critical issue, not just for Verizon, but for all the residents in the city. And for someone like me, who was born and raised in Portland, loves the city, and is now raising a bunch of digital natives here. Myself. I'm going to read you a quote. Legacy hierarchies and institutional structures are bottlenecks to developing the new economy. Portland must innovate in both by establishing partnerships with industry, education, and other governmental bodies.
 and by reforming our government institutions and policies to root out silos of control and resistance to change. That is a quote from the City of Portland's own broadband strategic plan.
 5G brings with it the potential to narrow, if not close, the digital divide, as well as enable a revolution in smart city technologies that will enhance public services, improve traffic flow and pedestrian and bicycle safety, enable autonomous and connected vehicles, enhance disaster preparedness and public safety efforts, and facilitate increased environmental monitoring and carbon reduction.
 Portland needs a new regulatory framework that eliminates unnecessary barriers for wireless carriers to place fiber and small cell antennas throughout the city to speed the deployment of 5G and bring technologies and tools that can dramatically improve the way Portland all across the city is working.
 works and lives. Unfortunately, the proposed small cell and master lease agreement fee schedules being proposed by PDOT does the opposite. When cities use their control of the right-of-way to charge thousands of dollars in annual rent for every single small cell, plus thousands of dollars more in permitting fees for each facility, charges that
 maybe untethered or discernible or reasonable approximations of actual costs, it erects barriers to entries that force wireless carriers who are making investment decisions across the nation to invest those resources elsewhere. We don't want that to happen. This is basic economics. And the more expensive something is, the fewer of it you can afford to bill. Small cells are no different. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Curtis Michael Faith again. I have several interests in this. First of all, I don't recommend that you wait for the FCC. I think you should fund and or get together with some other mayor's offices to do some independent investigation so you can be sure of the health hazards. I would also say as a physicist and engineer that it may be that the 5G, even though it appears to be 5G,
 and the cells are closer because the power are lower, it may be that you're running into situations that
 there would be less danger. So this is something we should study. And I also recommend that I'm going to be trying to work with some of the school systems to have some after-school educational programs where people are able to learn starting in the elementary school about electronics and about radio waves and the different frequencies and what that means. The higher frequencies are
 that are being used for 5G, for example, they don't penetrate as much. And there's a bunch of different characteristics of radio waves as you change frequencies, and most people don't know what they are. But it's the kind of thing you could teach somebody in fifth grade, and then they would remember, and then we could have a much more public discussion about some of these issues. Finally, I would say with respect to the investment, I'm going to try and get a special –
 economic zone or dispensation from the FCC so that we can do more experimentation here in Portland because I have a bunch of things I want to do for research and development that may change the way we look at frequencies and come up with some better types of technologies that are definitely safer and definitely less scary for people and aesthetically much more pleasing. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Honorable Councilmembers. My name is Brian Liu, and I'm here today with the Oregon Institute of Creative Research to thank the mayor and commissioners for presenting Resolution 227. But I am also here today to urge the City Council to implement an urgency ordinance that prohibits wireless telecom facilities in areas zoned residential and require annual EMF readings to determine the wireless facilities within compliance of federal and state laws.
 I have heard the presentations on the possible avenues forward, which concern the rates we charge telecom companies on infrastructure, but as Commissioner Fritz noted, what are the costs beyond the dollar sign? By enacting an ordinance that prohibits these towers, the City of Portland would be taking a stance alongside California cities like Mill Valley against corporations that have no interest in the health of the city's inhabitants and against the FCC Act, which expedites corporate greed and protects it at the level of federal legislation.
 I understand the difficulty placed by the FCC. However, Mill Valley's urgency ordinance should set the precedence for what is possible. We are aware, living in our times, the slow unveiling of the systemic inequalities that beleaguer communities of color, immigrants, and refugees. But we must also be vigilant and wary of what lurks behind what seems like the veil of progress, of technologies deemed inevitable, and of historical movements that feel ordained when discussed from retrospect.
 I grew up in Hawaii. We should do well to be skeptical of those who would bring sophisticated gifts claiming to be agents of the civilized world. I am no technophobe. I am simply voicing my concern about a technology that has become prolific in our lives and ask whether or not that this technology is good, a question that we have had no time to ponder and a question some very powerful and rich companies do not want us to ask.
 To rouse the good reverend once more from his sleep, in a letter from Birmingham jail, MLK writes, one has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws. I would agree with St. Augustine, an unjust law is no law at all. Thank you. Next three, please. The next three are Tracy Fleeman E. Garcia, Maggie.
 And I'm sorry, I can't read this next name. On Southeast 35th in Portland. How about Barry Sanders? Nick Taylor? Or Tartar, maybe? I think you have three there, Carla. Good afternoon. My name's Trace Fleemany-Garcia. I am a UC California's, University of California certified naturalist. I'm an ecological activist, and I am also with the Oregon Institute for Creative Research. Okay.
 Firstly, I would like to second my colleague Brian Liu's points, and I would like to reiterate them. There simply is not enough research to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that this sort of wireless technology is safe for the implementation that is needed for 5G. The research that does exist, such as that undertaken by Trevor G. Marshalls. You all right? Yep. Okay. Sorry. Where was I?
 The research that does exist, such as that that was undertaken by Dr. Trevor G. Marshall and research fellow Trudy J. Ruman Heil at the Autoimmunity Research Foundation, found that environmental electromagnetic radiation suppresses the immune system in humans. Dr. Marshall and Dr. Heil specifically note that the frequency range of Wi-Fi in cell phones is especially potent.
 Further, Dr. Michael Repiccioli at the Royal Adelaide Hospital in Australia has produced data that cell phone radiation contributes to the onset of cancer in mice, as previously discussed. Other studies have suggested that electro-smog impacts the orientation of birds and insects, contributes to colony collapse disorder in bees, and injures trees in the direct vicinity of cell phone towers. I urge the City Council to enact an ordinance to curtail the construction of 5G towers for the sake of human and non-human health.
 Portland is widely known as a green city, one of the greenest, if not the greenest cities in the United States. And many people, including myself, would like it to stay that way. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I thought we had three minutes, so I'm going to go very fast. Honorable Council Members, Mayor Ted Wheeler, my name is Anne-Marie Oliver. I'm the founding co-director of the Oregon Institute for Creative Research, whose slogan is Ethics, Aesthetics, Ecology, Education.
 The Oregon Institute for Creative Research recently held its first workshop on the effects of 5G electromagnetic radiation on humans, animals, and other life forms. What we discovered was appalling.
 Intensely accelerated efforts to mandate and streamline fifth-generation wireless systems, despite considerable and serious reservations held by people of integrity across all walks of life about the safety of these technologies, lack of precautionary measures, and complete and utter lack of ethical regard.
 despite studies that demonstrate clear and present dangers of this yet untested new technology. I keep saying new technology. This is a new technology. It's 100 times faster than 4G. Its response time is less than one millisecond faster.
 The use of frequencies in the microwave band are between 28 and 39 gigahertz versus 700 megahertz to 3 gigahertz of 4G technology. These cell phone towers will have to be placed perhaps as closely as 100 feet. All of the talk about digital inclusion, this is, in my opinion, a smokescreen.
 It is difficult to escape the conclusion that we are being asked to serve as the subjects of a vast experiment. Although it is rarely noted, experiments used to take place in scientific laboratories. The world now is the laboratory. Humans, the subjects of an almost limitless experimentation. One can only think here of the precept or dictum set forth originally by the Austrian media theorist Adolf Hitler.
 Technical media, he writes, don't arise out of human needs. New technologies are not developed in order to satisfy human needs. Indeed, following Marshall McLuhan, Ivan Illich, Henri Lefebvre, and many others, we can say that these technologies actually create needs. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Thank you. May I say one thing before I...
 start to Commissioner Fritz. When you asked the question earlier about design of those cell towers, just a cursory look through the web pointed out to me that there are already 200 such towers that exist in the city, most of them, 99 percent of them owned by people who don't reside in Portland. I think those towers are already here and have gone beyond questions of design.
 And also for the previous speaker from PBOT, I do think that there is subsidizing going on, that it's more than money, and that is our human subsidy of this project. I begin. Can I have my time back? Thank you. In 1900, Henry Adams, the great-grandson of the second president of the United States, sailed to France.
 to visit the Paris Exposition. Standing inside the palace of electricity, he found himself overwhelmed by technology. He found himself overwhelmed and also alarmed. He recorded his reactions in the third person in his autobiography, The Education of Henry Adams. The most memorable and frightening part of that book, frightening for Adams and equally unsettling for us, is a chapter titled The Dynamo and the Virgin.
 Adams realized that the power of technology, symbolized by the 40,000-horsepower dynamo, had usurped the role of religion, symbolized by the Virgin Mary. Three technological marvels startled him. Radio waves, radioactivity, and a force known simply as the X-ray. All three circulate invisibly and, like specters, elude the senses altogether. The question still haunts him.
 How to understand that which is nonsensical, that which human beings cannot see or smell or touch or even hear, except when something goes wrong like Fukushima. For Henry Adams, the most reassuring invisibility had been religion. One put faith in religion.
 In the unseen and ineffable, Adams could not put his faith in technology because he had no idea of the effect, positive and also greatly negative, of these new powerful invisible rays on the well-being of living things. On March 7th, 1918, at age 80, Henry Adams died. March 1919, exactly 100 years ago, The Education of Henry Adams was published.
 100 years later, the invisible rays of radiation have intensified, increased, and metastasized. Like the brilliant Henry Adams, the overwhelming majority of us still do not know the effect of those invisible rays on living things.
 What we do know is that the dynamo has replaced the Virgin, which can be seen in the giant cell towers now installed in many churches, replacing spires that once inspired, which is to say that filled the buildings with Holy Spirit. Thank you. Thank you. Wait, wait, wait, wait. Can I do my conclusion? If you make it really quick. Distinguished members of the council. How's that for an opening?
 You have a great opportunity and a crucial responsibility here. I know you will exercise your authority wisely and make your decision based not on inert facts, but on as much relevant and enlivened facts you can uncover, discover, and recover. Such is the pursuit of knowledge, and it is an undertaking that lies at the heart and soul of education. In the end, it is all we have, this drive to know, to understand, and to make reasoned
 as a most intimate way of caring for each other. Let us stop and investigate. It is not too much to ask. We cannot care for each other until we care about each other. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Next three are Nick Tarter, Emily Hyde, and David Morrison. And, folks, I really would like you to stick to two minutes. We've got several other items, and I don't want to lose our quorum. We've got other items today. Thank you. Well, a very eloquent statement. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Honorable Council Members, Mayor Ted Wheeler. My name is Nicholas Tartar. I'm also with the Oregon Institute of Creative Research, and we thank you so much for giving us your time today. Could you pull the microphone over so that the captioner can hear you? Thank you. Nicholas Tartar is my name. All right. Thank you so much for giving us your time today. All of us appreciate the opportunity to share our concerns about the unsettlingly uncontroversial implementation of the 5G wireless network in the city of Portland.
 I will be brief two minutes in my argument against this largely untested, potentially hazardous, continuous bombardment of high-frequency microwave technology, even though the gravity of the issue should call for hours, if not days, of scrupulous debate. Thank you.
 Rather than scrutinize the absurdity of Section 332, Article C of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, which prevents local governments from denying permits to construct cell towers based on environmental and health concerns through threat of litigious retaliation from major cell phone companies, I offer you an example of a community who stood up and said no to towers and won. These were the firefighters of Los Angeles County in California.
 In 2004, after living and sleeping inside a station near a large cell tower for five years, a group of firefighters complained about memory loss and sleeping disorders.
 An independent study was conducted by a Los Angeles neurotoxicologist to determine if any unusual brain activity was present in the firefighters. Scans showed brain abnormalities in all of the men tested, including delayed reaction time, lack of impulse control, and cognitive impairment. It was concluded that the exposure to radiation emitted from the cell towers contributed to these negative effects of the otherwise healthy men and women whose job it is to protect the community.
 After lobbying from the Los Angeles Firefighters Union in Sacramento, Assemblyman Bill Quirk exempted fire stations from Senate Bill 649, or complete deregulation of the telecommunication industry.
 I was a wildland firefighter for three years in southern Arizona. Immersing myself in this brotherhood taught me that there is nothing more important to these firefighters than the community they risk their lives to protect. From my experience, I can tell you that being exempt from a harmful threat such as radiation emitted from cell towers, while the rest of the community is unwillingly exposed, is a difficult pill for these men and women to swallow. Knowing that young children, infants, and newborns are continually exposed to this radiation with no escape, while the firefighters are granted exception, undoubtedly affects their sleep just as the cell towers did, if not more. Thank you.
 Please reconsider. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Before I begin, I would like to mention that it is precisely communities of color, the disenfranchised, the poor, the sick, that we should spare the technology of 5G wireless, just to make mention of that. Thank you kindly, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for your time and consideration. My name is Emily Hyde, and I am also with the Organist 2 for Creative Research, which
 I was born in Portland, Oregon and grew up in a small town about 40 minutes east of here. Oregon is my long-time home and in my opinion there is no place like it on earth. I'm here on behalf of a beloved friend who on March 16th, 2018 was diagnosed with a likely malignant brain tumor. Despite the extraordinary courage and unbreakable spirit of the woman of whom I speak...
 Over the course of the last year, her condition deteriorated rapidly. She suffered grand mal seizures, amounting to loss of consciousness and loss of memory, the loss of the use of her right arm, which amounted to her losing her job and also her capacity to work and do the things she loved. She did not, however, lose the most precious and important thing to her, her daughter, but this apparently was not enough. She hanged herself just over a month ago on the evening of January 27, 2019...
 Her 16-year-old daughter at home at the time called her father because she suspected something. He told her, don't open the door, knowing that this would be the only opportunity he had to protect her from the harrowing sight he himself had to endure as a child discovering his own mother after she had committed suicide.
 As we know, I'm not sure if something's wrong with the microphone or with me, but as we know, brain tumors are on the rise, and it is the job of survivors and witnesses to determine their cause and to do something about them. The question that is of interest here concerns ethics, the human capacity for morality, and increasingly endangered species in the realm of political affairs. I'm not interested only in the subject of human suffering, but also the damage and suffering of the natural world.
 For what hurts the most are the silent injustices, and this can be most aptly summarized in the faces of the animals and the palpable dryness of the bark upon which they cling. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. David Morrison. Good afternoon.
 When questioned by Senator Blumenthal about the safety of 5G, the FCC admitted there's no proof of safety, which defines the 5G rollout as human experimentation. Human experimentation is against international laws, was established after World War II and Nuremberg. Thank you for bowing to international law, and hopefully you will follow it as well. It cannot be ruled out that the potential damage from these long-term exposures would not equal or even greatly exceed the horrific damage caused by the Holocaust.
 Sanctuary cities limit their cooperation with federal government enforcing federal immigration law. Whether one agrees with their resistance or not, hopefully you will be willing to disobey federal law because you know it is wrong.
 rather than upholding industry profits. Are the consequences of obeying federal immigration law more serious than consequences of obeying federal telecommunications law? The consequences of obeying federal telecommunications law have the potential of resulting in many severe illness and premature death. The council has shown willingness to disobey federal law in the immigration situation. Hopefully you'll be doing the same with the telecommunication industry.
 situation. This act may be, the TC Act may be the greatest offense to local rule of all time. 5G would increase the prospect for continued explosion of health care costs as well, which is something you need to consider. And the adverse impact on animal, insect, and plant health, too, would continue to be ignored.
 We're at a critical point in the fight to restrict exposure to the harmful levels of wireless radiation. Already studies have shown extensive human damage resulting from previous generations of mobile telecommunications networks. Implementation of 5G would raise potential human damage to unprecedented levels because of the vastly increased density of cell towers required to their proximity to humans. I'll just say one thing. The FCC...
 either has or is poised to reclassify human skin as an extremity so they can increase exposure. And they're already lowering or raising the levels of exposure, which they will be doing soon. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks all three of you.
 Next three, please, Carla. The last person who signed up is Mark Collar. Great. And, folks, just a reminder, thumbs up if you like what you're hearing, thumbs down if you don't. It's Mark Collar. He wasn't able to make it. I could express a couple of his concerns if that's okay. You have to ask the mayor. You know, we're behind schedule. I think we heard some really compelling testimony, and we'll stick with what we've got. So any further discussion or any further questions of staff?
 Very good. First, we will call the roll on item number 227. That is the resolution put forward by Commissioner Fritz. Fritz? Thank you, everybody who came to testify today. And to be clear, my goal in...
 formulating this resolution and asking for council support is absolutely to get the FCC to do the studies that they should have done 10 years or more ago. The fact that even under President Obama we were not able to get them to do it
 doesn't take away the need for us to continue to advocate and hopefully as more and more jurisdictions start understanding the concerns about health impacts of wireless facilities, eventually there will be a groundswell of
 public opinion expressed by cities, counties, states that will force the federal government to do what it should have done many years ago. So that's my goal in putting forward this resolution. Thank you very much to Cynthia Castro on my staff who did a lot of the ground work and also to everybody in the community who has informed us
 and obviously since I sponsored it 10 years ago, I'm sponsoring it again now. This is something that's very concerning to me as a person who uses cellular technology as a retired registered nurse, as a mother, and as a community member.
 yes, there are many benefits to this technology and there are also many problems with them. And another of my goals is to make sure that people who supervise younger people or are in the presence of younger people, whether you're on the bus or out in the public or whatever, just be mindful of the example that you're setting and limit screen time, using it as a reward rather than as something that is used to distract kids on the bus, for example.
 There's a favorite dad of mine who gets on the 44 bus often with his son, and occasionally they look at his cell phone, but often the dad will dig out a book from his backpack, and they'll enjoy a book on the way in. There are still alternatives to being glued to your cell phone 24-7, and I encourage all of us to make sure that we take a break many times a day. Hi. Fish.
 Well, I want to thank my colleagues for bringing this forward. We are preempted by the federal government and by the state government on a whole host of health and safety concerns that we have as a city. But this one is particularly offensive since the federal government seems to be willing to operate on the whatever they don't know is good enough for us.
 And I appreciate that we are taking the lead and pushing for a comprehensive review of the health implications of 5G wireless technology. Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 I just want to thank Commissioner Fritz again for taking the lead on this and for devoting time and attention to it over the last decade. I've already been planning a smartphone detox. Now I'm considering just throwing it out. I vote aye. Wheeler.
 Well, while the city of Portland lacks the legal authority to regulate small cells based on either health or environmental impacts, I think it's imperative that we continue to push the federal government to do these studies. I don't know why we would not want to do these studies. Just to give you a comparator, some 40-ish very prominent scientists in the European Union representing –
 dozens of countries asked the EU to take a look at the health consequences of 5G. And one of the reasons given wasn't just in addition to identifying potential health risks and potential environmental risks, they also made a strong case that as we continue to see these types of technologies adapted in order to gain legitimacy with the public,
 The public needs to have a better understanding of what these technologies are doing and what the potential negative effects are. So to have the FCC basically say there's nothing to see here, having conducted no research, is unsettling to a lot of people for obvious reasons. Of course we should conduct.
 this research. And so I'm glad that we are pushing forward on this. I appreciate Commissioner Fritz's long-term view on this as well. And I would encourage people who care deeply about it, and we heard a lot of people come here and give eloquent testimony today,
 The FCC is an agency that can also hear from the public, and I would encourage people to contact the FCC and tell them that you want and you expect our federal government, which also works for you, to conduct this research. I vote aye. Resolution is adopted. Next item, please, is a second reading of item 228. Is it possible to ask a question? Fritz? Yes.
 When we are sworn into office, we swear to uphold the laws of the United States, the state of Oregon, and the city of Portland. And as distasteful as I find this particular law, I am required to follow it. Mr. Morrison, I would have to disagree with you. I don't think we are disobeying federal law on immigration. I think that the national administration is disobeying federal law on immigration, and we are merely upholding what the laws say.
 And in this case, I think I appreciate the Office for Community Technology and the Bureau of Transportation for negotiating these agreements. I think it's better than the minimum. And since this technology is, by right, allowed to go in, at the very least we can...
 expect the companies to pay some of the costs and therefore regret. It's one of these, as was mentioned, a distasteful choice, but this I believe is the better of the two choices. I. Fish. First I want to just say that we had some superb testimony today, and I appreciate those who put this in a larger moral framework. The problem is we as decision makers are caught between a rock and a hard place.
 As Commissioner Udaly and her PBOT team made very clear in the opening presentation, either we're going to be the masters of our own destiny here and negotiate an agreement which is above the anemic thresholds established by the FCC, or these wireless providers are going to simply roll the city and get what they want with less of an investment.
 So we're caught between a rock and a hard place. It would be very easy to cast a dissenting vote just to express outrage at that situation, but we have to observe federal law here, and I think there are several reasons why this particular permit is noteworthy. The first is that it has been negotiated and drafted by the city.
 The second is that the rates are 10 times what the FCC is attempting to impose on jurisdictions like the city of Portland. And the third is that we have been able to bump up the franchise fee and the lease fee. Now, that is no solace for someone that looks at this in the context of an experiment on public health and shifting the cost to our local community. But the net effect of us not –
 embracing and accepting the terms which have been negotiated that are before us, is we will likely get a substantially less attractive deal rammed down our throat. That's why we're caught between a rock and a hard place. And for that reason, and with the same reservations that my colleagues have expressed, I vote aye. Hardesty? We've heard a lot about the health impacts, the environmental impact,
 And I'm still very unsure about how low-income communities and communities of color will see any benefit from this new technology. While the FCC rules are clear, and I'm grateful to PDOT and Commissioner Udalli's staff for working out an extremely better deal,
 than the minimum that is required by the FCC. I have an obligation to vote my conscience, and my conscience says I vote no. Udailey.
 Well, I want to thank PBAC staff, Noah Siegel and Ann Hill, as well as City Attorney Maya Haim and Elizabeth Perez from the Mayor's Office for their work on this item. I share my colleagues' regrets and concerns. I think that Commissioner Fish adequately summed up the position we're in, the decision that we're making today. We...
 It's unfortunate that we are often in the position of having to protect our community from our own federal government, that we're not able to devote our time to advancing and furthering the good work that we need to get done. But in this instance, I do feel that this better protects our interests, and I vote aye. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 The moral and philosophical questions which were raised today are certainly thought-provoking, and they are worthy of continued discussion. And I'm sorry I always have to be the guy holding the timer and telling people to stop, but I assure you I took a lot of notes, and I'll be doing a lot of research based on what was said today. I also want to take the pragmatic view on this particular item.
 This item renews AT&T's authority to use the public right-of-way to serve Portland residents. This negotiated outcome...
 comes in the midst of the national discussion around the rollout of 5G and this pressing question about the federal government's right to lay claim to public right-of-way and public infrastructure for which the taxpayers of this jurisdiction have paid literally billions of dollars over the years and hundreds of millions of dollars to maintain.
 And it has been the city of Portland's position, our strong position, that that is our infrastructure, that our residents and taxpayers own it, and that we get to establish the standards and the rates by which we rent that infrastructure to private sector companies. And so I'm pleased with the work done.
 that has been done by city staff on this to help negotiate what I think was a fair settlement even before we got into this conversation about the FCC and this question of local control.
 I want to thank everybody who worked so hard on this. I want to particularly thank the Transportation Bureau, Ann Hill from PBOT, Elizabeth Perez, who's here today representing the Office of Community Technology, and others who worked so hard on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. And with regard to item 234, this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance, moves to second reading as amended.
 Carla, could you please call item 226 next? We now have staff in the room.
 amend affordable housing preservation and Portland renter additional protections to make technical changes following adoption of SB608, other technical changes, and clarify the affordable housing exemption. Colleagues with the city's commissioner, please. I just want to have an idea of what's the plan for the rest of the agenda. To move expeditiously. Let's try and get out of here. We have left...
 About an hour. Yeah, this. Well, we could move some to. I think we need to do that. Two, two, two, two, three. Is that a title? No, it's right. We've got the space between the two o'clock. Let's do this and could we take a look at the remainder of the agenda? Michelle, could you work with staff and see if there are some that we can put off until this afternoon? Okay.
 And then we'll come back after this item and we'll see where our Commissioner Fish. So, for example, I mean, I don't know who just picked up on that, but we have the one-hour bike town. Then there's a gap. So...
 And I've got people from the Bureau of Environmental Services that are on hold during their lunch hour for a presentation, which is not a very complicated presentation. But I'm happy to volunteer to see if we can move those in the afternoon to take those two off. That's 2.30 and 2.31.
 So 2.30 and 2.31, we will move after the 2 p.m. time certain, because my expectations, we're going to have a gap there, right, between the two time certains? Yes. I do think, Mayor, I do think 2.29 is going to go longer than 15 minutes. I have a bunch of questions, and I know we have an amendment on 2.33.
 But that's pretty straightforward. Okay, so let's plan on 230. Let's remove that from this morning's agenda. Let's remove 231 from this morning's agenda. We'll put them into the afternoon agenda. And what I will attempt to do is move those two items between the time certain items this afternoon. So that only leaves... 233, which I hope you could do before. Okay, and how much time do you think you need? I think that's going to be very quick.
 Okay, and 233 is actually a second reading, but you've got some amendments. We'll take some testimony on the amendments. I don't anticipate that'll take very long, so we can do that this morning as well after 226. And that's all we have left, correct, for the morning session? What about 229? Where's that? Oh, did I skip 229? Yeah. Will that be moved? Yeah, that's a short one. Let's move 229 to the afternoon session as well.
 And I apologize to staff who've been waiting patiently for that. But let's go ahead and do that. So with regard to 226, does that plan work for everybody? Yes. Good. 226, with the city's permanent mandatory relocation assistance policy and exemptions,
 having now been in place for a full year. And with the recent adoption of Senate Bill 608 in the Oregon legislature, there's some technical changes that are needed to maintain the city's current policies and improve our understanding of the exemptions. I think everybody here understands that renters continue to rely on strong tenant protections to provide stability and prevent displacement in Portland's challenging rental housing situation.
 markets. We also know that communities of color are disproportionately impacted as are renters of low income. And so policies like the city's reload ordinance continue to be critically important to our city and those who call Portland home. With that, I'll turn this over to the Housing Bureau. Shannon.
 Callahan, Director Callahan, welcome. Thank you for your patience. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Hearing what you have left on your agenda and knowing that you need to take a lunch, we'll try to be as quick as possible going over the technical corrections that are within this ordinance. Thank you.
 We are bringing you a reconciliation related to Senate Bill 608, which was recently passed by the Oregon Legislature. We are clarifying a couple of key places in the ordinance that don't change the policy but add clarity to both landlords and tenants.
 and we are narrowing the exemption for affordable housing providers. As you may recall, when this ordinance was permanently adopted in March of last year, Council directed us to convene stakeholders to narrow and refine the affordable housing exemption. And so I'm going to turn it over to Matthew Schibble to talk with you about the portion that relates to Senate Bill 608. Thank you.
 Matthew for the record so really quickly I'll walk through the graphic to give an overview of how city relocation assistance worked prior to Senate Bill 608 and now the impact that 608 is in effect so if you're looking at the left portion of your screen prior to 608 in the first 12 months of tenancy again this is a
 broad generalization, there are specific nuance. In the first 12 months, landlords were not allowed to increase the rent, but they could use, outside of a fixed-term lease, a no-cause, for-cause, and non-renewal to terminate a tenancy, and the no-cause and the non-renewal both would trigger a city relocation assistance.
 After the first 12 months of tenancy, a landlord could increase the rent by any amount, but if it was 10% or more over a rolling 12 months, that would trigger city relocation assistance. In addition, to terminate the tenancy, a landlord could issue a no-cause, for-cause, or non-renewal of tenancy. Thank you.
 After Senate Bill 608, the main point I'd like to make is the first 12 months is relatively similar. After 12 months of occupancy, rent stabilization goes into effect for units that are 15 years or older, and that rate for this year is 10.3 percent.
 For terminations of tenancy, a landlord can only use a qualifying reason or a forecause outside of some minor exceptions. And so the reconciliation around city relocation assistance really has to do with this second 12 or after 12 months of tenancy when terminating a rental agreement. Okay.
 If you're looking at the table and the two columns, essentially without going through every example, there are relatively six-ish reasons that are considered qualifying landlord reasons for termination of the rental agreement. And on the right side, you'll note when prior to 608, that kind of circumstance would have required city relocation assistance. And I'll just use the middle one as an example here.
 prior to 608, if a landlord terminated a tenancy to repair or renovate the unit, they would have had to pay city relocation assistance. And without these code changes, if a landlord terminated a rental agreement with a qualifying landlord reasoned termination, without the changes to the city code, relocation assistance would not be in effect. So that's one example of why we're bringing forward this reconciliation.
 So if you're looking specifically at the code, adding subsection B is simply adding the qualifying landlord reason as a termination type that triggers city relocation assistance. We are eliminating a 60-day hybrid with the city's 90-day notice because for the most part, after 12 months of tenancy, the state has moved to 90-day notice. So our code is in conflict. And then we...
 And this is an important part in subsection H. Should a landlord pay one month's rent as relocation assistance? Because when a landlord with five or more units issues a termination for a qualifying landlord reason, they owe one month's rent in relocation assistance.
 then the landlord can reduce the city relocation requirement by that amount. So effectively, a Portland renter is getting the same level of relocation assistance. So if prior to 608, a landlord would have paid $4,500 to a renter, they would still pay $4,500. We're simply saying that state payment can be inclusive of that.
 So that is a change. I would note that for that to occur, the landlord would have to pay the relocation assistance, the state and city. One second. Commissioner Hardesty had a question. Sorry, would you say that again? So what I heard was that the landlord would pay the state?
 Sorry, no, Commissioner. So the state, if a landlord owns more than four units, requires that when they issue a qualifying landlord termination, they have to pay the renter one month's rent in relocation.
 So if the landlord is obligated to pay the one-month rent to the tenant under state law, the subsection H provision allows them to reduce the city relocation assistance that they paid to the renter by that amount.
 So it ensures that renters in Portland are getting the somewhere between $2,900 and $4,500 city relocation payment total. And the landlord is paying that total amount, just discounting the state payment, state required payment to the renter. Thank you.
 So the one caveat I want to put out there is that that payment, to be able to discount it, has to occur as a single payment and at the same time. So, okay. I'll turn it back to you. Thank you. One last question. So the legislation passed by the state does not weaken Portland's rental assistance program, or does it?
 No, and there were statements on the record made, both in committee and on the floor, I believe, on the floor, as far as legislative intent that the bill was not structured to preempt any local jurisdiction from supplemental tenant protections. Very good. Any further questions for our esteemed and very patient panel? Do we have public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good.
 Curtis Faith and Jessica Greenlee. Come on up. Two minutes. Name for the record, please. Thank you both. I bet you can't believe you waited three and a half hours to speak for five minutes. But we value it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Curtis Michael Faith again. I just wanted to briefly talk about the subject of housing affordability and
 the comprehensive nature of the problem and it's... That's not what this item is about. Well, I'm specifically going to relate it to this amendment provision because I think that one of the things that we run into is that these issues are complicated for people to understand and that when you have lawyers talking about these issues at city council meetings...
 and we're talking about specific bills and changes that are made, it makes it very difficult for individuals to follow. So I don't believe that there's any problem with this particular amendment proposal at all, but I do believe that there is a problem with the process being so complicated for those who are affected being able to follow it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Hi, my name is Jessica Greenlee. I am on the Rental Services Commission and work for Affinity Property Management. And it is nice to see that some of the changes that are being inducted have more closely aligned the city ordinance with the state bill.
 However, I do still have some concerns surrounding it. There are additional changes, and I'd like to use an example of a frivolous case that was recently brought against one of our clients. In that the utility amount of a variable rate utility, because it's based on usage, was not expressly stated in notice, and we were sued for...
 $750,000 over that. And so because the ordinance does not have a... Any ordinance really should have a prevailing party
 attorney fee provision included in that. And although Judge Madarazzo ruled last Friday that, in fact, we did fully comply with the ordinance, and that actually the ordinance itself is unenforceable because of the state preemption based on 90.115, 9427, and 91255,
 it still is very expensive to defend those claims. And so I would like to see City Council keep that in mind when looking at structuring ordinances to make sure that there is a deterrent for frivolous lawsuits built into such items. So thank you. Thanks, Jessica. Appreciate it. Is that it? That's all I'm saying. Very good. Any further conversation on this? This is an emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Fritz? I don't necessarily agree with all of the...
 There's stipulations in this code, and yet what is being presented today is conforming the state law to the code that the majority of council adopted, and therefore I vote aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 When we passed the first temporary relocation assistance ordinance in 2017, we had high hopes for its ability to create a lifeline for vulnerable tenants teetering on the edge of homelessness. I'm pleased to say two years later that not only does data demonstrate that it works, but I believe it was one of several catalysts that spurred greater tenant protections for residents, all renting residents in the state of Oregon through SB 6088.
 I'm thankful that the legislature did not preempt our existing policy, which was an explicit promise made to me. And I am grateful that the Housing Bureau and the Mayor's Office has worked so swiftly to align the policies and uphold the commitment we made to Portland tenants. I want to thank Housing Bureau staff, especially Matt Scheibold.
 Policy and Planning Manager and Director Shannon Callahan. I also want to thank the Mayor's staff, including Senior Policy Advisor Cupid Alexander and Legislative Director Michelle Plumbeck. I vote aye. Wheeler. Wheeler.
 I want to thank the Housing Bureau for this hard work. I want to thank my team for their efforts on this. This is a good, rational response to keep our ordinance in alignment with state law, and this comports with all the conversations and representations that were made by the legislature as they passed Senate Bill 668. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Last but not least, item number 233. It's a second reading, but I understand Commissioner Hardesty has some amendments. Yes. Authorize. Let her read it.
 Authorize Portland Fire and Rescue to charge a fee for service for cost recovery of non-emergent lift assist responses to Oregon State licensed commercial assisted living, residential care, and nursing facilities within the city. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, City Council colleagues. You might remember, was this just last week, that we had a very fruitful conversation around this particular ordinance. I want you to know that we heard the testimony from everyone and thought we had a very positive interaction.
 As you can see, I have my interim fire chief here, and I have the industry representative who had some concerns about what we were proposing. A lot of people did a lot of work in the last week to get us back to today, and I will now turn it over to our esteemed panel. Good afternoon. I'm interim fire chief Ryan Gillespie.
 For the record, Jim Carlson, President of the Oregon Healthcare Association. Sorry, my mic wasn't on. I'll reintroduce myself. Ryan Gillespie, Interim Fire Chief for Portland Fire and Rescue. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, thank you for this opportunity to come back and speak to this. We'll be brief. As we know, this session ran long today.
 After the first reading two weeks ago, we had the opportunity to hear from industry as well as the Fire Bureau perspective on this. Following that, we met and we were able to collaborate together to come to an agreement on some change in language in the ordinance, which is agreeable to Portland Fire and Rescue and also agreeable to the industry. And I'll let Mr. Carlson speak to that. I also want to say we took the commissioner's advice
 questions and thoughts into rebuilding this or rewording this. And Commissioner Fritz, you had some concerns and some input about the letter that we would be sending to facilities. So we have worked with your office. We do have language that we will be including in the letter to facilities that will specifically be addressed to the employees of those facilities to make sure they have the resources that they need when and if this ordinance passes. Thank you.
 The only thing I would add is we appreciated the opportunity for the discussion with the council. I think the proposed amendments you have in front of you address the primary concerns we had as well as took into account some of that good discussion we had. And I really want to thank and acknowledge Chief Gillespie and his team for being so collaborative. And I want to thank Commissioner Hardesty and your staff for also being so responsive to the concerns. So thank you.
 I have a question. Commissioner Fish. So, Mr. Carlson, what is the likelihood that any of your member organizations will simply shift the cost to any particular individual that needs the service? Yes.
 So, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fish, first off, probably better than two-thirds of the payment received for services in these settings are Medicaid or Medicare. And so we're essentially price takers, not price setters in that particular marketplace for the most part. I will tell you all costs of goods and services and service delivery,
 In the private pay market, right, we'll get reflected in that, but I would say predominantly in this marketplace, you have public payers purchasing services. So is that – I'm trying to figure out whether that's reassuring or not.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Fish, what I will say is...
 Why should I be reassured? Because the concern is here that we not just shift the cost to the people who release the So, Commissioner Fishwood, I would say, first off, one of the concerns that has been addressed in the proposed amendment, you'll see on the cost recovery on the fee, we've gone to a graduated fee schedule. So we start off at a more modest fee, a $200 fee on that first call. It goes to $450 on the second, and then it jumps up higher than what was proposed.
 Part of what we are hoping to do is work collaboratively with Portland Fire and Rescue to reduce dramatically inappropriate calls that are not necessary. And also, in follow-up on some of the conversation we had in discussion with Council from Commissioner Fritz and others, I followed up on what other options...
 are out there to provide lift assist beyond calling 911 and Portland Fire and Rescue. And we've identified maybe a couple of pretty good potential opportunities out there that we are planning to follow up on that could assist. And now that we've made this connection and worked together to get the ordinance reworded acceptably, we will continue. This relationship is not ending here. We will continue to work with industry to make sure that...
 that we can do anything we can to assist them moving forward by doing outreach and training and working with OHCA. Okay, thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Commissioner Fritz. Colleagues, and thank you to the
 Fire Bureau for working with me or allowing my input into the letter. I've handed it out. It doesn't need to be an amendment because the letter isn't part of the ordinance. But essentially, I think the wording we've agreed to is as part of the letter that Portland Fire and Rescue also recommends that these facilities provide notice of assistance options to employees who are concerned about workplace hazards related to lifting patients.
 including mechanisms to contact management, contact information for complaints to the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries, and union representative information where applicable. And so that addresses my concern that we don't have frail...
 caregivers getting workplace injuries from just not having the heft to be able to help them fill up. Very good. And for clarification purposes, Commissioner, you're suggesting this does not require an amendment? Correct, because the letter is not part of the ordinance. Very good. And legal counsel concurs with that? Very good. Is there anything else then?
 Very good. This is a second reading of a non-emergency ordinance. Please call the roll. Do we have to do that motion for Commissioner Hardesty's amendment? She's not amending it. She is? That was the question I was just asking. Yeah, there's other amendments. So there is an amendment. What we have in front of us...
 Sorry, Mayor. Sorry for the confusion. What we have in front of us today is an amended ordinance. It is not the same one we had before. The difference in this ordinance is that we have a graduated fee schedule. So the first time is $200, and then it increases from there. Again, the goal is not to penalize.
 organizations for calling 911, but to make sure that when they call, they're calling for the right reason. Okay, just to clarify. I think this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. We take testimony. This is a substitute, effectively, is it not? Yes, that is correct. Okay, good. So we are in a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance, but we've now opened up an exhibit. Therefore, we can take testimony on that item if people so wish. Is there anybody who wants to testify on this? Hearing none.
 This is the first reading of an on-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. We are adjourned. We didn't make a motion for those amendments. We're re-adjourned. We're re-back. We're back. Just kidding. We need a motion and a second. We need a motion. I move that we accept the amendments to the ordinance. It's a substitute. It's a substitute amendment. Second. Second it. So everything I said previously now applies. All in favor? Call the roll. Call the roll.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for these amendments. And while my concerns have been addressed, thank you for working together. I vote aye. Wheeler. Thank you for meeting, hearing the concerns that were expressed, working it out. I vote aye. So the substitute is now on the table. This...
 And this is one of the amendments was an emergency clause. So we'll be going. Oh, so we need a motion? Yes, that's what you gave me. Okay, and so you want to put the emergency clause on. Is that correct? That was one of the amendments that Derek submitted. So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Call the roll. First, it's on the ordinance as amended. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Hardesty.
 I just want to thank you. This was a wonderful process. We got to a better result because of everybody's input. Aye. Haley. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. So now the emergency ordinance is on. Call the roll on the substitute as amended. Thank you. Aye again.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Same long speech I gave before. Aye. Thank you. Thank you very much. The substitute as amended is adopted, and we are really adjourned. Thank you. Thank you, Chief. It's always a pleasure. Let me know anything you do. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday, March 13th, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Keelan, please call the roll.
 Prince. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. New Daily. Here. Wheeler. Here. Now we'll turn it over to legal counsel for the rules of conduct. Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. And that was not directed towards anybody, Chris Warner.
 So, colleagues, just a reminder, there were a couple of items we pulled from this morning session into this afternoon session. So we'll do item 235. Then we have a gap where we will put in items 232, 31, followed by 229. And then we'll come back to item 236. We should be okay doing that. So first item, Keelan, item number 235. Biketown 2018 Annual Report. Commissioner Udaili. Yes.
 Well, thank you, Mayor. I'm just going to immediately hand this off to Interim Director Chris Warner. Great. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, City Commissioners, Chris Warner, PBOT. So today we have some exciting news in terms of sharing this annual report for our bike share system, along with me and my colleagues from PBOT, Roshan Kurian, Liz Horman, and Steve Hoyt-McBeth. And I'll share a few highlights, and they'll kind of get into the technical work.
 In addition to releasing this annual report, which provides kind of more – this will provide more detail on the presentation. But given our strong 2018, we really think there's an upcoming RFP in terms of kind of the next version of where we're going with the Biketown contract and the expansion of the system. We felt it was really the right time to come before council.
 Like Portland Streetcar and the aerial tram, PBOT owns Biketown. It launched in July of 2016. PBOT funded it through a $2 million federal grant we got through Metro. Biketown is a public-private partnership, which allows PBOT to provide the public service with very little public expenditure.
 Nike is Biketown's title sponsor. The five-year, $10 million agreement allowed Portland to expand the number of bikes that we had initially to 1,000 and helps us to cover the costs of operating the system. Kaiser Permanente, which has been a longtime supporter of Sunday Parkways, is also a secondary sponsor for Biketown. We really appreciate all they do for the community. Thank you.
 And we'll be bringing them up a little bit later, but Carol Collymore from Nike and Miguel Villarreal from Kaiser Permanente are here as well to talk a little bit about this year's Biketown presentation. So Biketown is really part of three components. Biketown for All, which provides service to people living with low incomes. Adaptive Biketown, which focuses on serving people with disabilities. And our Mass Market Program, which is the Biketown that you all have heard about.
 So Biketown is a smart bike system. Unlike other large bike share systems, Biketown bicycles can be parked anywhere within the service area, primarily along some of the 147 stations in the service area.
 Users who park at any of the 147 stations only pay the fee for the ride. Those who park at a public bike rack will pay an extra $2 convenience fee. And those who find a bike and return it from outside the station to one of the stations will receive a $1 ride credit. So from our user survey with members, we know that Biketown is meeting its primary goal of reducing trips and congestion.
 Among local users, about a quarter of Biketown rides are replacing either a personal driving or a taxi or Uber, and over 60% of the people that have joined Biketown have reported biking more. So that's something that's really encouraging for us. In 2018, Biketown work focused really on two main goals. One is to bring new people to bicycling by removing financial or structural barriers, and the other is really to engage the broader community in celebration of Portland culture, which we're looking forward to sharing with you in a moment.
 I'll let Roshan, Liz, and Carol speak to many of the other 2018 initiatives, but I'm going to highlight a couple before I turn it over to them.
 In celebration of National Bike Month and what we call the kickoff to fair weather riding, Biketown launched Free Ride May. So this May gave everyone who wanted 90 minutes of free bike riding each day on the Biketown system. In addition, we created this dockless system that allowed people to park it at any bike rack, not necessarily at the stations themselves, but anywhere within the service area.
 This very popular promotion resulted in Biketown breaking its single-day trip record nine times. The people took over 80,000 trips on Biketown in May of 2018. Most important to PBOT's desire to introduce new people to bicycling, 11,000 locals rode Biketown for the first time during May. So those were really great results for us.
 This summer, Biketown partnered with Portland State University to provide free annual memberships to full-time students. Over 3,000 PSU students have become members. Clint Culpepper from PSU was here today, and he'll speak a little bit more about this initiative. Thank you.
 And in June, Biketown conducted the second expansion of the service area to the 50s bikeway in southeast and northeast Portland. Also, Biketown changed its pricing structure, making it less expensive to ride. Biketown reduced its annual membership fee to $99. And after paying a one-time $5 registration fee, casual users can pay $0.08 per minute and making shorter trips more economical for people that don't want to be monthly members.
 In September, one other quick thing, in September, Portland hosted the North American Bike Share Conference. It was a four-day conference with over 330 attendees from all over the U.S., Canada, and Latin America. And they came to Portland really to spotlight our transportation innovation that we're doing here. So these initiatives and others that Liz, Roshan, and Carol will speak about resulted in really a fantastic year for Biketown.
 The annual membership increased by 87% in 2018, 124,000 people rode by town in 2018, and the ridership grew 22% to over 400,000 trips. So with that, I think I'll turn it over to Roshan, and she'll talk a little bit about more of the findings that we have in the annual report.
 Thanks, Chris. Again, my name is Roshan Kurian. I've been managing the Bike Town for All program, which provides a reduced-cost bike town membership for Portlanders that are living on a low income. The overall goal of the program is to increase access to bike share while reducing barriers to moving around Portland by bike. So Bike Town for All has been super successful in that it has grown more than doubling between 2017 and 2018 in memberships.
 And in fact, within our Biketown for All member group, we have seen more ridership and folks riding all throughout the year, including winter, compared to other conventional Biketown members. So the way that Biketown for All works is that members can sign up online and pay $3 a month by linking their credit or debit card or by choosing the cash option. Portlanders are eligible if they're Oregon Trail cardholders, residents of affordable housing, if they qualify for utility assistance or other social services.
 In the past, members who were unbanked or wary of linking their accounts were only able to pay by cash by coming to a workshop in person and then paying every subsequent month by coming to the Parks office and handing over their $3.
 That is no longer the case. We still offer these workshops where folks can learn about the system, learn the rules of the road, and collect a free helmet. But now, through an initiative that we call Pay It Forward, every new member's first month is free. I will talk more about Pay It Forward in a moment. Thank you.
 If we go to bike town, FRAWL was designed based on the needs of the customers we want to serve. So national research has showed that people living on low incomes were less likely to sign up for something if there's possibility of fees or overdrafting accounts. So we consciously removed these unwelcome costs like out-of-station fees, parking out-of-the-service area fees, and fees for going over the 90-minute per day time limit.
 We provide a ride credit if members bring bikes back to the Biketown station, providing an opportunity to pay for their membership. So for every three bikes that are brought back to a Biketown station, you can essentially pay for the next month of your membership. So we've created a system that allows people that actually use Biketown to pay for it by offering a highly discounted, almost free rate.
 So here we see a snapshot of growth for the program. As of the end of 2018, there were 495 Bike Town for All members, riding over 66,000 trips in total, which is about 20% of all annual trips, all annual member trips. We've made improvements, have done outreach in populations that tend to get overlooked, such as our populations experiencing homelessness, joblessness, or going through recovery. Okay.
 We see Biketown as a valuable public service for people to achieve their goals, whether that's getting to a job interview, selling newspapers as a street roots vendor, or finding ways to exercise while traveling around Portland. People think of biking as a spring and summer activity, but Biketown for all. High ridership across the year has shown that Biketown is truly a transportation mode for many. Thank you.
 So I briefly mentioned Pay It Forward initiative that we started in October of last year. So we were racking our heads trying to figure out how to get over that initial financial hurdle of signing up folks that are unbanked. So we thought of just paying the $3. We thought of a third-party service that lets you pay for your memberships at a 7-Eleven or Walgreens, but those ended up being dead ends. So instead we thought of a creative way that doesn't require much staff time or a budget to maintain that.
 We noticed that Bike Town for All members averaged around $24 positive balance credit from rebalancing the system, which means bringing a bike back to a station, and that regular annual members also had a lot of Bike Town credit. So starting in October, all Bike Town for All members who get their first month free can choose to pay it forward as well when they sign up for their own membership. So once they have accumulated six months' worth of Bike Town credit in membership,
 They pay it forward and send that excess credit into a fund that pays for the first month for future Biketown for All members. We also started a holiday campaign for Pay It Forward, targeting regular annual members to donate their rebalancing credit as well. And we received over $1,500 Biketown credit, which translates to 514 new Biketown for All members that can sign up with their first month free.
 and there are already 72 new members taking advantage of this.
 So I mentioned that on average, Biketown for All members rebalance about 24 bikes a year, translating to $24 in Biketown credit that can be used to continue membership. But we also have some superstars amongst our Biketown for All members. Here's one of them, Lynn Stransky. He's our frontrunner for rebalancing the most bikes in our system. Lynn has moved over 1,068 bikes back to stations as of the end of last year.
 I think well over 1,100 at this point, and has moved up to 40 bikes in one day. So part of Lynn's words, he says, I like the challenge of bringing bikes back to the stations. My goal is to get up to $1,800 in bike town credits so I have the next 50 years paid for.
 Rebalancing bikes has helped me walk and bike a lot more and works together with my changes in diet to give me better health. So we thank Lynn and other super balancers who help keep our Biketown system balanced. And now I turn it over to Liz Horman who will talk to us about Adaptive Biketown. Great, thanks Rosian. My name is Liz Horman and I'm the program manager for Adaptive Biketown.
 Adaptive Biketown is Portland's adaptive bike rental program that is focused on increasing access to biking for people with disabilities. The program was launched in July 2017 and has operated over the last two summer seasons as a pilot project. This pilot phase was a partnership between PBOT and Albertina Kerr, Kerr Bikes, with program sponsors of Nike, Different Spokes, and Metro. Thank you.
 So a little more on the background of how the pilot project was developed. Adaptive Bike Town was...
 was really born out of a mistake. When Biketown launched in the summer of 2016, the program had not fully considered how it would provide access to people who were not able to or not comfortable riding two-wheeled bicycles. And this was quickly followed by two formal requests for accommodation to the city, as well as direct feedback from people with disabilities and their family members, including Commissioner Udaly.
 At the time, the commissioner in charge of PBOT and the PBOT director directed staff to develop a program that would address the specific needs and the requests that the Bureau was hearing from the community. So staff began having a number of one-on-one meetings and talking with a number of people with disabilities, with community organizations that serve older adults as well as people with disabilities, and others within the adaptive bike community within Oregon and around the country. Thank you.
 Additionally, we hosted a broader online survey that was distributed through these community organizations, as well as Portland's Disability News, which is run out of the Office of Community and Civic Life. And really, we wanted to hear about how people would use a bike share system and what elements were most important to them.
 So out of those conversations, three key themes really started to emerge. The first was a desire for a staff service. People wanted help getting fitted on adaptive bikes as well as using other adaptive equipment that would help them ride.
 Second was access and close proximity to multi-use trails. This was because people expressed a desire to ride for recreation as opposed to their transportation needs, and they felt most comfortable riding on our multi-use paths and trails. And finally, there was a request for a place to be able to store their mobility device or their service animal during the ride.
 So using these three concepts, staff worked with an extremely dedicated work group to finalize those program development pieces and get ready for launch in 2017. That work group actually met every month for about a five-month period from January to that July date to really get this program off the ground. As I mentioned earlier, the pilot phase of Adaptive Biketown has run for two years. We're about to enter our third year of the program with a more formal contract with Kerr Bikes to make this program permanent.
 So how does Adaptive Bike Town work? As I'm sure you can already tell, it functions a little bit differently than a traditional bike share system. So first, a participant can make a reservation via our online rental portal. This allows and ensures that the bike is available when somebody wants to ride, but also allows them to provide some information about themselves to help the fitting process. However, a program participant can also just drop into the Kerr Bikes OMSI location and rent a bike on the spot.
 Next, the participant works with our great Kerr Bike staff to get fitted on the bike and get ready for their ride. And then they can ride. They can take the bike wherever they'd like to. We've had people go down to Selwood and beyond, take them out to their neighborhoods. The one piece is that then they'll need to return the bike to the Kerr Bike's location at the end of their ride. Thank you.
 So again, this process really was developed to respond directly to what the community was asking for and why it made so much sense to partner with Kerr Bikes, an existing bike rental shop.
 So our current adaptive bike town fleet has about 15 bikes and is comprised of tricycles, hand cycles, as well as tandems. In 2018, thanks to a sponsorship grant from Nike, we were actually able to add some additional program bikes. We added an additional side-by-side tandem, which was one of our most popular rentals during the first year, as well as adding two e-assist tricycles.
 After that first year, we had a number of requests from users asking, can we add some e-assist bikes that would help people ride longer and further on these adaptive bikes? So 2018 was a great successful year for Adaptive Bike Town. Over the six months of our season, we had 189 rentals, which was up 220% from our 2017 season.
 We also participated in all five Sunday Parkways events, including the first ever Everyone Rides event at the June Sunday Park Rides. This was an adaptive bike clinic that was focused on youth, but also other adults, where they could test out various adaptive bikes in a closed-off area that was right along the Sunday Parkways route. Additionally, in 2018, we...
 87% of our riders qualified for TriMet's Honor Citizen Pass, which are people with disabilities, Medicare recipients, and seniors age 65 and older, really showing that Adaptive Biketown is serving the people we intended with the design of the program. So, next one.
 So finally, I just wanted to wrap up with some of the positive feedback we're hearing about the program. You'll hear some more from our invited testimony later, but this feedback is really a testament to the work of our work group participants, as well as the day-to-day operations of the curb bike staff.
 so deidre hall was a member of our work group and has attended nearly every sunday parkways over the last two years to be an adaptive bike town ambassador she's ridden the routes spreading the word about the program and that she's very excited about she wasn't able to attend today but wanted to share sort of a written statement she'd prepared so this is from deidre i've been fortunate to be a part of this incredible program since the formation of the pilot
 Being involved from the planning to implementation has been not only a professional success, but a personal one as well. A person with a disability myself, I hadn't ridden an adaptive bicycle since childhood. I was so thrilled to be given the opportunity to do so as an adult. Thank you.
 People with disabilities have little to no choice what adaptive equipment they use for mobility, and Adaptive Biketown offers folks the ability to choose within their abilities a recreational vehicle of sorts to experience our beautiful city in a new way, which is not only fun, but also good for the body, the mind, and for the soul. Why?
 Watching the program take shape and the smiles on the faces of my fellow disability community members experiencing the excitement and empowerment of adaptive bicycle riding, many for the first time, has been priceless. And I have and will continue to be an active ambassador at as many events as I can and spread the word and encourage people to participate in this incredible program.
 So again, I just want to thank Deidre for her kind words and her work throughout the lifetime of this program. So now I'm going to hand this over to Steve Hoyt-McBeth that's going to talk about expansion. Great report. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Steve Hoyt-McBeth. I'm the section manager in PBOT's Active Transportation and Safety Division, and I'm the overall manager for our Biketown program. As we tried to communicate today, we believe that Biketown is meeting the primary goals that council directed it to meet when we first started.
 initiated the program, which is increasing transportation choices, increasing bicycle access, especially to underserved communities, and to reduce reliance on automobiles, reducing car trips, and reducing car ownership. So what's always bothered us, both on the staff level and we know on the community level, is that while we've done a lot of great things with Bike Town, we've never been able to serve all of Portland. Right.
 There's many, many parts of Portland that do not have access to bike town, even though we've done two expansions in terms of the service area since we kicked the program off in the summer of 2019. And the primary reason, 2016, sorry, I'm battling our illness right now, so I'm half here. My spirit's here very strongly, but my cognitively I'm about half here.
 So the main primary reason for that is simply funding. When we first went after the grant that Director Warner mentioned in 2012, Council gave us a direction that no city fund should be used toward the operation of the program. And we've tried, as we said, through kind of the creativity of our system to increase the service area. We haven't been able to increase the number of bicycles that are available locally.
 in the system, which has meant that the access to the system in terms of how reliable it is has been limited. So thankfully, we have an opportunity to remedy that situation. Our contract with our operator expires this year, and we plan to put out a new RFP to bring the system back up for an expansion. And in this time, the business model and kind of the economics of bike share has changed significantly.
 In the past 12 months, we've seen significant investment in private capital into many of the major bike share companies. And so it's allowed us to craft an RFP that really has the goal that we've had all along, which is to serve the entire city with bike share. Yeah.
 And as part of that expansion, a major part of it will be prioritizing expansion into underserved neighborhoods. So when we do expand as part of the result of the new RFP, the first neighborhoods that will come on board will be areas that have been historically underserved that are not currently served by Byte Town.
 Secondly, we want to make sure that Biketown is as attractive to as many trips as possible and that it's attractive to people who either are just not interested in biking in its current form or because physically they may have challenges to biking. So one of the primary components of the new RFP will be a requirement of electric-assist bicycles.
 that will allow us to attract more rides. And also with our expansion into outer neighborhoods, which from the data suggests that trips in outer neighborhoods tend to be longer, the electric assist will allow users in our outer neighborhoods to have biking be more conducive to more trips. And from the research that we've seen in both Europe and the U.S.,
 people are biking at much greater rates when electric bikes are available.
 and also the disparity that we see between men and women in riding is pretty much eliminated with e-bikes. So even though Portland has one of the better representations of women within the ridership of bike share, we still see a significant gap between men and women. So we're hoping that e-bikes will allow us to remedy that to a certain extent. And then finally...
 we really want to see adaptive bikes as part of the on-demand bike town system. So that would be the first time that any major bike share system has incorporated e-bikes, excuse me, adaptive bikes as part of an on-demand system. There are some small campus systems that do have adaptive bikes, but it's never been really kind of shown in a major way. And so this is the third main component of the e-bike.
 of the new RFP that we'll see. And I'll just say that with the incorporation of adaptive bikes into the bike town system, we plan to keep the adaptive bike town program because, as Liz mentioned earlier,
 we heard so strongly and clearly from the community that we're trying to serve that, uh, many of them needed a service that had a staff service and the ability to be fitted on the bike and also to store either a mobility device, um, a service animal or just some of their materials. So this would likely be, um, a, a,
 a three-wheel trike for people who do not use a mobility device, but still do not feel comfortable or able to ride a conventional two-wheel bike.
 That is the end of our PBOT staff testimony. We do have a number of invited testimony members, and I guess with the pleasure of the mayor, we would like to invite them up, or would you like to have staff comments at this time? First of all, I think we have some questions for this panel, and then let's go ahead and bring it up to Commissioner Fritz.
 Yesterday, didn't we hear about a budget ask for the adaptive bike program? Could you explain what that is? Yeah, as part of our general fund request, we had asked for $50,000 in terms of trying to help the program.
 And so, you know, we've talked internally. If that's – we'll have to figure out what to do. Like you asked yesterday, we'll have to figure out how to pay for that if we don't get the general fund money. Right. Because, you know, as was pointed out in the presentation – by the way, thank you. It was an excellent presentation. I really was inspired by it. It's an accommodation that's required. So –
 I'm wondering why that's not part of the request for proposals, just like we did with Uber and Lyft, that they had to provide some kind of mechanism for people with disabilities to get car rides. Why isn't it going to be part of the request for proposal? Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. As we mentioned, no other city, any major bike-share city, has incorporated adaptive bikes into their on-demand fleet, and staff anticipates a...
 a fair amount of staff time on our part in order to make sure that that incorporation is done in a thoughtful manner, in a skilled manner. What we've learned over time is that an industry in general oftentimes has good intentions, but it's not always the best driver of innovation when it comes to equity. Okay.
 And so we felt part of that request was for just trying to compensate for the staff time to make sure that that happens in a meaningful and thoughtful manner. Okay. I still think it should be a required accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act that it's not optional, I'm assuming for private companies, to not provide services any more than it is for us. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Great presentation. Thank you so much. So I'm going to show how uneducated I am on this terminology. What is an e-bike?
 Electric bike. Oh, an electric bike. I kept sitting here going, what's an e-bike? What is an e-bike, right? And you talked about the new RFP will address historically underserved districts. However, the historically underserved districts now look very new.
 But the new underserved districts, however, are the ones that are full of low-income people and people of color. So if I was responding to an RFP that talked about the historically underserved district, I'd be all in the inner northeast Portland trying to put as many bike racks up as I could, right? Because traditionally, that would have been a very underserved community. Okay.
 How are we going to ensure that folks in East Portland have the same opportunities that folks downtown and northeast currently enjoy? Thank you, Commissioner Harzsi. The RFP refers specifically to East Portland. And I'm sorry, I think that was just me trying to compress meaning. So my apologies on that. And my apologies also for speaking in code around electric bikes. Okay.
 Does it reference Deep Southwest as well? I don't know.
 The only requirement that we speak in the RFP to the entire city of Portland, so that's the goal is the entire municipal boundaries of the city of Portland. In terms of a phasing of the project, we have phased East Portland as a priority area because of other investments that we have there and partnerships that we have in that area. Well, when you get to Southwest, make sure you've got plenty of those electric bikes. Excellent. All right, this is going downhill fast. Commissioner Daly. Sorry.
 Was that a transportation pun, Mayor? Sorry. So thanks for the great presentation. You answered half of my questions. I'm thrilled to hear that we're looking to both better serve the whole city and expand access to adaptive bikes.
 which, as mentioned, I had a small part in that just by running my mouth in the media. And while I'm pleased that we have this really specialized, somewhat labor-intensive offering where people can get somewhat customized products,
 or at least fitted to them and the storage and the one-on-one. There's plenty of people, like you said, that don't need that level of service. There's a lot of people who don't know how to ride bikes but also just may have almost invisible challenges that make bike riding dangerous or impossible. So just a couple quick questions. One is...
 And I apologize if you already answered this. What's the income cutoff for our low-income program? There's no income cutoff. It's basically if you qualify for other social services or if you have an Oregon Trail card or...
 So if you qualify for other low-income programs, you automatically qualify for Byte Town for All. And that would be the only way? Mm-hmm. Okay. I'm just curious because I'm, again, glad we have that program, and I have nothing to compare it to to say whether or not we're reaching enough people. But I certainly know that there's thousands of very low-income people in our community, and just a few hundred of them are using it. So I'm...
 I'm going to just flag that as a concern. Just do people know how to access that program?
 Is our kind of means testing reasonable considering how low income you have to be to qualify for food stamps, for instance? Sure. And there is an option when you're signing up. If you're unsure, if you're low income, reach out directly. And I have had people call directly, and then I just talk to them. And there have been people that have said, I've recently signed up.
 transitioned into this, but I haven't gotten my Oregon Trail card or I haven't signed up or I don't, you know, they're in that transitional phase. And so that's kind of at our own, you know. Sure.
 Commissioner Daly, if I could add, I'm not aware of any person who has applied for the Bytown For All program who we have denied. And I think that you spoke to the greater barrier that we face, which is just getting the word out in education. We've used a variety of both grassroots and kind of social media tools to try to get the word out. We try to partner with as many...
 community organizations as we can, both social service and just more community-based organizations. So really for us, the challenge is just trying to reach people and to make those community connections. And we found, such as with Street Roots, which is one of our invited testimony, that we do the best when we have those strong connections to do so. Great. And that kind of
 I guess public awareness piece leads me to my next question, which is, I'm not a Biketown user. I have my own bike, and as a relatively small frame person, I find the bikes a little unwieldy. And I do see people who I'm going to assume are tourists using the bikes.
 improperly, whether they're riding on downtown sidewalks, they're riding the wrong way on our bike paths, they're riding down MLK, which is just terrifying to me to see, do we offer any kind of basic information about how to safely ride a bike in our city because we have kind of unique rules and infrastructure perhaps?
 We do, and we also see the same things that you see. I think it's the challenge of having an on-demand transportation service that involves biking, both in the app and then actually right in the inset of the basket. So something that if you're looking down, it says no biking on sidewalks, obey all traffic laws. We don't say anything about not riding on arterials. We hope that that's just an intuitive thing for people. It is not.
 Not. All right. Later. Yes. But that is a challenge, and we're hoping in the new RFP that we'll be able to see more things happen through the app that kind of give people some more cues on how to use things more easily. Yeah, I mean, people may not like this, but I just went through an experience at Randall Children's Hospital where I had to demonstrate that I had watched a series of videos about PICC lines before I could take my son home. So maybe we need to make people...
 watch a series of short videos on our answer questions on basic safety. I just, as someone who feels personally responsible for everyone who is hurt on our streets...
 I'm interested in that safety issue. And then finally, I'll just say that unfortunately, none of the major bike share vendors are adequately serving people with disabilities. I mean, as we know, there's a lot of loopholes in the ADA, and people just flout the laws altogether. So I do...
 want to push that. Maybe we can spark change in the industry, but it is a situation where it's a relatively low volume and hard to serve, low profit. We probably are going to have to continue to partner and put some city resources into meeting the needs of all people with disabilities who want to access our program.
 Commissioner Fritz and then Commissioner Hardesty. Chris Chapps keeps yielding to me, so I'll leave it to you. Oh, no worry. Actually, Commissioner, you daily led me to a question that I always ask. Is it required that people use helmets on these bikes? Yes.
 It's on the instructions. It's on the list of things inside the basket. It's encouraged, but we have... You have to be currently 18 years to use by tongue legally or by the user agreement. And at that age, you are not required by state law to wear a helmet. So we have... There's not a requirement to use the helmet. In all of our materials, we encourage people to wear a helmet, but it's not a requirement. And that...
 That was because I badgered them when we were having it in place to at least put the sign in. So, Commissioner Daly, I'm so excited to hear you saying that you should have to watch a video or something to figure it out. Do we have statistics on either crashes or minor accidents where people have fallen off and grazed their knees or whatever? No.
 We have not had any reports of major injuries on Biketown. And given the litigious nature of our society, we know it's not an accurate read of the actual numbers, but we would assume that if somebody had a serious injury,
 crash on bike town. We would know about it through our legal department. And I think that that actually resonates with the North American data on safety on bike share. It has a very strong safety record in terms of the crash rate and actually having a much lower, especially serious crash rate than people riding private bicycles. Well, that's what we were told and it actually relates to the clunkiness or the heavy weight of the bikes that they're relatively difficult.
 It would be good in future reports to affirmatively tell us that they haven't. And in particular, I mean, presumably people have carelessly not stood them up properly and they've fallen over, they've gotten damaged or whatever. It would be interesting and helpful to me to know what kind of a damage record do they have beyond your expected flat tyres.
 One last question for me, I guess. So we have now had a trial with scooters, and I've heard just anecdotally that that did not impact bike share, but I'm wondering if you have any data on that that you could share with us. Yeah. Okay.
 Steve can probably, the numbers, but yeah, it was somewhat surprising because the numbers didn't drop. I think there have been anecdotal from other cities where once the bike share system was introduced, or the scooters were introduced and the bike share dropped off, but actually we had some very strong months and was pretty consistent from the year before.
 Yes, we saw... So we had a 22% increase year over year for 2018. During the scooter pilot, we saw a 6% increase in rides. And I think there was...
 What was surprising to us is that in our scooter user survey, we asked people if they'd used particular modes in the past. Among scooter users that took the survey, 42% said they never biked, and 74% said they'd never used Biketown. So the e-scooters seemed... From the user survey, it seemed to suggest that people who used scooters were not previous Biketown members. In other words...
 that e-scooters were attracting new people to kind of like small machine sort of transportation modes. That's interesting. It's really interesting. I don't know what to make of it yet, but it's interesting. Okay. Great. So you have another panel, is that correct? All right. I'll let you introduce them. Thank you. Chris, do you want to introduce whoever's on the next panel? I can introduce them. I can introduce them. Miguel de Real. Miguel de Real.
 Well, Carol needs no introduction. If she's the next, yeah, that's... Very good. And not to be the bearer of bad news, but I'm keeping my eye on our large novelty city hall clock just because we do have a full agenda this afternoon. You know, weirdly enough, I happen to have a bunch of these. We have more if you need to share. Okay. Okay.
 He's fighting over them over here. Sure. What's that? I know. That's the one I was missing. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you. My name is Miguel Fierial, and I am representing Kaiser Permanente, and it is an honor to testify on behalf of Biketown. As a nonprofit health plan, Kaiser Permanente's mission is to provide high-quality, affordable health care services and to improve the health of our members and the communities we serve.
 Through our community health partnerships and investments, we go beyond our clinics and hospitals, working together to create places and policies that impact access to opportunity and health. We strive to facilitate health equity in our communities. This means engaging communities most impacted by health disparities and acknowledging and addressing current and historic injustices and discrimination.
 Our prioritized community health needs, which drive our areas of focus and investment, include access to health care, economic opportunity, including investments in affordable housing, oral health, mental health and wellness, and chronic disease prevention and treatment. It's not just about Kaiser Permanente members. Of course, we are a part of a community, and we are thrilled to partner with the City of Portland and Biketown to create neighborhoods in which physical activity is safe and accessible for all.
 The city had a vision and Kaiser Permanente joined the ride about 11 years ago to bring Sunday Parkways to life, to neighborhoods, opening streets and parks to people of all ages and backgrounds. I want to thank the city for their leadership and commitment to opening our streets and neighborhoods and connecting. We believe that health is more than health care. That's why we partner with organizations and agencies across our region, like Biketown, to create health in neighborhoods, schools, and work sites.
 Sunday Parkways offers a fun way for people to be active with friends and family. People of all backgrounds, ages, and abilities enjoy moving their bodies in a safe and welcoming environment. And we are very excited about our 2019 plans, which include the ideas of exercise, food, music, and play as medicine. This summer, Kaiser Permanente will be prescribing the city of Portland a bike ride, great food, beautiful music, and time for play.
 With partners like Biketown, the health benefits of Sunday Parkways extend beyond physical activity into mental health and social connectedness. You see more smiles on the Sunday Parkways routes than any other place in Portland. Friends and neighbors interact in ways that may not happen otherwise, and that hopefully leads to stronger neighborhood connections and improved safety. Addressing individual and community health in this holistic way is critical now more than ever.
 Together, we will explore historic neighborhoods, local business districts, and places we never knew existed. Each route having its own unique feel, complete with the best parks, amazing local food, and new friends. And I think it's a fair thing to say that we have something very special going on here. And we look forward to our continued partnership with the City of Portland and Biketown and invite you to join us throughout the summer as we celebrate partnership, civic pride, amazing parks.
 Safe, accessible streets, and most importantly, our total health. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. I'd just say that I really like the signs that you have up along the way, the informational health signs like cinnamon is good for your brain. I liked that one a lot. We have a lot of fun making those, so thank you for saying so, Commissioner. Thank you. Keep up the good work. Thank you. I appreciate that. Good afternoon, Carol. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Carol Collymore, and I work as Senior Manager of Social and Community Impact at Nike.
 We are pleased and honored to be title sponsors of Biketown because we know the power of sport moves the world, and in this case, moves our city. Portland is a vibrant place to live, and because of its incredible energy and maker quality, this is the perfect city for a bike share collaboration to succeed. And Biketown has succeeded. With Biketown, we honor place, our roots, and the past, present, and future of Nike and Portland together.
 Portland is also our home and it's home for over 12,000 of our teammates. Biketown also gives Nike the opportunity to engage the community through design. Since its launch in 2016, the iconic orange Biketown bikes have been a strong part of the city's personality. Fun, bold, active, and innovative. It's a great tribute to Portland.
 Since then, we've launched the Air Max Safari Sneaker Collection Wraps and Be True Collection Wraps that celebrate our LGBTQ INA friends and family. We introduced the Biketown Design Challenge as our way of celebrating Biketown and Portland's community that's embraced it. We invited all Oregonians to show us what the city means to them through their artistic talent and unique spin on Biketown.
 We had five amazing winners in the design collection, and I'm sure you've seen the amazing bikes, from the Paul Bunyan bike from North Portland to the gorgeous Pistachio bike with all of our favorite Southeast locales. Now, we didn't plan for my two favorite bikes to be here, but we work so well together, they read my mind. In 2019, we are using that spirit of engagement through design by introducing the Culture Collection.
 The Culture Collection Wrap celebrates some of the communities and cultures that make up the fabric of Portland. Our first two releases honored Black History Month and Women's History Month. They were made in collaboration with Black Employees and Friends Network and the Women of Nike and Friends, part of Nike's employee networks that are collectively called Nike United. Both networks led the design process for their unique bike wraps, and both of them are also behind me.
 Future culture collection designs will also be created in collaboration with our other Nike employee networks. Finally, we want to support Portlanders who want to use alternative transportation, but a Biketown bike may not be accessible for them. For the last two years, we've been a sponsor of Adaptive Biketown, resulting in adding electric-assist adaptive bikes. In conclusion, Nike is happy to be a partner with Portland Bureau of Transportation and Lyft in this one-of-a-kind collaboration.
 I am personally grateful to work with Steve Hoyt-McBeth and Tom Relskup and Dorothy Mitchell on this work. Thank you for your time and happy to answer any questions. Very good. Thank you, Carol. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I am Jeff Ferguson. Thank you. Thank you to PMI and City Council for inviting me.
 I'm here today to share my experience using Adapted Breakdown. I come here today to share my perspective as a member of the disability community, which is the largest minority in the world in the least eight countries.
 able to advocate for themselves. I come here today to make two points. One, it is special when government and business can come together and declare that inclusivity and accessibility are important.
 In short, it validates all right to equality. People with disabilities face a lot of stigma. I know I often feel a sense of viability when asking for a car.
 accommodations in public or that somehow I'm a burden to resources. Disability in general is simply misunderstood and it's difficult to counteract that. Like I said, people with disabilities are the least
 able to self-advocate. We need business and government to come together and say adaptability and accessibility are important. This program indirectly promotes the idea that it's okay to adapt
 accessibility is not a burden and people with disabilities have the way to access the same experience as everybody else. My second point is that it's really fun. I come from the East Coast and
 This city is beautiful. I love the chance to see a side of Portland that I would not be able to see without this program. Also, you know, I'm still getting used to these long, dark winters and...
 This program is a great way to, this program provides a very easy way to exercise and rehabilitate myself at the mental. Thank you for your time. Yeah.
 Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Thank you for your continued advocacy. The only thing I disagree with you on is I thought the winters on the East Coast were much darker and much longer. Well, yeah, well, there's more concrete, so it's all upset. And more shoveling. Yeah, yeah. A lot more shoveling. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Council. I'm Ryan Ross. I'm here representing Albertina Kerr Centers and Kerr Bikes as the operational arm of Adaptive Bike Town. At Albertina Kerr, our vision is that all people thrive in nurturing and inclusive communities and that we can empower people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, mental health challenges, and other social barriers to lead self-determined lives and discover their full potential.
 At Kerr Bikes, we want to create an environment where our clients can enjoy active recreation, feel comfortable navigating new social environments and learning new job skills, and where we can commit to a quality customer service experience and give back to the public we serve.
 We've incorporated Adaptive Biketown into that mission because it seemed already apparent to us in working with our clients for over 10 years. We know firsthand that not everyone can ride a traditional upright two-wheel bicycle. And prior to Adaptive Biketown, we already offered some three- and four-wheel bicycles that offer a more secure and thus more fun riding experience to these clients. Okay.
 It seemed natural to us that we might explore other riding options and new technologies to expand on the different needs we could meet in our community. You heard Liz speak about our work in the work group and what it is people wanted out of an adaptive bike share program.
 One of those key needs was direct access to a recreational riding area free of cars. Our location near OMSI on the east waterfront has been instrumental in providing access to the downtown waterfronts and spring water corridor as a means for fun and easy riding. And to be able to show off some of my favorite places to ride and the forward-thinking infrastructure planning of this city has been a complete joy I experience with every new rider.
 My personal experience with Adaptive Biketown is very unique in that we strive to meet the very unique demands of every client. To be able to take time to fit, inform, and converse about their needs has a direct impact on every experience.
 It's so incredible to see the positivity and joy in providing a program where we can tell people that they matter, that we want them to have fun, that we want them to have the freedom with how they spend their time and not be burdened with the highly prohibitive cost of specialized equipment and fitting experience. I routinely met with Gaspin's miles when explaining the program and the mere $5 it costs to ride.
 We've worked closely with other programs like Safe Rides to School and the Street Trust to help provide new means of transport outside of the waterfront area. It warms my heart to know that no children are left out of these amazing rides and programs because they might require something a little different.
 It is always a great experience meeting tourists as well who enjoy our program and are just blown away at what we can offer. It helps to maintain the view that Portland is an incredibly forward-thinking city years ahead of its time when thinking about the quality of life of all of its citizens.
 It is for these reasons we are thrilled to stay on as the operational arm of this program and advocate for more programs like it. I've already spoken with other city coordinators from around the nation who are using our program and partnership as a model to bring recreation and transportation innovation to their cities. Very good. Excellent. Thank you all. Does that complete the presentation? Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners Udailey, Fritz, Hardesty, and Fish. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Kaya Sand, and I'm the Executive Director of Street Roots. We are a weekly newspaper that creates income opportunities for people struggling with homelessness and poverty. We work with about 160 people a week.
 About half of whom are homeless who come to our office to purchase issues for a quarter that they can then sell for a dollar. So it's a way to get cash in pocket. It's a way to get a hand up. We're low barrier, meaning that anyone can walk into our office on Tuesdays and Fridays, go through orientation, and begin selling street roots on public sidewalks.
 People often try to establish sales posts that are regular so that they can get to know customers and establish regular sales. They have to spread out so that they're no more than two blocks from each other in downtown, four blocks on the east side. So what this means is that earning income is contingent on transportation.
 People need to get to their sales posts. And to give you a picture, people often pay for their issues of street routes with nickels, dimes, and quarters. So every coin is scarce. The more affordable, the more free transportation is for people, the more opportunity they have to get some income in their pockets. Biketown for All has proven to be an important partner in this regard.
 Because of the Pay It Forward program, our vendors don't have to come up with cash up front. And because they can earn a dollar for every bike they return, they can aspire to keep access virtually free.
 I can picture one of our vendors, Mark, donning the orange sunglasses and the helmet with his brightly colored socks, just animatedly going around returning bikes to make sure that he has that free access. So this is really an important piece of the whole program.
 And I want to emphasize, too, how important coming to our location has been for access. So we have a trainer from Biketown for All named Scott who comes every month. He leads really animated, very warm workshops for our vendors, teaches them about safety, gives out helmets, signs up people to access the program. And what's really key about this is that people can
 feel comfortable in the space in which they're accustomed to and they don't have to go elsewhere. I think this makes all the difference in terms of street roots vendors accessing this program.
 And so for our vendors at Street Roots, Bike Town for All is not about simply leisure. It's about actually having access to badly needed income. So we at Street Roots are grateful for the partnership with Bike Town for All. Thank you, Kathy. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, commissioners, mayor. Thanks for having me. My name is Phil Richmond. I'm here on behalf of the street trust today.
 The Street Trust envisions a region where all those who call our community home embrace walking, biking, and riding transit. Biketown fits almost perfectly in line with our vision. When Biketown launched, I simply had to join the program as a founding member, even if just as a show of support for something that could offer so much opportunity for so many people. I'm privileged to live near a frequent bus line and have a choice amongst my own bikes, cars, and cars.
 including an e-bike or electric bike, Joanne. But Biketown simply changed my world into something I'd never had in the past. Biketown has expanded my life, extending my range and willingness to participate in what I deem to be life's essential activities, and I know it can do the same for others, as we've heard. In less than three years since launch, I've ridden almost 1,400 miles on Biketown.
 So, therefore I've written a love letter to Biketown, just to mix it up a little bit. Biketown, I love you. I have so many reasons why. Almost too many to count, but I'll give it a try. I don't live in the zone, but I'm not alone. Where I work, in the central city, you are always near. You see, almost every day you assure me I'll ride at least two bikes, not one. Although if I lived in the zone, you might be the only one.
 Regardless of the hour, dark skies, or rain, your full-cover fenders, sticky tires, and chainless shaft drive help keep me dry, clean, and grounded. Your ability to accommodate all kinds of people leaves me astounded.
 Your step-through frame allows for high heels and skirts, and your easily adjustable seat offers a broad range of verts. And speaking of verts, that is vertical feet, your equally broad range of gears makes summiting the Morrison Bridge or Telecom Crossing an achievable feat.
 Being an annual member has its benefits, too. You give 90 minutes a day without another dime paid, and you exclude almost no one because of their ability to pay, thanks to your Bike Town for All program. As an annual member, you let me check out four bikes at a time per account and go dockless without fees. With you, the danger of theft is impossible, unlike my own bike, if I'm lockless or without keys.
 Your basket is protective, useful, and broad. Your integrated lighting system helps light up the road. Your ergonomic and upright position helps me feel safer, helping drivers see me and me see them. That is, if they don't notice first, your array of bright colors that keep people gawking. When I encounter other Biketown users on the roadway, sometimes it's a friend who keeps me from docking because we are talking. Ha ha!
 A few more paragraphs. Please be patient. Sorry. You let me reserve you with an app, check you out with my TriMet card, put you on hold for an errand. You are certainly less expensive than driving alone or using an Uber, Lyft, or scooter. You keep me off the freeways and can be the fastest choice for an everyday commuter. Your adaptive Biketown program even offers more for those who have less ability. It's so nice to know using Biketown does not require special agility. Thank you.
 Bike town, you know I love you, but no one is perfect. If I had to complain, it would be your glitchy buttons, your weight, the limited size of your zone, your unreasonable age restrictions, or your uncanny ability to make me wish for protected bike lanes. And of course, there are times I wish you were electric so I could take you further.
 But Biketown, you know I'll always love you for as long as you will have me. Even your staff is talented, joyful, and diverse. I've gone on too long, so I will finish this verse. Biketown, the joy you give me and the way you have blended into the fabric of our community is astounding. I even paid it forward 50 bucks so your impacts can be compounding. Thank you.
 We didn't even pay him to do that. That was good. Follow that. Thank you. Thank you, Council, and thank you, Phil. That was definitely good. Maybe not as good as the song that Chloe and I got to hear yesterday, but a valiant effort. About induced demand. Yes. My name is Clint Culpepper. I'm the Transportation Options Manager at Portland State University.
 We are home to the most diverse population that we have in the city, much more diverse than the city as a whole. And of our 27,000 students, 3,150, about 11.5%, have signed up to become Biketown members. If we achieve that kind of rate across the city, I think we'd be pretty thrilled. We started a program last July.
 where Portland State picks up the tab for the membership for these students. And that's what drove that growth. Since then, our students have ridden over 55,000 miles, making over 34,000 trips. So we're looking forward to more of that growth as we get into the nicer weather. A large number of these students are international students or students that have moved to Portland from elsewhere.
 Many have discovered bike share back home and find bike town to be a comfortable and familiar way to discover their new home. PSU chose to become a partner because as we strive to meet our climate action goals, we're increasingly dependent on solving the last mile problem that we encounter with getting students on transit. We only hope to see that
 We have more bikes and an expanded service area in the near future so that more students can take advantage of it. We're a willing and excited partner of Biketown and have been happy to act as a test bed with new technology. We look forward to more of that as it comes forward. As we move into the nicer weather, nothing makes me happier than seeing our students navigating their city
 By bicycle and bike town is a large part of what makes that possible. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Unless anybody has any questions, I'll entertain a motion. I move we accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Please call the roll, Keelan.
 Thank you very much to everybody who's here today. Thank you to Nike for sponsoring this program, to former city commissioners Steve Novick and Dan Saltzman for their leadership and partnership, and Commissioner Daly for not only taking up the, well, it's not a baton. I don't know what, the bike pump, taking up the bike pump. Do they have bike pumps? I don't know. It does not sound exciting. I have a bike pump.
 I'm just looking. Is that my bike poke? Anyway, you've obviously taken this program and continue to expand and improve it, and I appreciate that very much. I. Fish. Thank you for an outstanding report. I was pleased to be at the Women's History event when Nike unveiled the bikes, and I met the members of the Nike team that designed them. I guess two of the bikes are here today. Okay.
 So great partnership with Nike. I was pleased to hear about the new RFP and the chance to go bigger. And I was also very pleased to hear about the growth in our accessibility for our bike program and our partnership with Albertina Kerr. So it's a feel-good presentation. Thanks to everyone who joined us today. I'm pleased to accept the report. Hi. Hardesty. Thank you.
 I concur. I think this was...
 It's nice to know that we're thinking about how do we make biking more accessible to more people. Certainly East Portland needs to do a few things before it would be safe to actually ride a bicycle in my neck of the woods. And we're certainly working on that now. I was thrilled to see the program that allows for people with different abilities to be able to ride and participate, especially in cycling.
 and community biking programs. And so this is a great report, and I thank you very much, and I vote aye. New Daily. Well, thanks for the report. I feel like we're absolutely moving in the right direction. I'm going to be following the adaptive bike question pretty closely. Looking forward to talking about that. I forgot one question, so I'm just going to put this out there.
 perhaps in the RFP we could require that in the event of a major earthquake, the bikes are released and people can use them to get around the city because you will not be driving your car or taking a boat down the river or any of the other things you think you'll be able to do. I, of course, vote aye. Wheeler.
 Great report. Thank you. It's very thoughtful. Love Biketown. Love everything you do. Appreciative of Nike for continuing to support this very important program. Thanks to everybody for continually thinking about how we're going to innovate and expand the program and offer additional features to more people in the community going forward. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you, everyone.
 Colleagues, as we discussed earlier, we're going to go in this order, 230, 231, 229. We're going to try and get those in hopefully before our next time certain. Keelan, if you could please read item 230.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction on the Luther Road Restoration Project number E10854 for the estimated amount of $1,750,000. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, Environmental Services manages the city's stormwater and sewer infrastructure.
 including the Lentz sewer interceptor pipe that crosses Johnson Creek near Southeast 72nd Avenue. In 2015, a series of large storms scoured the creek, causing erosion, changing stream flow, and exposing the pipe. Through this project, environmental services will serve two bureau goals, protecting city infrastructure and restoring habitat to benefit salmon and water quality.
 The project will protect the exposed pipe, improve stream flow, and prevent erosion that can damage the stream, salmon habitat, and the adjacent properties. Construction is scheduled to begin in July and be completed within four months.
 Here to give a brief presentation are Joe Dvorak, Engineering Manager, and Chris Laster-Miskey, Senior Engineering Associate, both from Environmental Services. Gentlemen. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and members of Council. Good afternoon. My name is Joe Dvorak, for the record, Design Division Manager for BES.
 I'll just lead in by describing the situation we have. So sewer pipe crossings under streams is fairly common in places like Portland, where you have an urban environment and a natural landscape that interface so closely. But what can happen over time is that stream will move, banks will erode, and potentially expose the sewer pipe.
 Back in the old days, we used to protect those exposed sewer pipes by bringing in large rocks or sometimes even pouring concrete in the stream channel. We've learned from those experiences, while that may protect the pipe, unfortunately that does nothing for the fish. It actually impedes fish passage. It does nothing for the natural system, the habitat, or even flooding of nearby properties.
 So today what we do strategically is we place those logs and rocks and stream bank plantings to really get multiple community benefits. So here Chris Lastomirsky can talk more about the project specifically. Thank you. Hi, I'm Chris Lastomirsky, project manager, and I'm pleased to present the Luther Road Restoration Project. So the project is located along the Springwater Corridor and bounded by the
 to the south by Johnson Creek Boulevard and to the east by 82nd Avenue. This site is one of multiple sites within Johnson Creek watershed. In 2015, a series of winter storms caused considerable creek bank erosion and exposed a large diameter combined sewer pipe. The storms also caused damage to a previous project at the site.
 In 2016, an evaluation of the site was conducted, and recommendations were made for repair and restoration. Based on these recommendations, the project will repair the creek around the exposed pipe, repair the eroded stream banks to protect adjacent properties and infrastructure, and install large wood to protect stream banks and increase fish habitat, plant and protect native vegetation, and restore stormwater facility functionality.
 Protecting existing infrastructure. The problem, a large diameter sewer pipe was exposed during the 2015 winter storm events. The solution, a roughened channel constructed of boulders and cobbles, will be installed to protect the sewer from being re-exposed as well as provide fish passage. Also, large wood will be installed to protect the stream bank from erosion.
 protect and enhance habitat the problem there's very little vegetation and large wood established on the site the solution will increase the amount of in-stream large wood throughout the project site the large wood provides shade and shelter to salmon and other aquatic species after construction is complete the bes will plant native repair and vegetation throughout the project site
 Once established, the trees and shrubs will provide shade to the creek, and the roots will help protect the stream bank from erosion. Restore intended function to the stormwater facility. The problem, the stormwater facility is not draining properly due to storm damage, and the solution is to regrade the outlet structure to install a cobble berm to allow drainage of the cool-treated stormwater to Johnson Creek.
 Contract estimate is $1.75 million. Start date is July 2019. Duration is four months. Questions? Impressive. That was really a question. Pardon me? I said it's impressive. Thank you. Thank you. Great. Is there any public testimony on this item? One person has signed up, Curtis Faith. Come on up. Two minutes. Name for the record, please. You guys can leave. Thanks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your presentation.
 Oh, I'm sorry. My mistake. No testimony for this item. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Item 231, please read that. Thank you.
 Amend contract with HDR Engineering, Inc. for additional construction and startup support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Renewable Natural Gas Facility, project number E10033, not to exceed $222,800. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, in 2017, City Council authorized Environmental Services to turn biogas
 a byproduct of wastewater treatment that is mostly methane gas, into clean, renewable natural gas. BES already had been recovering and using about 77 percent of this biogas. This project will take us to virtually 100 percent recovery, and it will create a new product, a clean, non-fossil fuel for trucks which otherwise run on dirty diesel. The project, which we informally call Poop to Power, is a project that we're working on.
 creates a triple win for Portland. Large reductions. He loves saying that. I'm sorry. Large reductions. It seems gratuitous now, Commissioner. It seems like you're just sneaking it in. That's for the benefit of our newest member. Come on. The project creates a triple win for Portland. Large reductions in climate pollution, big gains in clean air, and additional significant revenue, upwards of $3 million a year for rate payers.
 Environmental Services is in the homestretch of construction of its RNG facility and has determined that it needs to amend its contract with HDR Engineering by 15 percent, or $228,800, the maximum amount of RNG that can be produced.
 Here today to give a brief presentation are Paul Suto, Engineering Manager, and Vu Han, Project Manager, both from Environmental Services. Gentlemen. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. For the record, I'm Paul Suto, Engineering Manager for the Treatment and Pumping Systems Division at BES. Vu Han, the Project Manager, will provide the presentation, and I'll be here to answer any questions that arise. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of the City Council. My name is Vu Han. I'm an engineer in the Wastewater Engineering Division at the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. We are here today to request the City Council approval for an ordinance to authorize a contract amendment with HDR Engineering for the RNG, short for Renewable Natural Gas Project. The project location is...
 is the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant in North Portland, as shown in this aerial photo. And the RNG facility is on the west side of the treatment plant campus, as indicated. The original treatment plant was constructed in 1952 and has expanded over the years to the current layout, as you can see in the photo. It serves pretty much the entire city of Portland service area with a population of over 600,000 people.
 The wastewater treatment plant process produces biogas, a byproduct from anaerobic digestion process. On a daily average, the plant produces about 1.6 million cubic feet of biogas a day. Of this biogas volume, about 77% of it is beneficially used currently, with the remaining 23% is flared through the waste gas burners to the atmosphere.
 This pie chart shows the current distribution and utilization of the biogas at the treatment plant. Starting from the upper left, about 41% is used in the cogeneration system to produce electricity used on site, and the recovered heat from this process is used to heat the digesters. Roughly 16% is used in two sets of boilers for supplemental heat to the digesters and various building heat uses on site.
 About 20% is sold to the nearby Malarkey Roofing Company for their manufacturing processes. The remaining 23% is still flared off through the waste gas burners to the atmosphere, which is the basis for the project to address. Can you go back just for one second? Just one slide. Colleagues, I just want to call out the partnership with Malarkey.
 which we pipe methane gas to. Malarkey uses the methane gas in their treatment process to create roofing materials, and then they sell those roofing materials in Portland. So that's been a longstanding partnership and an interesting way of using a byproduct of waste facilities. I always thought Malarkey should have some kind of tagline, a business you can trust, Malarkey. LAUGHTER
 But they probably need to do some branding, rebranding. But they've been very successful. And as you know, there's a building on East Portland, excuse me, in East Burnside that came to council in the last year and a half. It was controversial from the design commission where they're using malarkey roofing products on the side of the building, not just the roof. And we'll see how that holds up. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 This project will add gas treatment systems to convert biogas produced at the wastewater treatment plant to RNG for beneficiary use, specifically as a vehicle fuel. The project benefits include significant revenue generated from sales as a vehicle fuel, positive impact to climate change in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and cleaner air to the environment in displacing petroleum fuels. You might ask, why?
 Once RNG is produced, how do we transport to the end users? This graphic illustrates the displacement model to transport RNG. The left side of the slide shows biogas is produced in the anaerobic digesters, gets treated to natural gas quality to produce RNG, and then gets injected into the Northwest Natural Gas Main for transporting.
 Northwest Natural Gas Company is a partner in this arrangement to help us transport the RNG. We also have a CNG short for compressed natural gas fueling station on site, and it is shown on the right of this slide. The CNG fueling station is located on the opposite side of the RNG facility on site. An RNG to CNG fueling station will be transported in the same arrangement. In fact...
 Once injected into the Northwest Natural Gas Pipeline, with the displacement model, RNG can be transported to anywhere in the country. This map shows CNG fueling stations in the U.S. that RNG could be transported to. However, our RNG will likely be transported and sold only to Oregon or California.
 Currently, these are the only two states in the country with additional low-carbon fuel programs that we can receive extra carbon credits and we can sell those to increase our revenue streams. This diagram illustrates the biogas production and utilization at the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant when the RNG project is completed.
 The left side of the diagram shows the different feedstocks that go into the anaerobic digesters to produce biogas. The right side shows the uses of the produced biogas. All biogas produced will be 100% beneficially used, and we will no longer have excess biogas for flaring to the atmosphere. Thank you.
 In addition, we will have the ability to prioritize the biogas distribution based on the values of the biogas uses to maximize revenue. As Commissioner Fish mentioned earlier, we are in the homestretch of the construction of the RNG facility. It is anticipated to be completed and online in the fall of this year. The picture on the left shows water scrubbing vessels of the gas treatment system.
 As mentioned previously, we have a CNG fueling onsite shown in the photos on the right. It was completed in December 2017 and is now operational. We received a $319,000 tax credit from OTO, which was applied toward the construction cost of the station. Currently, BES has 13 vehicles that run on CNG and will add more in the future.
 Because RNG is not yet available, the CNG vehicles currently run on natural gas, which is already a clean fuel compared to diesel or gasoline. When RNG is available, RNG will replace natural gas at this fueling station.
 The current project budget for the RNG facility is about $13.6 million. We project revenue to be in the range of $3 million to $10 million a year and a simple payback for the project within three to eight years. So why do we want to do this RNG project? Why do we want to do this RNG project?
 First and foremost, it will get us to 100% recovery and beneficial use of the biogas and no more flaring to the atmosphere. In using RNG for vehicle fuel, it will cut down greenhouse gas emission, help reduce climate change, clean the air to the environment, and most importantly, will generate at least $3 million a year for BES and rate payers.
 The City Council has taken a number of actions in connection to this project. In 2013, the City Council authorized an ordinance for HDR engineering to proceed with an alternative analysis to find the best and highest use for the remaining flared biogas. In 2015, the City Council authorized an ordinance for HDR engineering to proceed with final design of the biogas utilization project.
 In 2017, the City Council authorized several ordinances, one authorizing the construction of the RNG facility, another authorizing an RNG interconnection agreement with the Northwest Natural Gas Company, and a third authorizing an agreement with Northwest Natural Gas Company to build a CNG fueling station at the wastewater treatment plant. This item...
 231 requests the City Council approval to increase HDR engineering contract by $222,800, or about 17% roughly of the current contract amount. The current contract amount is $1,294,010. The amended contract will be $1,516,810. There are two primary reasons for the requested amendment.
 One is the design capacity of gas treatment system needed to be larger than originally anticipated to address biogas storage issues, which will also provide flexibility to optimize biogas distribution and maximize revenue. Another reason is that the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant is one of the first, not necessarily the first, but one of the first,
 wastewater treatment plants in the country to do RNG for vehicle fuel. So the learning curve was very steep. A lot more effort than anticipated in the permitting and submittal reviews of equipment packages of the project. For minority participation of the contract, that's DMWESB, or Disabled Minority Women and Emerging Small Businesses,
 The current contract is about 18.2%. The amendment portion itself is about 18.4%, so it doesn't change the overall contract minority participation much, so it stays pretty much at 18.2%.
 In summary, we recommend the City Council approving the ordinance to authorize a contract amendment with HDR Engineering in the amount of $222,800 as presented. Thank you. And that's our presentation. Very good. Excellent. Is there any further question of the panel? Any public testimony on this item, Keelan? Yes. One person has signed up. Curtis Faith. Very good. Come on up. Thank you. Thanks, gentlemen. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Curtis Michael Faith, for the record. I wanted to commend the city for this project. I have not seen another facility do as nice a job as this. I've toured the site three or four times over the last six months, and...
 My comments relate more to the amount and the way it is presented on the paper. It would have been nice to have the 17% in the original contract here so I could have decided whether or not this was something that was worth commenting on. I also don't know, but there must be some threshold below which you don't have to do this sort of thing. It seems to me that this is sort of at the edge of something that I would –
 that the city might consider putting into the domain of the commissioner and just make a presentation that it's happened rather than having to get a city vote on it. $220,000 seems like an amount that by itself doesn't warrant a line item if it's an ongoing project that's already been fully explained. That's really my comment. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 This is a – anything else, colleagues? This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second. Next item, 229. Adopt revised comprehensive financial management policies. Financial planning. Yes. What time is the next time, sir? 345. 345. So we're doing beautifully. So I just want to highlight for something. I have –
 I will, at the conclusion of the presentation, have a lot of questions. I cannot support this in its current form, and there are things that I think have to be further cooked before it can earn my support. So we have ten minutes now before the next time certain. We can tee it up, and the council can do whatever it wants, but there's some issues I'm going to highlight for a council concern, which we're really not going to have a chance to fully vet before the next time certain. Okay.
 So, I mean, we can plow ahead and do them. Let's go ahead and plow ahead, and let's see what the will of the council is at the end of this. And if we need to continue it, we'll continue it. But I'd like to go ahead and honor the comments that we made this morning. Since this was actually teed up originally for this morning, we had an extraordinarily busy agenda today. And a number of the agenda items actually engendered much more discussion and debate than we anticipated. So here we are.
 Let me just say this. This resolution adopts two revised comprehensive financial management policies and a related procedure that addresses the city's financial planning process and the annual budget process. These policies were...
 vetted during a city-wide review and comment process. So we have Jennifer Cooperman here. She's the city's CFO to explain the revisions and give us a brief presentation. Great. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. And I'm joined by Jessica Kennard, interim budget director as well. I'm here to present revisions to two of the city's comprehensive financial management policies, FIN 203 financial planning. Okay.
 I made changes to this but didn't print it out. FIN 203, financial planning, which has been revised to incorporate specific council direction for bureaus to do the following. To prioritize asset management as a citywide core business function, including lifecycle costing and setting aside replacement reserves to support the city's investments in capital assets and equipment and to ensure intergenerational equity.
 to develop long-term financial plans in addition to the currently required five-year plans to improve the city's financial planning and budgeting processes, and to highlight and quantify in these financial plans and in the capital improvement plans any funding gaps with proposed strategies to address them.
 FIN 204 budget has been revised to incorporate council direction for bureaus to do the following. To secure council approval for financial commitments such as bureau director decisions or litigation settlements of half a million dollars or more after the current year budget is approved that a bureau's budget cannot accommodate. Okay.
 to absorb labor agreement costs that exceed inflation and include any resultant employee and or service reductions in the financial impact statement that accompanies the labor agreement ordinance. Additional proposed changes to FIN 208 budget will do the following. Change guidance for amending the budget during the year to, quote, urgent and unforeseen needs rather than needs that are just, quote, unanticipated.
 allow one-time resources to be used to address citywide liabilities that are not included in the city's five-year forecast. It will codify the current practice of restricting capital set-aside resources to projects relating to emergency preparedness, parks and recreation, and transportation.
 It will consolidate the capital set-aside ranking and funding process to once per year during the annual budget process, rather than during both the fall supplemental budget and the annual budget process. And it will set certain limitations on the competitive special appropriations grant process.
 As the Mayor mentioned, these policies were out for citywide comment. That was after a task force of Bureau budget staff helped craft these changes. I'd like to thank all the Bureau staff who devoted time to reading these and the handful of people who submitted comments and were available to answer any questions you might have. Commissioner Fish. I'm happy to follow any other comments, Chair.
 So, Jennifer, first of all, thank you for bringing this forth. And I have three issues. One, I want to see if it's actually part of your proposal. Two is I'm going to raise an issue that I would like to be part of this proposal, if possible. And three is I'd like to seek a clarification of one of the recommendations. So let's start with the first point. Okay.
 Does the proposals, the changes that you're recommending, do they address a situation where a bureau is sued to enforce compliance with some federal or state law and is therefore required to disclose that lawsuit and seek counsel approval before resolving the lawsuit? Sure.
 It's intended, yes, that the litigation paragraph, the new litigation paragraph in FIN 204 would address that situation.
 unless the Bureau's budget could accommodate that. Unless it could accommodate it. Already. And if it could accommodate it, then presumably that gets handled within the Bureau and with the Bureau Director and that commissioner in charge. But if the settlement requires an expense that is larger than their budget can accommodate, then it would be the intent is that that would be brought for council discussion.
 Before the litigation is resolved. Yes. And this, of course, is a...
 I think it's fair to say this is a result of some thinking that we, of some concerns that we all had when the Portland Bureau of Transportation was sued because of inadequate curb cuts. Yes. And a settlement in the range of $100 million was being negotiated and discussed without disclosing that to the council. And since there was an expectation that there would be some general fund portion of pickup from,
 To resolve that case, the concern was that you can't have a bureau. This predates Commissioner Udaly's tenure, that you cannot have a bureau that takes on a contingent liability of that magnitude without having the counsel involved in the decision-making, including whether it's a good settlement, the timing of the settlement, and the payout. Is that a fair statement? Yes. Okay. So I'm pleased to see that's in there. Okay.
 The second thing I want to bring to your attention is something which is in here, and it seems like a significant enough departure from current practice. I want to make sure my colleagues are all aware of what this would mean and also put some price tags on it. And it's on page three. Are you looking at FIN 203 or 204? Oh, I'm sorry. 204 was –
 I don't have it broken out that way. There's also sort of a cheat sheet that what's changed and why also breaks these down into little bite-sized pieces. So I have it in my cheat sheet. It's page three of my cheat sheet under operating policies, about halfway down the page. It says... So that's FIN 204. Right. FIN 204. I'm confused. Why do I have something that says FIN 203...
 If we're talking about something... We're doing both. I don't see a 204. Commissioner Udaly, do you see... Do you have the four-page cheat sheet? I have the what's changed sheet, yeah. What's changed and why? Okay.
 Yeah. So it should be four pages, and I'm on page three. Of the what's new and why? Okay, of that. All right. It says on the left margin, about two-thirds of the way down, operating policies. Yes, got it. And then –
 The third box within operating policy says, quote, added that bureaus shall absorb labor agreement costs that exceed inflation. Employee and or service requirements are to be included in the FIS of labor agreement ordinance. So that's a pretty significant departure from our current practice. Madam Director, could you explain what our current practice is and why this is being proposed? Sure.
 So I'm going to let Jessica talk about current practice, and then I can speak to some of the motivations behind this.
 Good afternoon, Council. Jessica Kennard, Interim City Budget Director. So current practice for labor bargaining agreements is our HR labor team engages in negotiations when a contract is up and brings forward, before that contract expires, a negotiated agreement for council appropriation. But oftentimes, council is agreeing to this contract agreement and associated costs together.
 not in concert with budget processes. So it's sort of on an off cycle and can be on an ad hoc basis. So part of this, the goal is to bring those processes, because there are significant cost implications associated with these agreements, into alignment with other budget decision-making processes. Yes, but the, okay. And so, yes. I can understand why you'd want them to be on a certain timeline. I can understand why you'd want to have,
 a certain level of communication. What I don't understand is why the host bureau would eat the costs of the labor negotiations above the rate of inflation, particularly where we have a history as a council of saying that low-wage workers should see their wages bumped up to a certain amount. That's a council policy. Why would that come out of the bureau's pocket rather than out of the account?
 Absolutely. So the way that the proposal is written, so first and part of the current practice is that council typically approves a contract and the cost implications, whatever the general fund cost implications of that contract are, is automatically baked into the next CAL. So they're covered, they're sort of, the resources are taken off the top. The current proposed change
 would first connect the immediate tradeoffs of those increased costs. It encourages the Bureau or it requires the Bureau to articulate what the tradeoffs would be internally for them to absorb those costs, but it also allows for them to request those resources in the next budget cycle. Well, let's take the example of something Commissioner Fritz shepherded through the council.
 We have an arbitration in which an arbitrator rules against the city on casual workers. We're required to negotiate a collective bargaining agreement, and the council has a policy that is about at least $15 an hour, which for some of the employees is well above the rate of inflation. What would have been the cost to parks if they had to absorb the costs above inflation?
 So I'm trying to recall that precise conversation. About $4 million, and I know that because we actually did put it then into a specific budget request in the next budget. That's right. And so, but Commissioner Fritz, let's extend that point. If you had put it in a specific budget request and not have received the $4 million for that contract, where would you have found the $4 million? We would then have had to eat it.
 We would then have had to find the savings within the Bureau, and that was the policy choice that the Council then made, as it turned erroneously that $4 million wasn't enough. But that was where... So it was very similar to what's being proposed here, except that we didn't upfront say, to cut $4 million from the parks budget, you'd need to do this, this and this. Right.
 We had that discussion then in the budget process that either the council gave us an extra $4 million ongoing or we would need to make $4 million of cuts at that time. So, all right, so let me just be clear. It is well understood by my colleagues that anything above the rate of inflation on labor negotiations
 that are handled by a centralized office of this city that have specific labor reps handling it. Anything above the rate of inflation, you are at risk. It is well understood that you are at risk of eating that cost out of your own budget.
 Yes, and I support that. I think we had a discussion about this at a work session or maybe at an executive session. But the point is that we want the labor relations team to understand this as well, that they can't be promising this, that, and the other in the contract, which then comes to us, and we have a choice of yes or no, not something in between.
 I think the motivation is transparency and presenting you with tradeoffs. And there are three constituencies that are at the table. There's the HR group, the labor negotiating group, the bureau, and the council, and making sure that those three constituencies are aligned. Okay, but just let's be very clear here. I've served on this council for 10 years. Under this rule –
 a commissioner in charge could play by this rule, have the council declare that there is a policy of paying people above the rate of inflation, could because of financial circumstances then subsequently require against the commissioner in charge's desire or will that the Bureau eat that cost increase? Is that – that is entirely plausible?
 Yeah. Yes. Yeah. And the recourse is for the commissioner in charge to recommend against the labor contract, but would only be one of five votes. Yes. So, and again, I think that the distinction is –
 The cost will be absorbed by bureaus in one way or another. The question is whether the trade-off discussion is happening at the same time as many other budget conversations are, so in the context of all of the trade-offs that are being made around limited general fund resources, or if the labor bargaining expense is being taken off the top first.
 without the greater context of the other tradeoffs that might be made citywide or even in that respective bureau. Commissioner Herbst. Thank you, Mayor. I guess I'm concerned that we will not be in a room negotiating a contract.
 We have human resource representatives with labor representatives that will come back with a contract that then will be voted on by the entire city council.
 It appears that we would be then the commissioner in charge would have their hands tied. And I agree with my colleague. Basically, we would be forced into a position of voting in opposition to a labor contract because we know the impact that it's going to have on the budget for the barrels that we manage. Now, I just need to know...
 So I have two barrels that are going to be going through labor contract talks this year, right? The talks are going to be completed after we've completed the budget talks. So how possibly could I make an informed decision since those contracts are going to come after we have the budget conversation? Right.
 It does present a timing challenge, particularly for this next cycle. Again, I think that the purpose is to bring forward some of those conversations around what the costs are that the Bureau and the Commissioner in Charge might be willing to support earlier in the labor negotiation conversations. But it is ultimately a timing and a policy preference question for Council.
 So to put a little clarity on this, because it doesn't work all that differently today. I mean, if we have a labor negotiation and it's substantially above the rate of inflation, there still is a council-wide discussion about the priorities in that bureau. And the council could say, well, we negotiated a contract that is beyond the rate of inflation
 But we don't support fully funding that bureau, including that rate. In other words, take it out of somewhere else in the bureau. I mean, that is not an uncommon scenario around here in a cut budget. Correct. Is it? No, that has happened, certainly. And to answer Commissioner Fish's question, which is a legitimate question, the –
 commissioner in charge could still come back to the council with a directive to develop to basically make those programs whole. And so what we've done is we've just flipped this in terms of when the disclosure is going to be made.
 Commissioner Fritz. The real question is, is it a specific budget ask or does it just automatically go into the Cal? And I think it's better to have it as a specific budget ask. For instance, police. Police just assumed when we gave them the huge raise that we were going to find $6 million for them in the rest of the budget, that they weren't going to have any impacts on their budget
 and that the rest of the city would eat it. I think that the police or any union that's negotiating ought to be thinking, do we want this pay raise if it means that fewer of our members are going to have jobs or similar trade-offs? Yeah, if I could, it actually strengthens our hand in labor negotiations.
 In that particular example, it certainly is. I have the great burden of having served here for 10 years, so I don't actually have the same recollection of the frequency with which we've had bureaus eat the labor costs. I think they have traditionally gone into the Cal for better or worse. And I also, since I'm also a veteran of sitting in on council meetings,
 on closed-door meetings to discuss labor strategy, I want to echo what Commissioner Hardesty said, which is we have a centralized unit that does most of the negotiations and then presents an agreement. I guess what this rule would require is the commissioner in charge to make a standing objection throughout the conversations about labor negotiations, not to exceed the rate of inflation, and to be very clear with his or her colleagues that they're not going to be able to do that.
 that if the council thinks there's a good value in going above the rate of inflation, buying some change, some equity concern about paying people a minimum, a certain standard of living or whatever, that that will come back as a requested ad package. I have to say, in thinking about how we currently do things and how we would operate under this, this seems very clumsy to me.
 And the timing of labor negotiations and the requests and how we do our budgeting, the fact that these are not aligned makes it a potential nightmare to figure out your budget and to have some consistency with the public.
 I think it is laudable to have a more accountable system where we don't tell our labor partners they can automatically assume rates increases over the rate of inflation, that there is some trade-off. I think it is laudable to say that not every contract, including the richest possible contract, goes into the Cal. I think this is going to have significant unforeseen problems, laudable as it may be. And so I just wanted to put those on the record. It may be a good –
 It may end up being one of those things that is a good financial practice, but adapted to our form of government, to our timelines, I actually think this is going to cause chaos. And it's certainly going to cause me to fundamentally rethink the sort of movement that we have in this city towards consolidating city services. I am going to be less inclined to have HR over here.
 handle my negotiations if I'm looking at potential cuts in my bureau because they happen to think that to get to a contract, there's a tradeoff. So that's a compelling argument, but let me give the counterargument. And this is a good conversation. I'm sorry we waited eight hours into our council session to have this. The counterargument is we negotiate in good faith, and let's assume we negotiate always in good faith, and
 and we negotiate for whatever reason a contract in a particular bargaining unit that is above or well below above the rate of inflation, Commissioner Fish is talking about the uncertainty that it has then created inside the Bureau.
 And I agree with that. But the way we do it now is we're creating uncertainty everywhere else. We're saying, okay, in Bureau X, let's say the police bureau, we're agreeing to a certain increase in salaries, benefits, wages. It's bumped into the Cal. What we have actually just done by default is,
 is put everybody else's budget at risk. We have actually made a budgetary decision on behalf of every other bureau without any overt discussion about the trade-offs. And so what this forces is a very uncomfortable conversation. I'll be the first to admit, particularly looking at my portfolio...
 of not only what are we negotiating and what are the comps and what seems fair, but how the heck are we actually going to pay for it? It pushes that question into the present alongside the labor negotiations. So, Mayor, I completely agree with what you just said. And what I've been trying to do, because this is at variance with our current practice, is I've been trying to spin off how practically will this work.
 So let's assume we're in the midstream in a fiscal year. A contract is negotiated and ratified that has well above the rate of inflation. I think the only prudent thing that each of us would do under those circumstances is calculate the amount above the rate of inflation and do midyear cuts because there is no guarantee of that being picked up in the next budget.
 we are looking at the alternative of an over-expenditure ordinance, which, God forbid, is the way to resolve this. So it is, depending on the timing of the labor negotiations, it effectively works as a sequester.
 We're forcing cuts ahead of knowing whether there is either an appetite among our colleagues to fund the amount above inflation or available resources or both. And I'm not trying to treat this as some academic exercise. I think we are making a significant change. I think this needs a little more cooking. But, again, I appreciate that it may be a best practice.
 I'm just not sure how it actually works with our form of government and the way and the timeline that we operate on in terms of our budget and our labor negotiations. I should disagree respectfully and have had the same number of budgets as you, even though you have six months more service than I. I think...
 We always have commissioners who are coming to the budget process, making the case for the packages that they are requesting, particularly in the case of the low-income workers in parks.
 That was something that we all agreed on the contract and we had the discussion and then there was the package in the budget process that we all agreed, ouch, that's a lot of money and yes, we should do it. And I just think it should not be automatically put into the current appropriation level or the CAL because then it's just assumed that everybody else is going to share the cost. I mean, there may be some budgets where we'll say, well, you're going to take a little bit more, you know, everybody else is getting a 1% cut.
 This Bureau X is going to get a 2% because they've given this really expensive contract that the council felt like had to give. A clarifying question, when we say no more than inflation, is that then the employees would get the cost of living adjustment as well? So are we actually talking twice the cost of living adjustment, or what do you mean by no more than inflation?
 So I believe that is based on the fact that already as part of CAL, we include a cost of living adjustment in the CAL allocation already. So it's essentially the amount that will be above what is already included in the Bureau's CAL target going into the next year. But if we get the cost of living adjustment across the board...
 And the union contracts don't say you're going to get your cost of it. Well, they say you're going to get a floor of 1% and a cap of whatever it would be.
 And then we often have seen, and you'll get 2% above that. So Josh Harwood, city economist. Thanks, Commissioner and Mayor. Josh Harwood, city economist. I think we're using inflation here colloquially to essentially mean things that aren't included in the CalTarget now.
 So you're right, they could negotiate something below what we have in the CalTarget now and it would show savings in the forecast. That hasn't been a typical experience for me. And so when we have priced out contracts, when HR has priced out contracts before, the adjustment to the CalTarget –
 is an adjustment above what we've already forecasted for the adjustment that they have. So I think what we're actually saying then is that there won't be pay increases except for cost of living. And that's the piece that would go into the you have to ask extra for it. Yeah, I think that's right. If you give a 2% across the board in addition to whatever the cost of living is. Yes. So I just wanted to clarify that. Well, I'm glad you did seek to clarify it because now it's as clear as mud to me. Yeah.
 because we don't set cost of living except annually, and we do it.
 You give us a number on cost of living. So how on earth do we even have that number if there's mid-year bargaining? So that's what I'm saying is that there would not be an additional number in addition to cost of living in the new contract. There wouldn't be an across-the-board X percent in addition to cost of living because there's always, in every contract, there's always a floor and a ceiling on what cost of living can be. Yeah.
 Yeah, and it's defined by the, just to clarify, it's defined by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. So, yeah, I don't come up with it myself, per se. And then often a contract will say, and you're going to get this much raised in addition, either across the board or in steps or in something extra. And that's the amount that we're talking about here. Yes.
 So you're actually saying that anything above the expected cost of living would be something that the Bureau would have to consider absorbing or ask our council for an out-of-package to not absorb it? Yes. So it begs the question for me, kind of how are we directing human resources and contract talks? I mean, are we just saying that there are going to be no raises other than cost of living? Because it feels like, as the commissioner in charge said,
 you're trying to tie my hands and I'm not even in the room making the negotiation. Somebody else is in the room making the negotiation that then comes back, right? So it does feel like just setting this as policy means that whatever they're negotiating in some other room somewhere, that once it comes to the city council, that means that we either all support it as a council or,
 Or I'm forced to vote against it if I believe that there's going to be a better use of whatever the increase is in my bill in some other way. Executive decision time. Okay. Can I just respond real quick to that? Please, yeah. Commissioner, yes, go for it. The current practice has been everybody else is going to help pay for this. So, yeah, that looks good. I'll take that for my folks or...
 I've negotiated down to this for my folks. So I think that what this is attempting to do is to have more responsibility for the Commissioner in charge and for the Bureau to be really thinking, is this, if we don't get an extra allocation from the general fund, is this really the best way to spend our resources? Yes.
 So I apologize. I'm going to have to leave, but I will say that I'm in no way ready to vote for this either. I'd love to have a briefing, and I'd like to learn more about what the unintended consequences would be for this if this was actually passed by the council. Thank you. So as I was saying, as if on cue from Commissioner Hardesty, I want people to feel as comfortable about this as possible since we are passing long-term...
 policies, fiscal policies for the whole council. I think it's really important that we all walk this walk together and that we all feel equally comfortable about what is in this document. So I would propose that we continue this until the first week of April. I believe everybody is here. Is that correct?
 Yes, everybody is present. Good. So why don't we do that, and then we'll have time, and the budget director and the chief financial officer and the economist who provides good conversation, let's walk the floor. Let's collect all of the questions or concerns that people have.
 We'll see if we can answer those, and if not, then we can entertain some amendments to the policy. But I don't want to take a vote today and have a 3-2 split. I think that would be a mistake. And we'll hold public testimony until the next time, too. Absolutely, yes. So we'll just continue this. Thank you. Yeah, can I indulge you for one additional minute? You bet, of course. So you've addressed the question of lawsuits. Thank you for the clarification on that.
 I have some additional questions about labor costs and cost shifting. We'll talk about that between now and April. The third issue I just want to raise for my colleagues, and they're going to get another preview of this issue next Tuesday, is that Parks has put in a request for O&M for 38 different improvements to
 that were built under Commissioner Fritz's watch, playgrounds, parks, trails, other things, which under well-established practice and under a change in our policy led by Commissioner Saltzman and subsequently baked into our FIN 2.03.02, we have a policy that says that
 The operations and maintenance money will follow new assets that are opened, and it has consistently been applied for the 10 years that I have served on this body. What makes this particularly of concern to me is of the 38 different assets that Commissioner Fritz
 as opened or will open shortly. I believe a majority of them are in East Portland, so we are using systems development charge money, bond money, and other resources to build out our system and provide for equity. Under the budget, under the CBO's decision,
 on the ad package that the parks put in, CBO is recommending no O&M for any of those assets and is taking the position that it is a council discretionary act as to whether to put O&M to follow the assets. There's a little more complication in terms of the timing of the ask. We're going to mention that in our parks briefing on Tuesday for the budget committee.
 But this would be the first time in 10 years that O&M has not followed the opening of new facilities, and I'm going to urge that that policy be once again codified so that we don't have a situation where this is being objected to. Jennifer Koopman, you're not proposing to change that policy, right? The CBO has proposed to change it. Well, we have a financial policy on it, so...
 I just want to mention that I have put in an absence for 4.30 this afternoon and want to apologize in advance to our friends at Work Systems. I'm hoping to get to see the beginning of your presentation. Good. All right. So let's do this. We will continue...
 Item number 229 to Wednesday, April 3rd. It will be in the morning session. I don't want to assign a time certain to it at this particular moment. I want to keep that flexible. I want to thank our panel. This is a very important conversation, but it's one I want to make sure we all walk it together. So thank you. The item is continued. Last but not least today is item number 236.
 Accept report on workforce development by Work Systems, Inc. Colleagues, I'm excited today to bring this report forward. We often talk about the housing crisis that... Welcome. Thank you. Okay. Bobby Lee with Prospect Portland, Director of Economic Development. Thank you, Mayor and Council Members. Thank you.
 What I'll try to do, I want to keep my comments short because we have folks testifying today, and you're going to hear some really interesting stories and heartfelt stories. So I'll try to keep my comments short. The workforce development system is federally driven. It's a requirement by federal law to have workforce development agencies in every city and every county in the United States.
 So whether in Salem or Eugene or in Portland, they all have something like work systems. They may be called something different, but each city and county, they all have a workforce development agency identified by federal government and the state government and through all of you, the local government. And the designation is under what is called the Workforce Investment Opportunity Act. It's a federal act.
 And it's through this designation that allows federal dollars to flow into the local region. And this, with the federal dollars, then we have local dollars that we will also supplement. But the lion's share of the funding for workforce development is actually from the federal government. So why did the federal government create this law?
 in part is due to the need to align all the workforce development resources to one entity so that we have better coordination, we can leverage all the funds, lower the overhead, and ensure there's one unified plan to meet the needs of employers and employees. This centralized approach also allows other support services, such as...
 through what is called a WorkSource Center to have also social services, employment-related services, workforce training, and economic development entities all working under one umbrella to provide a wraparound services to our customers. Lastly, the federal law also requires that the oversight board, which the mayor serves on or he designates,
 is required by federal law that the oversight board is private sector, and the majority of the members serving on that board is from the private sector, so that the public workforce development system is meeting the needs of our regional employers.
 So with that, that's a broad stroke. It can be confusing, this whole structure, because it's federally created, but it is a requirement. And as a result of that requirement, we are receiving the $4 million from the federal government. And with that in mind, I'll turn it over to Patrick or Andrew. Thank you.
 I guess I'll go next. Thank you, Bobby. My name is Andrew McGough. I'm the Executive Director of Work Systems. Thank you, Commissioners, for having us this afternoon. Much appreciated. I also want to say thank you for the partnership over many, many years. So we're here today to provide an update on the Economic Opportunity Program, which is a growing and successful collaboration between the City, Prosper Portland, Work Systems, the Housing Bureau,
 a home for everyone, Home Forward, the Oregon Department of Human Services, the Oregon Department of Education and Early Child Care Division, and a broad array of community-based organizations, all dedicated to working together to serve some of the city's most vulnerable residents. While others will tell the current story in a little while, my primary job today is to provide some historical perspective.
 That said, I do want to say that over the years, the Economic Opportunity Program has evolved to embody what I think is a great example of collective impact in action. It's tough to argue with the idea of bringing multiple resources, programs, and organizations together to address complex issues and realize greater impact. But actually making it happen is much easier to theorize than to practice.
 Collaboration is time-consuming, complex, and often messy work. But as evidenced by the Economic Opportunity Program, the benefits far outweigh the pain.
 The city and work systems first started talking about collaborating to better serve some of our most vulnerable residents back in 2007, when the Economic Opportunity Initiative was being run out of the Bureau of Housing and Community Development. Kimberly Snyder was a senior policy director for Mayor Adams, and Steve Jobs introduced the first iPhone.
 In addition to Kimberly and Mayor Adams, at the risk of missing a name or two, the history of the Economic Opportunity Program involves a virtual smorgasbord of city government and community leaders. Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish.
 Will White, Andy Miller, Steve Rudman, Ed Blackburn, Sam Chase, Lynn Knox, Kate Allen, Michael Alexander, Connie Ashbrook, Nicole Maher, Warren Jimenez, among many, many others, all played an integral role in the development and evolution of the Economic Opportunity Program.
 With the coaching of the Mayor's Office, iPhones in hand, BHCD work systems began working closely together to look for ways to align our respective efforts and outcomes. When BHCD became the Housing Bureau in 2009, the Economic Opportunity Initiative was transitioned to the Portland Development Commission. We continue to work to build the partnership,
 And in July 2011, the first joint economic opportunity work systems contracts were issued. Since then, the program has grown, the partnerships have expanded, the impact has widened, and Kimberly Schneider has become Kimberly Branham. Thanks again for your partnership and support, and I look forward to continuing to work together to grow the program and expand its impact.
 Hi, I'm Patrick Gearing, Chief Program Officer at WorkSystems. Thank you for hearing us this afternoon. The Economic Opportunity Program provides career track training and employment services to reduce poverty and increase prosperity and housing stability. City of Portland funding for EOP is about $2.7 million, which pays for career coaching provided by a network of 12 community-based partners who serve about 1,900 Portlanders every year through this program.
 These partners bring strong connections and expertise in serving the program's target populations, including homeless, people at risk of homelessness, ex-offenders, immigrants, residents of neighborhood prosperity initiatives, and communities of color. WorkSystem situates these partners within a system of resources and services that augment funding for career coaching, multiply the impact of the city's investment, and improve services and outcomes.
 Building on the city's investment, we incorporate an array of additional funding and services from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Department of Agriculture, U.S. Department of Labor, the State of Oregon, Joint Office of Homeless Services, and other sources to add over $7 million into the program every year.
 This includes about $3.5 million to fund more career coaches to serve even more Portlanders, about $2 million to provide occupational training for participants focusing on target sectors of healthcare, construction, advanced manufacturing, high-tech, truck driving, and financial industry, about $900,000 in on-the-job training and internships for people who lack work experience or recent work experience,
 and about $800,000 for rent assistance so that people who are homeless or facing eviction can participate in occupational training and start a job with the result that they can get a job that supports their housing. These are all resources we bring to the program to serve more people and to create a system of services that addresses what people need to be successful.
 Every city-funded program we manage benefits from additional funding we pursue and secure and place into these programs. For example, through a federal matching grant, we've generated $680,000 that will be placed into EOP contracts next year to augment the city's investment. And that's just one example among the $7 million in resources I've mentioned earlier in this presentation. This is definitely not all to our credit.
 The success we've had in bringing in additional funding is in no small part due to the incredible expertise and work being done by our community-based partners. We're excited for you to hear from them shortly. This program and the people it serves benefit in many ways from a team and a system approach. In a moment, you're going to hear from some of the program participants who've benefited from the array of partners and services that make this program so unique and effective.
 To keep my part simple, I'll just give a single example of our newest area of enhancement that we've made over the past half year, which is alignment with the public system of health care. We've run many, many programs that train people for middle-income occupations. One thing everyone in this field experiences is that low-income people with dependent children select themselves out because they can't pay for the cost of child care while they're in training or getting a footing in a new job.
 This has the effect of increasing intergenerational poverty and disproportionately impacts single mother households, who in Multnomah County have twice the poverty rate as the overall population. To address this, work systems, the Oregon Department of Education, Oregon Department of Human Services, have partnered to provide child care so that EOP participants with dependent children can pursue training for a middle-income career.
 For EOP program participants, child care is now paid while they participate in occupational training, job search, and starting a job for 12 months. $450,000 annually is available to support these costs, and a full-time child care coordinator staffed by Department of Human Services helps identify child care providers, troubleshoots coverage, and supports seamless access to our program's parents of young children.
 This new pilot, launched just a few months ago, is an illustration of the team approach we've built that's multiplying the city's investment, increasing the number of Portlanders served, and creating the supports necessary for people to be successful despite very significant challenge. My colleague, Victoria Leibov, is going to talk about the services and partners and results next. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayors, and thank you for staying for our presentation. Appreciate that. So my boss, Stacy Triplett, was supposed to be doing this presentation and part of a presentation, and she's stuck in Denver in the blizzard condition, participated in a national conference.
 While I'm not happy for her going through that, I am happy to present on her behalf, because I'm one of those people who were at the table representing IRCO, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, with only $100,000 grant at 2007, at the inception of Economic Opportunity Initiative that
 was evolved and Andrew just talked, present the history. So in a way it's my lucky chance to talk about this program that I also continue to work with as work system senior project manager now with all the community partners that are a part of this amazing network. So the Economic Opportunity Network is
 with a lot of community-based providers, organizations that use their knowledge and expertise to serve specific populations with one-on-one individualized career coaching and occupational training in the community. Of course, so much of the training is provided through a strong connection with WorkSource Portland Metro resources, which include training scholarships,
 paid work experiences, and placement support for career track jobs for this population. I briefly want to just cover the current data that shows who we serve. So the most vulnerable population includes homeless and housing insecure residents, about 26%.
 Justice-involved individuals, 38% of self-report involvement with the criminal justice system, 10% of immigrants and refugees and English language learners, 50% of people we serve currently are long-term unemployed,
 have been looking for work for 27 weeks or more, according to Bureau of Labor statistics definition. And 57% hold a high school diploma GED or less. We serve very diverse group of people.
 90% of African Americans, 13% Latina, Native Hawaiian and API 6%, Native American almost 6%, white 55%, and a very diverse group of immigrants and refugees coming from all over the world to Portland. Okay.
 In keeping with priorities shared by PHB and Prosper Portland Work Systems, all participants that are served a low income defined as earning 50% of MFI or below. Basically, family of four would – the 50% MFI is $40,700.
 We have community partners we contract with. They are from Central City Concern, Human Solutions, South East Works, IRCO, Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, Oregon Trades Women, Constructing Hope. And the network is growing. Our newer and additional partners are Portland Opportunity Industrialization Center, El Programa Hispano-Catholica, Urban League, LAPD,
 and Latina Network. In addition, there are network of youth serving organizations that work with young adults eligible to work at 16.
 beyond those already mentioned, it's New Avenue for Youth, Portland Youth Builders, and NAA, Native American Youth and Family Center. So a little bit of data from the last year. Only last year, with the city-funded...
 We serve over 780 low-income participants. Almost 150 of them completed training for credentials recognized in their fields. Seventy-six percent of those served left the program employed at wages averaging $14.06. Yes.
 And, you know, average is not always makes a true story. For example, during this years under the work systems contract, we served 400 chronically homeless people and their average wage is $11.30, you know, average over the years, which
 which sounds lower than minimum wage right now, but it's a great accomplishment for people who experience this homelessness. And with our additional or another economic opportunity program, that is a program that serves professional immigrants and refugees in
 their average wage is $16.84. So based on population, level of education, the support they needed, average, the true accomplishments are different.
 And as Patrick mentioned, $7 million that you heard about before is an additional resources that we bring from Department of Labor, Health and Human Services, and USDA matching grant that he already said about. I don't want to repeat. So the EOP is a – well, I just counted. I've been involved for 12 years now.
 is a growing program that brings the wonderful work of many organizations together. And it's less and less messy because we've been working together for a long, long time. And it's my pleasure to invite to talk Clay Cooper, who is the Senior Director of Social Enterprise and Employment Services from Central City Concerns
 Then Megan Bell, who is the Director of Employment and Training with POIC. And while Human Solutions Executive Director wanted to be here, he couldn't make it, but their lead economic opportunity program career coach is there to speak on his behalf. Thank you very, very much for the opportunity. Appreciate it so much. Thanks for being here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. My name is Clay Cooper. As Victoria said, I am the Senior Director of Social Enterprises and Employment Services at Central City Concern. I oversee our street cleaners for the city of Portland, downtown clean and safe, and the Central Eastside Industrial District. I also oversee Central City Coffee and our employment services program. I want to thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. I also wanted to thank Commissioner Hardesty for coming to the Employment Access Center earlier this month. She met with a few of our employees and heard about the work that we were doing cleaning our streets and sidewalks.
 Central City Concern is a nonprofit direct service organization that provides integrated primary and behavioral health care, supportive and affordable housing to people impacted by homelessness in the Tri-County area. Central City Concern operates about 2,000 units of affordable housing and serves 9,000 patients annually through the 13 federally qualified health centers. And I'm here today to talk to you about our employment services programs.
 that worked with 1,200 people over the past 12 months, a majority of whom were homeless, and placed over 750 of them into employment at over 300 employers. Work Systems is one of our largest funders that enabled us to help these clients. But let me back up because I want you to know a bit more about our clients. During my time at Central City Concern, I've heard a common story where many of our clients grew up in a single-parent household and that parent was a drug addict.
 Our clients were then introduced to drugs at an early age and would develop their own addiction by their early teens. They were also subjected to physical and verbal abuse and would then understandably run away from home. As we help our clients with their addiction, we are also helping them develop confidence in what it means to be a good employee. We enable clients to pursue a career that is meaningful to them because the evidence shows that when someone is excited about their job, they are less likely to relapse. Therefore, we offer every client that lives in our housing the opportunity to receive one-on-one support from a career coach.
 In fact, most of our career coaches were initially clients that received support from WorkSystems' Employment Opportunity Program. So those career coaches have actually come to this work with lived experience in poverty, homelessness, and substance use disorders. So when they are out there talking to our clients about the possibility of starting a new chapter in their lives, they know better than any of us the power of that possibility. The EOP program helps us provide our clients with child care, rent assistance, scholarships, training funded through WorkSource, and access to retention services, to name a few.
 Getting a start on a career is the last step away from a lifelong struggle for our clients and the first step toward a new life. You all know that a good job is what can provide you with the opportunity to finally start a family, own a home, and dream of retirement. Thank you for this opportunity, and thank you for supporting this work. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. I'm Meg Bell, and I'm the Director of Employment and Training at POIC. Thank you.
 Thank you for having me speak today and allowing me to share some amazing success stories from our EOP programs. Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center, POIC, is committed to the success of youth through the age of 29, providing the highest quality services in education, mentoring, family outreach, employment training, and placement.
 POIC was founded in 1968 and has been active in the Portland community for over 50 years. Our history and roots as an organization are in adult and youth workforce development for the African American community in North and Northeast Portland. We have had a workforce development program since the start of the organization and still offer culturally specific workforce development today. In January of 2017, POIC started EOP Services. EOP Services
 Being a part of the EOP Network has offered our community and program tremendous benefits. We have been able to grow our programs and serve more participants in need with the 50-50 matching funds. Participants have a strong network of resources built in, including access to federal funds for programs like Health Careers Northwest,
 rental assistance, childcare, internships, scholarships and grants to the WorkSource Portland Metro Centers. And on top of that, our staff are supported through monthly training opportunities and a strong network of other EOP providers.
 As an organization, our priority population is African American young adults ages 18 to 29, perhaps the city's most vulnerable population in terms of outcomes, experiences of violence, poverty, and unemployment.
 Homelessness impacts this population at higher rates than others and is often uncounted and unseen in many ways. This is why we are so grateful for the city's commitment to this program. A great example of a success from this program comes from a current participant.
 Ty is an African-American single mom with three young children. She connected with POAC and our program when she was behind in rent payments and at risk of homelessness. She was struggling to find childcare so that she could focus on her career path. When she enrolled in our program, she worked with her career coach to quickly identify a career plan that focused on her goals and led to her goal of being in a healthcare career.
 Through active participation and the integration of services in our EOP program, she was able to access rental support, and she did not lose her apartment. She re-enrolled in night classes in college and is now on track to become a licensed nurse. She received child care support through a child care grant designed to support participants in trainings, and she was able to obtain employment that was in a health-related field to pay her bills.
 The EOP program is the only workforce funding POIC has that also comes with rental assistance. In many of our programs, we see participants struggle with housing as their top concern, and that limits their ability to focus on long-term career goals. Providing housing support while a participant is completing a training and searching for employment is critical to that person's success.
 EOP funding and support from the City of Portland has allowed us to serve participants in ways we weren't able to previously. Because of this, we are thankful for your ongoing support. Thank you. Okay, so my name is Megan Gerlach, and I am the lead career coach at Human Solutions.
 Human Solutions serves low-income people living in East Portland. And in addition to our employment programs, we also have housing programs and run affordable housing in East County. Human Solutions has been part of the Economic Opportunity Program since the beginning. And prior to that, we were part of the EOI, or the Employment Opportunity Initiative, through Portland Prosper. Thank you.
 Human Solutions is extremely proud to be part of the Economic Opportunity Program, and we have two major roles within the program. First, we operate four EOP career coaching programs that are funded through the city and additional resources made available by work systems. We have our Portland EOP serving Portlanders in poverty who are at risk of homelessness. We also have a program serving homeless Portlanders that are on SNAP,
 We have a program serving people interested in pursuing healthcare careers, that's our Health Careers Northwest program, and a program serving people re-entering the community from incarceration. These programs are essential for the communities we serve. WSI has been instrumental in providing systems alignment that have brought additional resources as well as been able to leverage others. When we began EOP programming, we only had our Portland EOP program,
 We really feel that the programs that have been added have all either addressed a need that was identified by our providers. Our SNAP 5050 program has given us additional capacity by providing a reinvestment of 50 cents for every dollar spent on the contract. We were able to add an additional full-time career coach with those dollars. Thank you.
 Our DCJ program gave additional capacity to work with participants reentering the community from incarceration, and our Health Careers Northwest opportunity to support our participants getting into the healthcare field, one of the fastest-growing industries in Portland. In addition, we serve as the system-wide rent assistance hub, providing rent assistance for participants from across the program who are homeless or being evicted.
 Through this service, we have about 100 people served through housing assistance from either being evicted or being placed into housing. And we have about, at the one-year checkup, there's about an 85% success rate that that person is still housed. This is just another example of WSI working with Home Forward.
 And a couple of years go to bring additional rent assistance due to the need of the customers that we're serving. Sorry, I wasn't supposed to speak, so I'm reading off some dollars. You're doing fine.
 So in just a moment, you're actually going to hear from one of the participants that I work with. And just as a career coach, I can say that one of the best parts of my job is just being able to see people grow. And these programs really, really offer people that opportunity. I have been able to house several folks.
 who wouldn't have been able to keep their jobs or attain additional training without being housed. It's extremely hard for people to move forward if just worrying about where they're going to sleep is their main concern.
 And most recently, the daycare assistance. I have had now three people be able to finish training because of the daycare dollars that are provided. All of them were paying large co-pays. So we had daycare covered, but the co-pay was something that was going to become a barrier to them completing training and finding a higher wage employment. So the daycare dollars have really...
 helped. Because of the work that Human Solutions does in general, we know that the issues of homelessness, housing, and employment are interrelated. And we want to thank you for your support for this program that's been a lifeline to the communities we serve. So thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your continued support. Thank you. Appreciate your being here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayors and Commissioners, for being here. My name is Alvin Clabon. I am representing Constructing Hope, who is one of the community partners that the former speakers were speaking about. Hold on. I have my notes. I wasn't supposed to be here today either.
 Everybody else is in Denver in the snowstorm. Pardon? Everybody else is in Denver in the snowstorm. Yeah, actually not this time. I do have an interesting story about a fire, though. I do appreciate you all coming here and making sure that the presentation goes on, even though the designated speakers were not able to be here. So thank you for being here. Thank you. It's kind of the way of the nonprofit where we all just kind of fit in where we fit in when we need to, do we not?
 So my name is Alvin Clavon. I am the case manager at Constructing Hope. We are a pre-apprenticeship program. I'm also representing Pat Daniels, who unfortunately had a fire impact at her home, and therefore why she's not here. So fires and snowstorms, oh my. For 15 years, the Constructing Hope mission has been rebuilding lives through skills training and education in the construction industry.
 We prioritize training for those with legal histories and those with low-income positions. And we all know that that's policy code for our brothers and sisters of African, American, Latino, and Native descent more than often. Along with our key partners at Oregon Tradeswomen Incorporated, we facilitate career track employment for those that are most underrepresented among the union halls of Portland and Multnomah County.
 Today I'm here to discuss the community-based provider perspective and the critical impact the EOP program plays in the success of our outcomes at Constructing Hope. Quite simply, without EOP, for many of our pre-apprentices, they would not have hope. I work with our partners, many like Human Solutions and some of the others that are here, to help bridge the gap between adversity and opportunity, between despair and hope, and often the
 difference between housing and homelessness. I'll share quite briefly the story of Robert Thomas, one of our pre-apprentices, who is not here today to represent himself because he got called into work. So he was very much a success story of one of our individuals who went through our pre-apprenticeship program. But prior to him being accepted into the local 29 Ironworkers Union Hall
 Robert came to us with a legal history, you know, and we had to overcome some barriers there to get him qualified. He needed housing, and through the ELP program, we were actually able to get him housing. He needed child care because as soon as he came out of incarceration, he soon inherited parentage of his child, not through the courts, but kind of like, here's your kid, you've been gone, he's yours now.
 And so without the EOP program, he simply would not have been able to get into the trade. He would not have had an opportunity to get the housing he needed and the child care that he needed. So it's just a common theme. So even today, as I've been a case manager for Constructing Hope only for a couple of months, housing is the most critical need for individuals that are just trying to get out of a bad position and into work.
 So without EOP, I just don't know how we'd accomplish that, quite simply. So with that, I don't want to beat a dead horse with a stick. I think you guys get the point.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Danny Van Voorhis. I am a construction career coach at Portland Youth Builders. Thank you for having us. PYB has been around for over 20 years, but specifically I'm not here to talk about our full-year high school completion program. I'm here to talk about our 11-week construction-specific for high school graduate program, which is funded through the EOP program.
 I'm lucky enough to get to work with the students who participate in this program. We run four cohorts a year for 18 to 26 year olds who want to get into the trades.
 It's a very intense 11-week training that we have run out of our Portland Youth Builders Campus in southeast Portland for about two and a half years now. And we're actually about a week away from finishing this most recent cohort that we've piloted in Hillsboro. And there's been a major demand for this type of program in Hillsboro. So much so, we had to turn folks away, which was really unfortunate, but unfortunately
 the funding does not exist for us currently to have a second trainer because we find it's really important that these individuals are getting very unique, specific one-on-one training as much as possible.
 So our students, Tuesday through Thursday, are on a construction work site. And then Friday they're in the classroom, just as they would be as an apprentice. Over the two and a half years, we've had a lot of success with this program. We've had students finish up our program in literally the next day or the next week.
 join a union apprenticeship. We've had students join the laborers, the ironworkers, the electricians, the carpenters, the roofers, the ironworkers, cement masons, you name it, we've had students join these unions. In a minute, I'm going to have one of our great graduates, Matt, speak about his experience prior to PYB, while he was at PYB, and what he's been doing since as a scaffold erector.
 I could have students lined up out the door to come and speak about the success of this program, but as he mentioned earlier, they're working. They're out building our city. High schools have turned their backs on the trades, and it's programs that the EOP are being able to fund that are saving the city, that are allowing the city to boom like it is right now. It'd be booming more had our high schools not turned their backs on the trades.
 I get passionate about this stuff because I believe in it. We operate out of the neighborhood I grew up in. I work with kids that I was once. I've been at PYB for 10 years now, and these last three years,
 We put more students into union apprenticeship than ever, and we'll continue to do that as long as the funding is there to allow us to do the work that we do. Thank you for allowing this platform to hear about all the great stuff that we're doing, and I appreciate your time. Thank you for the work you're doing. Thanks. We appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. How are you? Well, thank you. Thanks for being here. Yeah, that's a good face. Go ahead.
 Hello, good afternoon. Hi. My name is Brianna Garcia. I am here today to speak on my experience with the Southeast Works WorkSource Center, specifically the Prisoner Reentry Employment Program, otherwise known as PREP. So upon being released from prison, it was extremely difficult finding employment.
 This was something that I ended up just settling for warehouse jobs in order to meet the demands of my supervision. I continued doing this, working six days a week, overtime every day, to be able to make ends meet, until I was actually lost a job due to some complications during, while I was pregnant.
 So at that time, the unemployment department referred me to the WorkSource Center, and they got me connected with the prep with Cindy as my career coach.
 There I was able to learn how to create an effective resume. I learned how to write a cover letter. I learned how to interview. And I took a workshop on the scholarship application process. And through this workshop is actually how I learned about peer support.
 And when I learned about this, it was really that kind of defining moment where it really clicked for me that I could use my life experience in a way to support other people who were going through similar things as I had.
 So I applied for the scholarship and I did get the scholarship to attend a peer wellness specialist training. And while I was going through this training, I was actually faced with the possibility of an eviction.
 Cindy referred me to the EOP rental assistance program and was able to get me into that while I completed my training and actually get it extended so that I could complete my training to find employment. And I was also at this time issued gas cards so that I could make it to my training and to interviews. And one of those interviews actually landed me the job I have now as a peer wellness specialist.
 and working as a traditional healthcare worker has completely shifted my life around. The intense anxiety I used to feel about speaking on my past and my experiences is really no longer there. It has turned, I felt like, was my greatest weakness into actually my greatest strength. So thank you so much for giving me your time to speak today. Thank you for taking the time to come and tell us your story. We appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Misha Kelly. I am a single 34-year-old mother to my one and only five-year-old baby girl that just turned six. I started off a couple years ago trying to get into the healthcare field here in Oregon, and I went through the whole being homeless, in and out of the shelters, staying on people's couches, just trying to get another chance at life.
 Basically, I went to Human Solutions where they had the Health Care Career Northwest program. They had a lottery that was going on. It wasn't a guarantee I would be selected, so I went through all the hoops of doing everything they wanted me to do and trying to get in, and I actually was denied. I almost gave up, but I kept thinking, just keep striving, keep going. Something has to give. Everything happens for a reason.
 So, eventually, about a year to two years later, I came back to Human Solutions, actually just to sit in on a class, just to see, get some extra knowledge, stuff on my resume, and just more training, basically. And, yeah.
 Megan, which is my career coach, she actually remembered me from doing the lottery before. And she was kind of shocked to see that I was still going through the struggle, but she kept telling me just hang in there, things will get better. So she told me there's another grant that came open and she thought I would qualify so I should take a chance at it. I didn't think I would go through with it just because I remember the failure that I felt of not getting the lottery before.
 But I went ahead and I took a chance at it. So I went through the process and everything, and she gave me the information about the EOP and told me what it has to offer. But I was still hitting roadblocks. I still couldn't afford my daughter to be in daycare and go to classes and still try to carry a job and still try to have gas in my car with the prices fluctuating. There were just so many things, even having a working phone to be on to get an interview for a job.
 But I just kept going and striving, and she was definitely very supportive, my career coach. And she just, you know, told me to explain what my goal was and where I wanted to be. So I went to her and I sat down with her and I asked her, you know, if you give me this ability and give me the opportunity, I would be a good investment. I would make sure that I was a hard worker, successful worker. Anytime she needed me to show up, anytime she needed me to speak on behalf of anything, that I would be there to do that.
 And that was a promise that I made to my baby girl as well. I feel like everything I do in this life affects her too. Even though she's little, whatever choices I make, whatever mistakes I make, it's still going to benefit her too or it's going to harm her in one way or another. So I went ahead and I entered into the CNA program, which I actually have completed as of February of this year. I complete the CNA 1 and I am hoping to actually go into the CNA 2.
 With the help of the EOP program and also the child daycare with high co-pays, because, again, I wasn't able to afford that before I came to Megan, and just having somebody in my corner. Not everyone has family to be there to support them like that. So just knowing there was someone, a career coach, that saw something in me, even if I didn't see it, it was like you deserve a second chance and not to give up. So I feel like her striving and pushing me and just being there
 just to keep me going on that career path and not giving up on myself. I definitely appreciate that and the opportunity. And just being here today made me realize how much of an investment it really is and how much it really does benefit a lot of people in this town and city. So I'm definitely thankful for your time today. Thank you. Thank you. So good afternoon, Mayor and President. My name is Alaa Al-Mawla. I am from Iraq, Baghdad. I have come here on State 2013.
 and I still keep going to get my goal which is construction I am a civil engineer I work with a lot of company when they want to my country and when I met
 I'm still going. I'm not giving up. I work with the warehouse, city center, parking, but my goal is construction. So I keep going with the airco organization for EVG, and I get my coach, Mr. Surya, and he helped me to go with the program, the economic opportunity program, E-
 OP. So I get my goal with him and I go with his get me on union apprenticeship to get my goal with the construction and he helped me a lot also with the renting because I have to go training with the union like two weeks. So he helped me through the human solutions and I have also hard financial
 with the insurance through the union, and I come back to IRCO, and Mr. Surya helped me a lot to set up everything, insurance, for me, my kids, and my wife. And he set up for me, like, all the uniform, boots, everything, tools to set up with the construction. Now I'm happy because I work with the Portlanders,
 reconstruction with the Howard S. Wright since 2018, April. So maybe I have like one year here. I'm happy. So my appreciate to if you can keep an increased funding this program like this so that more people like me, they can go with the goal and get the construction job.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all for taking time off work and school for coming here. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Good afternoon. Hi. This is pretty crazy for me, like, talking to the commissioner and mayors, so I'm a little, like, woo, like. But I'm Matt. You heard Danny talk to you. He's my career coach. Ah, okay. And, um,
 Well, I first... I'm going to go before PYB. Before PYB, I moved to Portland from San Diego. And it was just the best option for me at the time in my life. And it's crazy that the best option for me was to move here and couch surf with my sisters and some friends I made along the way. So...
 I was couch surfing. I didn't know what I wanted to do with my life. I had no idea what I was going to do. Nothing, no clue. Until I was like, you know what, I'm just going to do something. I'm going to weld. So I was like, I'm just going to become a welder. I heard they made a lot of money. I went to Mount Hood. They charged me $950 per class. And I sold my car so that I can join that class again.
 And then they charged me another $950 so that I could join the next class, which was like the next semester. And I couldn't afford that. So I just told myself, you know what, I need a job right now. And I looked up a construction job on Craigslist. And there it said PYB.
 And that's Portland Youth Builders. And I was like, oh, this looks like they're hiring. So I went into that and I talked to somebody there. And they explained to me what it was. And I was like, oh, so it's an 11-week course, not an actual job. And they were like, yep. And I was like, you know what? I'm motivated. And it's like the best option for me right now.
 So I get there, and the first guy I talked to, his name's Sean Parks. He was my construction – what do we call him? Construction trainer. He was my construction trainer, and he just explained to me everything. He was like, I don't know why you paid $950 for a welding class when in the union, the carpenters give you that class and get you –
 They get you certified for that for free. So you get that for free in the union. So I just saw it. I was like, wow, here it is. And my first day there, I met other – there was four other guys in my class. And they taught us how to read a measurement tape, the tape measurement, because I've never – I never even – I wasn't –
 I never thought I'd be a construction worker. I didn't know how to read a tape. They taught us from the smallest things to the biggest things. How to work, how to respect people, how to respect women, how to respect elders, how to respect others, and the trades in the area. It's crazy. I never thought I'd be able to retire one day. And I never thought that I'd be making the money I am making right now. And
 It was just crazy to me to even cross that through my mind just because of where I came from and where I was going through. And I ended up graduating with the BOLI Tier 1 certificate, and that is one of the highest certificates to graduate PYB with. And I got a CPR class and a bunch of other certificates, and I joined the Carpenters Union, Local 1503.
 And I am doing scaffold erecting right now. And scaffold erecting was just an entry course. I mean, an entry position. But I love it. I love being on heights. I've been working here at Portland Building. I've been working at the Hyatt. I've been working at the airport right next to the Convention Center. I've been at the Merwin Dam. I've been many places working scaffold, even residential up in these hills. And I just love my job. And...
 I'm not saying this to brag or anything, but I make... In the year I've been working there, I made $42,000. And that's my first year. And I never ever thought I'd be making that money. And it's only getting better because I'm motivated even more. I learned all my work ethics. I learned them from Portland Youth Builders, and they are the ones that taught me how to work. And I was just some motivated kid. I have a...
 I have a credit score now. It's 700. Yeah. It's crazy. I never thought I'd be having a credit score. I never thought I'd be thinking of retirement. I'm even thinking about my future house now. That's what's going on in my head. I still have goals that Danny made us write down.
 he made us write down our three-year goal five-year goal and ten-year goal and i still have those in the notebook and i still believe that i can achieve those now with this job that i have and it's all thanks to them and i'm not i'm not saying i'm not i'm here to represent portland youth builders and whoever funded them and i just want to say thank you guys
 And I also, I'm not here to tell you my story for pity or for, oh, poor guy, he went through all this. I'm here because there's a lot more other dudes like me, women like me that are motivated with just the right amount of motivation. And we're just here. We just need someone to, you know, give us a hand. And it's because of Portland Youth Builders why when I moved here I fell in love with this city. Okay.
 And I just call it my home now. And I don't think about leaving because I have an amazing job, and I'm surrounded by amazing people who care. And my career coach there, Danny, he cared about me. I even went with him with some personal stuff that I was going through. And I'm probably going over time right now talking, but I just want to thank you guys. Thank you. I don't know who – I never met you guys, but I want to thank them too.
 And thank you, Amanda Fritz, Ted Wheeler, and Nick Fish. I just think it's crazy that I'm talking to you guys right now. I think it's great that you're talking to us. And more importantly, you're talking to a lot of other people who are going to hear about this and are watching it on TV. And I hope they listen to what you said because what you said –
 The word inspirational gets overused too much, but you were goal-oriented. You're focused. You saw an opportunity. You took the opportunity. And, man, you're on your way. Good salary, opportunity for advancement, better credit score than I have. You're doing great.
 You're doing great. I hope other people hear your story and that they're inspired to follow in your footsteps. Thank you for being here and sharing. Thank you for coming. This is your City Hall.
 And you're a Portlander now, so I really appreciate you sharing your story and taking the time to give back just by coming to tell the story, because sometimes people wonder, why do we fund programs like this, and who benefits anyway? And all of you who've come to tell us, you know, you're giving the face that this is what taxpayers' money has invested, and the taxpayers of Portland have invested in you.
 So that you now have a job that pays $42,000 a year and you're paying your taxes. Hopefully your arts tax as well. Yeah. That's how I found out I had like $42,000 a year. Very cool. I did my own taxes for the first time this year too. Isn't that great? You know, isn't it great the first time you do taxes and you're like, yay, I like it. Yeah, it was nerve-wracking. I was like, what am I doing? Well, thank you for being here. Thanks a lot. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Hi, good afternoon everybody. So my name is Veronica Rivera. I am the second cohort graduate for the EOP-PYC Pre-Apprentice Program. So right now I'm currently awaiting my results from my aptitude test. I chose to go through the local 48 IBW. It's a electricians apprenticeship union
 So prior to the program, I had been unemployed for about two years, simply because I was tired of working hard for corporate industry without being compensated accordingly, and it was a really huge weight on my chest wanting to contribute and go above and beyond and earn my wage, most importantly, only to be left feeling dispensable.
 So I first got connected to the NextGen program through my former high school, and NextGen gave me two options. One of them was to further my office administrative skills, and the other was to join the pre-apprentice program through POIC. So I chose to pursue and complete the 12 weeks of introduction to the trade back in October.
 brought me hope again back into my life that hard work could pay off. So the field I chose had a bit of a wait time. They didn't open up till January, so I had quite some time there. So I ended up getting reconnected through the NextGen program through my career coach who...
 They got me to become the teacher assistant for the current cohort of the POIC program while my application finishes getting processed. So I'd just like to thank all of the funders for allowing this program to become available because it has not only been a great incentive for me to stay drug free,
 in order to achieve my career goals, but has also been a blessing in getting my vision back and aligned with my goals and has been very empowering for myself as an able-bodied woman. What was your former high school? The NEA...
 So, Native American Youth Association. Wonderful. And how nice that you've obviously felt at home there and went back and they helped you even after graduation. It seems that we are all here connected. It's amazing to me. I've gone through IRCO, NEA, and now POIC. So it's really great to continue to be in the loop.
 continue to be supported by everybody. Yeah, and I want to say to everybody here who's in the trades, we have lots of good jobs at the city in the Water Bureau, in the Environmental Services, in various other, and for electricians as well, so keep us in mind. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Thank you. That's it, yeah. Thank you very much. So, it's now, do you want us to adopt the report? Yeah, if you wouldn't mind. We'll do that with the mayor. Mayor, I move the adoption of the report.
 Accept, right? Accept. I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish to accept the report, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fritz. Well, thank you all for your patience in helping us get a really good ending to the day. I appreciate the information and the collaboration between the various partners, and I look forward to continuing discussions on how we can continue to support workforce development in Portland. Aye.
 Fish? Well, Mayor and Commissioner Fritz, we started today at 9.30, and it's been one of the longer days that we've had as a council. I think we saved the best for the last. And I want to thank everybody that took time out of their busy schedules to be here. I agree with Commissioner Fritz and the mayor that we sometimes overuse the word inspirational, but these were very inspirational stories about...
 about people overcoming challenges in their lives and moving ahead. Nothing is more important in a community than supporting each other and helping people achieve the best that they can be. That is really the essence of what community is about. And government has a role. The private sector has a role.
 The nonprofit world has a role. The faith community has a role. The philanthropic community has a role. But really, what could be more important than helping someone achieve a dream and reach their full potential, become self-sufficient? Today's stories were very inspiring, and I'm honored that I was here to hear them, and I'm pleased that the city continues to invest in the Economic Opportunities Program that gives people a chance to achieve their very best. Hi. Wheeler. Hi.
 Well, just what I said earlier, I'm glad the public had the opportunity to hear from these fine individuals, hear their stories, hear about the great opportunities that exist in this community. If you're out there watching and you're sitting there and you're wondering what the future holds for you and how to walk through that door, any of the organizations that were mentioned today, they are all there for you.
 And as you heard today from the many people who testified, you can achieve amazing things. You can achieve amazing things in this community. So I'm very happy with the work we heard about today. I want to thank our colleagues at Prosper Portland, at Work Systems, all the community organizations that were represented today that helped lift people in this community in so many important ways. I vote aye. The report is accepted and we're adjourned.
 Oh, that was fun. It's quite a long day.