all right let's get to work good morning everyone and welcome to the march 16th meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll here fish here saltzman novick here here
 Welcome, everyone. We're going to get going here in a minute. We have some communications items up front. We'll take those first and in a moment where we allow citizens to sign up to speak on any subject of their choosing, and they'll get to do that. Then we'll get into our regular calendar. We're going to mess around with the regular calendar because Commissioner Saltzman is not here, and I will be leaving at 1130 to get started.
 Welcome Lord Sebastian Coe to the City of Portland for the World Indoor Track and Field Championships that begin shortly. So, therefore, we're going to want to make sure we get emergency ordinances addressed while there are still four of us here.
 and one of the items that's up this morning is a Fire Bureau item introduced by Commissioner Saltzman, who's not here, so I might simply hold that item over to next week and let him and the Fire Bureau report on that next week. Is that a problem, Chief? Okay. All right. I'll talk to the Chief. All right. Why don't you talk to the Chief about that, and we will then get going on communications items, starting with item number 238.
 request of jeffrey whittle to address council regarding chronic misconduct in and around council crest park good morning what's that i'm starting the uniforms next week so she'll do it okay good morning good morning until about five years ago the historic misconduct and property damage done by late night partiers in the council crest neighborhood was effectively prevented
 for many years. Then the city changed its management strategy. Now four bureaus respond after damage and violations occur, expending more net resources than before. The area is being degraded and regaining its reputation as the late night party spot.
 Requests by Swirl and Sweeney in 2013 and again in 2015 to reinstate the proven management system were rejected by the Parks Bureau and Commissioner Fritz on behalf of the city. Why would the proven methods that consumed fewer city resources and prevented degradation of the park and neighborhood be rejected? For two reasons, it seems. The first reason, the elephant in the room that wasn't mentioned earlier,
 City bureaus have difficulty cooperating. Too often, they protect their separate resources to the detriment of the city overall. Here, no one bureau wants to pay to reinstate the former system, even if the net cost is less than what the city's doing now. The bureaus are unwilling so far to establish an overhead funding mechanism. Recently, a parks employee was removing gravel left over from road sanding
 and spent the better part of two days with the Parks Bureau's little sweeper and blower. I remarked what a shame transportation's big sweeper hadn't taken 20 or 30 minutes and swept the park roadway when it swept the street just outside. I was told transportation won't help inside parks. This is ridiculous, expensive, and wasteful. We need a city manager to assure the bureaus always work in the city's best interests overall.
 I call on each of you to endorse a change to a city manager form. The second and stated reason, there is worse crime elsewhere. We understand and support equity. My wife has taught ELL students for decades in the David Douglas District. We know how much that community needs additional resources and support. But equity sought by the Grading Council Crest to achieve parity with Southeast 122nd
 is racing to the bottom. Reinstating the proven management system at Council Crest will free up needed resources for other deserving neighborhoods.
 Please conserve our city resources. Stop degrading our neighborhood. Reinstate the proven system at Council Crest and get us a city manager. Does anyone really think we should continue unnecessarily degrading this neighborhood, especially when it is consuming additional precious city resources? Now, Nancy Seaton, the chair of the board of SWIRL,
 wants to comment on her communication very briefly. All right, I'll give you just a moment, Nancy, because you're not signed up. Right, right, yes. I just wanted to express the Swirl Board's support again for the neighbors' initiatives. We wrote a letter in support of some five measures that could be taken to improve conditions at Council Press Park in December 2015. I can leave that with you again. Please do. That's sent in. All right, thank you both very much. I have a copy at my office and Commissioner Fritz's office.
 We have it. Thank you. And we have much more information that we've given to the Bureau Chiefs, to each of you, and to your Chiefs of Staff in the past. We can do it again if you'd like. All right. Thank you. Okay, Item 239. Request of Charles Johnson to address Council regarding surviving the Ides of March. Hashtag Black Lives Matter. TProjects.info. Morning. Morning.
 Good morning, City Council Members. Happy St. Patrick's Eve. For those who don't know, of course, swirl is part of the magic letters of what really matters in the city. SW Southwest Council Crest. We dare not let that neighborhood be degraded while other communities don't have streets and sidewalks in our town. Thank you.
 Recently, we had the pleasure of having 40% of y'all, well, actually half of the people who are sitting in front of me, came over to the county commission building at the invitation of the Buckman Neighborhood Association, part of their hopefully successful strategy to keep their pool, despite the belief that we need a 5% across-the-board reduction so that we can improve the lives of some of our homeless citizens. I realized that...
 revenue enhancement is a difficult job for you all because that's actually what we need. We don't need 5% across the board reductions. We need fair and equitable taxation in this city where the people who are holding on to the wealth that they make off of this city reinvest it in the quality of life of all the citizens.
 So I wish that you were able to find the enthusiasm for a fair enhanced revenue instead of a 5% cut. But I am at least glad that, as will be coming up later on the agenda, we're going to talk about how to put more dollars into serving the most needy and distressed citizens. Thank you.
 which is why tprojects.info is in my sign-up. We're highly reliant upon transition projects to do the frontline services. I hope that the mayor is not overly reliant on the executive director of TPI to learn about how those frontline employees are feeling stressed
 stressed, supported, undersupported. They have very difficult jobs. If the city charter had been written with wisdom, you all would be required to walk through the transition project's day room before you could get to your offices and see...
 The negative side of what's happening. There's also some wonderful things happening. The mayor will be going down to Pioneer Square, which isn't much of a public space right now. But the world is coming here to see Portland as the International Amateur Athletic Federation starts their championships. And there's not been, as I could tell, any...
 show off dramatic sweeps to push the people sleeping off of Fifth and Sixth Avenue away. So I want to thank you for dealing with the world the way it is and trying to adjust the budget to help those people. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for raising the issue of Pioneer Square. I was down there a couple of days ago and was kind of disturbed at all the fencing and such, and so I just wanted to tell folks at home we have world-class athletes, which is very difficult to say at 9.30 in the morning, coming, and their safety, given some of the events that have happened,
 worldwide about such events is really the reasoning for that increased security. But it's very different from our usual welcoming pioneer courthouse square that definitely is everybody's living room. So I appreciate you raising that concern or that issue, Charles. Go ahead.
 And the activities in Pioneer Courtside Square are primarily free and open to the public. Right, they are. So that's what that's being set up for. And the transit centers, I mean, the transit services and Travel Portland are still open to everybody, too. It's just that there needs to be more of a checkpoint to get in. It's not all bad. The vehicular single occupancy, there's no single occupancy cars in that one lane right there because it's totally closed. So that's not all bad. Thank you. It's true. Thank you.
 All right, thank you. Let's ask, I think the next two would like to come together. I think so, yes. 240 and 241, please. 240, request of Pete Wall to address council regarding tools for troops. And 241, request of Pat Bilo to address council regarding tools for troops. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning, welcome. We represent Tools for Troops, a...
 a charity set up to support the veterans of the five u.s armed forces we collect tools refurbish them where necessary and distribute them freely to the uh to veterans at stand downs at the events of our own making at the american legion and various other events that that come up so we're focused on the portland metro area this is our third year in existence
 And we have some outreach to Newport, Grants Pass, and the Bend, Redmond area as we attempt to grow. One of the obvious difficulties for any charity is funding. So, yes, we are looking for monetary donors.
 We're seeking assistance in our growth, which is based on chapters. So we're looking at having a chapter in Vancouver, one in Lincoln City, one in Salem, one in Lebanon, one out in Troutdale. By this means, we'll be able to grow, expand, and help our veterans that much more. How do we collect the tools? We attend the city spring cleanup days.
 We'll take in most anything. And also we will go to garage sales, estate sales. We'll extend a, by way of return, an IRS tax exempt form, which often gets the owner more than $5 for his or her hammer that they're trying to sell. We also would like to put it on record that we've,
 In extending our presence, we've been on the American Heroes Radio Network out of Florida nationwide. Most recently in December, we were on KATU-TV on the news channel. Any assistance that the city can give us in supporting our veterans, we would much appreciate. Thank you for listening. Thank you.
 One thing that you could do is right on our cable television right now, tell both potential donors and troops how can they find out about where to donate, where to get tools from you. Thank you. Our website, I'm Pat Bilo, and our website is tools4troops.org. We had the honor of meeting Mayor Hales at the 9-11 stand-down event yesterday,
 And one of the gentlemen that we gave tools to when Mayor Hale was standing at our booth, he was a handyman. And since he didn't have tools and he had to borrow his boss's tools, he made half as much money as if he had his own tools. He was in tears when he left because we gave him all the tools he needed, and he was able to double what he made.
 And one of the things after we had a conversation with Mayor Hales is we were talking to him about maybe placing some barrels where the permits and the development were where contractors came in so that we could get collections. And we have our posters are there 20 by 17. And this is just a smaller one. But we put these on the barrels and we come and collect the tools.
 and we give them to veterans. We do not charge them. We make sure they're in working order. We've given away over $100,000 in tools from mid-2014 through the end of last year. And we know we've helped so many homeless veterans, and I know that's on your agenda to try and help find homes, and we're trying to give tools to
 to veterans. So any help we could get to partner with us, that would be great. We partner with
 the Easter Seals and several employment organizations in the state of Oregon. And they may have a veteran that needs a particular tool or a particular set of tools. Maybe they were stolen or they're starting a new job. And we do our very best to get them whatever tools they might need. So any help or publicity that you guys might help us with, it helps us all help and thank our veterans for their service.
 Well, we really appreciate what you're doing and the fact that you're here today highlighting this. Unfortunately, Commissioner Saltzman is not here, whose Bureau of Development Services is primarily responsible for the Permit Center, but we can follow up on that. But by happenstance, we have representatives of the Local Home Builders Association here, Paul Grove, who's back there under the light, and Justin Wood next to the clock, who are leaders in the local construction industry. So I hope while you're here, you'll do a little networking with them, because obviously the Local Home Builders Association
 community could help as well as other folks that are coming into the permit center otherwise interested in supporting the cause so you know you got lucky in terms of them being here today we'll make sure that commissioner saltzman is connected to this idea as well
 The other thing that you could do is, in terms of the neighborhood cleanups, I'm sure that the Office of Neighborhood Involvement could help get the word out, and we could perhaps have a barrel at various community cleanup events. So if you call 823-4000, which is the all-purpose city and county information number, and tell them that this is what you'd like to be connected with somebody in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement who could discuss this with you. Oh, that would be great. Yes, because usually people bring junk to it.
 and it's a bulky waste cleanup, but I'm sure that as people are cleaning out the garages, they may find, as I have, that I have two sledgehammers. I don't even know why I need one sledgehammer. We attend several a year, and that's a great idea to reach out to the main source for that. We can definitely help for that. Oh, thank you so much. Hey, thanks. We're looking forward to working more with you. Thank you very much. Let's see it again. Two. Two.
 Okay, let's take the last communications item, please, number 242.
 Request of Alan Rood to address council regarding lane changes at Foster and 60th and the traffic signal crosswalk Traffic signal crosswalk signal at 62nd and foster Holgate. He is not going to be speaking today. Oh, all right Thank you. Give him another opportunity. All right, then. Let's see. Are there any items to be removed from the consent calendar? I don't have any 254 which one the 254?
 254? Yes. Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. Yes, I did have that. All right. We're pulling item 254 to regular calendar. Any others? If not, then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Let's move to item 243. Accept report on new Portland fire and rescue duty uniforms. Okay. Come on up, Chief. Send Liam in with the draft one.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for taking the time to listen to us this morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, Erin Janssen's Fire Chief for Portland Fire and Rescue, and I have with me Lisa Williamson. Lisa is our Clothing Officer who works out of our Logistics Section. So like most sworn professions, Portland Fire and Rescue has a longstanding tradition that represents our identity of wearing uniforms, that represent our identity, profession, and esprit de corps.
 We've currently been wearing our Ben Davis style jeans for over 30 years and our current duty shirts that are the medium blue shirts for 20 years. Unfortunately, our current duty uniforms do not meet NFPA 1975 standards, and we've also had significant quality control issues with those also.
 So in order to both meet NFPA safety standards and reduce uniform replacement costs, the logistics section, in conjunction with the uniforms committee, recommended a duty uniform change to an NFPA-compliant Nomex uniform, which has been recommended by both OSHA and NFPA.
 So thanks to the conscientious efforts of Lisa Williamson, Portland Fire and Rescue conducted numerous wear tests with various groups of firefighters. She received overwhelming support for the new uniform and convinced us to pursue the change. And she did this in three ways. The uniforms meet, the new uniforms meet current OSHA and NFPA recommendations, as I stated earlier. What's NFPA? National Fire Protection Association. Thank you.
 She calculated that the longer wearing uniforms will save money in the long run and did the complete change of our duty uniform over two fiscal years, so therefore not requiring any additional funding to do a uniform change, which is unusual. And with wear tests with our firefighters, our firefighters love the new uniform.
 So she also coordinates with transition projects and others to donate any used clothing items that no longer meet professional standards yet continue to have some useful life. So any kind of used items that will be turning in will be put to good use there. So beginning Monday, March 21st, Portland Fire and Rescue is going to look a little different.
 So all of our sworn firefighters who work on the line will be wearing a new black Nomex uniform, as Lisa is wearing today. Our 40-hour chief officers will continue to wear the white uniform shirts, as I'm wearing. And our staff officers will have the option to wear either the black uniform or the white, but the medium blue will no longer be in existence.
 and our dress uniform and turnout uniforms will obviously remain the same. So with that, I just wanted to introduce that to council and to all Portlanders that beginning Monday, we're going to look a little different. And I'd like to thank all the people who worked to make this much needed change happen and congratulate and thank Lisa for, in addition to her regular job duties, managing the complete sizing and replacement of uniforms for over 600 members.
 as you might imagine, was a little bit of a task. And she did great. Thank you. Looks sharp. Are you going to hold it up so we can see it? That's the old one. This is the old one. Lisa's wearing the new one. That's the old one. So the new one is, and it's Nomex, just like, or it's a lighter weight of Nomex, which is used for firefighter turnout clothing, so it's fire resistant. Right.
 versus all the polyester that's involved in our old uniform, which was very dangerous. So this is a great step in improving firefighters. And the choice of color, is there a safety standard there too? That was what all the firefighters wanted because they believed it will stay cleaner longer. I was thinking that. Yeah. It would make no sense to have the pale blue. This goes to the cleaners often. You are right. Yeah.
 Seems like soot is kind of in that color range. So in this case, black is the new black. Black is the new black. So...
 Last time I was at your warehouse, there was quite a stock of old uniforms. Are those all going to transition projects? They're staged. They can only take so many at a time, and so Lisa works with them to stage and move things through. Any other community organizations that can use those? You probably already researched that. I mean, TBI is great, but I just wanted to make sure that they're going to a good use. We're going to try to provide it for a transitions project, and they said they can accept it as long as we can stage it. Yeah.
 because of the numbers that they have working there. So there's really no wastage involved here? Correct. We're not sending anything to landfill? We believe that it's going to save money ultimately. We were having enormous quality control issues with our old uniforms, even just ordering them in, and inconsistent sizing, poor quality, poor stitching, buttons, zippers, all of those things. Hating. Presumably you take the Levin signature off before you pass it on. Oh, yeah, absolutely.
 It would be fun to put some on eBay and see if you could raise some money for the bureau, but some people might kind of like to have a firefighter, you know, a game-worn uniform. You know, Chief, when Bug Clark was moved a couple years ago, he had a house sale, and he sold the raincoat that he used that he exposed himself to art. A lot of money, huh? So I think when someone finds your uniform, that could also maybe be a big ticket. You never know. Yeah.
 Great. Thank you very much. Any other questions or comments for Chief? Thank you for the work you put into this, and it does, yes, I'm pleased that we're going to be saving money on cleaning uniforms. But I'm disturbed by what Commissioner Fish just said, I have to say, because I would have hoped that that raincoat would be in the Oregon Historical Society. So I need to tell Terry Chimchuck to track it down. Well, it's in the equivalent. It's in the collection of one Thomas Lauderdale.
 Okay, that might be even better. All right. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this report? Then a motion, please, to accept the report. Second. Roll call.
 I'm sorry that Commissioner Saltzman is not here because this clearly is both an efficiency and a safety issue, and that's dear to both of his – both of those are dear to his heart. And thank you to Chief Janssen and Lisa and others for all of your good work. It's very impressive, and I'm sure that we'll get lots of good press coverage for how efficiently and cost-effectively this has been done. Thank you. Aye. Yes, thank you for the presentation.
 Chief Janssen's recently announced that she would be retiring in due course, and I look forward to the public celebration of her service to our city. I had the honor of being on a panel that actually initially reviewed her application to become a chief, and it's been an honor to work with her. And thank you for an outstanding presentation today. Bye. No, thank you.
 Thank you for the presentation. I, too, am looking forward to a raucous celebration of Chief Janssen's career. And I would not take Commissioner Fritz's suggestion about auctioning off game-used uniforms lightly. I bet you could raise some money off that. Yes. Aye. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move on to – is someone here from the auditor's office to deal with 254? Yes, they're here. Okay. Let's go ahead and deal with 254, and then we'll move into the regular agenda. Okay.
 amend contract with Moss Adams LLP to extend by one year for financial and federal compliance audits of fiscal year 2015-2016 and increase compensation by $599,750. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, I am Fiona Earle, Principal Management Auditor in Audit Services Division of the City Auditor's Office
 and I manage the city's contract for financial audits. I'm here today to ask for council's authority to extend this contract for a final one-year term. When we went out to bid in 2012, and we had three respondents. It was given to Moss Adams by an evaluation committee,
 The contract was written in the normal way for these types of financial audit contracts. It was a three-year term with the option to extend for two single one-years, and this would be the second of those one-year terms. The amount of money authorized in the initial contract covered the first three years. So this final amount of money would apparently be a huge increase if you measure it against the initial contract amount, but we did in fact measure
 get Moss Adams to reduce their fees by 3 percent compared to the previous year. And they managed to do this by working with the Bureau of Revenue Services to find ways to reduce the hours they propose for this coming year. So I think I will simply ask if you have any questions about this extension. No, and do we need to adopt this amendment that you provided earlier?
 I believe so. That was... It's just a technical change, right? Technical change about if there would be any further amendments, how they would be approved. Okay. And they would have to come back to council if it involved dollar amounts. You want us to adopt that amendment? Yes, please. So moved. So we're moving the amendment described in the March 15th memorandum from Azurl. Any discussion of the amendment roll call?
 Ritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Then if not, it passes to second reading. Thank you very much. Okay, now let's move to regular agenda item number 255.
 strengthen regulations for tree preservation in development situations okay so let's figure out how we want to proceed on this Commissioner Saltzman is not here but apparently has an amendment this was scheduled for second reading we would normally be voting we also were approached this morning by some folks that wanted to speak on the amendment and I was not aware of that until just this morning and said that we would try to provide that opportunity but
 But he's not here. So my recommendation, I think, is that we take testimony at some future council session, not necessarily today, and that we take action at some future council session. Mayor, I asked... I was unaware of the amendment, so I asked Commissioner Saltzman's office to furnish me with a copy. I told Matt Grum of his staff that as a courtesy to him, I would offer the amendment so it was on the table. And my suggestion is...
 that we set this over until next week, take testimony next week, and vote on the ordinance. As the co-sponsor, or actually the initiator of this ordinance, I was also not aware of the amendment and hadn't
 I was aware that something might be coming, but I hadn't seen it until this morning. This is a stopgap measure, and we are coming back to council on the 30th of March, which is two weeks from today, with a report on the tree code and a request to establish a committee to look at...
 to do a thorough review of the tree code. And if council wishes, we can get that going sooner rather than later. The request was for the next fiscal year, how we could get started earlier, and we could bring back amendments as soon as the committee's recommended it. I'm really concerned about putting an amendment on the table that the majority of the public hasn't seen, that has not been published even on the Tuesday memo, and which –
 There has been an opportunity for public review of what we have on the table, which is intended to be, as I said, a stopgap measure. It's not the be-all and end-all. There will be more opportunities in just two weeks for people to testify. If Commissioner Saltzman and others want to put an amendment on the table or want to amend the ordinance, they could file this coming Monday and have something on the council agenda, which everybody in the public could then review.
 So my preference would be to adopt the stopgap, to vote on the stopgap today, and then continue the discussions, as I'm sure we will, several times over the next year. Well, I understand your desire to try to resolve this, Commissioner Fritz, but I'm uncomfortable with leaving a sponsor of this ordinance behind who has –
 unfortunately not able to be here this morning and has proposed an amendment. So my, my, uh, what I'd like to do is, uh, I'm going to accept a motion to adopt this amendment. Is there a second for that motion? Okay.
 For courtesy purposes, second. So I'm going to accept the motion to consider the amendment, put it on the table, and thereby make it available to the public. And I think I'm going to set the whole thing over to March 30th so that we can take up this ordinance and the report on the same day so that people that are interested in the tree code will see what we're doing. I'll take testimony on the amendment.
 as the council considers it that day. Does that make sense? Mayor Hales, can I forecast something?
 Commissioner Fritz, I think, has rightly characterized this as a stopgap measure. It is actually an ordinance, which means it's not effective for 30 days. If we set this over for two weeks and we take testimony on the amendment and we have a final package, I probably will sponsor an amendment to put an emergency clause on the ordinance so we can proceed. Actually, I appreciate the concern and the support, Commissioner Fish. However, that's really difficult for staff in the Bureau of Developmental Affairs
 your development services if we put an emergency on that means that they
 They wouldn't know what was going to be in the rule, and then they're supposed to then implement it the very next day without the opportunity to do training with their staff, without the ability to put out brochures. I was, because you referred to it as a stopgap and it would otherwise be a 30-day lag until it actually becomes effective, I would propose it. If that's not the will of the sponsor, I won't propose it, but it's my intention to cast my vote on the 30th.
 So I'm going to set this over to the 30th. So in that case, Mayor, we're going to need more than an hour on the 30th, and you have another time certain scheduled for 3 o'clock on the 30th. I'm not sure why we'd need more than an hour to consider this amendment and a little bit of testimony on the amendment. Well, what's on the council agenda is the report on the tree coat. Okay. Okay.
 The TRECO. So what's on the council calendar that morning? On the afternoon, and it's the Office of Equity and Human Rights and your report. All right. Well, I might be willing to accommodate this and either move that time certain or otherwise make this work. Thank you. I just want to make sure that we are open with people who are –
 planning to testify on both issues okay all right so i'm going to continue this to the 30th we'll make the amendment available to anybody that's interested and we'll take this up then along with the report okay item 256 amend an intergovernmental agreement with multnomah county to continue to provide house bill 3194 offender law enforcement supervision and support okay assistant chief henderson is here to present this good morning
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, I'm Donna Henderson, Assistant Chief of Investigations for the Portland Police Bureau. This is Lieutenant Dakin, who is a lieutenant in our Detective Division. What this amendment does is just allow pass-through money from the state through Multnomah County to the Portland Police Bureau so that we can provide one officer that partners with Multnomah County to investigate.
 kind of monitor some of our customers in the MCJRP
 program that we have. Do you want to tell us what that acronym means? MCJRP stands for Multnomah County Justice Reinvestment Program. And if you'd like, I'll read a quick paragraph that kind of explains what it is. Justice reinvestment seeks to improve public safety by reducing spending on incarceration in order to reinvest savings in evidence-based strategies that decrease crime.
 Our program is a collaborative effort to improve assessment of criminal offenders in Multnomah County and provide them a continuum of community-based services and sanctions. This combination of early assessment and intervention is provided to reduce recidivism while protecting public safety.
 The distinct thing about our program is that we have a number of agencies that have worked together for over two years. We arrive at 7 o'clock in the morning every Friday to discuss what we need to do next.
 and the partners include, obviously, the Portland Police, Gresham Police, Fairview, Troutdale, Sheriff's Office, the Department of Community Justice, Oregon Judicial Department, District Attorney's Office, Crime Citizens Commission, Defense Bar, CODA, and the Multnomah County Local Public Safety Coordinating Council. If you have the report in front of you, if you go to page 11, it gives you the numbers that we have produced this year.
 or this quarter, and it shows the individuals that we have contacted as a pair. And by the way, the team is one Portland police officer and one Multnomah County officer, and we work as a team. And the whole point is to just keep these folks on track, make sure that they get to the services they need, and hopefully to keep them out of the system in the future. So the fundamental purpose of this whole effort is –
 alternative sentencing as opposed to simply sending people to jail. Absolutely. Sending them to prison. Yeah, to prison. Yes. So that we don't have to build new prisons, but still maintaining the safety of our public. Yeah, so taking people's individual cases, coordinating the work between parole officers and the Bureau. Okay. Yes. All right. So questions about this program?
 Not a question, but a comment. I mean, Multnomah County's program has been recognized as sort of the model program for justice reinvestment in the state. There's a sort of a quirk in the funding of our criminal justice system where actually, in a way, counties have a financial incentive to send more people to prison because then they're in the state budget. If they're in jail or in supervision, they're in the county budget. And –
 Representative Jennifer Williamson and a lot of other good folks a couple of sessions ago were trying to figure out how to put systems in place that give counties the resources to keep people out of prison and Maluma County stepped up early to propose a method of doing that and I wish that it was being funded more adequately by the state and we'll take another shot at that but your work is fantastic and I'm glad to see it highlighted. Thank you very much.
 Thank you both. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, it is an emergency ordinance. Let's take action, please. Thank you very much for your work. Christine Nieves, one of my policy advisors, worked on this with then-County Chair Marisa Madrigal when she was working there. And so this is a program that's especially important to everyone in our office, and I'm glad to see it moving forward. Aye. Yes. Thank you. Aye. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 Yeah, I like the service coordination team and a few other efforts. I mean, trying to work smarter, treat people as individuals is a way to be both more humane, more safe, and save some money in the bargain. So good work. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to 257, please. Thank you.
 Authorize the city attorney to take legal action against Monsanto Company and its successor entities to recover public funds that have been and will be expended by the city as a result of the manufacture and distribution of polychlorinated biphenyls. Good morning, City Attorney Reif.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners, Tracy Reeve, Portland City Attorney, and with me is John Fisk of Gomez Trial Attorneys in San Diego. I'm here to ask you to authorize us to file a legal action against the Monsanto Company and its successor entities, Formacia and Solution, to recover amounts... I beg your pardon. Okay.
 to recover amounts that the city has expended and will continue to expend to address PCB contamination in water bodies within the city of Portland, including the Willamette River and the Columbia Slough.
 We have reviewed substantial documentary evidence, which we believe demonstrates that Monsanto continued to produce and sell PCBs after it was apparent that they presented significant environmental danger and could not be contained, and that Monsanto did so with a profit motive. And Mr. Fisk is going to show you just a few of those documents this morning, which
 Six other West Coast cities to date have filed legal actions against Monsanto. We've been monitoring this for some time, and we believe that if the city is going to file such an action, now is the appropriate time to do so. The other six cities have filed in a variety of federal district courts
 And as Mr. Fisk is going to describe in a bit more detail, there's currently a motion pending before the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation to consolidate those actions in one federal district court. And that motion is going to be heard in Santa Barbara on March 31st.
 We believe that if the city of Portland is going to participate in litigation against the Monsanto Company, it would be appropriate to do so at this time when that litigation is really getting up and running.
 One other thing that I wanted to mention is that the question has come up about whether the timing of this is being driven by the status of the Portland Harbor Superfund site. As you all know, the preliminary plan for the Portland Harbor is scheduled to be released by EPA the first week of April.
 And really, the connection in timing is quite fortuitous, as I say. We've been monitoring these potential legal theories and potential claims against Monsanto for some time, and really our request that we initiate legal action at this point in time, if we're going to do so, is driven more by the status of those cases and by the pending motion for consolidation before the –
 joint panel than it is by the Portland Harbor Superfund. Monsanto will not be brought into the Portland Harbor as a potentially responsible party. These are some unique legal theories, and it's not within circular liability. That's not to say that there's no relationship, because of course the city has expended significant amounts investigating PCBs
 both within and without the Superfund site, and those funds would be among those for which we would seek to recover. So there is some relationship, and it will inure to the benefit of our participation in the Superfund and the amounts that the public has already expended to deal with PCBs, but we are not requesting legal action at this time because of the status of the Superfund action. Okay.
 So with that, I'm going to introduce Mr. Fisk and turn it over to him. And I'll just say that should the council elect to pass this resolution and authorize us to file, we have already had significant meetings with...
 Gomez trial attorneys and have communicated with the other cities that are initiating litigation. And our intention would be to have the city be represented both by the Portland City Attorney's Office and by the same outside counsel, which is Gomez trial attorneys and Barron and Budd out of Texas. Gomez trial attorneys are in San Diego, California, that are jointly representing the other six cities. Welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Good morning. My name is John Fisk.
 I am an attorney from Gomez Trial Attorneys. I'm a civil litigator and a trial attorney. And currently, my firm and the law firm of Barron & Budd represent six other cities, which include Seattle, Spokane, Oakland, Berkeley, San Diego, and San Jose.
 And we, on behalf of those cities, have filed six individual lawsuits in federal court against Monsanto Company for PCB contamination. And PCBs are polychlorinated by phenols. They are chemicals that are toxic. They cannot be contained to their original application. And they last decades, if not centuries. Okay.
 And in each of those situations, while each city has its own unique water body, in each of those situations, the story of the fate and transport of the chemical is the same. And so what has occurred is that up and down the West Coast and, frankly, all over the country, municipalities are being held responsible to pay for chemicals that Monsanto knew were a global contaminant and environmental problem.
 Currently, the procedural posture of the case is that we have filed what's called a petition for transfer under 1407. This requests of the federal court system, the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation, a coordination of all of the cases in front of one federal judge.
 It does not mean that the cases are combined into one case, but rather that they are all coordinated in front of one judge to save time and money and to be more efficient in the litigation of the case.
 because it coordinates all pretrial discovery and legal motions. So as Tracy explained that to me, this is not a class action lawsuit, but by putting all the cases before one judge, there's an efficiency result that occurs to all the parties. That's exactly right. So your case would be originally filed, if it were pre-MDL, it would be originally filed in the district that it is located, so in Oregon.
 If it were filed after the MDL, there may or may not be a choice to file it directly into the MDL. However, it's a separate case that the City of Portland has that could be settled before, during, or after, or tried before, during, or after any of the other cities, just depending on how the procedure moves forward.
 Tracy, could you explain in plain English to us why the impact statement says there's minor out-of-pocket expenses but no other exposure to the city if we move forward?
 While we have not yet, obviously, and would not do so prior to council authorizing us to initiate legal action retained outside council, we have had discussions with Gomez trial attorneys and Baron Embed on what the terms of the representation would be should council authorize us to move forward. We would propose retaining those firms, as have the other cities, on a contingency fee basis where any –
 attorney's fees and out-of-pocket costs that would be paid would be paid out of the recovery, if any, from Monsanto in the event the city were not successful in recovering any amounts, either at trial or in settlement, we would not owe costs or fees. Pretty good deal. But then what would be the out-of-cost expenses?
 The out-of-cost expenses would be treated the same way they'd be payable out of the fees. There would be some minor costs to our office, and we believe we could cover those in our regular budget and not any additional... But that was Commissioner Fish's request.
 question was about the impact statements that there might be some other out-of-city expenses. No, I understood, Commissioner Fritz, that the office will be managing the relationship with the law firm, so there might be incidental costs they incur, and they're just flagging that. But even if we don't recover anything, we don't have to pay the investigation costs or other fees. They're filing fees and document production and that kind of stuff. Correct. That's
 So from the taxpayer point of view, we're saying that there's very little downside and there's a huge upside if this law firm is successful because we'll recover a big chunk of that recovery will come to the city. Exactly. Exactly.
 And we don't have time today to go through the legal theory of this case, but I understand it's generally described as a novel legal theory, so we may be making law here. Is that true, Mr. Gomez? I'm Mr. Fisk, and I work for Mr. Gomez. Excuse me. Yeah, that's fine. I just don't want to impersonate him, in public at least. So, yeah.
 I wouldn't describe it as novel. What this is, every state law is different, and even though we're suing in federal court, you sue under the state law that you are located in.
 And we are suing essentially on claims of product liability, of public nuisance, and of negligence. And there have been many other cases in which a product manufacturer is held responsible for a product that contaminates water. The public knows this family of claims as polluter pays. There is a polluter. There is some damage to the water stream in a community, and we're trying to hold that polluter liable for the damages.
 Yeah, essentially a lot of folks think of environmental law as circular litigation, which is involved in a releaser, transporter, arranger type liability. Here what we do is we look to the product manufacturer who knew that the product was going to cause an environmental contamination problem in the first place, and therefore our theory is that it's negligent and creates a public nuisance.
 to release that product into the stream of commerce anyway, knowing that there is no way you can contain that product to its original application, which is the nature of many chemical products. But this one is very specific to Monsanto. You had some slides of the particular documents that you wanted to touch on. I'm not sure how this works. It's working.
 So PCB chemicals are very specific in the sense that they cannot be contained to the original application and they're toxic and they last forever. In 1969, Monsanto started to react internally, as far as we know, to the sort of growing incrimination of PCBs in the public.
 And here they identify that PCBs can be found in fish, oysters, shrimp, and birds, and that they have basically contaminated many parts of the globe, including Western wildlife. And they identify here that it may be a global contaminant. This is in the same document that identifies PCBs.
 that Aerochlor, which is the trade name or the brand name of PCBs, that it was the use of the Aerochlor was halted. But however, the fate and transport of the PCB is that the PCB was essentially lodged in the sediment. And therefore, it allowed the PCB to escape from the sediment over a long period of time.
 And so it says we can expect the water contamination to continue for a lengthy period by leaching from the contaminated mud. Here you see in the 60s that Monsanto knew sort of the fate and transport of how these chemicals would continue to contaminate, which is what's occurring right now all across water bodies. Here's another internal document from Monsanto with regards to an internal committee that was formed to address PCBs.
 And I'll jump down to the second paragraph here where it says the objective of the committee, the internal committee within Monsanto, was to recommend action that will first protect continued sales and profits of Eric Lors, two, permit continued development of new uses and sales, and three, protect the image of the organic division and the corporation as members of the community.
 So here you can see that even despite knowledge that this could become a global contaminant or already was becoming a global contaminant, Monsanto decided to expand their sales and protect their profits. Again, and the last slide here is in the same document. They go on to say that they believe that there is little probability that Monsanto
 Any action can be taken will prevent the growing incrimination of specific Eric floors, 1254 and 1260, which are still being found today in their form as nearly global environmental contaminants leading to contamination of human food, particularly fish, killing of submarine species, shrimp and the possible extinction of several fish eating birds. Secondly, the committee believes that there is no practical course of action that can so effectively police the uses of these products as to prevent environmental contamination and,
 there are however a number of actions which must be undertaken to prolong the manufacture sale and use of these particular aeroclores as well as to protect the continued use of other members of the aeroclore series so here you can see where some corporate decisions are made that even though they know that this is contaminating fish and water and wildlife that they are choosing profits over environmental health and the shocking
 piece about this is that this is exactly the issue that cities all across the West Coast are dealing with, which is PCBs and aeroclores are found in consumable fish tissue, creating a public health hazard in addition to an ecological problem. Thank you very much. Questions? Have any of the sovereign nation Indian tribes either joined the suit or have you contacted them?
 Well, I cannot discuss my private confidential communications with potential clients, but I am unaware of any Indian tribes or sovereign nations filing lawsuits. That's something I know the Commissioner Fish and Mayor Hales are working really closely with the sovereign tribes with our discussions on the harbor, so I would imagine that they would be very interested. Great. Other questions? Yes.
 thank you both very much appreciate the presentation let's see if there's anyone that wants to speak on this item we have three people signed up please come on up joe walsh charles johnson and crystal olinsky okay come on up please good morning my name is joe walsh i represent individuals for justice we take no money from the city or the state or the federal government and it would be really nice when people come up to testify that they would say that so we're going to say it every time we testify
 This may be the first and last time that the city attorney and individuals for justice are on the same page. We like this. In a previous life when I was working for a living at Long Beach Naval Shipyard, we had a tremendous problem 20 years ago with PCBs in our transformers. They were leaking. This is really bad stuff.
 And that's what I want your listeners to hear. This is asbestos plus. This is bad stuff. And we really like the idea that the city would join this. And also we like the statement by Commissioner Fritz that maybe we could reach out to the Indian tribes and get them involved because they should be. They have streams. They have fish. So they should be involved in this. Now, we do have one question.
 It's in the last page of the impact statement that basically says there was no public input into this decision because of attorney-client communications. Well, you know, you can get around that really easy. You don't have to give out information. You could take in information. You could ask some people, what do they think about this case? Is it possible that we could win this case?
 And I don't know. It sounds good, and I think you should do it, but it seems to me you could have reached out. The city attorney could have reached out to other people and got their opinion of the case. So we would ask that in the future, even though you have an attorney-client relationship, that you don't have to give out information. You just take in the opinions.
 So you're not going to violate anything. So we thought this was a little bit shabby on that. Thank you. Charles, good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And obviously, I support every effort by the city to recover public funds that have been expended to cover up the dirty work of private polluters who have
 massive profits and stockholders and such as that. As a matter of fact, I would say that really the way this is styled is a little bit too modest. I think the only attorney sitting up there right now is Commissioner Fish. But in many situations where – yeah, I see Steve Novick has dashed out. There are things in some –
 Some conduct in tort actions where people trigger triple damages. When a party has been egregious or deceitful, sometimes the law allows punitive and remediative things beyond the actual cost. I'm sorry that I wasn't able to be here for the entire presentation, but I hope that not only through the city attorney's office, which, as Mr. Walsh mentioned, is not an agency I represent,
 always agree with how their 40 people earn their hundred plus thousand dollars a year. I would encourage the city to be open to any communication from outside tort litigation firms that want to work with city documents and actually expand the scope of a financial probably be a settlement with Monsanto and their insurance companies, but if it has to go to a jury trial, amen. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish and Mayor Charlie Holyhills. I guess you're not going to call the police on me today since there are no children in the room. Okay, well that's good, that's safe. My name is Crystal Alinsky and I know that money is not an issue since Monsanto spent the most in Oregon history on a campaign to stop the GMO labeling voter initiative.
 So I don't see any reason why this can't go forward as far as the city being able to recover its fees for being in involvement legally.
 It seems like I wonder why this is suddenly an issue since a lot of money is wasted on frivolous lawsuits that the city has or appeals or motions. And again, they seem to hire an awful lot of attorneys. So I say go for it. My question is, why is it just recovering the expenses that the city, the taxpayers have paid to work on this all this time? Why aren't we recovering...
 Like Charles said, why aren't we fining them? Why aren't we actually suing them for breaking multiple laws that they were very aware of and taking this a step in any direction? It seems like a little slow. But if we do follow with other investigations and other trials going on,
 I guess we can continue to have these conversations and maybe bring them to a point where we don't want them in our state anymore. We don't want any leaked GMO wheat. We don't want Randy Leonard's GMO corn for ethanol grown in the area.
 I mean, why can't we get involved with environmental law more as the major municipality of this city where we care about our water systems and we care about the rest of our state, our region? And one month ago, Jeju Island was finally dug up for the huge Navy mission.
 site that I had told you about two years ago. Commissioner Fish told me he never read it, he never followed through on it, but I think as a city we should come forth and be in solidarity with other municipalities that are saying no to the extraction of our resources, no to being involved in these, you know, for destruction.
 for war and also where I, you know, I have lived in Jeju and I lived in right off the Tonto Apache Reservation in Arizona. And why can't we say that we want to stand up as a city and make a resolution to not allow Tinto Rio to come in and mine our lands? Why don't we do this more often? Why don't we pursue environmental law if we've got all of these paid, very well paid
 thank you thank you very much lawyers thanks okay thank you all anyone else would like to speak on this any council questions or discussion if not just just a comment um my understanding is that in authorizing this lawsuit
 we will be seeking to recover the full extent of damages that the law allows. And if that goes beyond compensatory damages to things like punitive damages and other damages, I'm told we have some great confidence in this law firm, and they will assert every possible legal claim and theory of recovery. Yes, I'm assuming that too. Good. Thank you. Okay, let's take a vote, please. Ritz? Ritz?
 Sometimes people talk about activist judges as if that's a bad thing. We now have an activist city attorney, and I'm very proud of this step that we're taking, and maybe we will do more of these, and I very much appreciate it. I'm so proud to vote yes for this. I also...
 I recognize there's a lot of people in our community who care about this, and I think back to the discussions we had on fossil fuels and on other potentially contaminating things in our community. This is a part of who we are as Portland, and I believe that there are many others who support this. I do share...
 the concern about community outreach, but that's not the city attorney's job. That's our job and that we could have done more of that, but it just seems such a good thing to do that I'm glad we're doing it right now. Hi. Yes? Well, I think that today is a good day for those of us who care about justice. This morning, the president nominated, imagine this, he nominated someone to serve on the United States Supreme Court, and we shall see.
 And it is followed by a hearing on a resolution to hold Monsanto accountable for the harm they've caused our community. And I'm very pleased this morning to support this resolution. PCBs are toxins that cause harm to fish and to humans and to our river. And collectively, we believe in the notion of holding people accountable for their bad behavior.
 And as the lawyer noted earlier, there are different theories of how you can hold someone accountable. Through Superfund, we're hoping to hold people accountable through a kind of polluter pays theory. This is a different legal theory, a creative legal theory, but one that I think we should join robustly. And it's also a good deal for taxpayers. The way that the city attorney has structured this deal ensures that we have very little exposure throughout the lawsuit in terms of costs.
 but we have the potential to have a significant recovery should we prevail in this lawsuit. Having worked on Superfund now for a couple years with the mayor and Commissioner Fritz and my colleagues, I have a deeper understanding of how much damage has been done to our river by people that did not always have the public interest in mind. I'm very proud that this council is taking this step, and I want to join with Commissioner Fritz in –
 in lauding the city attorney for bringing this to us. And the other point, and Mayor, I want to thank you as well, and the other point I think we should note is that one thing we have heard loud and clear from the community, and so I think, in fact, we could amend that statement at the end of this resolution. One thing we've heard consistently is the community doesn't want us to wait any longer for Superfund to work its way to an endgame. And Superfund has been in the works for a very long time,
 And it's possible it will continue for a very long time. Portland doesn't have to wait until Superfund is concluded. Portland can take an action now to protect public health and safety. And I applaud us for doing so. Thank you, Tracy, and your team. Thank you, Mayor. I'm proud to vote aye. I too am proud to have an activist city attorney. And Tracy, thank you very much for this and all of the good work your team does.
 I also would like to take this opportunity to say, thank goodness there are trial lawyers in America willing to work on contingency, taking the risk that they might lose and enabling people and governments to be part of a lawsuit without coming up with a bunch of money up front.
 So, and to get back to Commissioner Fish's point about Supreme Court, I hope that we will get a Supreme Court justice that overturns the decisions that have allowed big corporations to impose arbitration clauses on people that prevent them from joining in class action suits, just as an aside. Aye. Kales.
 Well, I'm very proud of this as well, and I think it says a lot about who we are as a city. We're joining this effort not just to pile on, and certainly not because we're anti-business. We're joining this effort because this is very consistent with who we are as Portlanders, and because we know in this city that environmental stewardship and economic success are not in conflict.
 You know, we just learned that our unemployment rate has dropped down under 5% in this city. The city's booming economically. It's booming in large part because we live our values and people want to live in places that exercise good environmental stewardship and they want to build their businesses there. So that's outrageous at another level that we're having to deal with.
 a business in this case, that really saw environmental stewardship as a nuisance or an unwilling cost, the cost they were unwilling to pay. But we know actually that the contrary is true. We can have a clean, green economy, and we're doing that here.
 We also believe that businesses ought to be held responsible for their pollution. In fact, as you may have heard, Mr. Fisk, we're dealing with an air toxins problem in Portland at the moment where a couple of local businesses were emitting toxic compounds. And we need to be serious about addressing that problem and cleaning up the after effects of that pollution as well.
 And speaking of cleaning up the after effects of pollution, the other reason why I'm glad we're participating in this and why there is justice and injustice at work here is that the people of the city of Portland have spent over a billion dollars to stop polluting the river with raw sewage.
 We cleaned up that problem that our sewer system created for decades in our river. So the citizens of Portland, many of whom have a lot less money to work with than Monsanto, dug deep in order to pay for cleaning up our mess, and other businesses should be held to that standard.
 Finally, this is one more example lately where cities are really taking the lead on environmental issues, whether it's climate change or energy conservation or transportation or pollution control.
 We wish that the federal government were a more aggressive regulator. We wish there was money in the super fund, not just a mandate. And we need our state to step up on environmental stewardship issues as well. But it falls more and more often to cities to take the leadership in this, and that's why the leadership of our city attorney is very much appreciated. Good luck. Godspeed. Aye. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to another city issue, 258.
 Amend the fiscal year 2015-16 revised budget to respond to the housing emergency. I want to call up our team from my office, a home for everyone, and the county, I'm sorry, the city housing bureau for the moment, and have everyone tell us what we're about here.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Josh Alpert, Chief of Staff in the Mayor's Office. I'm going to be very brief so that I can let my teammates here speak to this issue, but first wanted to just
 introduce why we're here today. This is an unusual and somewhat extraordinary request. Typically, as you well know, we handle budget allocation requests either through the budget process, through our fall and spring bump. And
 In congruence with the state of emergency, we're here today to go outside of that norm because there is a need on the street currently that is not being met that's causing considerable backlog and actually resulting in more people in danger of falling into homelessness at a time when we're trying to get them out of homelessness. So the package that we're bringing here today is a request for unallocated general fund
 outside of the budget process to both pay back costs that have been
 by the Office of Management and Finance as we've been moving forward on shelter and other programs, and then a request for additional funding, all of which will be spent in this current fiscal year. Obviously, in the budget process, we'll be making decisions to bring forward to the mayor and council on funding for the next fiscal year. This is all for the rest of the year.
 remainder of this fiscal year to keep us moving as we're attacking the issues surrounding homelessness. With that, I'll turn it over to Bob Keita to talk about the costs for the Office of Management and Finance.
 Good morning. I'm Bob Keita, OMF, working with the Mayor's Office on several different projects here. The first one we're going to talk about is the Sears Shelter. It's the Sears building on Southwest Multnomah Boulevard. We have opened that one as of Thanksgiving of 2015. For six months is the term on that. But as far as our budget for that building goes, we have always operated it as an empty building right now. So...
 putting 175 people in it has its effect on not only the Utilities but on the maintenance calls that we have to go out and service the building whether it's stopped up toilets or heat calls Or things like that. So we've had an increase to our operation budget that we are looking to recoup through this action and
 The second shelter is the peace shelter on 4th and Washington. We got it for a very good price at $1 a month, but with that, we had to take over the actual improvement to make it an operating shelter where we had to do TIs on the building to –
 tenant improvements to increase the exiting to meet fire code for the building as well as repairing toilets again, the big piece of it, and making sure the heat systems are working in that building. So that's the second item in our request. Okay.
 The campsite facility services is a little bit tied to what our base program in facilities was, which is the campsite cleanup program where we have identified camps throughout the city. And in this program, we are looking to provide basic human services, whether it's a toilet, trash pickup, storage of some sort,
 fencing off an area to protect not just the residents of the camp, but to keep camps from expanding far beyond, you know, what folks are setting up. So there are several areas in here that we're trying to recover to make sure we're,
 have funds to take care of the fencing, the toilets again, the staff time involved with going out, meeting with contractors to do these kinds of improvements. Trash services is one of the big ones in that. There are programs where we have folks going around picking up trash everywhere. We're finding that if we simply locate a dumpster, that the campers, the people, will actually clean up after themselves if we provide the simple...
 the simple service of having a dumpster at a site, but again, there's a cost to that, to have that picked up and maintained. So in that, we have the Hazelnut Grove. We have the Forgotten Realms currently. We have other sites that are developing non-spring water and other work that we're trying to keep under control and keep these things clean. So there's the big portion of that piece. Thank you.
 The next portion is the property broker, as again, we're working with the mayor's office in identifying and housing and identifying properties for shelters. We had our broker service, which we used to find and identify properties that we enlisted first on this project.
 and determine that just the sheer number of properties that come in, not from everybody who's involved in this process as well as the community. We needed to have a staff person who could actually be on the ground going out investigating properties and seeing whether or not these properties have a possible purpose for a shelter or for some other long-term purposes in the housing and homeless issues.
 And then finally on our list is the day storage pilot. So the day storage, as you probably heard, opened up this week at the Hazelnut Grove campsite as well as the Steel Bridge location over on the west side of the Steel Bridge. The camp day storage, again, is...
 something that we're piloting to see and address the needs of the homeless. Currently, homeless people on the street have nowhere to store their belongings so that they can seek services throughout the day or employment or whatever else it might be.
 The day storage is being piloted at two locations. One is a non-organized camp. That's the steel bridge. That's where we have, you know, just independent campers or small groups of campers that were looking to utilize this service. And then the second site is the, currently anyway, is the Hazelnut Grove, which is an organized camp.
 We're seeing if an organized camp has a use for this also in order for people to be able to leave the camp and again seek services and do the things that they need to do throughout the day. The day storage units are mobile and portable. It costs us $200 to pick it up and move it somewhere else. So as campers move, we want to be able to move these things in order to provide the service where the need actually is. Okay.
 The day storage units have toilets, they have trash, they have sharps containers, and they have the storage. They're lit so that at nighttime they don't pose a safety issue as far as toilets and those kinds of things being in dark closets. They actually have light. We've got good feedback on that. While we've had the day storage unit placed at the Steel Bridge site for about a month now, we just opened the storage portion of it this week.
 But the toilets, the sharps containers, and the trash have been utilized for over a month. We're pumping toilets three times a week, emptying trash three times a week. That's two toilets and a two-yard trash container.
 So the impact on the neighborhood is already amazing as far as the use and that campers using these things, bringing their trash in, using the facilities as they're meant for. So we have surveys that will be going out to the communities as well as the users.
 that we're going to collect information on just to see for the user's perspective, is this working, is it going to service and provide things that you need to help you find what we need. The day storage units, we also have seven agencies' worth of information, pamphlet-type forms that will be able to be handed out as the day storage is opened each morning for people looking to find services. So those make up the OMF portion of this request.
 Do you want to go through the housing bureau portion? Mark, are you going to do that? Okay. Well, so I'll start with a couple of the items. Good morning. My name is Mark Joel, and I'm the initiative director for Home for Everyone. I appreciate the opportunity to be here. I want to speak specifically to the rent assistance request for permanent housing placement and retention and also eviction prevention and a little bit on the shelter services request.
 In terms of the rent assistance, you're aware we have about 4,000 people a night who are sleeping outdoors or in our shelters.
 We have another 12,000 people or so a night who are doubled up on couches, sleeping in basements and garages, and don't have permanent places of their own to live. All of those folks are looking for permanent housing. At the same time, the continued rental crisis and escalating rents and stagnating incomes are pushing thousands of additional individuals and families to the edge of homelessness every month. Our providers are reporting receiving hundreds of calls for eviction prevention help each month that they have to turn away.
 Thus far, under the state of emergency, councils allocated emergency funding primarily to expanding shelter capacity, which is absolutely essential. But if we want to stem the inflow of new people onto our streets and onto our shelter waiting lists, and if we want to help people move out of those shelter beds and into permanent housing, we desperately need additional rent assistance dollars.
 Our providers are reporting that the increasing demand and escalating costs per household to place and retain them in housing has left them entirely suspended.
 spent out of their rent assistance dollars with four months left to go in this fiscal year. And that's across the systems. The single system, the family, the youth, domestic violence, and veteran systems have all allocated the dollars they had available. They've done tremendous work with that. As you know, last year, those providers were able to help 3,500 people move into permanent housing. They were able to help over 4,000 people avoid eviction.
 This year already, in the first six months, they've housed over 1,000 people. They've actually helped more than 3,200 avoid eviction through prevention assistance. Just this year? This county or this fiscal year? This fiscal, the first six months of the fiscal year. So this is not that the providers aren't doing everything they can with the resources they have, but...
 The demand is so high and the cost is going up fast to help families stabilize. And so we're in a situation where they have allocated the resources that they originally budgeted.
 Could you just explain to folks at home what short-term rent assistance is? Sure. So short-term rent assistance, it's very flexible funding that allows a nonprofit agency that is working with someone who is currently homeless to pay first and last month's rent, application fees, past debt, things that are financial barriers to that family getting into housing.
 It also allows providers to work with families that have currently a housing situation that they could stay in, but for whatever reason they haven't been able to pay the rent. And it allows us to provide rental assistance maybe for a month, maybe two, maybe three months. It's not a long-term investment, but it allows that family to bridge whatever the economic crisis is that they're facing. So that's where you get the 3,000-plus people since July 1st. That's right.
 That's right. Who didn't become homeless because we gave them a little bit of help. Exactly, exactly. Mark, I'm remembering over the years the conversation we've had about short-term rental assistance, which we call straw, and that at almost every time this conversation has come up and we've asked the housing bureau or our partners if we had one extra dollar to spend, where would we spend it? I think the consensus has been it's our most flexible and our most effective dollar.
 Because it gets people off the street quickly, gets them into existing shelter, and in some instances prevents people from falling into homelessness. And I think the scenario that drives us all crazy is the person that's $100 short on making a rent payment that leads to an eviction, that leads to a parade of horribles with that family that's all preventable if we can keep them in their home. That's right.
 I've got sort of a side question, which is, do we know what percentage of the homeless population are people who had a home and the rent went up and they couldn't afford the rent increase? I don't off the top of my head. I think we've surveyed in the past sort of primary cause of someone's homelessness. I mean, ultimately, everyone who's out there had a home at some point and for whatever reason is no longer there. How many of those?
 that the most proximate cause was the rent increase. I don't know the answer to that. What we're hearing from the family system is that about a third of the families that are in the new family shelter have not experienced homelessness before, and that is principally being driven by market conditions in the rental market.
 I mean, I think that would be really useful to have because if rents continue to go up and if that's a major cause of homelessness, then we are going to be dealing with a rising level of homelessness unless we can come up with a hell of a lot of money for rent assistance. Yes. And the challenge of affording the rent was the primary cause was a disability or some other one that –
 continued rise in rent levels is definitely preventing folks from ending their homelessness and is a driver. Just the percentage that you're asking for, I don't have off the top. Yeah.
 So that is the piece around the rent assistance. And, again, we're hearing from our providers. They've got folks with 72-hour notices. Obviously, we have people in our shelters who want nothing more than to get out of those shelters. And in camps, we want nothing more than to get into housing. And our providers just don't have the resources to offer. So that's what's driving this, that piece of the request.
 Then on the shelter assistance side, as you know, we have expanded shelter in the short term through Sears and Peace. We have about 270 more beds through those two investments than we had previously invested.
 You also know that our goal is to expand shelter by 650 beds over the next year and a half. In order to sustain the existing new capacity and continue to expand capacity as opportunities arise, that's what those resources are requested to allow us to do. They represent the ongoing expense of whatever the transition sites end up
 being for sears and and peace they also represent costs that would be associated with opening additional shelter options in this fiscal year and we're we've been doing this work now weekly under the state of emergency of looking at potential sites and and knowing that we need to be able to react quickly when opportunities arise
 and this puts us in the position to do that. We've got conversations going on with churches in Northeast and North Portland and East Portland. We're hopeful that some of those will materialize into shelters still in this fiscal year, and if that's going to happen, we'll need some resource both to make the improvements to the sites and then to cover the operating expenses. These are all things that going into the next fiscal year and the next fiscal year budget, we'll be able to continue to,
 But if opportunities arise now, given the tremendous unmet need that is out there, I mean, we're going to neighborhood associations and they are seeing folks on their sidewalks, in their parks, in vehicles, wanting us to be able to provide a solution. We're working really hard to create those solutions. This resource is a critical piece of being able to deliver when opportunity arises. So that's what that request is about, ultimately.
 In addition, tomorrow the Multnomah County Council is taking up a similar request for short-term rental assistance dollars at $1 million, so that together we are pooling and targeting that money to give back out to the providers. Sally, you want to cover the other items here? Sure. I'm Sally Erickson. I'm Homeless Programs Manager for the Housing Bureau.
 and i want to talk about three additional programs for which we're seeking startup funds um with this um with what we're bringing you this morning uh one is a tenant protection team um you know as as you're hearing this morning with escalating rents we're seeing more tenants that are
 seeing no-cause evictions or seeing rent escalation who would really benefit from legal services to prevent their eviction. So this would provide some startup funds for that. That's something we would want to continue next fiscal year, but we don't want to wait until next fiscal year to start it because people are being evicted this month.
 Secondly, transportation for people experiencing homelessness who are stranded here and maybe they came here for a job possibility or for family or friends that were here, but they
 They need assistance in getting back to where they have a support system, where there's a place where they might be able to stay permanently. San Francisco has had a similar program since 2006 called Homeward Bound, where they pay transportation assistance so that people can get back to where they have a support network, so they're not stranded in that city. So it's something that we're looking to start up.
 Let's just be clear. We're not planning to take busloads of folks to San Francisco or Seattle at the same time that they're sending busloads to us. That's not what's happening. Not at all. It's something that the city, with the rent assistance through the housing bureau, allows now. So if somebody came here for a job, it didn't materialize. They have no friends or family here where they could stay, but they have a job possibility in another state or another community. Right.
 If a nonprofit organization, a staff person can verify that, yes, they do have a permanent place to go, then this isn't just handing out bus tickets. It's connected in every case with casework. Exactly. Right. Yeah. The third thing that we'd like to start now, not wait until next year, is additional housing placement assistance.
 We have, as you've heard, new shelters that have opened this fiscal year. We don't have additional rent assistance or staff to help people in those shelters find housing. So we've got hundreds of people that need a little bit of assistance in locating housing, applying for it. And so we want to start up a mobile team of providers from different organizations, including culturally specific organizations, that could help people in the housing search process.
 So those are the three things that we're hoping to fund with this request today and get it started.
 All right. That's the package. Questions? I'm mindful the time is going. You have to leave at 1130, and we have other issues on the council. So quick questions. Remind the folks or tell the folks at home where is this new money coming from? Because I think people are saying, oh, suddenly the city finds $2.8 million. How did that happen? Yeah. Thanks for the question, Commissioner. The city had two –
 I think somewhat unexpected transfers into the general fund towards the end of this fiscal year. One came from the Portland Development Commission in a proposed deal with a developer for development near Pioneer Square that did not end up happening. There was money that somehow got transferred back into the general fund from PDC.
 And then the second was from a settlement that our Revenue Bureau and our attorneys had brokered with online travel companies. It was a long, multiple-year legal proceeding that finally just got settled that ended up coming in this fiscal year.
 And it ought to be noted that our city attorneys argued these cases successfully. Yes. That's why we're here. Yay for getting that. And so both of those were one-time money? Correct. Right. How much do we have? Does any of this money come from contingency? No. Okay. So we still have the same amount left, which is not much in contingency, right? Just around a million, I think. Right. Yes. So all of this money is going to be used in this fiscal year? Correct. Okay.
 And there's no intention to carry any of it over to the next fiscal year? No. If there's money that doesn't get spent, it reverts back into the general fund. Thank you. Other questions? I have a few. Thank you, Mayor. First, a comment. I am going to support this. And while it's an unusual process, I think the programs you've identified are compelling. Thank you.
 Sally, I think at some point we need to have a clearer sense as a council of what are the anticipated outcomes. We would normally do that through the normal budget process where you would show us each investment and what you hope to accomplish. So I think as a follow-up, I think the council would benefit from having some sketch of what the target outcomes are for each of these investments. Commissioner, we do have that, just for the sake of time. Okay.
 I'm not going to belabor that piece. I have great confidence in this Bureau. Here's a little secret. If you ask for more, I'd also support more. So that's not the thing that I'm going to focus on. I'm going to focus on the question of who's the lead agency because I continue to believe that the Housing Bureau should be leading this effort and we should be, through the Home for Everyone process, we should be consolidating and streamlining and aligning
 And I realize in an emergency, we sometimes have to do things differently. And I appreciate that through the declaration of an emergency, we have opened the door to being innovative and opportunistic as we deal with this crisis. But we are reimbursing the Office of Management and Finance for some expenses. And so I think it warrants a question about going forward. What do you anticipate to be the role of the Office of Management and Finance, Josh? Sure.
 Commissioner, thanks for the question. To be clear, our team meets once, sometimes twice a week, and it includes other partners who aren't at the table today, including the county and the county facilities team as well, because our view is that whether it's a campsite, whether it's a shelter, actual bricks and mortar building, those become city and county facilities.
 having Bob's expertise in property search and how buildings and outside living situations are assembled and how they become sanitary, we viewed as a facilities operation. And that's been the role that we've used them for during this process. We, you know, the policies get discussed around that table with everyone.
 who shows up at our meetings, including the county chair's office and others. So
 Having that kind of team has been, I think, a little bit unusual for us in our city when we have the commission form of government. And it's been a little bit clunky, but I think a lot in efficient use of government resource because we bring the experts to the table. Where the money moves through has been an effect of one who had the money. I know OMF had money at a time when the Housing Bureau didn't. And so we availed ourselves of that.
 And let me be clear, I think that this question is going to take on a sharper relief as we go through the normal budget process for next year.
 Because I very strongly believe that the governing structure for all of our work in addressing homelessness needs to be the home for everyone. And specifically, the Housing Bureau needs to be the lead agency. And while I have enormous respect for you, Josh, and for Bob and your efforts, what I want to avoid going forward is what to some may be viewed as a series of workarounds.
 And having lots of people at the table is great. Having a leader with expertise on an issue is what our system anticipates. And, in fact, the Housing Bureau is that lead agency. Sally's shop, whether she's located on this side of the river or the other side of the river, is the top ending homelessness resource in the state of Oregon. I can say that without fear of contradiction.
 And I just want to make sure that we're aligned and we're not just sort of adding new players and new bureaus and new folks, well-intentioned, but outside of the leadership structure that we've worked so hard to create. And in fact, with the goal of narrowing who's at the table more.
 and not expanding those other tables. Yeah, I very much agree and appreciate that, Commissioner, and I will tell you we don't do anything until Mark tells us it's okay to do. And that is because Home for Everyone, we have all recognized and respect as helping to funnel to that narrowing so that we have one set of policies that we move forward. One,
 We are working right now on scheduling with the county a joint city-county work session to discuss the lead agency conversation that's moving. And we're looking, I think, at the beginning of April to have that. And it would be a great conversation to answer some of those questions moving forward. I'm delighted you're going to do that. And the lead agency is code language for whether we – a proposal to essentially co-locate the ending homeless team
 on the other side of the river, and to marry it with the county's parallel effort to end homelessness and to sort of continue the work that we started with RESET of looking for better alignment. And that's a work in progress. If we're going to do that work session, though, I'd like to have as an additional substantive discussion who's on first with respect to all that we're doing, because while I think the state of emergency...
 gave us some flexibility and has certainly allowed for a more nimble and, in some cases, edgier response to some of the challenges we face. I want to make sure that we're honoring the leadership structure which has been in place on both sides of the river to ensure that the values of the Housing Bureau are guiding all that we're doing. Thank you. Other questions, comments? Thank you all very much. Let's see if anyone wants to speak on this item.
 Do you have an amendment for this? I'm sorry. That's a good point. There's an amended Attachment A, which doesn't have a different number on the bottom line, but does have different amounts in the line items. So I'd move the revised Attachment A. If I may just address the amendment, it was because we also recognized that our initial effort at this was not necessarily money that wouldn't have to be carried over. So we spent a significant amount of time right-sizing for just this fiscal year, which is why the amendment came forward. Okay.
 Thank you. Further discussion on the amendment? And a roll call to accept the amendment? Fritz? I very much appreciate that. Aye. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, let's take testimony. Two people signed up. Charles Johnson and Crystal. Come on up. Mr. Walsh will be our lead off. Back clean up. Alright. Go ahead. Oh, he gets to go first. Alright, Mr. Walsh, you've gotten the first dibs if you'd like.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. And again, we take no money from you guys. I'm sad that there's not representatives from the homeless here today. I'm not sure they understood the significance of what's going on here. And that's sad. So part of it, I think, falls on you because they didn't know that.
 or they didn't understand. And I'm very uncomfortable speaking for the homeless, because I'm not homeless, so I don't feel it. I don't know what it is, 3 o'clock in the morning, to be really freezing. I've never had that experience. I've always been able to go into a warm place like you, take a hot shower, have some coffee. It's not that you're spending not enough money,
 I would suggest you're not spending the money correctly. And we ask you over and over again that you have homeless representatives on your committees because they're the ones that know. I can speak theoretically, but you need someone to tell you, Mayor, what it's like constantly.
 So you pay attention. You have lots of other things to go to that are more pleasant than this. This is a tough question. And I would suggest to you that you might want to consider taking the whole homeless question and separate it from housing. Separate it from the shelters. Separate it from housing because it's failed. You've been doing it for years that way, and it's failed. Right?
 So try something new. Take the homeless, whatever the numbers are. I can't believe the numbers people throw around. 1,800, 4,000, 14,000 on couches and in garages. What is that? We never heard that figure before. I never heard it before. I heard a couple thousand are sleeping on couches. I've used that one, but I've never used 14,000.
 So we've failed. So do something new, for God's sakes. Get away from housing. Housing has screwed it up. Do something else, something creative. Get the people off the streets, period. Look at Salt Lake City, for God's sakes. This is not rocket science. They've done it. Please look at what they did. And they're conservatives. They're not progressives.
 Thank you. Charles, go ahead. Good morning. Thank you. Welcome back, Commissioner. Commissioner Novick's arrival, I'm Charles Johnson for the record, Commissioner Novick's arrival is indeed appropriate since I often specifically mention the attorneys that have been elected to this body. And we have still some cracks that I believe that need to be patched in the very hard and productive work that Josh Alpert and his team are doing. If we really believed we had a homeless state of emergency, we would be
 if not compelling, effectively partnering with Judge Nan Waller and the Oregon Department of Justice. And there would be a list telling us exactly how many people are evicted every day and making sure those people get connections with essential services. Some people can handle that all on their own. Other people are going to drift around for a few weeks, and then they're going to end up taking the last little shopping cart of belongings they have left to the day storage unit.
 So, you know, probably we needed to add a little bit. There's a nice exhibit A about the money. There was no money on that exhibit to clone Josh Alpert. We need two of them. But, you know, in addition to the actual service work, it is legitimate to budget for agitation and coordination until we can build a more responsive thing. One thing I hope there will be time to look at is
 What does the city of New York do? It has a Department of Homeless Services. And we should look at, if we're really progressive, are we per capita matching and aware of what the need is going to be? And since we're all going to go down to this party at Pioneer Square, I'll stop there. Thank you. Please. Yes, Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Novick, and Commissioner Fish is back. I was just going to say how funny it was that the people who were in charge of housing on this committee
 on this council aren't present. Commissioner Saltzman isn't here at all today, but Commissioner Fish, I was, feels like maybe when you didn't vote for the R2D2 and some of the comments you make, it makes me think that looking back when you were housing commissioner and I came here at first as a homeless person many years ago, how nothing ever got done. And it was such a disappointment after all the work that Eric Sten had done,
 a Bud Clark before him, but Eric Sten and all the plans we had for the 10-year end of homelessness. And it seems like it's just actually gotten worse, so at least you have that. You couldn't do much under your control. I don't know what Saltzman is doing at all. And as far as this, my name is Crystal Alinsky for the record.
 I will say that I think this has been a failure and more detrimental to anything, calling it a state of an emergency. But I'm going to represent 10,000 right now since I've been wanting to speak about this since you declared it a state of emergency. And I've since heard so much more feedback from everyone I know. Everyone I know who is a renter has since suffered even more exponentially. It's been detrimental. It's been detrimental.
 to have a declaration and not a plan. I think part of this budget, I'd like to say we need to include
 Grants, I know you give loans to businesses and then waive them if you want, say to the nines. When I was homeless more recently, somebody introduced me to the dumpster outside the nines and we were wearing the $9 million slippers that people just throw away when they leave this fancy hotel that gutted out Meyer and Frank. They got a waiver on their loan.
 But the people who are now suffering under this emergency, as soon as you announce there was going to be a moratorium on increases, just like when under George Bush, under the 2008 economic collapse, when there was an announcement that they were going to get tight on credit cards, suddenly people's credit cards went up. My mother's went up 36%, and she has...
 I tell people this story all the time. A couple million on like 10 different cards, and she's been paying them since the 70s, and all of a sudden she gets an increase too. That's what's happening right now to everyone I know. And people who rent out, they own property and they're renting out, they're claiming that they have to do it because of all the expenses on building, on SROs, on Airbnb taxes, on Uber. I mean, everything. There's an excuse for everything, and it's just...
 perpetuating the problem there's no plan and we really need to start over I you can talk about experts and work sessions all you want but these people need to be able to apply to you right now and say I need a grant to cover that $200 that they increased after five years the day you announced you were doing an emergency
 Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else? You're going to spend a lot less money if you keep people in their homes right now than you are going to be putting them, like I said, $50 a month for someone who can stay in their home versus a couple thousand to put them in a shelter. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, anyone else? And unless there's further discussion, please, let's take a vote. Thanks.
 So normally I wouldn't be supportive of spending $2.75 million in new resources outside of the budget process and with little public warning or input.
 Even it could have gone into the budget monitoring process. I do appreciate that if we didn't spend this money right now, it could indeed fall to ending fund balance, and that would be an additional $1.4 million for capital maintenance projects, which, as Commissioner Saltzman pointed out yesterday, we do need to be continuing to invest in safety on our streets, with 37 people having died last year on our streets in violent traffic accidents.
 And there are people dying on our streets from being lack of shelter. We have a homeless and housing affordability emergency. For those who have been sending us emails that we're not doing enough, we know we don't have enough resources. And even with this $2.75 million, we do not have enough resources. So we agree. It is a tragedy that people are outside. And I really appreciate the team's work on this. As Ms. Alinsky just noted so cogently,
 Giving people rent assistance in particular, stopping people from becoming homeless, is by far the most cost effective, and there's a good chunk of change in this ordinance for that and for other necessary things. While we continue to put most of the city's money into long-term housing, as we should, we do need to also continue to fund shelters, and we could use some help from the business community to do that.
 For these reasons, I'm going to set aside the objections I stated about doing this outside of the budget process. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on that. Thank you for both Josh Alpert, Bob Keeter, and Sally Erickson, as well as Mark Joling coordinating with the county. We actually are doing things differently, and I appreciate that. I. First, I want to just acknowledge we haven't had Sally in our chambers in a while. I know she's been out for a while, but Sally Erickson and her team that work on –
 long-term, cost-effective solutions to ending homelessness have been leading the way for a long time. And Sally, thanks to you and your team. Whether you go to work on this side of the river or the other side of the river, you're going to continue to be playing a leadership role in helping us get it right. And I also want to acknowledge Mark Jolin. I think the decision to place Mark in as the quarterback on the Home for Everyone mayor was inspired. And he's been a great leader. You know, I...
 We have gotten to a point as a country where on almost every issue we come together and we bemoan that the cup is half empty. And we, friends and foes alike, we simply make up claims of failure and somehow feel better as we go home at night, poisoning the record with misinformation, disparaging people that are actually doing the work, and ultimately accomplishing nothing other than self-indulgent exercises.
 and we politely listen to it and we politely play along but every once in a while what we need to say is that an awful lot of work has been done by an awful lot of very very passionate people and i i sometimes grow weary of all the misinformation that is a substitute for thoughtful discussion and i particularly the people up here ran ran for office and part of running for office is that you have to take the slings and arrows
 But the people doing the work in the trenches deserve our respect. They deserve our respect. They deserve our respect. And I'm going to support this today because I have such respect for the people that are actually getting up every day trying to make a difference in our community. And thousands and thousands and thousands of people have a better life in our community because of their collective efforts. And today we're investing in success, not failure. We're investing in a plan that has success.
 change people's lives, and will continue to make a dent. And for those who somehow think that Portland is this isolated sort of place over here that has a unique situation with homelessness, I invite you to go to New York City where they're under a court order to provide emergency shelter for 60,000 people a night. I invite you to go to Los Angeles where a federal judge recently declared there were 50,000 unsheltered people and growing.
 I invite you to watch the debates for the President of the United States, and two things you'll notice. One is that housing does not come up as an issue, and two is there's an entire party that apparently, as his platform, believes we should eliminate federal funding for housing. So we have a tough hand, and every once in a while, we step up and we say, let's do a little more. This is a little more. It's not enough. I wish we had more money. But I am deeply, deeply proud of the people that are doing the work out there, deeply proud.
 And I regret, I regret that at moments when we should be acknowledging good work, we often spend too much time with nonsense that has absolutely nothing to do with the subject before us. So, Mayor, I thank you for your leadership to the team that came before us. I thank you. And this council is committed to providing the resources to move the ball. And for that, I'm proud. Bye.
 i very much appreciate what commissioner fish just said also appreciate what commissioner fritz said about her usual reluctance to engage in budget decisions outside the budget process which i share but i also share her reasons for going along with making a budget decision outside the normal budget process in this case
 I just wanted to briefly touch on one element of this proposal, which is funding for day storage facilities. I think that's important not just for people who are homeless but for the larger community because I think when we get calls from people who are upset about seeing homeless people on the streets and sidewalks, I think to a great extent what they're upset about is seeing a bunch of stuff lying around.
 and if there's places for people to put their stuff then that's good for the people whose stuff it is but also for the people who would longer see so much stuff lying around
 Well, I want to start by saying that if it were technically, scientifically and financially possible to clone Josh Alpert, that would have been the first line item in this proposal. But unfortunately, science doesn't allow us to do that just yet. But I want to thank Josh and Bob and Mark and Sally and the others that were here today and the others doing this work.
 because you are really making a difference. You're all working really hard, and I do appreciate it. When we took action to declare a state of emergency, some people said, well, what does that mean? What is it? Does it mean anything? Is it just words? It's three things, two words each. Number one, it's rapid action. It's doing things quickly. We've opened 400 shelter beds in this community.
 since we declared a state of emergency. Some of them are temporary, so we're going to have to replicate that feat a few more times here very shortly. But rapid action is job one. Second is deliberate experimentation.
 We are trying things. We are learning things. We are learning from other cities. We had the mayors of the West Coast cities here in December, and we spent a whole day, along with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the head of the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, talking about what works and what doesn't work and how many more people we're each dealing with, as you mentioned, Commissioner Fish. So we're learning from each other. In fact...
 following that meeting, because of a discussion at that meeting, Commissioner Saltzman and Chair Kifori and the folks here before us got on an airplane, went down to San Francisco and spent a day looking at the Homeless Navigation Center there, which is, I believe, a better mousetrap and something that we should replicate here, similar to but different from the Bud Clark Commons. Thank you.
 So we – the second item is deliberate experimentation. Some of the things that we're trying are going to work, and some of them aren't. And everybody needs to understand, just like the innovation proposal, which we may not get to today on the council calendar, that it's okay for government to try things as long as we're doing that with our eyes open, and then we measure and see what works and do more of it. And the third one is real money. Okay.
 So rapid action, deliberate experimentation, and real money, those are the ingredients of a state of emergency that makes a difference. And taking TIF to 45%, having the Housing Bureau, thank you, Director Krieger, get that money out on the street in large doses quickly is the right response from our Bureau, and I appreciate the good work there. And this is one more sign that that commitment is real.
 And we should take note of the fact that progress costs money on this or any other front. We have a local business group that's been spending their money on buying billboards to say we can do better. Well, we can do better, but it costs money, and everyone should keep that in mind. And I'm very glad that we're committing this money to this good work. Thank you all. Now, I'm going to have to leave pretty quickly, but I think we should try to do one or two things quickly.
 Well, if you were to leave, we could still take up 261 and 263. I would like to do 260 before the mayor leaves, please. I think Commissioner Fritz wants to do 260, which I think we can do quickly, and then I'll probably have to leave. I will have to leave. And I think the question is on the OMF presentation on 259, whether you still want to do the presentation, but whether it can wait to be voted on. So I'll let people deliberate about that and call up the team and have Carla read 260. Okay.
 Amen. Fee schedule for marijuana policy program to cover cost of administration. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. When the council adopted the new code for the marijuana policy program, we adopted a fee schedule. It is based on a cost recovery model to cover program staff responsible for program administration. The initial fee schedule anticipated a greater number of retail license fees.
 fees which the program will not collect until the Oregon Liquor Control Commission issues licenses later this year. Teresa Marchetti from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement will explain very briefly why we're asking to amend the fee schedule to reflect the current landscape of marijuana businesses in Portland. Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Teresa Marchetti. I'm the Livability Programs Manager for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement.
 When Council adopted the fee schedule on September 30th, based on a cost recovery model, the initial projections of number of licenses were really low confidence estimates. We were really operating in the dark. And it was communicated at the time that they would likely need to be adjusted to appropriately reflect the actual license applicants. This field is continuing to evolve. And initially, Council had also efforted to make sure that the license
 to reduce the burden on medical dispensaries at that time. With the passage of Senate Bill 416, medical dispensers effectively became the retailer market.
 The retailer licensing fees were counted on to carry the majority of the burden of the cost recovery for this program. We will not be actually issuing any retailer licenses until October of 2016, which is not within this fiscal year. Additionally, the medical dispensaries that are effectively acting as the recreational market are not converting as we had anticipated.
 anticipated to the recreational market as quickly. Currently, we only project that about 30% of the medical dispensaries will convert to retailers. The fee schedule that's in front of you reflects the changes that are needed to meet our administrative burdens. Teresa, we're going to lose the mayor, so I'm not going to ask any lengthy questions, but I have a request that goes beyond today.
 Given that now the legislature has completed its work and there were some changes in the law, given that you've had a little bit of time now to test drive some of the things we've done,
 Could we get like a half page or a one page just with an update on what's going on in the street? Absolutely. We get a lot of requests from the public about what's going on, and I profess to be a little confused about all the moving pieces. So if you could give us just like a little snapshot, that would be great. Absolutely. Yeah, weekly updates, Commissioner Fish, I'd be happy to share them with you. Yeah. So thank you. Well, that was quick. Any other questions for the team here? Thank you very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then let's take a vote, please. Thank you for your ongoing good work. Aye. Bish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Yes, we're going to do 262, and then I'll hand you the gavel, Commissioner. 262, authorize the Director of Transportation or designee to enter into and sign non-disclosure agreements between the city and prospective vendors in order for city employees to review proprietary information. Commissioner Novick.
 Mr. Chizik. Hi, I'm Kyle Chizik, Bureau of Transportation. The genesis and driver for this is our Smart Cities Challenge Grant that we submitted on February 4th.
 We were awarded as part of the top seven finalists the opportunity to revise our grant application, put real numbers, and work with private industry to integrate them into our proposal. This will allow our director to sign nondisclosure agreements with them.
 There is an amendment that, working with our Chief Technology Officer, Jeff Baer, he suggested, and we agree, that we need to make this specific for transportation. And that is what the amendment does. We also clarified that, of course, we are going to send any agreement through city attorney for their approval and review. And what was the amendment? Okay.
 Second. Okay. The amendment based on the memo dated March 15th for Mr. Chizik is moved and seconded to discussion. Roll call on adopting the amendment. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Thank you, Kyle. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please. Ritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Thanks, Kyle. Aye. Thank you very much. All right, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor. Carla, would you please read Council Item 259? Approve innovation funding for five major and five micro proposals for fiscal year 2015-16. Colleagues, this is an emergency ordinance, so at the request of the Mayor, we're going to take the hearing today, but we're going to set over the vote until next week. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you for your innovative approach to that problem solving this morning. I'm Jane Brayton. I'm the business operations manager in the Office of Management and Finance, and we are here today to ask your approval of an ordinance authorizing funding for five innovation fund major proposals and five micro proposals totaling just over $470,000. Thank you.
 Now in its third year, our second year in OMF, our City Innovation Fund continues to support innovative ideas with an emphasis on equity and opportunity and promoting a culture of innovation within the city. I know that your time ran a little long today, so we'll be a little brief because really the focus is we want to bring up our proposals at the end. We've received many comments from people that they enjoy that.
 and they may never have an opportunity to address council if it weren't for this. So I'm going to wave some of our introductory remarks.
 We certainly want to thank the mayor and council for continuing to support this. We want to thank our review panel, who they give their time and expertise and they ask a lot of tough questions when they go through this process. Community members Warren Chan and Stephanie Cabanero were part of the review panel that's making the recommendation today, as well as city personnel Sam Hutchinson and Robert Walker.
 Our proposers work hard, and we have four of them here today to greet you. And they got the endorsement of the review panel because they found that their proposal promotes equity and opportunity, improves customer service, saves time or money for the city, partners, or community members, improves city services, and makes things better.
 So we got 28 proposals from this round, and we narrowed it down to the 10 that we have today. I'm going to introduce Janet Storm from Business Operations. She served as the primary contact for our proposers and our review panel. She'll be introducing a couple of our proposers, and I'll be around for questions.
 Good morning. My name is Janet Storm. I'm a management analyst with OMF Business Operations. I coordinate the proposal process. On January 7th, OMF Business Operations put out a call for major and micro grant ideas citywide. Interested employees submitted their proposals, and their proposals were then sent to bureau directors so that the bureau directors could look at the proposals from their own bureaus as well as identify cross-bureau partnership opportunities. Thank you.
 We then forwarded the 28 proposals submitted by eight bureaus to the Innovation Review Panel. The panel was asked to evaluate the proposals based on the following filters. Does it show strategic creativity? Do you think that the proposal is innovative? Is Innovation Fund the most logical funding source for this particular proposal? Do you believe that the proposed project could be achieved within the estimated budget provided?
 And does the proposed project advance equity? Does it save time or money? Does it provide opportunity? And is there a potential for greater benefits with broader applications? On February 23rd, the review panel met and through a facilitated discussion with the proposers agreed upon the funding recommendations for the 10 project proposals you see before you today.
 We've invited four proposers to come up and share with you for a minute or two about their proposals. So first, I'd like to introduce Rhonda Fast from Bureau of Environmental Services, and Rhonda's proposal is the Crystal Springs Walking Tour. Good morning. Thank you for having me. My name is Rhonda Fast. I'm an environmental program coordinator at Environmental Services in the Watershed Services Group.
 I'm here to tell you very briefly about our micro-grant proposal to develop a series of audio episodes, otherwise known as a podcast, to complement an existing walking tour along Crystal Springs Creek. And...
 We're proposing this because the work at BES is rooted in science and engineering, and it can sometimes be difficult to communicate the benefits of our work. And we feel that adding podcasting potentially to our toolkit would benefit our customers, rate payers, and our overall general audience of Portland. So we think it's also a tool that others may want to share as well, which is why we're bringing Portland Parks and Recreation as a partner along with this.
 To communicate about our projects and programs, BES and others would develop fact sheets, static web pages. We also lead lots of tours and give lots of presentations. And these tools are all very, very useful. But we'd like to better utilize the technology that our audiences are using and also create more digestible and entertaining content to tell our story.
 We've researched a few examples that you'll see in the proposal handout across the country, one in Lexington, Kentucky, which is based on one in New York City. There's a couple of great examples out there of other cities doing the same kind of thing.
 The episodes are about three minutes long. They vary. And they explore topics such as ecology, geology, gray and green, stormwater infrastructure, habitat and history, kind of all in one kind of compelling format. And there's no shortage of good topics to build a podcast on and telling the story of our investments in Crystal Springs Creek.
 Along the route, possible topics may include salmon recovery, climate change, nature play, native fish and wildlife, citizen science and stewardship. The list goes on and on, and we'd like to bring our Native American community members in on the partnership as well. And building on this existing walking tour is a cost-effective option since the content is already there, the story is already there.
 And the expertise housed within the Crystal Springs Partnership is ready to go. So we plan on working with a consultant, PPR, PPNR, and Bureau of Technology Services and the partnership to bring all of this expertise together to tell a compelling story from multiple perspectives, not just our government perspective. Okay.
 And we feel that the project is unique in telling the Crystal Springs story, but the idea is to pave the way for other bureaus and programs to more easily tell their stories, reaching new audiences and using the technology that our audience is using. Thank you. By the way…
 your team has also produced a map a fold-out map of potential walking tours around there and i got to see it recently and we're going to reorder some and i'm going to hand them to my colleagues because
 I would like someday to have them be at every hotel room and at every place where visitors come because it's now become a destination to go watch the salmon spawn, the children play, and people cast into that lake. So good work. Thank you. Hopefully I don't mispronounce her name. Next is Virginia Krekoiak from Bureau of Emergency Communications, and Virginia's proposal is on-call community animal rescue. Okay.
 ladies and gentlemen of the council my name is virginia krakowiak i'm a senior dispatcher for the bureau of emergency communications over the past several years there's been a lack of funding in regards to after hours animal control services within wolnoma county between the hours of 1700 and 0800 if a citizen comes in contact with an injured or lost animal 911 dispatchers must inform them that there are no services available to them
 The animal usually suffers or is set loose in these incidents unless the citizen is willing to pay out-of-pocket for a third-party contractor. On some occasions, we will send out a police officer if the animal is creating a road hazard. But even in these occasions, police officers do not have the equipment or the time to properly care for the animal in need.
 Just in the last two weeks, we've had at least 12 911 or non-emergent line calls where dispatch explained to a member of our community that we would not be providing a service to them or the impaired animal. This is not only a failure of customer service, but it also wastes our 911 dispatcher's time and the city money when we should have our phone lines clear for police, fire, and medical emergencies.
 OCRA is an organization comprised of volunteers that will respond to, trap, and provide sufficient care and handling of these animals until transported to the appropriate care facility. OCRA is supported by and will be available 24-7 to Portland and Gresham Police, Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, as well as many other city organizations and all of our citizens. Thank you.
 OCRA's main goal is to lessen the suffering of animals, decrease the amount of calls coming into the 911 center that could be going directly to an alternate resource, lessen the burden of non-crime-related animal calls on our law enforcement agencies, and improve customer service to our citizens in a time of need. The intent is also for OCRA to be utilized by Portland Bureau of Emergency Management and Portland Net Teams during catastrophic events,
 to help provide suitable shelter and care for displaced pets. Essentially, OCRA's mission is to save time and money for the city of Portland and our emergency responders, inspire community building and outreach, and help our less fortunate animal residents.
 I have no doubt that this program will be a great help to our citizens and our employees, and the $20,000 grant award from Portland Innovation Fund would be tremendously helpful in providing the proper equipment to our volunteers as well as cover insurance policies and outreach materials. I've included some examples in your packets of dispatch call referrals as well as incidents that we did create for a street response which were inconclusive or were an unnecessary hindrance on our police officers.
 And I appreciate your time and consideration. Thank you. So tell me exactly how this is going to work, that the calls will still come to 911 or to non-emergency calls?
 They will still come in in the beginning. The idea is to spread the word about OCRA through outreach so that people will know they don't need to call dispatch, they don't need to call non-emergency. Eventually, they would call a phone number for OCRA directly. We're going to work with 211 on that. Perhaps we could just refer callers to 211 instead of having to waste the time on the phone and explain to them
 you can call these people or these people. So in the beginning, we will be referring people to them instead of explaining to them that we can't do anything, essentially. And are they already up and running, an existing organization? No, no. It's a pilot program, so I have a list of volunteers, and I've been in meetings the last six to nine months with our organizations, Oregon Humane Society, Dove Lewis,
 Multnomah County Animal Control, just trying to figure out how we can work best with them and if this would even be beneficial to all of those organizations as well. So we're still in the beginning. So we would need the money to have the insurance to cover our volunteers and give them the equipment in order to even start responding to calls. So you're actually helping to create the organization, not just referring people to it. Yes, ma'am. Got it. Thank you.
 First a question, who did you bring with you today? Let's acknowledge that. This is my director of BOAG, Lisa Turley. Yes. Lisa? And while Lisa is coming up to say something, I just want to acknowledge the great work at 911. This morning on the way to work, I observed a disabled truck at the western exit of the Hawthorne Bridge. My first instinct was just to remind this guy he couldn't park his truck there.
 He told me that it was a disabled truck. Called 911. Within a second of putting the call through, someone answered and dispatched a tow truck. So...
 nice one glad to hear that i'm lisa turley the director of the bureau of emergency communications and all i have to say about this is what you are seeing and what you'll see in your packets is all virginia's work this is her brainchild she has made every contact every every piece of work in this is hers and it really it's it's an example of the innovation that we have
 At BOAC, they see a need, and they respond, and this is what they do all day, every day. So this is awesome. So we appreciate your support in this project. Dr. Charlie, thanks for being here to testify. You bet. Thank you both. Thank you.
 Virginia, I just have to say I'm always very proud to be your Commissioner, but I'm particularly proud right now. Thank you. And I mean, I'm sure that actually to Commissioner Fritz's question, I'm sure that now not only is it frustrating, but it takes time to explain to people there's really not anything I can do for you right now. I mean, it would take less time to say here's a number to call than to go through that discussion.
 And also I just wanted to, there is an itemization of what the money would go for, and it is largely for materials for the volunteers, pagers, crates, heavy-duty animal handling gloves, things that will definitely be helpful in getting this organization started. Yes. Thank you so much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Now I'd like to ask Eileen Argentina of Parks to Come Up, and Eileen's proposal is piloting youth music education. Welcome. Thank you.
 Morning, Commissioners. Thank you, Janet. My name is Eileen Argentina. I'm with Portland Parks and Recreation. And the proposal that was funded that I'm here to talk about is a proposal to pilot free music lessons at the Rosewood Initiative, which is a nonprofit community center out of the 160th and Stark.
 And you may have heard about it. It was in the news this past weekend with a shooting that occurred within the facility. Jenny Glass out there is doing amazing work meeting the needs of the community.
 This particular proposal grew out of a desire to expand the program of the Community Music Center to underserved communities. As you probably know, the Community Music Center has been in operation for 60 years. They're located in inner southeast Portland, and they recognize that there is a large community beyond I-205 that they would like to serve and that would benefit from the services they provide.
 So, I'm here today for Gregory Dube, who's the director of CMC, I should say that. And Gregory and I went out and met with Jenny Glass at the Rosewood Initiative just to see what could happen. And out of that came this Innovation Fund proposal.
 which would furnish a soundproof room within the Rosewood Initiative, which if you haven't been out there, it's a former big box store that is a very open cavernous space, lots of things going on. And music lessons can't really be effectively delivered in that environment. So this would fund a soundproof room,
 These are available from a variety of vendors, can be set up virtually anywhere, semi-permanently, can be disassembled and moved if needed, fully self-contained with ventilation lights requiring only a level floor and 20 amp outlet.
 The proposal would also provide a year's worth of music lessons, nearly 3,000 lessons to be provided for youth in East Portland. It would provide for the well-trained music instructors and offer instruments on loan to students who need them from CMC's collection.
 I want to also acknowledge that we have a partner, CMC Inc., that has been working with us for decades at Community Music Center, and their strategic plan that they developed really calls on a partnership for us to go out and reach underserved communities, so they'll be involved with this. Our goal is that after a year, we would be able to develop and expand the model with private foundation and individual donors to support the needs of the underserved area.
 We really are expecting that the Innovation Fund grant will provide a quick start to a pilot and allow us to make the case for long-term funding. Thank you. Our final proposer is Elle Weatheroy with the Portland Police Bureau, and her proposal is Community Trainer Project.
 welcome thank you good morning everyone again i'm l and i'm really excited to be here to talk about the community trainer project this idea originated as a result of two processes one internal process of identifying a need doing a needs assessment and recognizing that the training division wanted to enhance its information around portland's history
 An external side of that was a clear ask of the community, stating that they wanted to be involved in training their officers. And so based on these conversations and this information, we saw the sense of urgency, recognized that I would play a huge role in that, but knew in order to build this and to start this that we needed help. And that's where this fund kind of originated from.
 Quick side note, this is my second submission. So I knew that this was a great idea. I think the committee, you know, felt like it was a great idea but needed more details. So I worked with the committee members, got some coaching, and filled in those missing pieces and worked on them.
 voila, I'm here as one of their recommended funds. So I appreciated the process. Also had an opportunity to meet with Loretta Lynch when she was here a couple of weeks ago. And we talked about this. She loved the idea. And her first question was, on the front end, how are you going to fund this? Good question. I got to talk about this great option we have of funding innovative ideas. So I'm really excited by this and getting a lot of support, a lot of potential
 here. Quick overview, there are three major components to this project. The first is that it will require a consultant coordinator. You'll see that that's the bulk of this project. This is the person that's going to do the outreach, going to conduct focus groups to identify how this should look. This is the person that's going to coordinate the curriculum design and really work with me to build this piece.
 The second piece is community representatives. And this is bringing community members, sometimes folks who have never participated in this type of process, to the table and into our training process. And this is where they get to say, when you engage with our community, this is what we want you to know. These are the people you should meet. These are the businesses you should learn. And so as a result, our officers, before finishing the academy, will have relationships, have contacts,
 and stronger connection to the community.
 The final piece is that this project will help us build a community training pool of professional trainers to help us with delivering the curriculum, building the curriculum, and this is definitely a win. And these will also be folks who are already certified with the City of Portland, right, which is exciting. They've already gone through this process, the procurement process, and so we have a pool of diverse community members able to train.
 And so our overall desired outcomes as a result of this is, one, stronger relationships and partnerships between our officers and the community, two,
 Also, this will build our pool of contracted community trainers, as I just said. But this not only benefits PPB, this benefits the city of Portland, as I constantly get questions like, who's working with you? Who's training your program? And that we have certified consultants of color who would be ready, and women who would be ready to work with our bureaus.
 And then finally, this will strengthen community partnerships and continue to build greater trust between our bureau and the community. So really excited by this, and thank you for the time to talk about it.
 Really excited about your work in general as the equity manager for the Portland Police Bureau. I was especially interested to hear that the Attorney General of the United States, one of our first questions is, well, how are you going to pay for this? That's right. All of us know that without the money, it's very difficult to get things done. Thank you. To get it started. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all of our proposers. And can you answer any questions? Looks like a splendid group of recommendations. Colleagues, any questions? No.
 Carla, did anyone sign up to testify? I did not have a sign-up sheet for this. Would anyone like to testify? Then without objection, this will be continued for a vote next week. Thank you. And for those who won't be with us next week, congratulations. I don't want to tip my hand, but I think you're lying. I think I'm reading the tea leaves. Colleagues, we have two more items which we'll handle quickly. One is a second reading and one is a report. Carla, let's take 261 first.
 appoint Audrey Ivancy, Jonathan Bolden, and Idrish Koshna to the Private for Hire Transportation Advisory Committee for terms to expire March 31, 2019. Colleagues, I'm afraid I need to ask this to be returned to my office. We need to do further outreach to the driver community. We've been losing driver applicants. Without objection, this will be returned to Commissioner Novick's office. Thank you.
 Just as I did have a question, are these three not going to be serving? I think at least one of them has dropped out. Carla, I think our final item of the day is item number 263. Amend the Special Traffic Control District Code to create a uniform temporary street closure approval process. Second reading. Vote only. Fritz.
 the title is such that i'm glad we had the presentation last week we consider all kinds of things great and small and this is taking care of the details congratulations commissioner novick aye novick thank you commissioner aye yes aye the matter passes i promise my colleagues we'd be done by 11 57 it is now 11 57 we are adjourned good job commissioner