Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the March 18th meeting of the Portland City Council. Sue, would you please call the roll? Gritz. Here. Fish. Here. Halsman. Here. Novick. Here. Hales. Here. Let's begin with a real loss for our city and some sadness that we all need to encompass, and that is we lost Gretchen Kofori last week.
 a woman who was a voice in this chamber and everywhere in the community for people who have the least and for people who need housing and for a great city. I had the privilege of serving with Gretchen. A lot of us had the privilege of working with her. She has left a great legacy in this city but also left a big void in leaving us too soon. So let's take a moment, please, for Gretchen. Thank you very much.
 The flags on city buildings will remain half-staffed for the rest of this week to honor her. And we reach out to Deborah and the rest of her family to say we're with them, and it's a tough time. Mayor, the family has not finalized the program yet, but I'm told that the service may be on April 4th. Yeah, okay, April 4th. I've been asked about a soft hold on that. Again, that may not be the date, but that's what they're working with now. Okay, good. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move into this morning's business We have some people signed up for communications up front and then we have some time certain items and a consent calendar What's been pulled to regular just number 281 anything else that someone wants to pull from the consent calendar to the regular calendar? Okay, so let's take communications items first, please number 274. I
 274, request of Natalia Chevelle to address counsel regarding right to survive houseless issues. Natalia? Okay. Let's try the next one. Request of Aaron James to address counsel regarding homeless houseless issues. Aaron? Okay. Let's try 276. Request of Amber Dunks to address counsel regarding houseless issues. I'm seeing Amber here. Is Amber here? No? Okay. Keep going, please.
 Request of Charles Johnson to address counsel regarding hashtag don't shoot PDX Portland police Hashtag black lives matter hashtags William his Women's History Month and then the lazy p1120 morning. Good morning commissioners Thank you for the record. My name is Charles Johnson and congratulations to the clerk for translating the pound symbol as hashtag when she reads and
 I think in the past couple days, especially today with the disastrous federal budget that's being proposed, some of our concerns about racial equity and justice have gotten a little bit less attention. But I just want to encourage the mayor to continue to reach out to a wide spectrum of African-American groups. In the last couple months, we've seen a program to...
 help preserve community identity 20 million dollars invested in that this year the local NAACP chapter is reinvigorating itself by selecting Joanne Hardesty to be the chapter president and it's always a little bit disappointing to come over here and speak to you as opposed to speaking to the county commission across the river because we haven't yet figured out how we're going to get
 20% ethnic minority representation up there, whether we're going to talk to Lou Frederick into leaving Salem and perhaps replacing one of y'all. But we know that you are increasing the amount of time that you're working with groups that are trying to do the work of preserving the history and improving the quality of life for African Americans and all the minorities in Portland today. I'm wearing my Unidos Con Francisco shirt, and we're very grateful for the mayor's
 support and the positive outcome we had there, where at least locally we've done a better job than nationwide influencing immigration authorities to be slightly less harsh. There's still right here in the Northwest and especially across the country way too many families that are being negatively impacted. Quality, hardworking people that are being taken out of the workforce and suffering trauma.
 because of what are really racist desires to push people back across the border into Mexico and Central American area where U.S. economic and foreign policy is just devastating, hardworking, agrarian and factory workers.
 As the city moves forward, working on this new program with JPMorgan Chase, I hope that human rights will always be the number one concern before economic development, both looking for international business partners and as we develop the city. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks a lot. Okay, 278, please. 278, request of Joyce Montgomery to address council regarding Pleasant Valley v. Oberle. Joyce, are you here?
 Joyce was in touch with me earlier this week, and she won't be able to make it. She's going to reschedule. Oh, all right. Okay, thank you. All right, then let's move to the consent calendar again. If there are no requests to remove items from the consent calendar, let's take a roll call on that, please, other than 281, which we've already pulled.
 did you have a request i'm sorry to take something off consent i was just pointing out that only one person showed up to speak yeah communication because it takes two months to sign up yeah you cannot be current two months past tense that's why people are not showing up in county we go we speak we sign up that day why can't we do that here we'll look at that we'll look at that option thank you thank you okay let's take a roll call and consent please
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Fossman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, time's certain, 279. 279, accept Office of Equity and Human Rights 2014 Annual Report. Well, Dante James, our director, is here, and along with others on his team and from the community to talk about this important work, really got to see just a slice of the
 how the Office of Equity is adding value in a new way or maybe in a more rigorous way yesterday when we went through the first two very long, boring presentations from city bureaus about their budget. They were not in police for a minute. Well, to normal people, they're boring. To us, they're great. And the point of this anecdote and this not really argument about whether they're boring or not is that one part of the discussion was each of those bureaus got to stand and deliver on how well they used the equity lens in preparing their city budget proposal.
 And our director was there, and the council was very engaged in that, and our citizen budget advisors as well. So one more way in which commitment to equity is getting woven into the fabric of what the city does and to make it real. So I know that's Director James' mission, and we appreciate him very much, and thank you for being here this morning. Thank you, sir. So good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners.
 It's truly my distinct pleasure to be here celebrating what is actually the third anniversary of the Office of Equity and Human Rights and present our annual report for 2014. My first day of work, and therefore in my mind the official opening of the office, was March 15, 2012, just a couple of days ago. Much work and, I dare say, significant changes have happened in a very short period of time.
 The task of the office is essentially to change culture by addressing policies and practices that create barriers and detrimental outcomes for people of color and people with a disability. And those who have taken our training sessions know that race has been codified in law in one form or fashion since the early 1600s. And real discussions addressing engagement and respect for people with disabilities are a fairly recent occurrence. The institutional aspects of racism and ableism did not come into play overnight, and they will not be eradicated in any short time frame.
 That being said, I must offer specific and significant thanks to the many employees who have taken up the task of making the city of Portland a place where everyone can feel welcome, heard, and valued. And equity is, in fact, at the heart of how the city provides its services to all residents.
 And before I begin my presentation, I would like to acknowledge several different groups of people in the room. First and foremost, my staff. I would ask my staff, the staff of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, to stand or make yourselves known and to be recognized, please. Good morning. Without these passionate leaders, equity work in the city of Portland would not be where it is today. They are tasked with having the conversations about race and disability that most people would prefer not to have.
 Every day, they are tasked with having courageous and difficult conversations about race and disability. If it, in fact, takes a village to raise a child, and the city of Portland is that child, then these are the elders of the village, ensuring the safety, care, nurturing, and growth of that child every day. So thank you very much to my staff.
 I also want to acknowledge a group of equity practitioners who are also here in the room, who may be a little bit late since we're getting a good early start. These are directors of equity programs or heads of organizations working on equity in the Portland Metro community. And I would ask that they please stand or make themselves known and be recognized as well. Thank you. These are representatives from United Way, Portland State University, Planned Parenthood, and the Oregon Bar Association.
 They are here to support the work of their cousin, the City of Portland. It is with great appreciation and humility that I recognize their support. Again, if it takes a village, it will take more than just one village to address the systemic issues addressing our residents. The city is fortunate to have these, our cousins, also doing their work. And we also have members of our commissions who are here present today. The Human Rights Commission and the Portland Commission on Disability are doing excellent work on behalf of their communities and all of Portland.
 If you could also stand or make yourselves known to be recognized, I would appreciate it. Thank you for your volunteer service. Also, there are representatives of the Citywide Equity Committee who may be here today. So if also you could make yourselves known or recognized. And I'm not quite sure. We may have some of the city's Title II and Title VI coordinators here this morning. So if you are here, please stand or make yourselves recognized. All right. Yeah. Okay.
 Also, the representatives and members of DEEP, the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland, which is the umbrella organization for the over 10 affinity groups dedicated to creating a supportive and inclusive workplace for employees of the city of Portland. I know Deborah is here, but if you could also stand and make yourself welcome back. Yes, thank you. So, commissioners, as you can see, it truly does take a village to do this work. And in your role, I truly appreciate your leadership in courageously and unapologetically making equity a vital component of the work of the city.
 As we begin our report, and it's probably not going to be a report in the way that you're used to receiving, which hopefully won't be quite as boring as you thought the work was yesterday, I've already met with each of you individually and given you the highlights of the actual report. My goal today is not to just read documents to you, but my goal is to provide some greater depth and breadth of the material that you have in the actual document and show you some pictures as examples of the work that we have accomplished in the last year
 and answer any questions you may have, and then let a few of our colleagues and community members speak to the work that we have done with them. So the report is a presentation of the actual year of 2014, not the fiscal year. So it runs from January through December of last year. This year we have actually reconfigured the office and taken on more and different responsibility in order to improve our services.
 We added the responsibility of overseeing the ADA Title II and 1964 Civil Rights Act Title VI programs, giving the office a true civil rights function. We have added the Black Male Achievement Portland, which I will speak on a little bit later. And we have shifted and moved the New Portlanders program to the Office of Neighborhood Involvement in order for it to be best served by the Bureau that truly functions specifically on behalf of neighborhoods. So what have we been doing? We have influence-changed programs.
 by providing education and technical assistance. That's essentially our theory of change. If we provide education so people can better understand what equity is, how it's accomplished, how they can perform it in their specific job, we will be better moved. And if we can provide the technical assistance, as the Office of Equity, to those folks doing this work, to assist them, we will also be better moved.
 And so, in beginning that process, last year we were very fortunate to be able to host as a city the Governing for Racial Equity Conference. And I know some of you attended that conference. We had what was supposed to be a regional conference. Over 450 participants from as far away as Boston, New York, and Virginia. We still get calls on the relationships that we have created based on that conference.
 and request for assistance and support. And the connections that we have, certainly as a region with Seattle, San Francisco, King County, Multnomah County, continue and they continue to be enlarged as more and more jurisdictions become a part of this work. The conference also resulted in the removal in the City of Portland of any language regarding criminal convictions from the city employment applications. We raised awareness and a level of respect, absolutely.
 Truly thanks to Anna Kenwood in HR who was a participant in the conference and she walked away very moved I think by what she learned and what she participated in so it's reflected in just that small piece of change. We raised the level of awareness and respect for the Office of Equity nationwide for the City of Portland. I get calls every week from cities around the country asking how we
 how we do this work, how we engaged, how the office was begun, what the process was, what kinds of things we are doing, what technical assistance can we provide for them. So the scope of the work is enlarged just because of who knows that we are doing it. And actually, Portland is truly a leader in this work nationwide. OEHR was used as a model and informed the creation of the Tacoma Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 I and a couple of my staff went up to Tacoma. We spoke with city council. We spoke with the city manager. And their staff has actually come down and spent time with my staff, participated in our trainings. And their Office of Equity and Human Rights was begun in December of last year. And so it truly is modeled on the Office of Equity here in Portland. And just a couple of months ago, I was engaged in conversations, getting a phone call from one of the city council people in the city of Oakland, who was a member of the city council
 who wanted to figure out how we did what we did, how we do what we do, and use the office as a model in putting forth a resolution in the city of Oakland to create the Office of Equity in the city of Oakland. I haven't followed up since it was presented, so I'm not quite sure where it is. I think it was kind of in first conversation, but clearly another example of the work that the office does and how it's respected nationwide. We've influenced change in the training that we do.
 We have, at least in 2014, trained over 1,200 participants from across city bureaus. Of the surveys that we've received back from over 900 of them, 92% of the participants said they found the training worthwhile, and 75% said that they gained tools to apply equity principles in their work immediately upon returning to their job, which I think is a huge statement. So the work of the training is not just to –
 educate in the sense of let's have a conversation, let's hopefully you understand what this is about. But it's really about what tools can you walk away with to then implement the work of equity. How do you begin to do this work? And if equity is essentially a critical thinking exercise, how do we engage you and empower you to begin to ask those questions so that equity can be a part of the work every day that the bureaus do? We have influenced change in bureau leadership teams.
 There are six bureaus who have trained all of their leadership teams at a specific request of our office. Bureau of Environmental Services, Bureau of Developmental Services, Water Bureau, Transportation, Fire and Police. There are six bureaus that have provided training specifically for their entire staff, so six bureaus who were elected offices in 2014.
 did we provide training for their entire staff the city attorney's office the city auditor's office housing bureau budget office mayor hale's office commissioner fritz's office and to note in 2015 both commissioner fish and commissioner novick have recently reached out to the office of equity to get their staff's training scheduled as well we've done that too oh and commissioner saltzman thank you sir by the way you gave us the option of doing it in our office or doing it in a group
 And we opted for the group setting based on your advice because we thought that would be even more valuable to be part of a broader conversation and not just one that's done behind our closed doors. And I truly think that is the case. The opportunity to sit with staff from other bureaus and really engage across bureaus and remove those silos and have those conversations in a different way, I think, will make its own statement. So thank you, sir. Thank you.
 How often have we influenced change? We've influenced change from the training as well as in our technical assistance in performance evaluation language. There are some bureaus now that have begun to incorporate and engage performance language regarding equity in their bureaus. RFP language. Certainly we worked with the Children's Levy and other bureaus in putting out RFP, the Housing Bureau.
 in adding equity language to their RFPs so that those proposers understand and know that the city does, in fact, take equity seriously, and it's important to understand that it's a part of what will be expected of them in the work that they do on behalf of the city. Thank you.
 Additionally, in procurement, we have worked to ease requirements in certain small contract opportunities. We've been, certainly I sit on the pre-qualification board, and so working with the idea of qualification of prime contractors and trying to increase utilization of minority and small businesses is what we also accomplish. In the civil rights program, our goal is to really make it a more robust Title II and Title VI program.
 and engage. Each bureau has an ADA and Title VI coordinator, and they've become very engaged. And Danielle Brooks is really taking the lead in providing assistance and training and asking for and providing them some technical assistance and expertise so that they can not just be receivers of complaints, but the idea is to make it a robust program so it's proactive, not just reactive in responding to some complaint.
 I just have to stop you at this point because that's a real benchmark or an achievement in my mind that we had envisioned when we first set up the Office of Equity and Human Rights, that that civil rights component would be there. And the fact that you now have the capacity and that you worked with the Office of Management and Finance to move that program into the Office of Equity is significant. And I congratulate you. Thank you to Danielle Brooks for all of her work on that, too. Great. Thank you. We continue to influence change. The Citywide Equity Committee.
 The Citywide Equity Committee has put together the Pilot Bureau's assessment of its racial equity roadmap, rolled out to five pilot bureaus that completed those, and now we're rolling out the first wave so that each bureau would be required to complete its own racial equity roadmap or strategic plan that will be essentially a five-year plan that's a living document.
 that will have metrics, timetables, goals, so that it can be evaluated and there can be real questions about how are we assisting, how are we actually achieving equity, and how do we measure that work.
 The Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability are both fully functioning commissions and they will provide reports later to council. So I'm not going to go into detail. You have some specific information in the actual document itself that details some of the work that they do. But suffice it to say, they are doing the good work of the residents of the city.
 We have added the Black Male Achievement Portland program, our initiative. It's a program of the National League of Cities that initially being an, was sponsored out of the mayor's office through the National League of Cities. It's a collaborative led by a steering committee of black men who represent over 20 organizations, non-profit, for-profit, or government agencies. It focuses on the removal of barriers to accessing high-quality and equitable employment, education, public safety, and livable communities on behalf of black men and boys.
 BMA acts as a convener, facilitator, policy guide, and collective voice to obtain data, push for policy change, increase program scale, and exert influence to create awareness and change to improve the outcomes for black men and boys. We have recently offered position statements at the state capitol on a couple of bills, as well as a letter regarding some criminal justice issues to a juvenile justice task force headed by...
 Judge Nan Waller that meets regularly to address some of the criminal justice issues relating to Multnomah County's philosophy of using the Annie E. Casey Foundation's idea that detention should not be used, unless as a last resort for juveniles, and there are
 There are groups or individuals in the county and in the state that are pushing to roll that back. And so the BMA actually took a position that that's not the way to go. So the BMA is, in fact, making some significant voices being heard at this point. Deep volunteers have organized well-attended events and continue to support and celebrate the diversity in the city of Portland.
 They hold monthly events. If you haven't attended one, I certainly encourage you to. Some of the speakers that they bring are phenomenal. It's always good to go get some food when some of those cultural celebrations are had. Thank you.
 But beyond that, diversity is more than just about food. It's really about how do we create an understanding and awareness of who is working in the city. And in fact, DEEP is doing good work in making sure that we are aware of and respectful for who works in this city. We have continued to work on and add to our demographics dashboard that you can see on the website.
 We've recently added, in addition to gender, age, disability, and race, we've added veteran status, which is now viewable on the online dashboard, which is located on our website. As we work to continue and further define and make transparent the city's workforce. So this is obviously self-reported. Not everyone who is, in fact, a veteran knows.
 reports that or wishes to use their status in seeking employment, so it's not necessarily a perfect number, but it gives us a snapshot of who, in fact, are veterans here working within the city. And I don't know if you had a chance to see Deep sponsored. When was it? During Veterans Day, there was a...
 in the Portland building, back in the case there, was a wonderful display of photos of some of the employees of the city who are veterans when they were in fact veterans. It was just a phenomenal display, very powerful display.
 I know for a fact that everybody enjoyed it who saw it, and there were e-mails going back and forth about why I didn't get to send my picture and get my picture up, but I'm going to do that next year. So I would imagine we might need a bigger space next year. So it was a wonderful display. So if you didn't get a chance to see it, I would encourage you just to keep that on your radar for this coming year. So looking forward, looking forward,
 Our goal essentially is to continue to institutionalize the concepts of equity in this city. Yesterday was a prime example of how we can do that. You know, if we want to find out what's important to a city, follow the money.
 And so yesterday and asking those questions about budget and where the money is going, I think is a phenomenal example of how we are institutionalizing equity in this city. So kudos to the budget office, kudos to council, kudos to the mayor for bringing that to the forefront in that meeting. But it's just, I think, a prime example of equity that people don't necessarily think about. And when I talk to other people,
 jurisdictions or entities doing this work, and I describe the budget equity tool, and I describe the fact that I'll be sitting at a budget hearing discussing equity, they are amazed, and they are envious because it's not happening in a lot of places. And so it just speaks to the commitment of the city in that kind of example. So thank you.
 We will continue to roll out the equity roadmap for all the bureaus. All the bureaus are expected to complete their roadmap by the end of 2015. And they'll complete them, turn them in, get some feedback, and they'll be working with our staff. Kenya Budd specifically is working, Judith Mowry working with them to really engage and ensure that the best product comes about as we do this work.
 We will continue to do our training and offer our services to the bureaus. Kofi D'Souza and others who are assisting us with our training continue to roll this out. And we continue to be asked for more and more types of training as people recognize and realize the depth and breadth of what doing equity really means. We're going to actually...
 adjust, not necessarily adjust, add to our training so that it's more specific to or more speaks to disability issues and concerns. Beth Kay has been working on that as well as working with the Commission on Disability to really beef up that training, if you will, and or add a specific training that we can provide to the bureaus through even through the Title II ADA work that we're doing.
 We will maintain, through the Governing for Racial Equity Network, our leadership role. As I've said, we continue to engage with other jurisdictions, and those are trying to engage and become a part of the regional network. We are also a part of the national network, the alliance, that has been pushed, moved forward, so that we will also be attending the conference this year in June.
 It's in Seattle, right? I was thinking Minneapolis. Yes. So it's in Seattle, so still in the neighborhood, but that's the regional conference for here will be in Seattle. And nationally it's also taking place on the East Coast as well. We will continue to do our consultation. We've been recently engaged in working with
 The COCO and the COAB process regarding the DOJ settlement agreement. Been engaged in working with the taxi drivers and the private for hire board in trying to figure out how we do this, how we deal with Uber, how we deal with Lyft, how we ensure that we are not throwing the taxi drivers under the bus.
 literally, as we or under the taxi, I guess, as we do this. And so trying to ensure that the drivers whose work this is to make a living every day and feed their families are not
 overcome by folks who want to have some additional spending money more often than not. And so really working with Commissioner Novick and his staff as well as others to ensure that we come out with the best product when we do this work. Also, as I will look forward, as I think I mentioned to each of you,
 I'll be coming back specifically asking that in whatever proposal that may be, that the citywide equity one-on-one training that we do becomes a mandatory training for all employees. We have, as we next week go to our budget, we'll be able to tell you that we did not meet our goal in training for city employees. And essentially that's because we can't mandate it. We can't require it.
 We offer it, bureaus specifically ask, or individuals just sign up through the City Learner process on HR's website. So that's...
 a minimal way that maintains or remains as a barrier for being able to train and encourage and educate as many of the city employees as we possibly can about the work that we're doing and the philosophy of the city as it moves equity forward. Can you come back to this question about whether you can mandate this or not? I'm thinking
 The fact that we currently require employees annually to get 2.02 training. Yes. And we're making it as user-friendly as possible. Perhaps someday it will be interactive on the web or something. We require that. Why can't the city require on a reasonable schedule citywide equity 101? Right.
 For example, logistically, I understand that you're talking about a lot of people, so you might decide that every two years is satisfactory. That would be your recommendation. You also might decide that it should be, at the outset, mandatory for all new employees. So we build that in. But what has to happen for that to become mandatory? Okay.
 My understanding, and I've had this conversation with Anna Canway, to say, how did you get 2.2 mandatory? Could you just explain to folks watching what 2.02 is? Thank you. 2.2 is the city's harassment training that describes what is unacceptable, inappropriate behavior in the city as it relates to individuals' interpersonal relationships. And so, honestly, Anna said she wasn't sure. Why?
 how it became that way. She believes that it was a proposal, a resolution requirement by Council to make it mandatory. But then we also have mandatory managers and supervisors training regarding cultural competency, which I don't think you did.
 There is also the mandatory child abuse training, which is state required. But I think that you can, by consensus, make it mandatory, although I would prefer to institutionalize that and have it written somewhere so that it's concretely required. So that's the short answer. Well, the thing about 2.02 is HR sends out notices.
 People are required to go. People are required to sign a form saying that they've gotten the training and agree to be bound. And there's many reasons for that. It's an area that, you know, prudent employers are doing that generally around public and private employers. But it seems to me, again, the question for you to advise us on is at what frequency, given that it imposes burdens on your team as well. I would say at a minimum new hires.
 and then everybody in round one, and then at a frequency that you think is appropriate and doable. But I believe the council can mandate that if that's your pleasure. Yes, thank you. That's what we'll be coming back with. And just as an FYI, currently everyone who goes through the Equity 101 training is recorded through HR because they sign up through City Learner.
 And so it's recorded through HR. Or even if they have not, we record their names and submit them to HR so it's put into their portfolio of trainings that they have received. Commissioner, did you have a question? Okay. And then also be coming back to city council to talk about overall citywide equity, racial equity goals. One of the, I guess, questions.
 comments slash concerns sometimes from some of our community members is that they didn't really see an overall racial equity strategy in the work that the office was doing, even though they have no qualms or agree that all the work we are doing is what should be being done. There's just no title for it. There's no overall process for that. And so in having the conversation,
 In the same way that there is a definite infrastructure for disability, addressing issues of disability in the city, there's a commission on disability. There is the ADA transition plan to remove barriers, physical barriers for people with disability. The city is a model employer of people with disability. There is nothing in the same way for communities of color. And so this would provide an opportunity for you to be able to say to your community,
 directors and them to their staff, how are you helping the city achieve its equity goals? And so our intention is to return with a set few specific racial equity goals and ask for your consideration to implement those as a city-wide expectation, and then also be able to define some of the metrics that would fall within those.
 you know mr director each of us has the opportunity to give an annual letter to a director with expectations for that for that forthcoming year and sometimes it's just the priorities that the commissioner in charge and director have set but often it also includes things like this that are part of overall city objectives
 i think it might also be helpful if we came up with some model language of what you'd like to see in all director letters that identify that that so we're doing this in a consistent way saying we expect you will make progress towards this city goal and then setting forth some kind of measurable uh outcome each bureau is different each bureau has a different workforce composition of leadership etc but i think
 I would urge you to work with us to come up with model language that we try to institutionalize across all those letters, because that's how we're going to get what you're looking for, which is a citywide consistency. Okay. Good idea. And to be clear, you said all the bureau directors get one every year? Because mine must have gotten lost in the mail. Supposed to get one every year. Okay. Well, I want to commend Commissioner Fish, too, for working with you, Dante, and the job application for that –
 of Environmental Services. And you had pointed out that we, at the director level, especially in national senior management positions from now on, we should be asking not only for awareness of what do we mean by equity, but demonstrated performance improvements.
 And so I saw that you put that in the environmental services director position. And likewise, I think that that should become a standard for all director hires that the job description require. If you've worked your way up and you're ready to lead an organization, you should have some demonstrated ability to get things done with regards to equity, not just I read the Portland plan and I can spout it. Right. Well, I appreciate that because the HR is working with Dante's shop to do that, in fact. Right.
 We did two focus groups, one of them was with employees who looked at the job description and said we don't think this goes far enough. So actually the job description and the requirements for the job were completely rewritten based on two focus groups. So that's, you know, I think it was very helpful.
 That's great. And I absolutely agree, Commissioner Fritz, that at this level, the expectation is that you have accomplished something, not that you say you understand what it means. So I think that's at a minimum what some of those questions should be about. So as I wrap up, I want to say thank you to the mayor for his continued leadership on this issue. You have truly taken this issue on as one which you address regularly.
 put support and resources behind to accomplish and unapologetically push for the dismantling of barriers based on race and disability in this city. So specifically, thank you, Mayor. And as always, and especially on this anniversary, I have to thank the commissioner who brought me to the dance and continues to put her values and vision of equity behind the work she does on behalf of all of the residents of the city of Portland. So thank you very much, Commissioner Fritz, for all of your support and all that you do.
 So at this time, I can take any questions you may have or move into the guests that I've invited to offer their remarks. Questions for Dante at this point? I compliment you for working in the lobby. Thank you. I'm not really new at this work, so that helps. Thank you.
 All right. Thank you very much, Dante. And we have some folks specifically. We do. We do. So at this time, Jeff Helfrich and others from the city, Leslie and Carmen here. Thank you. Slide up another chair. Good morning. Morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor. I'm Leslie Goodloe. I'm the Business Operations Manager for the Housing Bureau, and I'm here to speak to the relationship that the Housing Bureau has with the Office of Equity. As you know, we share space, and we provide some admin services for them. But beyond that, we have quite the –
 familial relationship. We spend a lot of time going back and forth down the hall and providing consultation and technical assistance on a variety of things. The OEHR has been very generous with their time with us, with their expertise and their willingness to support us as we have been working through our equity agenda at the Housing Bureau. Specifically,
 Internally, we started about 18 months ago. Our staff decided they wanted to do an equity survey of what do our staff know about equity, what do they think the managers know about equity, and OEHR assisted our staff in developing that survey, and then once the survey was done in the
 interpretation and facilitation of conversations with the teams after we completed the results. So what did the results mean? What did the results mean specifically to each team? And how do we now roll those conversations into our roadmap? The Office of Equity provided a specific
 all staff trainings at two different retreats. They customized the Equity 101 training for our staff based on conversations and questions that arose from our equity assessment. They provided consultation along with the city attorney when we were working through adding access and outcome data
 goals into our subrecipient contracts so that we had the correct language that did not get us into trouble. And so Dante was very helpful in drafting that language.
 They have provided support not only for the Bureau as we have started working through completing the roadmap, but also as we have made equity assessments and plans a requirement for our subrecipients. They've been very generous in providing technical assistance not only to us, but to our subrecipients. They have...
 provided assistance to us and specifically to me as we started with our North Northeast process and doing the engagement and how do we reach out to people, how do we do things in a way that is not offensive, how do we present information in a non-governmental fashion. Dante was there and Jeff specifically helping us to get the word out.
 Dante has participated, as he said, in our notice of funding availability, not only in the review process as an outside reviewer, but also in drafting the language around the equity piece, as he mentioned. They have provided equity training for our subrecipients and
 assisted me with my HR processes, both assisting with outreach and sitting on interview panels and on very short notice sometimes. And then last but not least, I would like to talk about the fact that we have staff that are struggling with
 how to incorporate equity into their everyday jobs, and the Office of Equity staff have been willing to sit down with those teams on a regular basis about how to change program design, how to incorporate equity into all aspects of their work so it's not an add-on, it's
 a regular piece of their employment. So I just would like to support the work that they've done. Dante has provided lots of assistance to me in my almost three years here at the city, and I really appreciate all the work that they do. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Jeff Helfrich. I am a sergeant with the Portland Police Bureau, and I'm in charge of our personnel division.
 And I was assigned to the Personnel Division in 2014, June of 2014, and I reached out to Dante to talk with him about the issues that he explained earlier through his presentation and how that impacts the Bureau and the hiring process. When I was assigned to the Personnel Division, I was tasked with revamping our oral board questions and then looking at our testing process itself as a whole. Dante helped me.
 I called Dante up and asked him for his help and also if he had any individual community members that wanted to be a part of the work group in revamping our oral board questions and our test or the actual written test that we take. He quickly volunteered, and even though it doesn't sound like a lot of hours, 25 hours, but there were marathon meetings at four hours a shot. I offered light refreshments and pastries, and he was quickly attended, as everybody else seems to do when we have those.
 That being said, the director of services have been invaluable for me and for my team because not only are we the front doors to the police bureau, we welcome in and we're recruiting local homegrown candidates for the job and position of community policing officer, but also the non-sworn part of that. He's helping me look through the process, not only through the oral board, but the test questions and our staff.
 background investigations are quite extensive so he's helped with that he's also helped identify people that work on those projects other community members which has been a valuable asset for us for me as a just as a city employee i've appreciated the lunch sessions that we've had the equity discussions i think it's very valuable to have that for the city employees to be part of that process
 and on a side note, Commissioner Saltzman knows this and Mayor Hales, but the other three commissioners don't know this, is I'm an elected leader also in my community, and I use the information that I gather here with my fellow council members where I'm at, and to make sure we're looking through the same equity lens in receiving that training and bringing it back to my city and my city manager to ensure that we're doing things properly too. So it's just not within the borders of Portland does this affect. It affects
 further out than that, that reaches out a lot further. So thank you for your time in this, if you have any questions. Thank you. And you and your team, Sergeant, I think everybody understands it's going to be pretty busy here this year because of both current vacancies and anticipated retirements. We're going to be hiring a lot of police officers. From now till 2024, we'll have
 500 new police officers between now and 2018, 200 is what the eligible and probably the projections will be. A big challenge, a big opportunity. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, Carmen. Mayor, Commissioners, Carmen Murillo, the Director of the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. Thank you for the opportunity to provide very brief and not boring remarks. Oh, I'm going to pay for that, I know.
 Regarding our collaboration with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I think you know that disasters do impact those who have less more significantly. And so one of the major projects that we're working on right now is an update of our natural hazard mitigation plan. As part of that update, we intend to –
 one of its main themes, promotes social equity as part of neighborhood natural hazard mitigation. So to that end, I want to thank the Office of Equity, Director James in particular, and also to their civil rights manager for helping us with the scope of work and selecting the vendor to do that.
 I'm also very grateful to the office for their financial contribution. Most recently they provided funding for us to translate emergency messages into the 10 safe harbor languages. So we're very grateful for their work and we look forward to working with them on this and other initiatives in the future. Thank you. Thank you all. Who's next? Please come on up. Good morning. Good morning and welcome. Thank you. I'm going to ask the next speaker to come up.
 Hello, my name is LaVon Keister and I am the chair of the Portland Commission on Disability. And I'm just going to tell you a little story about my week last week. And this has to do with the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I basically started my week on Monday with a meeting with Dante James as the new chair. I wanted to go in and speak with him about how
 the Portland Commission on Disability and the Office of Equity and Human Rights could partner to beef up the disability programs and to support each other in the work that we're doing. And when I came in there, he was emphatic about that it's important that we meet together regularly, which made me feel welcome. It made me feel like he wants me to be in there and be part of the conversation.
 which is really important because, as many of you know, people with disabilities are often left out of many conversations. So I updated him on a lot of the things that are going on, and it's work that the office has been supporting over the past year. We've got the ADA transition plan, where we've been receiving support from the Office of Equity and Human Rights. We have
 the model employer, which has really picked up in the past year, and we've been receiving support there. The comp plan, the private for hire, and then –
 The ADA, oh, I already said the ADA transition plan. There's one other thing. I can't think of what it is, but actually, oh, the DOJ and the COAB. And so we've been receiving support on many things. And then there's always, and we talked about this, Dante, James, and I did, always those little things. It's just it never ends. There's...
 the big overarching things, but there's always tons of little things that are constantly coming in and we have to make decisions. Does this fit in our purview? Does this fit somewhere else? And so that was our meeting. But he did ask as I was, we were closing up, he said that I'm to hold him responsible.
 responsible to basically come in and let him know if I have issues and if there are things that are not happening the way that I would like.
 and that hopefully other commissioners, hopefully I'll be a voice for the full commission, but also quite honestly, everybody in our commission can walk in, can ask for a meeting with him and can walk into his door, because before I was ever the chair, I was walking in and asking for things and bringing things to his attention, and he opened his door and allowed me in. So this has been my experience with him.
 And this one is not what happened last week, but just an aside, when we were talking, I mentioned to him and I thanked him for, we have offered a couple of different disability trainings on intersectionality and things like that. And he has come to them.
 and he's learned something, and I see him bring that information and bring it into other places, which I think is very valuable, because the disability community cannot work on its own to make change. We need to be working as a part of a larger group, and the fact that when he learns something, he takes it and he brings it out, it's really important. The rest of my week was just all kinds of...
 stuff and you know you work for the city, I may volunteer, but it's still, there is constantly things coming across. And so Beth Kay, who works for the Office of Equity and Human Rights, was there to support me through it all. She was doing research. She was sending out proposals. She was cleaning up documents.
 Many of you know that I am legally blind, but I also have a learning disability. So she has to support me because I don't write well, and she takes what I put down that's all scrambled and makes it look beautiful. So she's in there constantly every day, and I suspect she works more time than she's letting anyone know.
 Because she seems to be there no matter when I need her. The last day, or actually it was Thursday. I took Friday off because I got sick. But Thursday, I went to the Equity 101 training. I've been through a million and one diversity trainings and inclusion trainings and intercultural communications and things like this.
 But I wanted to go to the equity training because although I've been learning about equity, I went and I sat through it. It was amazing. It was great. And because Dante and I had been talking about how we can beef up the disability part of the programs being offered through OEHR, I could see how we could either create
 its own Equity 101 training for disability or really beef up that, because we are working at two different baselines with disability and racial issues. There's different baselines, and so we're going to have to do some new, you know, some foundational work with disability. But he was open to it. It was wonderful. And the staff there have supported me
 For the past three years since I've been in some form of leadership with the Portland Commission on Disability, I've come to many different people in that office and they have always supported me. So I would like to thank you for making sure that they're here. They are very important and I can't imagine this city without the Portland Commission on Disability.
 And we need somewhere to be housed. So thank you for the Office of Equity and Human Rights. And thank you for all the work you've done. Thanks very much. Appreciate your amazing amount of volunteer service. Thank you, Commissioner Huster.
 would like to take credit for having their program with on disability as part of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, but in fact it was the Commission on Disability who insisted that our program be focused on race and also have a focus on disability. That's different from most offices of equity and civil rights across the country, and I think it makes us way stronger. So thank you very much to you and your fellow commissioners for all the work that you do. I think your description of your week
 sounds like a full-time job in itself, and of course you did as a volunteer, so I really appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you.
 My name is Mercy Koffa and this is Lucina Jadepin. We are from the Liberian community. We have an organization called Oregon Association for Liberia and we are representing our community here today. We have a relationship with the Office of Equity and Human Rights, especially with Dante James.
 It has been a wonderful time. During the Ebola outbreak, we were out of desperation. We stepped out in the state and said, like, we are Liberians. We move into Portland to seek refuge. But eventually we all became citizens of America, naturalized, of course. And, um...
 We are members of the state of Oregon, and when the Ebola outbreak occurred,
 was in Liberia, we were also having an Ebola here in other sense because we were suffering and we did not know what it was and we did not know who to go to for help. So out of desperation, we started looking for help and wondering who could help us, who could listen to us, how can we get a word out there that even though Ebola is in Liberia, but there are Liberians here.
 Who's going to listen to us? We did not know any way around, but the system does work because we started from the 211 number, and they directed us to a lady called Alison Melzy. She's an event coordinator for Portland.
 And when we got to her, she was really nice and she welcomed us and she gave us a list of people that we could contact to get our word out there, to get support for Ebola for people here and people back home. But she stressed that out of this list, I need you to meet the Office of Equity and Human Rights.
 Dante Jones, James is the head of that department, but you have to make an appointment to see him. But at the time, we did not have time to make an appointment with anyone. We wanted to get in the streets of Oregon and let people know that Liberians live here, and there was outbreak of Ebola in Liberia, and people needed help there. So we did not make an appointment. We set up a delegation.
 She is one of the delegation that went there and I mean it was amazing what she said. If she can explain for herself. My name is Lucinda J. LePayne. I was the head of the delegation set up by my community to go to Dante Jean's office and we woke up that morning, we met
 at his office we pack our cars and now my first time parking downtown because i always take the max downtown so park our cars and we and we went upstairs to the office we did not have a permit we walk in people in the office where they were looking at us and say hi um my name is lucy now i'm hearing the dedication of labiryns and we want to talk to mr dante james then the lady the secretary said oh do you guys have a permit uh like um
 Oh, no. And she said, okay, wait for me.
 So we sat down there, and then she went and came back. She said, well, he's very busy right now, and maybe you guys can come out next week because he's on his way out of the country. So he will not be able to see her. Then I told her, I said, I don't know if we have next week, but if we can talk to any other person that is in line, we would appreciate that because I don't think we want to leave until we talk to somebody in this office. So she said, okay, hold on. Let me go back and talk to somebody else.
 Then Kofi came and he said, welcome, let's go to this room. And he opened a room to us, he brought us water, and he said, the director doesn't have time right now, but I'm going to listen to what you have to say.
 and then we can start from there." And he listened to what we have to say. Well, in the middle of the conversation, he said, hold on, don't talk no more. I'm going to get somebody else. And he went and brought Polo. And Polo, they listened to everything we had to say. Before the meeting, before they could start to talk, after we talked, Dante came walking, and he sat down. And that was wonderful for me, and that's how it started. She can continue.
 So from there we build a relationship with the Office of Equity and Human Rights. Thank you very much for that. And well, this office has been great.
 and they have put us Liberians out there for other people to know us. We told them our problem, we needed education on what Ebola was, we needed people to be educated, and what can we educate our people when they call us from Liberia because now we were afraid to take phone calls from Africa because you don't know what's going to be in the news.
 So they organized a rally for us. They found a building for us, which was a church building. They prepared, they paid for the food and everything, and they invited healthcare professionals from the Manoma County, one of which was Amy Sullivan, who is a best friend of ours today. Through this office, we were able to meet
 meet a great way to meet great people today that made a very wonderful for the Ebola education process to to continue when they organized the ride they invited people the health care professional and they were also present the people that had a whole the church building did not come there but Dante Jones his wife and other people coffee done so and everybody for equity office
 They were there and that was great. At least we have people that we could go to if we have problems. They organized the rally. And then since then, today, we are an organization from Liberia. We have been organized here for a number of times, but we always meet in individual's homes to have our meetings, our monthly meetings amongst ourselves. But today they have organized
 It's so well that we have a building that we do meet in when we want to have our meetings. We don't have to go to individual homes now unless we want to just have fellowship with each other. So they have made it possible for us to have that home where we can have our monthly meetings. And they have opened a road for us today because of them. Now I know Amy Sullivan. I know that Paul Lewis, who is the...
 Paul Lewis, we know him? Okay. We know that Paul Lewis, who is the health office for Manoma County, for Oregon Health Authority. Because of them, we know all of these people. And because of the...
 Office of Equity and Human Rights, they have paved this road that we even had a grant from the state of Oregon for us to be able to go out there and educate our communities about what Ebola was, how can they approach people out there who did not know what to do when people see us as Liberians and they try to run away. What do you need to do? How can
 You know, we had that education, we had that means to reach people. I don't think all of this would have been possible if we did not come to Dante Jean's office. He paved this road for us, and we have this wonderful relationship now.
 often more so, I just meet him to places that Africans are. Now when you go to somewhere where Africans are having something, Dr. James is there. He's like, okay, I have a friend now. So this Office of Equity has been so great, and they just help us through our process of our Ebola education, and I believe that they are still going to be there for us, and we know now that we can count on somebody in the state of Oregon that we are
 A group of people from somewhere else who always have problems, we always need them. So they have been great. From the secretary that did not even make us to go back and say, you did not have appointment. You have to make more to come. She made them to go in and see them. And they were all welcoming. It's a great job I believe they are doing down there. And we really appreciate it.
 I was always wondering if someone was going to listen to this story because we don't even want something bad to happen before somebody can say it. We also want to be able to go out there when someone does something to us that is so great and wonderful to share it. So I really appreciate this time to be here, and I really appreciate your time and everything that you've done for us. And I know you'll still be in our corner. Thank you so much for opening your doors to us, and thank you for this time. If there's anything else that somebody would like to know,
 I think we can answer some questions if you have. Thank you for coming here and telling us that story. You're right. It's often true that in government we hear about when things don't work.
 So it's really nice to hear from citizens about how things do work and when the city does serve the people who are in our community. So I appreciate, I think all of us appreciate you coming here today to tell that story, because it's good to hear when the people at the city are reaching out and serving the people that we work for, and that includes you. So thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. McFerrin, good morning. Good morning.
 There's a little button on the bottom of that microphone. There you go. Wow. Mayor Hales, member of the City Council, good morning. My name is Joe McFerrin, second, and I serve as president and CEO of Portland OIC and the Rosemary Anderson High School, as well as a member of the Black Male Achievement Steering Committee. I have a few short remarks, but I would have to say that this...
 This presentation has been pretty powerful for me. So proud to be born and raised in Portland. Sorry, I should have been better with soft. So anyway, I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to share around black male achievement in the city's Office of Human Rights.
 and its leader, Dante James. I was first introduced to Black Male Achievement, to the Black Male Achievement Initiative in 2013. And in April of 2014, I attended the National League of Cities Conference for Leadership to promote Black Male Achievement in Oakland, California, for their first cross-site convening.
 The intense three-day meeting brought cities together to learn from their peers how to advance targeted plans to meet the needs of young black men and boys who experience disproportionately high rates of poverty, family instability, failure in school, unemployment, incarceration, and homicide compared to their peers. I returned from Oakland inspired by the work being done around the country and the prospect of creating something special here in Portland.
 Although our efforts here had begun, it was apparent that the initiative was in need of strong leadership. Recognizing that same need, Mayor Hales made a critical decision to place the Black Male Achievement Project in the Office of Equity and Human Rights under the direction of Dante James. Since this move, the BMA has made huge progress.
 Regular meetings are well attended by the steering committee members. The committee has made many presentations from the local workforce board to juvenile justice and others in the community concerned about the success of black men and boys in our community.
 Since Dante has taken over, he has galvanized the steering committee. He is dedicated to taking action for black males on exclusionary discipline at the state level, employment and training opportunities and the disproportionate minority contact in the juvenile justice system. Dante has worked with the steering committee to draft several documents designed to impact policy around disproportionate discipline in schools,
 and is also disproportionate contact in the juvenile justice system. This includes a letter submitted on behalf of BMA on Senate Bill 553, as well as a letter to the District Attorneys Association in response to the Juvenile Justice Task Force and the French In Foot Report.
 Dante is also fully engaged with our local workforce board to make sure that black males may equally participate in internships throughout the city. Since moving BMA to his office, we have truly hit our stride and we look forward to our work together with the Office of Equity and Human Rights under Dante's leadership. And he has made a commitment.
 uh, to see in this effort through, and he has got my full support and the full support of my organization. And I, and I would add that, uh, I would like to go on record to say that I'd like to get Rosemary Anderson high school students more involved, uh, with the office of human rights, uh, and equity, uh, because I think, um,
 this kind of work can impact particularly at-risk youth and help them change their trajectory to a more positive and fruitful outcome. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your leadership. Appreciate it. Thank you all very much. Dante, do you have any other invited speakers? Okay. Come on back up and then we'll see if we have anyone signed up for public testimony. Do we? Okay. Mm-hmm. Why don't you call those?
 So Sue, why don't you call anyone for public testimony and then we'll see if we have any other questions. We have Charles Johnson signed up to testify. Charles, you still here? Anyone else want to speak? Come on up. Hey, Joe. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I would ask you to have patience. Good news is I'm losing my voice. I'm sure there's a few people on the council that are happy about that.
 Do you have a copy of the brochure in front of you, this brochure? Would you look on page 6?
 There's a part there on the Disability Equity Program. The first one talks about the disabled parking regulations. Individuals for Justice has a running battle with Commissioner Novick on this. This, the way we understand it, is that the people that were using disabled parking permits are now required to pay, and that also includes disabled veterans.
 So we have a running battle with this council and this commissioner about that. Now, I know that there's a lead-in to the program, but for us, for this program to endorse that...
 It's bizarre as far as we're concerned. It says it advised. So it's just on the record. It says it advised. Pardon? It says it advised the process. Well, all your commissions advise you, Charlie. I mean, you make the decisions. They just advise you, right? I don't know of any commission that can tell the mayor what to do. Yeah, I don't know any of them. Okay, so we're very much upset over that one. Okay.
 On page 9, the Department of Justice Settlement, the COCL, you know we have a running battle with you about the appeal of Judge Michael Simon's decision. We have no information that you withdrew that or you're in the process or where it is.
 Our last indication was that you're going forward with this, and we have a real serious problem with that, along with other organizations. And for the Human Rights Commission, I think came out against that. Am I right on that? Came out against that. I would like to see that in big letters, that they were against that. Okay, so I don't know where that is.
 as far as you're concerned. And then I have kind of a question. On page 12, we have a graph that stunned me and I'm, I'm, you know, activists like to be proven wrong. So please prove me wrong on this one. When I look at that graph and I see that red, those are, that's, is that the white population of the city employees that are here?
 What is that rate? Was that workforce or is that neighborhood involvement? It's just one bureau. It's just an example of one bureau's workforce. Okay. So what is the percentage of whites in the entire city? Do we know that? You mean in the- That are employed by the city. In the city population, the city workforce. The city workforce is about 20-
 2% people of color, I think, was the last number I saw. 22% of everybody of color. So it would be African-Americans, Hispanics. Full-time employees. And what's the percentage of whites? 88%. Of course, 78%. 88%? 78%, sorry. Okay.
 78% of whites. Okay, over the last five years, have we gone up, down? How are we doing on that? That's what we're tracking. And for reference, the city as a whole is about 72% white. I mean, are we improving what we're doing? Yes. I mean, can we say three years ago it was 80% and now it's 74%? Those are just figures I'm pulling out of the air to show that we're increasing our equity.
 Yes, so each bureau, we have that, thanks to the Office of Equity and Human Rights, we have that by bureau. And so that's certainly part of my evaluation of my bureau directors is to, are we making progress? Show me the numbers. Okay, so I would suggest that maybe you would break that down a little bit more. Because when we looked at this and we saw this red line,
 It jumps out at you and then you look up here and say, City Workforce Demographic Dashboard, that indicates that it's an entire city employees and we have 80% white, which would be bizarre.
 and only 1.9 percent of African Americans would – That's one bureau. That's one bureau, yeah. Right. I understand that, but I'm saying if somebody was reading this, a reasonable person would take those two things and put them together and say, we're not doing so good, and I think you're doing better than this says or this implies anyway. Good point. Thank you. Thanks very much. And now – oh, shut up. Thank you.
 For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. Gracias, alcalde. I know that doing the deep data mining is not easy to squeeze into a presentation, but when we apply the equity lens, we certainly need to look at salary and wages. We don't want, and also subcontracted work. I certainly...
 hope some of the city budget surplus will go to PHC and we'll have more Latino and black janitors, but that won't please me nearly as much as having more ethnic diversity on the mayor's staff, a better balance as we see with this group here. Probably because of good recruiting, we've got somewhat maybe disproportionate representation of Latinos in Office of Neighborhood Involvement,
 So we want to always be encouraging the diverse staff we have to do recruiting and diversify outside of our own silos. It's natural for us to have limited social networks that don't cross those boundaries, and we want to encourage that.
 If somebody is Latino and looking to get friends' jobs, for them to look outside to Asians and to African-American residents of Portland, especially in any bureau that has a slight out of balance as to how it's been able to diversify. And also, while we've talked about racism and ableism,
 We need to also talk about better engagement with youth. Obviously, certain jobs are only available to people with a certain level of experience. But I think we're going to find that a younger generation than myself and then most of you is doing better than we are at being less ableist and less racist and less sexist. So I hope that as this conversation goes on that...
 Bureau chief. I can't call him a commissioner, I guess. We'll be vigorous. Already on the Human Rights Commission, I think we have better than average youth representation. And I hope that that will also be an issue that you look at. But especially how do we diversify people who have the best salary jobs like the ones that Jackie Dingfelder and Gail Shibley have. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay. Just for the record, I believe the city is the largest employer of youth in our city. That means we need to look at something with economic development then. Thank you. Okay, any other questions for Dante before we take a motion to accept the report? Move the report. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. All right.
 Well, this is good to celebrate the achievements of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, which was so difficult to form and which, frankly, has had struggles over the last three years, as any new organization did. We have highlighted the successes today, as is right. We have a lot of criticism of folks who say that we haven't done enough and we haven't done it fast enough. And both of those are correct.
 And so I'm very pleased to celebrate what we have done. Mr. McFerrin said that he's proud to be born and raised in Portland. I'm proud I chose to come to Portland. And I want people to know that anybody can walk into any office in the city, and people will try to help. You know, the experiences we had from our friends from Liberia –
 That's not a surprise to me. I appreciate that staff all over the city will go the extra mile to try to help, and the Office of Equity and Human Rights staff exemplify that. Thanks very much to our partners in other bureaus, Anna Canwit in particular in the Bureau of Human Resources, figuring out it's about –
 who works for the city, who gets contracts with the city, and who gets services from the city. Those are the three focus areas that we set up the Office of Equity and Human Rights for, which the staff has taken to new heights. And we can't do that without partners, including our bureau directors. And I thank each one of them, particularly Mike Abate, one of my directors, who I think was the first to hire an equity and inclusion manager in Art Hendricks, and as a debt, as
 as reporting to him directly and getting frequent reports to me on how are we doing in our bureaus as far as not only hiring and succession planning promotion, but services and how are we interacting with our citizens. Really appreciate the diverse, empowered employees of Portland and all the work that they do on their own time, on volunteers as well.
 well as the Human Rights Commission and the Commission on Disability, people putting in extraordinary amounts of effort to make this actually work because it's been, as was presented at the beginning, since the 1600s that we have institutionalized racism and ableism, and it's time to stop. And I appreciate that we have made those strides together
 I want to call out Amalia Alicante-Morris and Susan Anderson who continue to be leaders in partnership with Director James and Dora Perry in my office who is my guide on equity issues. Thanks also to each of my partners here on the Council who have embraced this and kudos to the Mayor for having taken this program and this Bureau and at the end of the year
 brilliant move to put that Black Male Achievement Award, thank you, the initiative in the office and moving when the time was right moving the Title II and Title VI issues into that office that work and I need to point out that I believe Dante James is not asking for additional resources in this year's budget.
 So we probably at some point do need to invest even more, and yet we also don't want to make it seem like this office is the only office that's doing the work on equity. It's all 6,000 employees at the city, and I really appreciate that we've embraced that under your leadership. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz has captured, I think, all the right themes for this event, and I echo what she has said. I'll add just three things. First is we have a chance to work pretty regularly with members of your equity team on various matters, so I just want to acknowledge the great team you've assembled and their professionalism and thank them for that. Second is I'm kind of a student of annual reports, the way they're put together, and
 And, you know, we often get dinged by elders in equity because the font's not right, the information's not laid out. I told Jeff Selby that I think this is one of the most effective reports that any bureau has put out, and we're going to steal a number of the innovations in this, so nice work. And third, I urge you to come back to us following this hearing, because I think you're hearing a lot of receptivity, and give us your recommendation on –
 at what frequency should we require equity 101 training? And again, my sense is we can move to implement that at the front end for all new hires. And then what is a reasonable frequency that takes into consideration the benefits of the program and your staff capacity? But I appreciate the progress we're making, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman. Well, thank you for the great report. I also want to add my accolades to this annual report, too. So good job, Jeff.
 It's really a very readable and
 chock filled with accomplishments and that's a good thing to see. And so, Dante, I just want to personally thank you, thank the Commission on Disability, the Human Rights Commission, and the staff for really giving great legs to this office and getting things done. And it's probably, and sitting on our, I think it's great that the Mayor has pioneered you sitting at the table for all of our budget bureau discussions. I think that's really a great innovation.
 In fact, your office isn't asking for additional resources and this outstanding hearing? Not yet. Oh, okay. Not yet. Well, I was just going to say this was probably well-timed, given you haven't had your annual review yet. I think you've queued that up well. So anyway, it's a great report, and thanks to everybody for their good work. Hi. Novick. Novick.
 Dante, first of all, I want to thank you for your office's participation in our discussions about taxicab regulations. Your participation is incredibly valuable and much appreciated. I really appreciate all the testimony we heard today about the value of the office. I also want to express my appreciation to the council members who created this office because it was controversial at the time and I still hear flock about it.
 A couple weeks ago, I had a conversation with an elected official who remained nameless who said, you're never going to get a street fee until you abolish the Office of Equity, because you have to show you're getting rid of all this frivolous stuff. And I said, well, I think that's politically wrong and morally wrong, but that's the kind of thing we still hear. So I appreciate those on the council who listened to all that stuff and moved ahead anyway. Dante, I have to say that I still like the idea of
 having as part of the mechanism we use to determine which decision packages are funded, have an NCAA tournament-style equity smackdown where you have like 64 decision packages and you match each packages against each other on equity grounds. So I think we're probably too late in the budget cycle to do that, but I still think that would be something worth doing for next year. Thank you. All right. All right.
 Well, Commissioner Fritz, thanks for getting this good thing started. And I'm glad to hear that you think we're still on the right track. I think we have great leadership, great team in this Bureau, amazing volunteers and amazing partners in the Bureau and in the community.
 So we've built some strength here. And we need it because there's a lot of work to do. There are old issues of racism and injustice in our city, and there are new ones too because Portland is becoming this amazing magnet for people from all over the world to move here. And we have to make sure that this is a just and open society for those new Portlanders.
 just like we need to for those of us who grew up here and who, like Joe, are proud to be from here, even if we're not proud of the whole history.
 And I'll tell you, the Black Male Achievement Initiative, I really appreciate, Dante, your stewardship of that. It gets driven home to me again and again how much work we have to do. You don't have to look far to see the numbers, but actually you don't have to look far to see the people either. As it happened, I was in East Precinct at midnight on Saturday when there was the 30th gang violence incident in our city this year.
 And I ended up speaking to a young man who was the intended target of the shooter and who fortunately wasn't hit. And he's 17, and I'll withhold his name because he's a juvenile and a witness in a felony case, unfortunately. Okay.
 But just talking to that young man and realizing why the Black Male Achievement Initiative is so important. If he and the other young people in our community feel like there really is mentorship and support and opportunity for them,
 They'll get as far away from that toxic behavior as they can. And just every time I have one of those conversations, it makes it even more real for me what the Black Male Achievement Initiative is doing and why it has so much importance in our community. So I appreciated Joe being here today and the other community leaders that are working with our support.
 to make Portland different. Finally, I appreciate the fact that we're a leader in things. I just started my day this morning helping with a local team make a presentation to Portland
 a national organization about a high-tech new way to build buildings out of wood, and they think they might do the first one in Portland. And we like it when we're the first one in Portland. And I appreciate the fact that Bobby Lee from the governor's office is here today because hopefully Portland will be a leader for the state in this work as well as how we build things. Thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you all. Good job. Thank you, Dante. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales, could I speak about the homeless? Not now. You've got to stay on the agenda. You've got to stay on the agenda. Sorry. So we're going to move to item 286 next. Well, I guess we could take the consent item first, please. Sorry? There's another time, sir. Yeah. Oh, sorry. I'm going past the other time, sir. Don't let me do that. Thank you. 280. Okay.
 Item 280, public hearing to consider a new taxi company permit for ECOCAT Portland LLC. Sorry about that. Fortunately, my colleagues kept me straight. It takes a village. It takes a village.
 Did you make a presentation for like the state of Zillow? No, it's actually an international organization software council. And the proposal is to build a 11-story building. Yeah. Well, I mean, I've heard about that concept. Yeah. I think we're going to get it. Commissioner Novick, would you like to introduce this item?
 Actually, Mayor, I think this is a quasi-judicial proceeding that is uniquely your role to kick off. Okay, sorry. You're right. This is a quasi-judicial proceeding because we're considering an application. So I will simply turn it over to staff unless there are any instructions from our city attorney or any declarations of conflict of interest or ex parte contacts among council members.
 On ex parte, ex-Mayor, I ran into Len Bergstein in the hall the other day and he mentioned that he was representing EcoCab, which I wasn't aware of, although we did not have a substantive discussion. I guess that counts as an ex parte contact. Okay. Anyone have any concerns about that ex parte contact? Okay. Hearing none, then unless you have any other instructions for us, Ellen, then I'll turn it over to staff for presentation. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here this morning. My name is Michael Jacobs. I am a division manager in the Bureau of Transportation. With me this morning is Kelly Sills, who is here as the Private for Higher Transportation Board of Review Chair, and also Frank DeFay, who is here as the Private for Higher Transportation Program Manager. This morning's staff is going to be very brief so that you can have more time to talk with the applicant, EcoCab Portland LLC.
 I'd like to start this morning by presenting some basic private for hire transportation demand metrics that you can consider as you make a decision. The first slide shows the annual PDX airline passengers trend from 2000 to 2014. As you can see, the chart indicates a 4.3% annual growth rate through the years 2000 through 2014. Actually, more specifically, from 2009 to 2014. Okay.
 The second slide shows the annual visitor room demand from 2000 to 2014. And as you can see on this slide, from 2009 to 2014, we've seen an annual growth rate of approximately 6.5%. The third slide shows how many taxi vehicle permits have been issued by the City of Portland since 2000.
 As you can see, until this year, the only addition to the supply allowed by the city was in 2013 when an additional 78 permits were added, increasing the number of taxi vehicle permits from 382 to 460. The fourth slide shows the number of taxi companies that are currently permitted by the City of Portland and the number of current vehicles permitted to each company.
 And by the way, this particular slide does include 10 new permits that were very recently added as a result of board action in February. The final slide shows a comparison of Portland to other cities with regard to the number of taxis per 10,000 residents in the city.
 As you can see in yellow, the City of Portland currently has approximately 7.5 taxis per 10,000 residents. And you can see that this is significantly lower than the sample average of 17.2, which you'll see in blue, 17.2 vehicles per 10,000 residents. And the average that I'm talking about is actually the average of the cities in the comparison. So at this point, I'd like to turn it over to Kelly Sills to present the staff and board recommendation reports.
 thank you good morning good morning so as michael said my name is kelly sills i'm the parking control manager for the city i'm also now the chair of the private for hire transportation board and i'll have some elements of formality in my comments just make sure we get a few things right into the record that are necessary this morning
 What you have before you is an application from EcoCab. It's for a new taxi cab company permit. It was originally received by the city on October 31, 2014. It is for an initial 15 taxi cabs, 12 of which would be all electric, three would be ADA compliant, and with the ability to grow to eventually 51 taxi cabs.
 The application includes a report by the economic analysis firm Eco Northwest, which was quite helpful actually for the administrator to develop his staff report and recommendation to the board. That being frank to say to my left here or right.
 And I would submit the administrator's report as part of this hearing for the record. The administrator's report is based on the application review requirements of 16.40.160D of city code and generally focuses on pertinent market conditions and the demonstrated need for additional taxi service in Portland. It concluded with a recommendation to approve the application by ECOCAB.
 So the Private for Hire Transportation Board met on February 11th to consider the application by ECOCAB and voted unanimously to support that application and forward it to your council with that recommendation. ECOCAB's application is now before you in a de novo public hearing, meaning in essence that what you've received so far are advisory and it's up to you to make the decision.
 That's in accordance with Section 16.40160 of City Code. Upon your review, the code requires that the Council direct PBOT to issue a taxicab company permit to the applicant if it finds, one, the interest of the City will be served thereby, and two, that the applicant has sufficient financial resources to be able to meet the minimum standards established by Section 16.
 16.40.270 of city code. Now, that section of code establishes, in essence, minimum standards by which all taxi cab companies in the city have to serve their residents. It includes that by those minimum standards, it's things like 24-hour dispatch service, 24-7 everyday service throughout the city, that kind of thing.
 So what we're recommending from the board is that council approve ECOCAB's new taxicab company permit application subject to the condition that the administrator determine that ECOCAB evidences sufficient financial resources to meet the minimum standards under which a taxicab company must comply. In other words, that Section 270 that I was speaking of.
 As in the past, the administrator does have the ability to utilize the services of the Revenue Bureau to make that determination. And as Michael indicated, we're going to try to keep this brief so that concludes our presentation. And we're certainly open to any questions you may have. Can I just clarify something? Because we haven't had a lot of these hearings during my tenure. And so –
 As a matter of city code, all recommendations of the private for hire board like this come to council for approval? When it's a new taxicab company application, when they submit their recommendation to the council, it is in essence an advisory recommendation and you conduct a new public hearing, a de novo public hearing. That's for new licenses. That's for new licenses.
 Commissioner, I think it's for new companies. For existing companies, the board itself can add additional permits. I see. So we rule on the question of whether a new party can get into the marketplace and then you have the authority to regulate their numbers going forward. Is that correct? That's correct. I don't – when's the last time we had a hearing like this?
 In 2012 was when the initial recommendation came to council. It was appealed, and the permits were issued in 2013. That was for Union Cab. Union Cab. So that's the last one I remember. Okay, thank you.
 Okay. Anything else to add? Actually, Mr. Sills, I think we need to move an amendment to the board report because on paragraph two, it said following deliberation, the board voted to recommend approval of Ecopab's new taxi company per road application for up to 51 vehicles by vote of nine ayes, two noes, and one abstention. Actually...
 That applied to the expansion of the number of permits for existing companies. So I have an amendment here clarifying that it was actually a unanimous vote on the eco-caps. That's absolutely correct. Commissioner Novick moves. I have a second. I have one other question. On the one piece of information that we don't have before us, and it may or may not be relevant, is –
 Are there other companies that have made similar requests that are pending where at some point we have to consider the cumulative impact, or does the law require us to look at each of these on their individual merits? So, yes, there are four other applications that are before the board. They'll be meeting on March 25th to go over, in all likelihood, three of those applications. It doesn't look like the fourth one is quite ready yet.
 And with each of the applications, it's a requirement in the administrator staff recommendation report to the board that they take into account market conditions and determine the need for new taxicab service in the city. So as new companies are added, then that would become part of that evaluation by the administrator. So it is possible that.
 an applicant who's at the end of the queue at some point may come to council, assuming it comes to council, and the answer would be no because the market's saturated?
 As with any business consideration, if you're encountering market saturation, then you would have to, as a business, you would make the determination whether you were viable in that market. And as a taxi cab or a private for hire transportation board, that recommendation would also be within that context of whether we're at market saturation. And I'm just curious because this is a chance to educate us about what you do.
 How do you resolve the question of, let's say there's four or five companies that have submitted applications, how do you do the sort of ranking process, or is it just first in line? You know, the code really doesn't contemplate ranking in that sense, so I don't think that would be an objectively fair way to treat those applicants to try to do that at that time. Okay. Thank you. Other questions for staff? You're going to hear from Apple? Yes. Oh, okay.
 I was struck by the new policy of treating these cab seat drivers as employees rather than as contractors. And I was initially concerned about the rate of pay of $10 an hour for 40 hours per hour.
 plus commission, which the report says will get to about $1,171. Given our discussion on the $15 an hour, it didn't seem to me that that was in keeping with our goals for payment. But then my staff looked up and found a 2012 Office of Management and Finance report that said the average hourly income for...
 taxi cabs after paying the kitty is $6.22. Is that still about the average wage of a taxi driver in Portland? Frank DeFay, we don't really have good data on that, Commissioner. We have anecdotal evidence. The $10 an hour is probably pretty good pay for that profession right now. And do we know how much Uber and Lyft drivers are making? We don't have that information.
 So that's of concern, Commissioners, in our next conversation coming back in April as far as the transportation network companies. It's going to be, obviously, I'm pleased that we have this proposal that's paying more than was being paid two years ago, but still it's obviously a very challenging profession for people to make a living wage on. Commissioner?
 Commissioner, I just wanted to share that I went to visit Brad Avakian the other week and asked him about the prospects for having taxicab drivers reclassified as employees. They're generally treated as independent contractors, and he and Christine Hammond from Wage and Hour sort of walked me through the law, and it sounded like under state law we'd have to change the law, be a significant departure for them, other than when the company is treating them as employees, for the taxicab drivers to be reclassified.
 classified as employees but that's something i want to continue to explore yes the other the other thing my staff found out is that state law exempts taxi cab drivers from overtime laws when they are employees so i appreciate the companies proposing to limit hours to 40 hours a week just for safety considerations if the employees would not get time and a half from the ten dollars an hour if they work more than 40 hours and so it's obviously a very complex system
 I just wanted to highlight for public awareness that taxi cab drivers don't make very much money. Good point. I just noticed you have an interesting standard of service in there that if, I think it was like if 65% of a fleet is found within, found at Portland Airport in a one-hour interval, that's deemed not serving the city. Did I get that right? That's correct, Commissioner. We don't want the taxis to just be sitting in the backfield. Right. Okay.
 so we do with the support help us to monitor that um i believe so yes other questions thank you very much we may have more at the end but let's call up the applicant please to make their presentation of uh evidence come on up
 Mayor Hales, while they're getting ready, you might want to accept the amended board report and the other report as exhibits. Okay, and we have the amendment in front of us, so we could go ahead and vote to accept the report as amended? Yes. Roll call on that, please. Aye. Fish? Aye. Okay.
 Southman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Mayor, can I just ask a clarifying question? Because again, this is a somewhat novel procedure for us. Is there a party here today that opposes this application? Well, we'll take public testimony after we hear from the applicant. I understand, but is there a formal party that's intervened and opposed this? Because in our land use hearings... Yes, I understand that. I don't see that there's a formal party on the record. Mr. Novick, did a party intervene below and oppose this?
 I think not. Okay. Thank you. It's up to individuals to make their case if they like this application or if they don't like it after the applicant gets a chance to make their case. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and members of the city council. My name is Len Bergstein, and my office is located at 805 Southwest Broadway, Suite 2290.
 I'm pleased to appear today with Ron Canore, who's the founder and owner of EcoCab. You'll hear from Ron momentarily to describe the unique promise he brings for high-quality taxi cab service, a frictionless user experience based on his strong environmental values and unique business model.
 And you'll hear from Mike Wilkerson from Eco Northwest, the premier economics and market research firm in our region. You already heard a commercial for them previously, so I'll leave the commercial out about them. They're really quite good. We're here today with strong guidance and support from Frank DeFay and his staff and the unanimous vote, as you heard, from the Private for Hire Board of Peers that's recommended approval of 51 permits for EcoCab. EcoCab is a set of values.
 and a business model that will meet and serve the demand for additional taxicab services in our community. It mirrors the leadership this council has provided on environmental and workforce issues and will help you achieve your goals. So I'd like you to hear from Ron about his company and why he's bringing this to Portland, Oregon. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Chair.
 Mr. Mayor and council members, my name is Ron Canore, and I'm the owner and founder of EcoCab. And I just wanted to come and say hi and let you know that I have a strong commitment to a zero emission fleet, and that's what we're going to bring to Portland. So we're proposing. And when we started this business, when I started three years ago in Longview, one thing that
 It really took off, and it was really well welcomed in Longview. And I feel that Portland, and I know that Portland shares the same values for environmental responsibility. And EcoCab's an all-electric fleet with 12, we'll start off with 12 fully electric vehicles and three ADA-compliant vans. And if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
 I have one question, sir. In your excellent presentation, your written presentation, it says that if approved, you'll hire a general manager with extensive taxi experience in the Portland, Oregon area. Tell us how you go about identifying that person and what you're looking for. That's a great question. The first thing that I'll want to do is make sure that the applicants have the same, how do I say it, the same values environmentally.
 and someone who is strong with experience in the taxi industry in Portland. How do I find that person? I'm going to put out an advertisement. And I've actually already gotten quite a few responses, not just from Portland either, from all over the country that have wanted to actually get
 They have extensive knowledge of the taxi business, and they would be willing to move to Portland for this. So I will start that search just as soon as we get approval from...
 You find people. If I may, Mr. Mayor and Commissioner Fish, I think the most important thing on Ron's mind will be the questions that Commissioner Fritz has mentioned, and that is how to run an employee-based company. We'll be looking for someone who has that kind of set of values, responsibility, understands what is expected in Portland in terms of worker relationships, and I think it will be someone that we'll have to work closely with Ron on those particular issues.
 Just one other question. I've never actually had the experience of being in a cab that ran out of gas, but I know that one of the challenges with electric vehicles is the duration of the battery. So how do you balance that in terms of your business model to make sure there's enough juice to run your cars? And what does happen if the car is about the end of its useful life and you've got to recharge? At our facility, we'll have fast chargeability.
 The cars will come in and charge up rather quickly and be out the door again for use. So all of our Nissan Leafs have DC fast charge ability.
 What is the fast charge these days? About 20 minutes for about an 80% charge, and then it gets put on a 240 volt to top it off. And what's the battery life? What's the useful life of that charge? About 85 miles on a Nissan Leaf, and the charge...
 The majority of our fleet eventually will be all Tesla Model S sedans, and those have a 270 mile range. Have you ever stranded it? I have never stranded anyone.
 in three years. The cars are very, they tell you exactly how many miles are left on the charge, and our shop is conveniently located just about three miles from downtown. And plus, in addition to that, if we ever do run into problems, Portland has a very large electric car charging infrastructure already set up. They've got 18...
 conveniently located dc fast charge station so if we ever did run into an issue where someone was closer to a faster charge station than were our shop they would just simply just charge there and take a break that's great where is your facility located 3250 northwest eon okay great other questions
 you have a presentation as well sure yeah thank you mr mayor and council members certainly we've seen some of the uh similar findings so i'll get through this quickly and if you have any questions be happy to answer them as part of the private for hire transportation application process for eco cab echo northwest was asked to conduct a market study analyzing the current taxi market in the city of portland
 The following is a brief overview of the findings. Where we started was by replicating the measures identified in the 2009 PFHT demand study. We also analyzed the raw data from the 3Q global mystery shopper study, which ECHO-CAB retained. Our full report is contained in the proposal, exhibit one, pages seven through 14 for further
 Based on 2013 data, for the 11 comparable cities identified in the 2009 report, Portland would have the second lowest number. And you can see here there's an expansion of the cities. But certainly in the report of the 11 cities, Portland was the second lowest with approximately 7.5 cabs per 10,000 residents, which was less than half of that of the median city in the sample. Okay.
 the median city in the sample was cincinnati which had a total of 17.6 cabs per 10 000 residents so if portland were to have the same ratio as cincinnati that would equate to 1075 cabs which would be an increase of 617 licenses over the current level
 Other demand indicators identified in the 2009 report included total employment in the city, airport boardings, which you've seen, total visitors, which we've also seen, and as well as convention center visitors. All of these indicators have increased significantly since the last demand study coinciding with our economic recovery. Another stated factor for the Revenue Bureau to consider when making a recommendation is the current status of the public transportation system.
 TriMet's level of service in terms of total ridership peaked in 2012 and has decreased subsequently over the last two years. During this period, of course, we've seen an increase in total population and employment. However, ridership dropped in 2014 to levels not seen since 2007. Thank you.
 Ultimately, however, the most important indicator of an adequate supply is responsiveness. Based on the 3Q global mystery shopper study, we found that 22% of all of the calls they placed resulted in no response, so the phone rang indefinitely, or when there was a response, no cabs were available. That's 22% of the time. During peak hours, the wait time for a cab of under 10 minutes was only available one-third of the time.
 and wait times of in excess of 30 minutes or 7% of the time. Finally, I think the most telling detail is for 16% of all calls during peak hours, cabs did not show up for scheduled pickups. That's a major concern, I believe, on a host of fronts. I'm happy to field any additional questions, and I'll turn it over to Len for some concluding remarks. Thanks.
 I have one that's not relevant to whether we approve the application or not, but obviously you understand that we're in a discussion about transportation network companies entering the marketplace. Obviously that hasn't dissuaded you from making application requests.
 Any thoughts about how the viability of your application might be affected by the arrival of transportation network companies operating legally in Portland? Yeah. Mr. Mayor, let me start that off, and then I know Ron has thought a lot about this as a business person. My first reaction is that we're no doubt that –
 Uber and Lyft are highly resourced competitors, and they have a reputation for being disruptors in the economy. But we're not afraid of that competition, and as a matter of fact, we're enthusiastic about the competition because we have several advantages, we believe. Number one, we have zero-emission vehicles. Those will be—
 an attraction to Portland and they will drive kind of our demand. Number two, customer will know what kind of ride they'll be getting when they kind of call for Ron and his service. No question about the kind of car that will be showing up or the vehicle that will be showing up. Number three, we will have an app that is comparable to the kind of app that
 that Uber uses. Ron is in the process of developing that right now, and so there will be a frictionless experience for the customer that will rival anything that they would get from any of the other network companies. And number three, there will be transparent pricing.
 There will be no surge pricing from our company, so that the customer in Portland will know that they're getting a fair deal, transparent deal. They'll know what they're doing before they get into the cab, and that will be kind of ultimately our competitive advantage. Do you have anything to add, Ron? No.
 Unless the council has any more questions, I think that Lem said it really well. Let me take the mayor's question and flip it around slightly differently, which is my understanding is that some of these potential competitors only take payment off of smartphones and credit cards. And that seems to me to be problematic for people that don't have a credit card or a smartphone.
 Do you have a sense – what's the relative mix that you would expect between sort of cash business versus credit card business? It's about 50-50. 50-50. So Uber and Lyft will essentially alienate 50% of their total customers that will totally come. So I'm not going to do that.
 But they're good guys. We don't know. They're good guys. We don't know if they're watching. No offense to my journalist competitors. $40 billion company. Exactly. We're going to get out of their way just a little bit. I appreciate having a phone that has all this capacity, although my daughter does mention that me having an iPhone is like someone buying a car to be able to use the radio. So I get that it has bells and whistles that I haven't even figured out. Yeah.
 It does bother me a little bit that you'd have to have an expensive phone or a debit card or credit card to use a public service. I think that gives me pause. But anyway, thank you. So any other questions for Mr. Norrie, Mr. Wilkerson, or Mr. Bergstein, or all three of them? Great presentation. Thank you very much. Thanks for your attention. We'll see who else is signing up to speak on this item. Amy Anderson, Darren Campbell, and Lightning. Thank you.
 Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning. As many of you know, I'm an avid advocate in this community for people who are low income, medically underserved. And in my work recently with the Transportation Advisory Committee that was formed for Rideshare, which is the new non-medical emergency transportation system, I have learned a great deal about our transportation system in Portland.
 And what I realized was when you add, what is it, about 350,000 people to a community of three counties, Washington, Clackamas, and Multnomah County,
 You're talking about numbers that people have never seen before in this city that are potentially eligible for rides using non-emergency medical. The difficulty we have is the way I've understood it in the past was it was separated between the taxi cab companies and the non-medical transportation companies, and it was kind of everybody got a little bit of everything. What I've come to realize is the major burden has been placed on the taxi cabs.
 The last report I got on the committee, there was over, in one month's time, they took over 100,000 calls in the month of January, and about 38% of that was taxi cab usage. So given the fact that we have all these people going from Gresham to Hillsboro using non-emergency medical transportation services,
 I, on a Friday afternoon, got left in Hillsboro without a ride back because even though HealthShare has a contract with Green Cab, they said we don't have enough drivers to get you to pick you up after your meeting at 6 p.m. on a Friday in Hillsboro.
 So there are many times where I've waited an hour or more for somebody to come pick me up to take me to a meeting that the county was paying for. It's under contract. So we have lots of contracts that I use taxicab service for. And the more people we're adding to our Medicaid rolls, the faster the service is depleting in its entirety.
 shall we say, the way quality, quality is changing in our community as far as transportation goes. And the other thing is, Commissioner Fritz, you're right about the payroll. I've been asking all the drivers of Green Cab, how much have you made, how much are you losing, how much is it costing you to do this non-emergency medical piece? And with a kitty every month of close to $2,100 they have to come up with firsts,
 I would venture to say it's hard to make $10 an hour when all your money is going to pay the kitty. And then you consider all the rides you take during the course of a day transporting people you don't get paid $3 a minute for. You're losing money all the time. And now I hear that the other non-emergency medical transportation companies are at risk of failing because of the loss in income due to this new contract.
 So I really think you guys need to be looking at this at a much larger picture and figure out who's transporting who, what, when, and where, and how much of it through the taxi cabs are being used by people that don't pay or don't have cash. And then when I do pay cash, it costs me to go from 39th and Division to downtown $14 one way.
 I doubt most people on low income can afford taxicabs. So we're looking at people who have modest incomes to be able to afford taxicab rides.
 unless you're being used for non-emergency medical. So I think we need more companies in Portland. We need more dedicated companies to driving the non-emergency medical is what we really need. We need a targeted company to handle that load to free up the taxis from having to transport everybody clear across three counties. Thank you.
 And so I just want to say as you're thinking about what you're adding to the community, think about the big picture of all of this difficulty we have right now just navigating the population that has been added to the Medicaid rolls, not considering the population that's just using taxi service.
 So that's all I wanted to bring is I'm really heavily vested, and I really think the big picture is not being looked at from all angles. So just look at everything before you make your decisions about what you're going to do. That's very helpful. Thank you. Thank you. And we will talk to HealthShare about that. And Family Care. It's a good mind effect. We're in it together. Okay. Thank you. Please. Good morning.
 Yeah, Mr. Mayor, members of the Commission, my name is Darren Campbell, and in the spirit of the rules of this chamber, I am the registered lobbyist for Radio Cab. However, I'm not here in that capacity today. I'm also the elected taxi driver representative for the Portland Private Highway Transportation Board. I was one of the yes votes on the EcoCab presentation.
 And one of the things that struck me in regards to EcoCab was it was a different model altogether with employee drivers. It gives that company the ability to direct their resources to the peak demand times that has been plaguing the city. I would think that Mr. Dufay and the members of his office would tell you that most of their complaints come from those peak demand
 demand times, the Friday nights, the Saturday nights, the clubbing districts. And that would be a place that EcoCab could really make a difference. And at the same time, they have the ability to not take away from that 10 a.m., Tuesday morning taxi driver that's struggling to make ends meet, because that's not the busiest time of the week.
 It struck me as something that was very Portland that could work, and that would be one more piece in that R battle that we're dealing with in regards to the T&C companies coming to Portland. They're going to come. We know that. But an effective taxi industry is one that we need to work together on and have different pieces in place to be able to do that effectively. Great. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. As Commissioner Fritz has stated, this is very complex. On the application at this time, I'd like to have it denied. My reason being is that I believe that Uber and Lyft should also be in the game at this time. They've been excluded.
 What you basically have is a statement out of this brochure here. Currently, Uber and Lyft are examples of companies that successfully utilize an online app in other markets. Although their business model has not yet found acceptance in Portland, ECOCAD's app will function similarly. With that in mind, I don't think they should be approved until we have an understanding where Uber and Lyft are. Now, they consider themselves a private-for-hire company,
 And as you know, Uber and Lyft might be termed dynamic ride-sharing apps. Now, a lot of people feel the difference on that might be a donation-type situation based upon a fare. I mean, there's a lot of discussion on what that actual term is, and I'd like to have that worked out more. Now, you've stated on the transportation network company that Uber and Lyft will fall under that category more.
 toward the private for hire regulations. So if they're supposed to use those type of regulations this time, then they should be in the discussion on possibly stepping into the market and not being denied. I mean, we're creating an exclusivity here that is leaving a lot of people out, which I think is not the proper thing to do.
 And another issue that I have also is that we have a lot of app companies getting ready to move into the market. Uber, Lyft, GoLoco, RideScout, Sidecar, Instant Cab, Pick-a-Pal, Avago, numerous apps that are sitting on the sidelines to wait to see what happens here.
 Again, when they enter this market, the market will saturate. I think it's a very risky proposition for this new company to step in at this time until they understand what's going to happen in this market six months to 12 months from now. We've monitored New York as far as on the medallion system, and as you know, they've tried to sell more medallions and no buyers are out there.
 They're watching very closely what Uber and Lyft are going to do on the overall market. And in my opinion, they're going to come in here and basically take a large control of it.
 And I don't think any of these cab companies are going to be able to do anything about it. And I want to watch this very close on the values of these cab companies, on where they drop within the next six months to a year. And I want to try to put something in place that will protect their interests, protect their values on the cab companies, and
 and watch this very close and try to step in and work with the other uber lift and these other app companies to avoid that from happening and don't create disruption have a shared economy but do not take down the old-time cab companies in this city thank you good morning for the record i'm charles johnson as a person with no physical impairments that keep me from using trimet um
 Sometimes it seems to me like we have too much cab, so it was good to learn from people with mobility challenges the situation that they're in. When we talk about regulating this industry, we also need to look at, as came out most from Commissioner Amanda Fritz's remarks,
 rewarding this industry when it does the right thing, or making sure that this industry rewards its drivers. Charles, let me interrupt you. This is a quasi-judicial proceeding, so you have to tell us whether you're for it or against it. I'm for it with the idea that y'all should look at the regulation of taxis so that companies that
 reward and return profits to their drivers are the ones that can expand their fleets. Ideally, I'm highly biased towards some type of co-op model, but we've heard that many of these taxi drivers are leading a very harsh hand-to-mouth existence.
 And when we look at the regulation of the taxi industry, if we add this business, we also need to go back and look at how the city regulates taxis so that the companies that treat their drivers best and are having the best economic impact on our community are the ones that are able to expand their fleets and put more drivers into better quality-of-life positions. Thank you. Thank you. Morning. Morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice and the following direction. I would like to see you approve this. I was intrigued listening to the testimony that either all the cabs or most of them are going to be electric. That's kind of cool. And I often sit here listening to the testimony week after week, not as somebody that's
 knows everything, but somebody who is listening on TV and trying to understand what's going on. And the testimony that you had this morning was fascinating to me because one of the things that we really want is electric cabs. That is so cool.
 And as far as the charging, if a cab goes down and there's a problem, Commissioner Fiske, they'll do what every other cab driver does. They'll get on the phone and say, help, and somebody will come and help them. And they'll either recharge the cab or they'll send another cab. So we only have the same concern that Commissioner Fritz has mentioned, and that's the salaries.
 I talk to cab drivers a lot, and they're not rich. You know, you're right. They are not rich. They are not making lots of money. So I think this council has a golden opportunity in your approval when you approve this, and I'm assuming you will, to make a statement to the company, you know,
 Our city is moving towards a basic minimum wage of $15 an hour. Would you try to get as close as possible to that with your drivers? So at the end of the day or the end of the month that the drivers are making a livable wage, they work very hard. It's a tough, tough job that they do. I'll just give you one short story and then I'll shut up.
 My wife went shopping the other day, and when she buys too many groceries, she calls a cab. I won't tell you which cab company she uses because I don't think that's fair. The last time she called for a cab, she waited a half hour, and then she went back in to the supermarket and said, would you call again, please? And they did, and she waited another half hour. So it was an hour's wait. On –
 A regular work day, 3 o'clock in the afternoon. This is not high traffic area time. That's not the first time it's happened to her. I know that doesn't give you any statistical data. It's just anecdotal. And I'm just saying to you that this cab company coming in is not going to affect the market that much because if you have to wait an hour for a cab, we need some more cab drivers.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Anyone else? We had one more. Yes, here. On this subject, Barry. Teresa Leap. Not on this subject. Teresa from ERCO. Is she here? Okay. So then we're going to close the public hearing and a motion would be in order. I move the application. Second. Any further discussion? And roll call on that motion.
 Well, thanks to the applicants for this new model coming into Portland. Of course, it's very easy to support an all-electric cab company, in particular your attention to providing the required Americans with Disabilities Act accessible vans. And so it's a great model. I appreciate that you're moving to the employee-based model rather than the contractor, playing the base hourly wage commission, of course having paid sick time because you're in Portland, which is great, and also paid vacation time.
 So those are good steps forward. As I mentioned, it's astonishing to me that in 2012, cab drivers were making less than $7 an hour. And I doubt that in three years it's all that much better. So if we're looking at this, there's been some discussion that potentially having a free-for-all for a month where cab drivers might not get any business, if you're making $400 a week, you can't afford to have a month without pay.
 And so I'm looking forward to the hearing on April 9th because I value our taxi cab system. As a woman, I am not going to be getting into some stranger's car. I've been taught since I was knee-high that you do not get into stranger's cars, even if you summon them on your iPhone. And I've certainly taught my daughter that. I taught my daughter to summon a cab on her iPhone. And so I am concerned that...
 And I don't think that Lyft and Uber and others should assume that we are going to allow them to operate in our city. And so all of the challenges have been met, including what Amy Anderson brought up in terms of health-related and medical transportation issues.
 The beauty of our system, and thanks to Frank Dufresne for a long time of working on these issues, is that it's regulated and that there are taxis available at 3 o'clock in the morning to get to the all-night pharmacy if you need to. And we're fair about who gets to go to the airport for the more lucrative rides, and we're fair about the limousines, and we stop the kickbacks at the hotels for the limousines and such. It's a service that...
 has great potential for vulnerable people to be abused. And this new company with a good track record in Longview, obviously because of the Eco Northwest study, and Mr.
 Walsh's testimony just now, we don't have enough cabs in Portland, and people are not using public transportation. In some cases, you can't use public transportation to get from A to B at any hour of the day, never mind in the evening or at night on weekends. So it's an important public service. I very much appreciate and welcome you to Portland. Aye. Fish. First of all, this is not a typical council proceeding.
 And so I want to call out a very effective and thoughtful package that you gave us that tells your story and lays out the case. I appreciate that, your testimony, commitments that you've made. A city that prides itself on sustainability obviously welcomes the idea of a truly green cab company, all electric. I was a little concerned when I heard someone earlier say that we have a 15% or 16% rate of –
 of no-show. And I'm doubly concerned because as a person who no longer has a car, I actually use cabs more. If I have a late night event and I am too lazy to take the bus, I'll take a cab.
 or the airport or something. So 15%, if it's a cab you're waiting for to get you to an early morning flight or to an important meeting, is of some concern. So I'm going to follow up to learn more about why we have that rate, that fail rate.
 But you've made a compelling case. This is a de novo hearing. We've heard no objections. And I appreciate the thorough way that Commissioner Novick and his bureau make these presentations and get the information to council. Aye. Salesman. Very enthusiastic aye. We really appreciate your commitment to sustainability, your commitment to your workforce, and I wish you all the success. Aye. Thank you.
 Novick? I, too, really appreciate the employee model and appreciate the commitment to sustainability. I was going to mention a potential side benefit from approving this application, and it occurs to me that perhaps I should have declared an additional conflict of interest possibility at the beginning of this session because I note that on November 26, 2014, I received an email from Phil Barnhart, State Representative from Eugene, who is also the all-powerful chair of the Revenue Committee.
 And he was emailing me about taxi cab service in Portland in general and also about electric cabs. And one of the things he said is, personally, I would love to ride in a Tesla taxi in Portland. I also think it would give a great impression to visitors.
 So I have to say that I am hopeful that approving this application will result in Representative Barnhart throwing his entire weight behind all of our legislative agenda. And I think that that could be a great thing for the city. But I apologize for not having mentioned that hope is a possible conflict of interest in the beginning. Hi. Hey.
 I think that's a confluence of interest, not a conflict. Great application, great company. We look forward to having you serving this community and our visitors. And I think the process worked very well, so thanks to our staff and our volunteers on the board. And I think this is a case where we have thoughtfully taken up the question of how do we manage change. There's obviously more of that to come, but I think this was a real success, and I want to commend everybody involved.
 Aye. And the Bureau will prepare a final order that validates the council's decision today. You just want to close the public hearing. And so I'll close the public hearing. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move on to the last couple of items we have in the regular agenda and the polled consent item. So let's go ahead and do item 281. 281, reappoint Claire Carter, Phil Damiano, David Humberer.
 Mary Helen Kincaid and Dana Croswick and appoint Jennifer Marsechek to the Development Review Advisory Committee for three-year terms This is uh, this is not a previous item, right? I thought I thought we had this up last week, but I guess we didn't okay anyone want to speak on this item This was pulled by Sarah long. Is she here? No, I don't hear I move the report. Okay. Is there a second further discussion? Okay
 Roll call. Fritz. I greatly appreciate the willingness of these diverse volunteers to participate in our Development Review Advisory Committee and the Bureau of Development Services. Aye. Dish? Aye. Salzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hayles? Aye.
 Establish the authority of the Director of Bureau of Internal Business Services regarding Portland, Oregon, Trademark Sign, and correctly reflect the organizational structure of the Office of Management and Finance. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. Let's get this up. Cheers. Thank you.
 For the record, I'm Brian Ange. I am the Director of the Bureau of Internal Business Services. And we're here to present for your consideration this morning code changes related to the City of Portland's Oregon Sign trademark and some housekeeping changes. The City obtained the rights to the White's Diag sign in 2010. The City had the sign changed from Made in Oregon to Read Portland, Oregon. The goal of the City was to have the sign as a symbol for all citizens of the City of Portland.
 The iconic sign is becoming a widely recognized mark. It has been seen on a Super Bowl commercial, local advertising, and for merchandising cups and t-shirts. The city manages the use of the mark to protect from irresponsible use and to promote city tourism and trades. The city manages the mark through license agreements. A license agreement is entered into for the use of the mark regularly.
 The licensee rents the right to use this mark in association with filming, products, and events. Licensing involves a contractual agreement between the city and the licensee. The contract ensures that the use of the mark is restricted by specific conditions. An acceptable use policy will be designed to help protect from irresponsible use of the trademark.
 Some of the prohibitions that will be included in the accessible use policy includes the mark will not be used in any way that is unlawful. The mark will not be used in any connection with any criminal, civil, or administrative violation of any applicable local, state, and federal rule. And the mark will not be used to promote, advocate any content or material that harasses or threatens the health or safeties of others.
 And finally, the mark will not be used to promote or advocate in any way content or material that may be construed as inappropriate or not consistent with the values of the city. In addition to protection of the city asset, the policy and the associated fee schedule will be designed to support tourism and local trade. Local government agencies will not be charged a fee to use the sign. Nonprofit agencies are not charged an administrative fee.
 Businesses will pay an administrative fee to help offset the cost to manage the program. License fees will be dependent upon the use of the mark and the gross revenue of the business. The fee schedule will favor small and local businesses. Revenue generated from the mark will be used to pay the cost to legally defend the mark and to pay the cost to maintain and operate the sign, which is approximately about $28,000 a year.
 The proposed code changes will provide the BIB's director the ability to effectively and efficiently manage the mark, to prevent its misuse, support small and local businesses, generate revenue where possible, and provide transparency. We'll open and see if there's any questions about the program. Okay. So are you going to establish a fee schedule? That's correct, Commissioner. Okay.
 And then there's, in the ordinance, there's the requirement for an annual report to council about the use of the sign, including the specific licenses, gross revenue, and net revenue. And that doesn't need to be in the code? How will we make sure that that happens moving forward? When the council adopts it, it will be binding city policy. It will not be in code, but it's binding city policy, so it will be in part in the policy docs. Okay. So...
 that will just automatically happen i won't have to ask for it next year and and to that point commissioner fritz one of the things we wanted to be able to do and this is back to the transparency is we're going to include the tracking of the both the revenues and and the costs in the city's financial system so it will be tracked in sap so we're going to be able to invoice uh
 vendors and others who use the sign directly out of SAP and in those cases where we need to defend against Inappropriate use of the sign that those costs will also be tracked in SAP So not only will be able to on an annual basis I'll show you what we've done but at any time that you would want or anyone else would want to go into SAP that will be able to get that report and
 Presuming one knows how to use SAP and has permission to use SAP. So I'm really concerned about the community having a summary each year with pictures of what's been on the sign and such. Obviously, it's not going to be changing the sign. It's going to be pretending to use the sign in its advertising. Okay.
 We're not talking about actually allowing people to put different images on the Portland, Oregon site. No. It's using that image in advertising. So maybe the annual report to council could include those images of how it's been used.
 Will do, Commissioner and the Mayor. The Chief Procurement Officer will be signing off on every specific use, right? They will have to propose, show you an image of what they want to put up there, and you will get to say yes or no. Commissioner Fritz, at this time, this program is in the Bureau of Internal Business Services, and so the CPO is not involved in this program. That's right. Yeah. Okay.
 I'm just curious, what's an example of the difference between something, a use that is governed by this policy where we're protecting our intellectual property rights, and a use that is allowed in the public domain? So, for example, if TNT is filming a basketball game here,
 and they begin the show by sweeping the skyline and focusing on the sign. I assume that's
 sort of in the public domain and that's their right, as opposed to if they choose to put the logo on some product they sell. Exactly. One's an incidental use, Commissioner Fish. One's an incidental use. Okay. And the other one is a specific use when you put it on a mug or a T-shirt. So one is just you're canvassing the city for purposes of showing –
 Something, an event that is not specific to the sign but may be for the city of Portland itself as the other one is more related to a specific sale of a mug. And one other category, I noticed that lots of local artists take that iconic image and then alter it in some way and incorporate it into their art. I assume there's a wholesale exception for people that use it in their art.
 So what we're doing now is that in those cases where someone is using the sign, in the case of merchandising or specifically using the sign to help them to advocate or promote whatever their product is, that is a misuse of the sign if they do not have a license. And so what we'll do is send them and encourage them to get a license or we'll send them a cease and desist letter. But, for example, if –
 if my son's fifth grade class has a project where they draw pictures of the sign, or if local artists as part of doing art about Portland incorporate the sign, I assume that's not covered by this policy. That's correct. Again, that gets back to incidental versus a specific use of the sign.
 That's something, as you fine-tune the policy, I'd like to just make sure that that incidental use, as it applies to artists who are incorporating the sign in an incidental way, is clearly defined so we're not ensnaring people that are local artists for whom that's an iconic image in something that they're doing in whatever medium for which they would be required to get permission. Will do. Thank you.
 So I've just realized why I was confused, and that's because I am confused about Exhibit B. If you look at page 3 of Exhibit B, it appears to be making changes about the Procurement Services Division, and I don't see how that relates to this current item. Right. Okay.
 Celia Herron with the city's Office of Management and Finance. We took the opportunity when we opened up city code to talk about the authorities of the Bureau of Internal Business Services Director. We looked at sections of code that are currently out of date. The Procurement Services Division used to be within Bryant's purview in his BIBS Bureau is now being moved.
 into the new Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. So being a fan of keeping this code as accurate as possible, when this came up as an edit, I suggested that we change the language in the respective sections of code to show that procurement is moving out of one section of OMF and into another, which is why you have five exhibits before you.
 So it doesn't have anything to do with the Portland-Argenstein? That's correct. But, yes, that's a source of the confusion. Probably next time it would be better to have two separate ordinances just so that it's clear to both me and the public. Because I was like, how? Point well taken. Okay. No actual connection. Good catch. Okay. Other questions for Celia or Bryant?
 thank you both very much anyone signed up to speak uh joe walsh okay requested to speak right next one's just first reading my name is uh joe walsh uh for the record i represent individuals for uh justice we had two concerns about this first one was the last concern uh that was expressed by commissioner fritz
 that there's a section in here that has absolutely nothing to do with the signs. And the section that we're most concerned with is something that I was personally just involved in, and that's the appeal process if you're excluded. I was excluded from this building for 30 days. There is an appeal process. The hearing officer...
 Here's the case, except if you go out of time. And here's the example. Suppose you excluded me for 10 days. You have five days to file the appeal. I did that.
 And they set the hearing six days after I filed the appeal. Wait a second, Joe. Does this affect the appeals process? Yes, it does. If you keep reading and let me finish, I'll tie it up. Tell us where it is and we'll look at it. Okay. It starts on Exhibit A where it says develop and enforce rules of conduct. That's where it goes. And then gives the authority to
 to the director to make a decision on exclusion. So that's the one that we're having the most problem with. And let me get to the heart of the matter. The heart of the matter is you have no appeal process if you run out of time. And what happened with me was I ran out of time when the director is making all of the decisions. I made none.
 So we are asking you, if you open this up, and that's the testimony that you just had, they are connecting these two items that are not related, but they wanted to open it up. So open it up this way, and I will give the Parks and Recreation a bad boy on this. You, in your appeal process on your exclusions, have a provision that says once you file the appeal, everything stops.
 All the time limits stop. You don't have that in the most important building in Portland, this building. You don't have it because what happened with me is they declared my question moot because the hearing officer, even if he ruled in my favor, could not give me back the 30 days that I was excluded. That was a reasoning. However,
 Since I represent individuals for justice here every week and I monitor what you do, you deprive me of a constitutional right. That will be the argument in federal court.
 So I'm asking you to look at this now and do what the Park Service did some time ago and say let's freeze everything until the appeal is over, and if he loses the appeal, he must serve the exclusion. Okay. Thank you. That's reasonable. Wait a minute. There's another part. No, that's it. You're out of time. Thank you. Joe, you're out of time. You went off on a tangent on me, and I answered your question. I think we gave you the time. Go ahead. Let me answer the first one. The first question is on a sign.
 This is an issue that you brought up and took down at least two times, and I know. You are in a battle with Pabst Blue Ribbon. No, we're done. We're settled. Wait a minute. Let me finish. Let me finish. We've settled the case. All right. But that was the catalyst for this. Yes. So you had to go back and rewrite everything, because I think Pabst Blue Ribbon told you you were wrong.
 because you had a reindeer here and you had a unicorn over there. They are not the same. So you got into a battle. You want to rewrite the rules now, and we object to that without a lot of discussion. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. What was the settlement, by the way? We'll tell you about it later. Go ahead, Charles. Did they win? No. No.
 Go ahead, Charles. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I think we'll move to the front of our remarks. Our thanks to the Pabst Brewing Company for helping us explore this interesting area of intellectual property law. I do...
 hope that there actually will, people need to know about the law. So I hope that you will engage with both Pabst and other artistic people in doing really a public presentation that brings to light how the city works together with business so that our iconic sign can be a tool that benefits both.
 I do want to say that I also looked at the 17-page PDF that comes along with this, so I understand Mr. Walsh's concern as we have some strikeout language there and some renumbering of different portions of the city code. And I think that perhaps that can pass at this reading. I don't oppose that. You need to look at the ability of the president of the council and the mayor to –
 improve, to be less exclusive, and also to improve the situation we have in the morning with public comment so that people who have been in the audience at 9.30 might be able to make more spontaneous remarks to some of the serious issues that are facing the city. But as to this particular agreement, or not agreement, but change into our city's structuring of how we...
 It's hard to say how we protect the image of a city that has homeless people sleeping underneath the sign. So I think we'll have to also talk about where that revenue goes, that it doesn't just cover administrative costs. But now that he's back, I think it should go directly to Commissioner Schaltzman's bureau, actually, that the sign that's hung over Burnside Bridge where people have died, any positive revenue that comes from that program –
 should be used for humanitarian efforts to help the city's most endangered people that are sleeping tonight under that sign, unless some sweeps chase them away. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anyone else signed up? Let's take a roll call. Actually, Mayor, I have some additional questions for staff. All right. Come on back up. And I may not actually be prepared to vote on this today. Okay. I commend, or I'm in awe of Mr. Walsh for responding.
 being able to testify on the changing of a capital B to a lowercase b to bring up the issue of the rules of conduct and a supreme example of actually testifying on the issue at hand, but not necessarily so. But my question is regarding there's a proposed change just in exhibit A, page 1, section 3, 15020.
 B1, it's proposed to delete any proposed lease transaction shall first be reviewed and approved by the city's debt manager. And why? Okay.
 I recommended that deletion because in this particular section, this section is articulating the authorities of the BIBs director, not of the authority of the city's debt manager. And so I talked with staff there, and I also – we acknowledged that a bureau director's requirement to comply with the city's investment policy and the city's debt management policy are already addressed.
 And so it would be as if to say, and here's one little rule you have to follow where, quite frankly, the bureau director, in this case, the BIBS director, has to comply with all of the city's policy regarding debt management, which includes the coordination of proposed lease transactions.
 So I don't have that language in front of me, though. No, you should do. Because the top line on B is listing a whole series of authorities for the VIBs directive. Where? What page? Page 103.15020, section B. Right. Where does it say that proposed lease transactions should be approved by the city's debt manager? Okay.
 No, it used to say that. Now it's conferring that authority to the BIBs director, right? I got that right? Well, the BIBs director, like all bureau directors, have to comply with the requirements of the city's debt management policy on a point of many of the 12 pages. This and everything else. Yes. Right. So the debt manager's authority is established elsewhere in code. Yes. Right. But this...
 I'm sorry, I'm really kind of hypoglycemic at this point. I'm not able to process this. Can I ask a protocol question? Does this have to be passed today?
 No. You have it as emergency. No. And if Commissioner Fritz is not comfortable voting today, we don't have the votes for an emergency. I'm happy to continue it for a week. Wouldn't I continue this a week so she can get answers to her questions? It's not necessary for the resolution of our court case, right? No. If it doesn't inconvenience you, why don't we put it over for a week? Thank you. So let's give you a chance to answer her questions in between, and we'll continue this for one week. Thank you. Sure. Okay.
 Okay, now we have one more item, which is the non-emergency ordinance, just for first reading.
 287 authorized third issuance of general obligation bonds for fire vehicles and emergency response infrastructure and general obligation refunding bonds. His ears were burning. There he is. Indeed, right on cue. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, Jonas Beery, the city's debt manager. This ordinance authorizes issuance of voter-approved general obligation bonds that will finance up to $18.9 million of public safety projects,
 including purchase of fire apparatus and completion of the PSSRP project. This is expected to be the final bond issuance under the $72.4 million public safety geo bond measure authorized by voters in 2010, and this will fund completion of the projects under that voter approval.
 The most recent bond issuance, the second bond issue under that program occurred in March 2014, and those funds are nearing completion of spend down as was expected. Total public safety program bond proceeds to date have been around $51.6 million.
 out of the 72.4 authorized, which leaves $20.8 million remaining from the total authorized amount. This final request is approximately $2 million under that remaining amount, which results in a smaller final borrowing and therefore property tax savings to Portland taxpayers.
 As required under the voter authorization, the projects and financing plan have also been reviewed by an independent citizen committee, and there's an accompanying memo from the city's chief administrative officer that addresses that. That's included in the ordinance packet.
 Just to comment on the impact, now that we're wrapping up the program, when the bond measure was proposed to voters in 2010, the projected levy impact for fiscal 15-16 was estimated at nearly $0.14 per every $1,000 of assessed value. Upon issuance of these final bonds, we now project a fiscal 15-16 levy rate that will be closer to $0.11.
 This savings is the result of a few things, most critically the lower total amount of bonds that we're issuing from experiencing higher than projected growth in the property tax base, which is a good thing, and from receiving very, very favorable interest rates. And I'll mention while three cents doesn't sound like a lot of money, that actually reflects a reduction in the projected citywide property tax levy of approximately a million dollars. So that's a million dollars less that we're asking Portland voters for to pay off those bonds.
 Additionally, with this ordinance, we also are asking for an opportunity to further reduce the levy by refunding some outstanding debt, the series 2008 general obligation bonds, which were issued under a separate voter authorization from 1998 for emergency facilities projects. That refunding is expected to result in additional savings of around $50,000 per year through fiscal 27-28.
 And then we also expect to issue these, the new money bonds, the refunding bonds, as a single series to get some cost of issuance efficiencies as well.
 Property taxes generated by the 2015 bonds, sorry, generated by the levy associated with the 2015 bonds will be specifically dedicated to payment of the bonds and may only be used for that purpose. We expect to repay the bonds over a period of no more than 15 years, at which point the levy will expire. And we expect to sell these bonds via a competitive bidding process in late May of 2015 and be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Questions for Jonas? Yes.
 thank you very much anyone signed up to speak on this item i did not have a sign up sheet out okay then it comes back for second reading and we're recessed until 2 p.m portland city council is now in session so please call the roll fritz here fish sauce men here novick here
 So, this is pretty darn exciting. We're not only getting an award for doing really cool stuff, the award actually comes with money. I can't think of a better way to spend a bit of our afternoon. The Energy Trust Award we're going to receive highlights the potential we have to take steps to reduce the carbon footprint of our buildings. The 2009 Climate Action Plan identified the role of buildings as a contributor to carbon emissions and called for resources and incentives to residents and businesses for carbon reduction work in existing buildings.
 The Energy Interest Award we're recognizing today is an excellent example of how the city is working to reduce our energy consumption and environmental impact, walking the talk of our climate action plan. And I'll turn it over to Brian. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners, and thank you, Commissioner Novick. I couldn't be more excited about presenting this, as you say, check and recognition all at the same time. And like I said, this recognition is going to go out to the good thinking and the tireless efforts of others who have actually paved the way for this. As you know, concern for energy management issues have been a particular priority for the city.
 led by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. The city has adopted climate, green building, and energy policies to support the reduction of carbon, energy, and waste. City bureaus have made significant facilities in this investment in terms of energy and water efficiencies over the past years with great success. As a result, we see better performing buildings with corresponding lower utility costs. While many buildings are performing well, there is still significant opportunity for improvement.
 Working with the bureaus, BPS, and other facilities, facility services staff design, they construct, and operate city facilities to meet the functionality and service needs of its customers. Our objective is to contribute to the financial stability of the city by efficiently managing our energy use while maintaining a quality facility that is conducive to a good work environment.
 Energy alone costs facility services over $2 million a year, and other resources cost us over $500,000 for the buildings that we manage. Over the past 22 years, facility services have saved over $7 million from 47 large major maintenance capital projects.
 Cumulatively, we have savings of about $800,000 on an annual basis as a result of these projects, which are tracked on an annual basis through the city's Energy Challenge Program managed by BPS. Facility services continue to focus on better management of energy and other natural and man-made resources. To improve energy efficiency for city building, facility services have developed and implemented a resource management program.
 This program involved developing, implementing, and tracking the compilation and analysis of utility consumption and cost data facility facilities. And one of the things I do want to point out, and Deb, I think it is, Wendy, who is not here, was instrumental in helping us to design this particular tool. And this tool, as my understanding, is something that's now being used throughout the Energy Trust of Oregon's program.
 Beginning in 2013, Facility Services partnered with Energy Trust of Oregon to develop a strategic energy management program to track and manage energy usage in 10 buildings on a monthly basis and execute efficiency projects.
 You will hear about the success of this project. This program has helped us to meet the Mayor's commitment to reduce energy uses in OMF-managed buildings by 2% on an annual basis and has supported broader citywide initiatives such as the City Green Policy and the Climate Action Plan. I'm excited not only about the great energy savings we are seeing through this program, but also the cultural shift that has taken place across our organization.
 This program has brought together the entire facility services department by bringing energy efficiency to the forefront and providing them the tools needed to make educated decisions around energy usage. We have formed an energy team which includes managers, maintenance technicians, and engineers, and it has strong executive sponsorship. They meet on a regular basis to identify opportunities, presenting their results to the executive sponsorship on a quarterly basis.
 Through our current strategic energy management efforts, facility services have identified actions to reduce energy usage and generate savings to the city of over $140,000 over the last 18 months. I would like to personally thank all of the facility services staff and crew that has participated in the program and has committed to the success of this program. Without their effort, this success we have seen could not be accomplished.
 There are still, again, I wanted to reiterate, a lot more opportunities. We look forward to coming back to you to share more good news. With that, I will turn this over to Wendy Gibson, who is our Sustainable Operations and Maintenance Program Manager, to provide you more detail about the program. Thanks, Brian. And thank you, Commissioners, for taking the time to help us celebrate in our accomplishments. I'd like to take a moment to show you a video that highlights some of the amazing work we've done with the Energy Trust of Oregon, and I'll start it now.
 So over the last 18 months, we've saved almost $140,000. It helps that Energy Trust is giving us a fairly sizable incentive, which is great, but it doesn't nearly compare to the savings that we're seeing or the cultural shift we're seeing in energy efficiency. The Portland Building and City Hall are both in the Strategic Energy Management program. We have 46 buildings, and 10 of them are in the SEM program. Strategic Energy Management has taken the energy operations of the city's facilities to a whole new level.
 The operations folks have made the changes, they've seen the results, and we both now are able to communicate the benefits of that. We have 14 amazing maintenance technicians that are basically boots on the ground making sure that each piece of equipment is acting as efficient as it can. So they were actually able to know that what they were doing made a difference. And I think maybe that's what started to change things. If I can save some money.
 Pay a little bit more on the front end, but get my pay back in a year or two. As a customer, if I was doing this for my house, that would make total sense. So if I just look at this as my house, but on a grander scale, I'm saving all kinds of money. And that's just one building. So I'm pretty stoked about it.
 Maybe it's a filter change, maybe it's insulating some piping, maybe it's changing out lighting. They really feel empowered to start asking questions about energy efficiency, identifying energy efficiency ideas and bringing them to us so that we can work together. I was pleasantly surprised because I did not see the byproduct of this process in terms of gelling.
 employees, employees and managers. We want to build upon this. We have an energy bill that's anywhere between 1.5 to 2 million dollars. And if I can't tell the public I'm judiciously watching that money, then that doesn't make sense. Investing in energy efficiency has proven to be a great return for the city over many years. City also has some aggressive policy goals around reducing carbon emissions, transitioning to clean energy, and so those two things align perfectly with us.
 This kind of work brings all those things together. It's a really great opportunity.
 So the video you just watched was actually from last summer. The savings quoted in the video was when we participated in just one year in 2013. We're currently entering the third year of the program. We hope that in the third year of the program, we'll be able to see just the same amount of savings that we have in the past. So over the course of the two-plus years that we've been in the program, the accumulated savings for just the Strategic Energy Management Program is $345,000. Okay.
 So I'm sure you're asking, well, how can you see this without any capital major projects? And it's by fine-tuning our buildings. It's by staying up to date on our preventative maintenance program. It's by addressing areas of the buildings that were previously neglected that affected energy. It's also by creating a culture that recognizes the need to take into account energy efficiency from the technician's regular tasks.
 The Energy Trust Strategic Energy Management Program takes every organization through a series of workshops that help staff identify how to track energy, how to relay that information in a meaningful way, and provide feedback to an individual on their work.
 The next evolution in energy management is focusing not just on what facilities can do to save energy, but how organizations collaborate and prioritize energy management so that energy is not used when it's not needed operationally. SEM teaches industry best practices, organizing teams and aligning them with executive level support, and to host effective conversations about behavior around our energy use, its cost, and its impact to the environment and to our community.
 Small O&M efforts do take collaboration and cooperation and management level support.
 I'd like to equate, this is my favorite analogy, I'd like to equate the program to a familiar analogy. Capital improvements are like giving somebody a fish. Strategic energy management is like teaching them how to fish, except you not only teach them how to fish, you also teach them how to fillet the fish, cook the fish, and eat the fish before it goes bad. Unlike an efficient piece of new equipment that if not well maintained actually goes bad earlier than it should. So what has facilities learned? We've learned four main lessons.
 The first is that behavior change is hard. But by tracking energy use and being able to show how an individual's actions can actually change energy in a building, you get more buy-in. You need to be able to show individuals their actions and how it changes the energy. By showing this, they are actually able and they are given an apple that they can feel and touch, except this apple is called energy. They see the change. They see the bite out of the apple.
 So without this amazing support and actions from our maintenance technicians, we can't see this. And I'd like to thank them right now for everything that they do to actually make this change. The second lesson we learned is that not every action is going to create energy change. But you don't know unless you try it and you track it. For instance, when I first came to the city, we performed a water audit on one of our buildings. We found a water source heat pump malfunctioning. It was flushing six gallons of water down the drain per minute.
 Left unchecked, this could have cost the city $30,000 per year. But with 15 maintenance technicians that cover over 200,000 square feet per technician, you can't expect them to find every piece of malfunctioning equipment. But by tracking energy usage, that's definitely something we can check on and start looking for solutions right away.
 The third lesson learned is that you definitely need management and support as necessary. In order to create change, it takes an entire organization. It's one thing to tell somebody to do something, but it's quite another to commit to an idea and actually change your own behavior. I would like to thank Facility Services Manager Bob Keita and our Bureau Director Brian Eng for recognizing an opportunity and believing in a program that Dave Tooze from BPS brought to my attention. Without their support, this could not have been done.
 The fourth and final lesson that we've learned is that every little bit counts. We need support from you, our tenants. As facility services continues to redefine the way that we look at energy, we need tenants being willing to change their behavior as well. Think about how your actions and how your cubicle affect energy use. The actions you can take are simple.
 Think about what you do when you leave a room. Turn off the light. When you go home, turn off your computer. When you leave for the day, unplug your smartphone charger. And then, finally, think about whether or not you really need that mini fridge that's secretly stashed underneath your desk for your personal refrigerated items. Could you put them in the community refrigerator? In fact, if you have energy efficiency ideas, please bring them to our attention. We will work with you to see how we can get them implemented.
 In closing, I'd like to add that the City of Portland is not the only organization that is participating in the Energy Trust of Oregon's SEM program. There are both public and private organizations working together in cohorts throughout the state, facing the same challenges, but also exceeding the same results. In fact, Portland Public Parks and Multnomah County have just started on this wonderful adventure as well. I'd like to thank them for being here in the audience to show their support today. SEM has helped them start to put the structure in place
 and now they will be able to achieve savings beyond the large investment that capital projects do. They need your support, too, in order to make a change. So next up, I'd like to introduce Peter West with the Energy Trust of Oregon, who is going to explain a little bit more about the program and present us with a check. Yes, sir.
 Excuse me, I have to apologize. It's not the right way to start a presentation, but it's spring, and I have that nasal drip that bedevils some of us. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Thanks for having us. And, of course, it's a pleasure to be here, and it's a pleasure at the end of this to actually close it with a check. It's delightful. But the first things first. I'm going to talk a little bit about partnership today and a lot about teamwork, and I want to thank Wendy and Brent.
 for the whole team that they bring forward. There is nothing Energy Trust does. There's absolutely nothing when I talk about our accomplishments that isn't in our accomplishments. We do this statewide and we do this with partners, from homeowners to businesses. We do not lift the screwdriver. We don't screw in the bulb. It's teams like this that help. We bring the idea and then you take it from there.
 And that's a wonderful thing. I'd like to also thank my team, Kathleen Belhayat, Ed Wales, and Jay Ward here, and Jim Volkman and Skip Schick from the Strategic Energy Group. Of course, PG and Pacific Corps and Northwest Natural Representatives, I haven't seen them behind me, but if they're here, they're part of our partners as well.
 Energy Trust, we're a nonprofit born in 2003 to be a statewide purveyor of energy efficiency and renewable energy on homes, businesses, and industry. The idea was to, instead of having four programs around the state, between Cascade Natural Gas, PGE, Northwest Natural, and Pacific Corps, have one.
 and have a unified voice to be a trusted, non-biased party to tell you how to do and what to do to lower your bill and to clean up your energy. Of course, our funders are those four utilities, and obviously you don't get here without doing it in partnership with them. Over the time I've been at Energy Trust, we have saved and generated the equivalent of one large power plant.
 Our goal over the next 10 years is to do the same. That one large power plant we helped avoid has saved people on bills a cumulative $1.7 billion to date. If we do nothing more, those savings will continue because those projects will continue. These savings will continue. Smart people will still be finding good things to do, even if we don't have a check, because they're dedicated public folks or dedicated to their industry. That will grow to almost $4 billion.
 You take that and you cycle it around the economy because we're buying locally, not from Wyoming and Ontario and elsewhere. It becomes $3 billion to the Oregon economy, Oregon and the whole. It's a powerful, powerful statement. What we do is something fairly unique. With utilities, we go back to the customers. You buy power from the utility, but you're also the supplier to the utility.
 The power you supply back, we're getting at half the rate of building new facilities. You're forestalling building more power plants. You're forestalling a deeper CO2 footprint. These are powerful things and this is why we do it together. But to you, I actually want to acknowledge we started one of our earliest programs with municipalities was when you ran for us.
 It was LED street lighting. And Dave Tooze has a lot of history with this, and I get to acknowledge him twice, and it's great to see him here. In the 12 years we've been working with the City of Portland, from that project through to today, we've done 87 different efficiency and renewable projects with you. We've invested $2 million in what you've done, and you've invested, I believe, another $8 million, almost $9 million.
 And today, annually, you save 20 million kilowatt hours a year and 140,000 therms. If we do nothing anymore for the next 10 years, you're going to get another 200 million kilowatt hours of savings and another 1.4 million therms saved. It's a lot of money. It's a lot of money that has been taken off of the bill on behalf of the citizens of Portland.
 The facilities group, let me step back a minute. Why SEM? In 2009, we launched it when the economy tanked and businesses had no money, no capital, no anything. And we jumped in and borrowed from a thing called lean manufacturing. And that lean manufacturing principle is to embed this, embed it into what you're doing. And we have found that this principles of SEMs
 apply to how you now look at capital expenditures for energy efficiency and renewable energy. What it does is create a culture of efficiency that you continue to produce the savings, you continue to find the budgetary savings, not just the one or two years you've been doing here, but it extends on. It influences how you look at what you do. Why? Because it gives you the tools not just to pester your coworker,
 but to measure and analyze and verify what you have, to know what should be at the top of the list, what gives you the biggest bang for the buck. The other thing it does with that awareness and that technical ability, it creates what we call cultural learning. And it is wonderful to work with an organization that has that ethic of culture of learning.
 You have the institutional knowledge and the strength to get there. So this particular project, it wasn't in the $20 million I was talking about. What you've done and what Wendy and Brent have led are savings of 1.3 million kilowatt hours, which is 9% reduction in the bills for the 10 buildings you looked at.
 So you looked at 10 and you got 9% reduction. That's strong. And that's just from doing the simple tools of awareness, modeling, measuring, and driving this forward. A lot in behavior and a lot in maintenance, but it's very low cost. That $1.3 million, obviously it's a benefit to the rest of us, but it doesn't stop. Well, it does stop. It does stop if you're not persistent.
 It stops if you don't allocate the budget and the time for it. We have done a number of projects with – I'm sorry, I didn't advance this, but here's the list of all the other folks we've been doing, a partial list of SEMs, strategic energy management, and each of these firms and municipalities and counties, from Clackamas to Washington, Albany to Ushita to –
 well, a whole host, you saw them all. They found that unless you dedicate an individual or individuals and empower them with a team and give them the time and the budget to go after these savings, the future dissipates and you can't stay on that path. So think about this. I know you're coming up on your budget and that's my pitch. I did lobbying so I have to do a pitch. But you can't, it's probably your biggest bang for the buck.
 Keeping that culture of efficiency, keeping that culture of learning going is a powerful thing. And we get there one step at a time, one step at a time. We're not going to get to our power plant unless you can get there with us. So on behalf of the Energy Trust, on behalf of Margie Harris and all of us here, I want to say thank you again and present you with this check for...
 $26,546. This represents the value of the savings and the effort you've done on behalf of all of us as ratepayers in Oregon. And it's a token in some respects, but it's powerful in another, because what you've done is provide us a path to a cleaner and cheaper energy future. So thank you. Thank you. I think you guys get the chat. Well, you get the chat. Why don't you get up there and start a conversation?
 As we gather around the chair.
 So I'm kind of anticlimactic about the check has been presented, but does anyone have anything further to say on this item? This is a wonderful event.
 Obviously, climate disruption is the greatest challenge that humanity has ever faced. But another huge challenge that we face at every level of government today is trying to preserve or restore trust in government, particularly trust in our ability to manage public money wisely.
 So to be able to say that we have managed public money wisely and we're saving money and we're reducing carbon emissions is just a phenomenal thing to be able to say. And I really appreciate it with the Energy Trust and everybody in Facilities Services, in particular the maintenance technicians, and thanks for acknowledging them. Do we have some of them here today? John Tomlin is here representing everybody. Thank you.
 Who did the video? The Energy Trust of Oregon approached us due to our success to do the program, so they actually did the video. Very well done. I'm looking at my colleagues on my left here, and I remember when in the 2012-13 budget we, under Mayor Adams, looked forward to this program saving 2% and spent the money in advance. And I can't remember what we actually spent it on. I'm wondering if anybody else can. I don't know.
 I can't remember either. He probably spent it on art, didn't he? Well, no, I don't think so. And I remember feeling very skeptical at the time that this was actually going to come to be. So it's very gratifying to see that, in fact, we have done better than 2% in electricity savings. Did most of our buildings run on electricity or gas? Yes.
 The majority of the buildings that are currently in the program, so of the 46 that Facility Services owns and manages, only 10 of them are in the building. So the savings we're receiving right now is just from 10 of those buildings, and that has a lot to do with our capacity to be able to track. And most of that is electricity. It's not gas. And so they're heated with electricity. That's correct. Yeah, most of them. Interesting. One of you said that we need to disconnect –
 are smartphone chargers. So could someone amplify on that? Because I think my office may be one of the worst offenders on that, and I don't know that people even realize that keeping them plugged in is a problem. So what...
 So basically any piece of equipment that you have plugged in pulls a phantom load. And the phantom load is not a lot, but added up by the city or by the city of Portland, the greater large, you start adding up those numbers. So anytime you leave something plugged in, it does pull a load, although it may be small, which is why it's called a phantom load. Do you recommend, for example, that everyone turn off their computers when they go home?
 Yes, I do, and BTS will no longer say otherwise. We've talked to them, and so they used to promote keeping it on at night due to patches and updates. And one of the things we did is we actually went through a process to look at whether or not there could be a PC management system put in place to kind of help people with that process. And what we found, actually, is that when we upgraded our computers previously,
 a couple years ago, back in 2012 or something like that, we actually switched to much more efficient computers and I believe just through that we saw a savings of $60,000 or something. So, BTX actually has worked well with us to be able to see that savings. And so now the best thing that we can do is just turn off our computers at night unless BTX tells us to leave them on overnight due to patches.
 I have a double incentive because every time I get a patch, it does something to my computer that I can't figure out. No disrespect to BTS. Turn off our computers, disconnect our chargers because I think a lot of us didn't know that. I didn't know that. Mine is connected. Disconnect that. Turn off the lights. What else?
 Basically, what I would do is just look around your cubicle and figure out whether or not there's energy usage there. So you have a monitor. You could turn off your monitor. Maybe you have an electronic photo display. Some people, you could turn that off at night, too, or unplug it at night as well if it doesn't disrupt the photos, things like that.
 Some people do actually have mini fridges underneath their desks. Those pull a lot of energy usage. So those types of things. Heaters, if you do have them, you could unplug them. Hopefully you don't. Fans, things like that.
 That's terrific. I don't think anyone has a mini-fridge in my office, but we'll certainly inventory that. Thank you for an excellent presentation. Well, colleagues, I noticed that the electricity savings is actually 8.9%, which is four times the savings that we were hoping to get, and that money is already spent. But that then goes to 1.3 million kilowatt hours. So how much money does that translate into, and can I spend that too, please? Okay.
 That's the problem with the savings, that you don't actually ever see that money. You just never use it. So it's never budgeted. Well, it must be in somebody's budget, prospectively, right?
 Yeah, so as the budgeting process works, right, we actually do kind of plan through the budgeting process on the amount of energy that we use. And so what we do is, like, as that number starts to go down, we factor that in over a three-year basis for your rates, your tenant rates. So your rates would either stay the same or go down. So it actually gets distributed back to the bureaus that pay overhead. Right, as basically the energy utility bill goes down, we don't increase or we would factor that into your rate.
 So, Commissioner, what you'll see in this year's decision package from the Internal Business Services is a request to fund on a permanent basis, and that's what we're talking about, having a dedicated resource and the persistence of that.
 is to fund a full-time position, and we would use reallocate. So as part of the budget process, we're reallocating the savings to fund this new position on a permanent basis. Here to four, it's been a pilot program, and so we've been using other ways to fund this position. But now what we're going to do, we need to carry this forward and make it a formal program within facility services.
 And would that enable you to include more buildings in the program? Absolutely. I think that as capacity continues, we could continue to include more programs. What we're looking at is not just energy management, strategic energy management, but strategic resource management. So eventually we'd like to include things like water, which is the example that I cited earlier.
 You read my mind. So when you have some breathing room, let's talk water because, you know, we've now moved to paperless monthly billing. Right. And that's an option. I have this dream that someday it will actually also tell you, for example,
 If your consumption goes up by a certain amount, there will be a flag and a possible warning that, you know, look for a leak or, you know, whatever. Or even perhaps on the positive side of the ledger, acknowledge that your consumption is down.
 and what the savings is as a way of actually driving home the conservation message. But we should be able to do a lot of things if we have electronic communication. It's all about knowledge. You have to provide people with the knowledge and the information in order to get them to make the change, right? And if you don't provide historical context, I mean, I get my monthly bill.
 And, you know, compared to what? I have to actually go on the website to see what my last bill was to then say, am I above or below or, you know, is there? And I think over time we're going to have the technology allows us to send positive message, warning flags, and then drive home our conservation messages. Of course, only in the water business does conservation work against ratepayers' interests in terms of costs. Right.
 The irony of my business is if we're really successful, we'll be driving up your rates because we're a fixed-cost system, but we'll be meeting other goals. Right, and what we're doing is we're looking at resources that's both natural and man-made, so things like trash. How do we reduce the amount of trash? In fact, we did a materials management assessment a couple years ago on City Hall, and it basically came back saying that if City Hall wanted to, they could be a zero-waste building, right?
 It's just about the behavior in the building. So a lot of it has to do with how tenants relate to a building. It kind of reminds me, why did we recently switch our compost bins from paper and food waste to food waste only, and is it a good thing?
 Well, I would let the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability talk about that. Is that them? Yeah, they're the ones that do that. We can talk afterwards. It results in a whole lot more trash going in the trash. Yeah. It does, yeah, which is why the best thing to do is just use reusables. And talking about the Commissioner Fish, there's a nice nexus between saving water and saving energy.
 We have actually worked with the Water Bureau on distributing low-flow showerheads and aerators. The less hot water you use, the more energy savings you have. Less water, less hot water. There's a nice nexus between those two of those. So perhaps we can get on your app.
 as you move forward in your electronic communication? You know, we've got miles to travel, so we're going to afford a sitting down with you. And we'll have two new leaders of the utility starting this fall, so kind of a chance to start fresh and think about these things. I think about six months ago we came to council with an idea that is pretty neat where some company approached us and said they wanted to run turbines through our water system to generate electricity. Right.
 And why not? So we have the water flow, and they use it. They divert. They change the pipe and generate electricity, and then that goes back into the grid. And we started thinking about those ideas and how they could grow exponentially. So we look forward to having those conversations. Great. Thank you. Have you sent a copy of this report to former Mayor Sam Adams in his new role in Washington, D.C.?
 No, we have not. Would you please do that? Because I think since he instigated this program, I for one need to say you were right because I didn't think it was going to happen. But I think he'd be very glad to know and have a real-life demonstration that he can then share with other cities that this is cost-effective. It actually works out better. And some of the services, as you just mentioned about lower hot water bills and such, but LED lights are not only more cost-effective and energy-efficient, they actually light better. Right.
 So I think he'd be very glad to know that this is such a success. And thank you for all of the work that you've all done. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. We are adjourned.