I sure will. Commissioner, are you there? Yes, I am. Ready, Carl? Yes. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, March 14, 2018 meeting of the Portland City Council. Good morning.
 Commissioner Udailey is unable to attend today's meeting. Her failure to participate in today's council session would jeopardize the public interest, health, safety, or welfare. Therefore, unless there's an objection by any member of the council, Commissioner Udailey will participate in today's hearing by teleconference. Are there any objections?
 Hearing no objections, Carla, please ask Commissioner Udaly to participate by teleconference. Commissioner Udaly, are you there? Yes, I am. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. So, folks, just a little bit of housekeeping this morning. We're going to get through communications today.
 I'm going to call a recess at 9.50 a.m. until 10.30 a.m. A number of commissioners have been asked to join our young people at their respective schools as they highlight the importance of safety in their schools. I have chosen to participate, and I believe a number of my colleagues have chosen to participate. We will reconvene.
 at 10.30, and at 10.30 we will take up the consent agenda. We'll take up the appointment that is on the time certain agenda at 9.45, followed by the USS Portland Commissioning Committee presentation. And we have notified those folks that there will be this delay. I had said yesterday that I would recess the City Council for 17 minutes.
 in observation and support of the students in their demonstrations. But subsequently, we were invited to actually stand with the students. I was asked to stand with the students at Lincoln High School. And I think there is no better way that I could demonstrate my support for their efforts than by being there in person. And a number of my colleagues are doing the same. Commissioner Fritz. I will be at St. Mary's.
 Very good. Commissioner Fritz will be at St. Mary's. I'll be at Lincoln. So with that, Carla, could you please call the first communications? Item 236. I'm sorry, Carla. Michelle, what is? Oh, Robert. Would you like me to read the statement? Could we do that maybe later? Oh, I'm sorry. After communications? I mean, when we convene? Yeah, let's do it at 1030. I think we're good for now. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the first communications item.
 Item 10, I'm sorry, 236, request of Craig Rogers to address council regarding zombie houses. He contacted the office and is not able to make it. Very good. Next item, please. 237, request of Luann Moldovan to address council to advocate for increased budget for Portland Police Bureau.
 Come on up. Three minutes. It'll blink red when your time is up, so please finish at three minutes. If you could just state your name for the record. We do not need to know your address. Please let us know if you're a lobbyist or if you're representing an organization. Thank you. I'm Luann Moldovan. I'm just a civilian. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Fritz and Udailey.
 Once upon a time in an ever-growing metropolis, there lived a hard-working middle-aged woman named Frances. Married for three decades to her beloved William, both were devastated by his diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's.
 Critical lifestyle adjustments were made and revised accordingly as the disease escalated further. One day, Will hopped on his bicycle for a trek to their nearby marketplace. Ever watchful, Frances fretted as his return home was delayed, and her anxiety mounted when she could not reach him on his cell phone. Frances called the police. An officer arrived promptly, and while she was taking notes, Will called to say he was at Yield 7-Eleven, approximately 12 miles away.
 The police officer instructed Will to stay put. That help would arrive shortly. As the officer's vehicle was a sedan, she reached out to the appropriate precinct and requested an officer retrieve Will with an SUV. Within minutes, a policeman arrived, loaded Will's bicycle and Will into his vehicle and transported both safely back home. They lived well, not exactly happily ever after.
 This is not a fairy tale. This is an anecdotal example of how our understaffed, overworked police bureau overcomes the odds for the sake of serving their mission. I, like most people, fear and detest the police when sirens shriek behind me and I think, was I speeding? Damn, I was speeding. Did he notice? Damn, he noticed. A rather too common occurrence in my life.
 But when the police swiftly appear at my house, case the place, and assure me it's safe after I returned home late one night to find my door ajar, or when I witness them with much care and patience handling a woman in a cafe with a severe mental breakdown, when I enjoy their friendly, supportive attitude at last year's Women's March,
 When my friend tells me one night a cop stopped him because he was driving a VW bus with one headlight, no taillights, no tags, no driver's license, and a bag of weed on the seat, the cop just started laughing, told him to go straight home and fix all that, excuse my language, shit ASAP.
 Or, when a police officer comes upon an abandoned van, searches for the owner and through his friends, finds a homeless man in a vacant building with his dogs, takes him to the van, helps him walk the dogs for several blocks, then returns another day to follow up and make sure the man was okay and the dogs were okay, when police commit acts of courage and kindness, then gee, I'm bursting with gratitude. The police are accustomed to our fluctuating attitudes.
 They are dedicated to policing exceptionally, to connecting compassionately, to defending ferociously, building relationships and trust, engaging with community, and working proactively takes time and energy and money. Help them help us increase the budget for the Portland Police. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate it. Next person, please.
 Item 238, request of Joel Syme to address council regarding NATO phonetic alphabet to be used in radio transmissions of emergency agencies. Good morning, sir. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Joel Syme, I'm just a citizen of Portland. Listening to my thing is listening to emergency broadcast communications, I became aware of it.
 They do not use the NATO phonetic alphabet in focal transmissions of information when they need to spell it out. Everybody's using their own version of a phonetic alphabet, but they aren't using this. This is used by the military and aircraft, pilots and professional people. And what kind of astounds me is that
 When two people are talking, they use their own words. So when they spell it out phonetically, I've got to think of what, you know, I've got to think of the definition of a word. But, you know, if they use this military standard, both people are on the same page, and they're not. What happens is, you know, I feel there's a frustration buildup, and, you know, they're working hard enough. It is. And I'm amazed that none of the emergency services,
 agencies around here use it and you talk about times of crisis and stuff but you have to communicate with a military agency, they all use this and if you start doing phonetics and you're not on the same page there's a lot of frustration and there's not time to bring people up to staff up to speed and I feel that I find it astounding that nobody's ever brought this up before
 And that's why I'm here. This is, you know, you've got to look into it. And it's a top-down decision policy. And it's really easy to learn and use. And I could do it. Anybody can do it. So that's why I'm here. I just, you know, find it sounding that through all this, you know, infrastructure and everything, you know, dealing with all this stuff over the years, nobody's ever brought this up.
 That's it. That's all I have to say. Thank you, Joel. Commissioner Fritz? And just to clarify for folks at home, thank you for giving us this full alphabet. Yeah, that's it. You're supposed to say V as in Victor and B as in Bravo rather than V as in Victor and B as in Bob. If I was communicating somebody, let's say Andy, they would say Ann, Nick, David, Yellow, which should be...
 Alpha November Delta Yankee. I got that. Yeah. Got it. You know, and it just rolls out. You know, it's a mental thing. And I'm just really amazed that over the years nobody's ever brought this up. Thank you for doing so. That's it. That's all I have to say. Excellent. Well done. Okay, thanks. Thank you for your testimony. You bet. I appreciate it. I'll see you soon.
 Next individual, please, Carla. Item 239, request of Valerie Illustre to address council regarding banning wood fires in the city limits. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for sending. Valerie Illustre, Citizen S.
 And I'm addressing the two people who actually responded to my email immediately. Thank you very much. And it's a privilege to address the entire council. I'm going to devote one of my minutes to the students, so I'm going to be very quick.
 Wood smoke within city limits is, I think, an issue whose time has come. I sent you the information on the toxicity of wood smoke, and there's simply no question scientifically that wood smoke is one of the most, maybe the most toxic pollutant in our air.
 It's very difficult to ask people to give up something that's traditional and something that they enjoy for the good of the whole. But burning wood in your fireplace at home or in a wood stove really is very dangerous for your neighbors and for yourself. Within the home where you're burning, you immediately have a toxic environment. Okay.
 In fact, I would think that OHSU and others would agree that if you are heating your home with wood fires, that that's actually probably child abuse if you have children. That's how toxic it is. And, of course, we don't want to go there, but in general I think that a program of public education –
 would be very persuasive. And here in Portland, you have a tradition of being out ahead of these issues and progressive decisions.
 For example, with your tenant relocation allowance, when people are priced out of housing, you immediately gave dignity to renters, and you gave them a sense of security. If the city would go further than the Multnomah alert system, which really is unenforceable and doesn't work,
 because by the time that there's a red alert sounded for the, you know, a red alert indicated for pollution, people have already been toxified, and in fact, many people won't know about it or won't obey it. A city ban would be enforceable in the same way that any other observable violation is enforceable by city police, and I think that people would not burn it. I think they would...
 be willing to, in a few years, phase out fireplaces and not sell homes that have wood-burning fireplaces. And, you know, I think over time you could get full public cooperation. Thank you. Thank you. And I certainly appreciated the report that you'd sent all of us as commissioners. I found it very informative, so thank you for that. Thank you.
 I just want to mention that I did look into this when I was in charge of the Bureau of Development Services, and at that time we decided that Multnomah County was the better entity to do this, partly because smoke doesn't respect city boundaries. So Commissioner Sharon Myron and Commissioner Vega-Peterson are working on the issue and have recently enacted an ordinance. I don't know your opinion. Maybe you can send me later your opinion of their ordinance.
 that's the way we've chosen to go. I just hope you'll take another look at what other cities are doing because I think there's new thinking on it. Thank you. Great. Thank you. Carla, last individual, please. Item 240, request of Jesse Banks to address council regarding City Hall Commissioner's Law. Is Mr. Banks here? Yes.
 We do not have Mr. Banks. There is one more item that I would like to take care of, and Valerie hinted at this. Before we take a recess until 10.30 a.m. this morning, could we please all observe a minute of silence in memory of all of those at Florida's Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida? Thank you. We are in recess until 10.30.
 Are we ready, Carla? Yes. All right. We are back in session. Thank you, everybody, for your patience. It was very much appreciated. Item number 241, please. Mr. Mayor, would you like me to read the statement? Yes, please, Robert. Thank you for reminding me. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. Yes.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings, so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify, unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you were in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you, Robert. Item number 241, please. Appoint Hillary Houck to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Director Sevier. Good morning. Thank you for your patience. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. It is my pleasure, well, let me introduce myself, Constantine Sevier, Director of the City of Portland's Independent Police Review. It is my pleasure this morning to present to you, Hillary Hawk, for your appointment to the Citizen Review Committee. Ms. Hawk has spent a career of providing help and services to community members who need a hand up. She's been a great help to the city of Portland
 One of the most important parts of the Citizen Review Committee is, particularly service on the CRC, is having experience with a diversity of folks in the city.
 One of our issues historically at the Citizen Review Committee is not having a lot of diversity of experience with those around us in our community. And one of the things that we've tried to do with our recruitment is provide applicants that council can appoint to the CRC who have that experience. And Ms. Houck and her professional career, which you have in front of you –
 speaks to, one, the quality of applicants that we have been very fortunate to have, and it is a huge ask that the city makes to community members like Ms. Houck, who is so distinguished in her career, to be able to serve on the CRC, which is a very important task and is a very, honestly, a difficult task because you hear about issues that, you know,
 often might not make the news but are very important to the lives of the community members who bring appeals of misconduct cases to the Citizen Review Committee. And frankly, as somebody who lives in the city of Portland, we need folks like Ms. Hawk who will listen within minutes.
 an open ear to the concerns of both community members and police officers. And I believe she is ready to talk briefly about her background. Great. If you would like. Yeah, you bet. Thanks. Good morning. Morning. Thank you for this opportunity. I just want to say that I'm interested in this to be part of the accountability process for the Portland Police Bureau and to really work on some policy reform as it comes up. If you have specific questions about my background...
 Let me know. Your background looks fascinating. It looks like you've lived all over the world.
 And I'm impressed with your work, particularly around poverty and housing instability and homelessness. That's obviously front and center here in the city. How do you think you can bring those skills to bear as a member of the CRC? What do you hope to accomplish or what perspective do you hope to provide? So I've worked in the field of homeless and houseless services for about 13 years.
 And I think that that's a perspective that's largely left out of the main conversation because when you're homeless or houseless, you don't have the bandwidth necessarily to participate and you're not necessarily believed. And so I think having that experience will help bring those voices front and center. Very good. And as you know, I happen to be the police commissioner in addition to mayor, as luck would have it.
 and there are a lot of issues with homelessness and making sure that we are acting appropriately and accountably, and I think the CRC does a great job of holding our feet to the fire to make sure that we do. So I think that's a useful experience to be bringing to the commission at this particular time. I appreciate that. Commissioner Fritz?
 Thank you for being willing to serve and thank you for being here today. I appreciate the transparency in your application where the question was, describe any relationships or experiences that could create the appearance of positive or negative perceptions for or against the police. And your response was, I support anti-white supremacy causes publicly on social media. While I do not believe that is anti-police, some may align the two. Thank you.
 I thought that was very insightful. Have you thought about how your social media use might or might not change if you're appointed as a city body? Yes, I have thought about it. I mean, I don't think I'll change my politics, but I might not share as much if it's looked at more closely. Certainly you'll have a training on those kinds of things. It's something I think that when I was a volunteer it's –
 More of a step than you might realize to suddenly be potentially considered a spokesperson for the city, even if you are doing your own private stuff. So thank you for, again, thank you for that transparency. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have one person signed up. Dan Handelman. Thank you. Mr. Handelman. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Fritz and Hugh Daly. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. We do not have any...
 particular concerns about the nominee for the citizenry committee. We're actually very excited about the discussion you were just having that Ms. Howick's background is in the field of housing and houselessness. That has been something that's been lacking on the citizenry committee for a long time. We've been actually bringing it up at city council inductions of CRC members for a while. So this is a good step forward.
 Ms. Houck is replacing Marisaia Rivera, who resigned in December. Roberto Rivera, who's not related to her, announced his resignation at the CRC meeting last week. So he too will need to be replaced soon. We're hoping that his replacement will be a retiree or person over the age of 60, since none of the 10 current members of CRC are over the age of 57. I did make a mistake last time I testified about that. There's one member who's either 56 or 57 at this point. Ms. Houck is in her 30s.
 So, you know, they have, the people who are retired have more time to commit to not only hearing the appeals, but also to the work groups that are such important issues to the community.
 We also, I don't know if you saw this, we didn't send it directly to members of council, but we filed a complaint because last time we were here, when we went up to the auditor's office to try to watch the induction or the swearing in of the new CRC members, a staff person from CRC, from IPR, shut the door in my face. The auditor, responding to our concerns, said that was a security issue and that it wasn't a public part of the office, and what we responded is,
 If we were supposed to enter through another door, they could have told us to enter through the other door instead of shutting the door in our face. So I'm hoping that there's more transparency in general in the future at IPR and CRC. Also, I meant to show you this. We have tracked every citizen review committee member that's been on this board since it was created in late 2001. Sixty-six different people have served on the committee. Thirty-five have resigned.
 So there's a lot of turnover in this committee and now it's a three-year commitment. So I'm really hoping that we see people see their way through the whole terms. It used to be that people were appointed to fill the end of the other person's term and now the person who gets appointed gets appointed for the full three years. So there's a lot of staggering, which can be good for continuity, but it also can make a lot of confusion.
 CRC also used to be contained in quarterly and annual reports from IPR and they're not. Portland Cop Watch is now the only consistent coverage of this very important body. I just also want to mention that the woman that was shot by the Portland Police last week was the first woman shot by the Portland Police since 2003.
 Maybe we can think about moments of silence for the people who are victims of police shootings and for the people who are in the seven countries where the US is currently at war, Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Libya and Pakistan. Our parent group, Peace and Justice Works, sent you comments about the next item that you're going to hear about the warship being dedicated next month and we are hoping that we'll spend money on human needs and not war.
 Thank you, sir. Commissioner Fruits? Mr. Handelman, there's some debate about whether we're allowed to consider age in appointing our committees. I just wanted to bring that up to you, that there's concern about discrimination as well as affirmative action. So that's something to be aware of.
 But the city code requires that it reflect the diversity of the city of Portland. And if there's nobody over the age of 57, that does not reflect the diversity of the city of Portland. So it's actually a violation of the code if they don't start appointing people. I'm just saying there's some challenges in relation to federal and state law as well as the city code.
 So Dan's put the challenge out. We're looking for people who are interested in serving on this body. We are an age-friendly city, so people of all ages. But he has called out what he believes to be a gap, and that's now out there. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Please call the roll.
 Fritz. Thank you very much for your willingness to serve. Thank you for being here and for the delay in getting me on stage. Thank you. Aye. Eudaly. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The resolution is adopted. The appointment's approved. Thank you very much for your service. We're delighted to have you. Thank you. Next item, please, 242. Thank you.
 USS Portland Commissioning Committee on the USS Portland. Colleagues, I would like to welcome Gary Percy, the Chair of the USS Portland Commissioning Committee, and Nolan Johnson, the Public Relations person for the USS Portland Commissioning Committee. Gary and Nolan are here today to show us a presentation on the USS Portland that will be commissioned in Portland, Oregon on April 21st.
 Portland is honored to have been selected to be a home for the USS Portland. Without further ado, I'd like to welcome Gary and Nolan. And at the end, I am to read a proclamation. Good morning, sirs. Morning. Thank you for allowing us to update the City Council on the commissioning of the USS Portland. We were here a couple years ago. I'm Gary Piercy, Chairman of the Commissioning Committee, and this is Nolan Johnson, our
 Publicity Chairman and Committee Member, we've done a lot of things over the last couple of years. We wanted to update you on what's happening and what's going to happen. Actually, about four weeks from now, the ship will be arriving, five weeks. It will be here a week, and then at the end of the week, we'll have the actual commissioning. I wanted to update you on what that's all about because you will all be receiving invitations to the activities, but I wanted to give you a little preview on what we're going to be doing. Thank you.
 Donald is going to start the presentation, then I'll join in later. Okay. Go ahead, Donald. All right, we'll go to the first slide. And as was, we're setting this up. The first slide really will walk us through the who, what, where, when, and why of the commissioning event. The USS Portland will be arriving in Portland April 14th and staying through the 22nd with the official commissioning taking place on April 21st, Saturday. It will take place at Terminal 2 in the Port of Portland.
 and it will be an event at which we will have at least 5,000 attendees, including Navy officials and local and regional government dignitaries. It should be a grand event for the city of Portland. The USS Portland is the first Navy vessel named exclusively for our fair city, and so this makes for a very big deal for us. Now, this next slide shows a photo of the USS Portland, and I have to admit I'm a boat guy.
 I grew up with boats and there is something really fantastic about this photo. You can see that the wake behind the boat is curving out a pretty fancy S pattern. It may as well be a Zubommer coming down from Skyline Boulevard on a Saturday night or Germantown Road. There is a lot of action going on there. Now let me put this ship in perspective for you. She's 684 feet long.
 If you stood her vertically in downtown Portland next to the Wells Fargo building, she would be 135 feet taller. She's large. She's pretty impressive. Now, besides what she can do in the water as a vessel, she has a very important mission. Her primary mission is to house, transport, deliver, supply, and retrieve Marines from any sort of area where that needs to happen. That's her primary military function.
 Now, she will have a 40-year life in the service of the Navy, and in that role, most of her work will be done in a more humanitarian way.
 This schematic of the ship shows how she's built out. You'll see that she's got a flight deck on top with aircraft. She has what they call a well deck, which will flood, allowing boats to go in and out. And in the middle there, you'll see a fleet of trucks on board. That allows her to supply land-based supply and provisioning in a variety of roles. Gary. Thanks. The Osprey. Go ahead.
 Another shot of what the well deck would look like with water and interline boats in and out. Next shot. Primarily her role is going to be humanitarian. When it comes down to what she does over her 40 years, most of those missions will be search and rescue, first responder type stuff. In fact, during the hurricane season last fall, it was sister ships for the Portland that were stationed off of Houston and Miami right after the hurricanes. Hospital facilities on board for emergency care.
 And, of course, the well deck can be used to drive for housing evacuees and creating a safe place, along with the ability to provide supplies in emergency situations and humanitarian causes. With that sort of a role for the USS Portland, I, frankly, personally, can't imagine a more appropriate ship to be named after Portland, Oregon. The christening taking place on Saturday, the 21st of April, is...
 I'm sorry, I said christening. Commissioning taking place on the 21st of April should be a very big... And the difference between those two things is that she's already been named. Now she's going to be put into service. Is that correct? That is exactly right. Yes, at the christening she was named. As a commissioning, she becomes... As soon as the commissioning is completed, she becomes...
 battle ready, mission ready. She can be sent to respond to a situation at any time. So, commissioning activities. The committee has been very active prior to this for the past couple of years, as Gary mentioned. The week of the commissioning from the 14th to the 21st will include a lot of activities, tours, and a lot of social events, including recreational activities for the crew out amongst the city as well.
 It is an honor to have a ship from the U.S. Navy named after our city, especially a ship with this type of a role. Lucky we can get – let's see if we can click on it. There's supposed to be a video here. We will see. It may or may not open. It's not waiting longer. There's supposed to be a video here. It doesn't seem to be working, so we will skip over it. Oh, did I – okay. Click it on the video. Okay.
 No, it's still not working. OK, not going to worry about it. The ship's model is brave. First responders are brave and determined. This ship will have many occasions which she's called upon to assist in emergencies throughout the world. We can be proud and gratified.
 When we hear the USS Porton has used her helicopters to transport doctors when bridges are down or provide medical assistance for injured people in earthquakes or even assisting third world countries with medical aid, she will be a ship at the scene of action. In the ship's crest, there are many icons that represent our city in history of previous ships with this name.
 The model is part of the crest, along with the rose representing the Rose City, as well as Portlandia's trident. The gear on the anchor represents the city's shipbuilding construction during World War I and World War II. The 16 stars represent the 16 battles that the World War II USS Portland participated in.
 And the swords are swords from both the Navy and Marine officer and senior enlisted who will be aboard the ship. So what has the commissioning committee done over the last three or four years? Of course, the main event is the commissioning itself, Saturday morning, April 21st.
 We're now expecting over 6,000 invited guests. At one time we said 5,000. We made a mistake and we forgot the relatives of the crew. It's going to add another 1,200 or so. So they're going to have to hire a lot of chairs for people to sit in down there. It's going to be a very big audience. Are any of those tickets available to the public? I'm sorry? Are any of those tickets available to the general public?
 All of them are available. First comes first serve. And unfortunately, because of the response, we had to cut it off about almost a month ago. Every day I get people, you can't believe the sad stories. We make a few exceptions once in a while. But it filled up very fast. The interesting part on that is that the ship will be here all week, and they will be holding public open houses sometimes. So we say if you really want to see the ship, you'll be able to tour in the afternoons later, which is great. Thank you.
 Unfortunately, I mentioned that it was a first-come, first-served basis. The event will also be attended by many senior Navy and Marine admirals and generals, as well as our federal, state, and local politicians. And, of course, Mayor Wheeler will be representing the city on the platform during the commissioning. The night before the commissioning, we will be holding a dinner allowing various groups to honor the ship and crew with thanks and congratulations. Thank you.
 We have scheduled a presentation of a gift from our city to the ship. This is a surprise. So no one is allowed to tell anyone from the ship what this will be. It turns out that Captain Hill was very interested in seeing and taking pictures of Portlandia when he was here last year. We've contacted Ray Katsky. You are going to tell people, are you? I'm sorry? This proceeding is being broadcast. Shh! So this is secret. Okay.
 I think it's going to be an open secret. Okay. So we are – no one from the Navy, no one from San Diego will hear this. Anyway, so we have contacted – We're surprised who watches this TV show. I am very surprised always. Uh-oh. Anyway, we contacted Ray Kasky. Gary, we're the number one ranked television program in City Hall right now. Yeah.
 Okay. Very quiet secret. Anyway, the sculptor was very, very generous, and he's allowed us to purchase his last small statue of Portlandia. It was number 500 of the series of 500 we really looked out there. So it will be presented by whoever is going to be representative from the city to the ship on Friday evening, and it will be a permanent part of the ship in their wardroom.
 Then on Thursday evening, we would be providing an onboard dinner for the crew and their families. This will be accompanied by a Western band, and it should be a lot of fun for them. The night before the ships arrive, she will stop on Astoria, and in conjunction with the Elks Club down there, we would be providing a welcome reception for the crew down there. Then after the ship arrives around 4 p.m. here on Saturday, the next day, she'll be here for the whole week,
 During this time, we have planned various events around town for the crew and families. Many activities will be provided free. We've contacted the zoo and the Oregon Historical Society and OMSI and places like that, and they're offering free admission for the crew and their families. The Portman's Brewery, for example, is offering free admission for many of the crew for both the sightseeing and then their Saturday night dances, too.
 We are coordinating with various charity events for the crew to take part in, as well as in various interest groups that will be touring the ship. We expect the ship to have other opportunities for the public to tour also, as I mentioned. The commissioning committee has done this and more without any city funding or tax money at all, except the other day we did receive $1,000 to help pay for the gift, I understand.
 To put on the traditional receptions, dinners, and events, we have raised over $250,000 in cash and in-kind donations. This pays for such things as the actual wooden planks for all the crew, and they're called plank owners. This is a traditional gift. The first crew on a new ship gets and hails from the old wooden ship days.
 when the first crew got wood left over from the ship's construction and carved their names in it. This is one that would be presented to each of the crew.
 This is a partial lift with over 100 donors, both companies and individuals. When we started out, we were looking for a sugar daddy or someone with a lot of money to hit us all at once and take care of our finances. Well, we never found this corporation around here for some reason or person. But the amazing part is we had, like I said, over 100 donors, 100.
 A lot of small donations, and companies have come through with donations too. So we've been very pleased that we're able to pay for all the traditional activities that normally happen and probably have some money left over to help the crew out with a welfare and recreational fund later. So how can the city welcome the ship? It may be appropriate to have some sort of formal event to welcome the crew and possibly read the city's proclamation at some point in time. I understand we may hear something later today on that.
 And since Captain Hill is very receptive to a long-term relationship with the city, he is inviting city council and his staff to visit the ship while here in port. It is a great chance for you to meet not only him, but also the men and women serving in today's Navy. Other welcome activities include the port of – oh, God, they don't charge their phone. Sorry. Ah, shoot.
 The welcome activities include the Port of Portland displaying a beautiful model of the ship in the ticket lobby. They've done this for the last few months. They'll be displaying a welcoming banner in the lobby, and they'll also be broadcasting on there neon signs welcoming for the sailors to the ship. TriMed is doubling the service on Route 16 down to the terminal.
 area and then they're going to run the ship the buses later in the evening also. They also arranged to have a billboard put up across the street from the terminal that says welcome USS Portland. So there's a number of things going on. So the community is supporting this. We ask for your participation in various activities from riding the ships from Astoria to dinners and receptions.
 These are all fun events, and getting to interact with both the sailors and the senior visiting VIPs is important for our city. And now is the time to make this Portland ship by telling all Portlanders this is a special occasion, and we're all proud of it. And let's make this a grand event, a grand commissioning. Thanks. I'm ready to answer any questions you may have. Very good. Colleagues?
 Commissioner Daley. Where will the ship be docked when it's not in service? Terminal 2. And as someone said, it's the best site they've ever seen for a commissioning of this ship because it's about 53 acres of open space. Unfortunately, it's the port property that isn't being used. There should be a lot of containers and things like that there, but this isn't being used. It's a great place to have the commissioning. The parking will be right next to the audience down there. So it's a wonderful site for it.
 we'll have the commissioning itself. After the commissioning, there will be tours of the ship, and there will be a reception for most of the people that are attending. We'll be providing that. So it should be a fun day. You know, we probably should also clarify that our home port will be San Diego, California. That's what I was asking. Okay, thank you. Yeah. Very good. Any other questions? So is that the end of your presentation, Gary? Good. So it's my honor now to read a proclamation.
 in honor of the USS Portland. Whereas the United States Navy is naming a new ship after an Oregon city exclusively for the first time, and whereas our city is proud and honored to have the Navy and our nation recognize Portland with such a ship, whereas Portland was founded as a river port connected to the sea over 150 years ago and is still a major maritime port,
 whereas Portland area shipyards and industry made significant contributions to winning both World War I and World War II with Navy ship construction, which contributed to population growth in the area.
 Whereas the USS Portland is a very versatile ship and will be used in both military and humanitarian roles to protect our nation's interests and to provide aid during emergencies such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes, or other disasters.
 Whereas the new USS Portland LPD 27 is a force for peace and will carry our city's name throughout the world. Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 21, 2018 to be USS Portland Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 Thank you. Thank you. And I understand we have a number of members of the commissioning committee here as well. Why don't we do this? Why don't we give you the proclamation, and we can take a photo with the city council right here in front. And if the other members of the commissioning committee would like to come up and participate in the photo, that would be great.
 You all have to squish together. Yeah, squeeze on in. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Don't be shy. If you can maybe scoot in just a little bit more. Inside was short. All right, look. Here, Mark. Here, Mark.
 Great. Thank you. Great. Thanks, sir. Thanks, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for your help. Thanks for your help. Well, you're in the business. Thank you. I'll look forward to your video. Sure. Thank you. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? I have had no requests. And is Commissioner Udaly in the chamber? Did I just lose Commissioner Udaly?
 Mayor, can I report to you that I had the pleasure of joining the superintendent and some school board members at Roosevelt High School. And the student-organized event included speeches on the history and the law around the Second Amendment. And I asked if those speeches could be posted in some place where we could retweet them. And I actually – Senator Lou Frederick was standing next to me, misting up the entire time, and we both –
 had the same observation, which is no wonder we win the national We the People competition so regularly. These students are so well-versed in civics, and they actually were making very powerful arguments about what a well-regulated militia actually means and why we've got to get it right. So it was very inspiring. That would have been interesting to see. I had the privilege of going to Lincoln High School.
 And the students there honored 17 minutes of silence, one for every individual who was killed in Parkland. And they had set up 17 school desks with the names of each of the victims.
 And then they put notes and photos in a container that they made on their own that they're going to actually send to the school in Parkland, which I thought was a great gesture. I've never seen so many kids, I mean hundreds of kids, young adults, together on the field and you could hear a pin drop. It was a very, very powerful and moving moment.
 Also at St. Mary's, the students filed out in complete silence. They tolled the bell and after each tolling, read the name of each of the students and staff who died and again went back in in complete silence. Women have not always been silenced, nor should we, but when these young women choose to be silent, it made a very powerful statement. The young people of this city did us all proud today.
 Carla, please call the roll on the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Next item is item number 243.
 ratify a letter of agreement between the city through the Bureau of Development Services and AFSCME Local 189 to increase the pay steps of several inspection classifications. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, and I'd like to welcome our presenters on this subject. By way of background, my understanding is this came up as an issue after bargaining had taken place.
 for the latest District Council of Trade Unions contract, and that contract was ratified, it became clear that some of the people at BDS, staff at BDS, were not going to receive wages that others in different classifications had received. There were several inspectors that didn't receive a raise, the staff in similar positions received...
 And I'm pleased to say that when the BDS leadership team realized what had happened, that it was management that pointed out the mistake to HR and AFSCME representatives. Director Rebecca Issan and her staff quickly tried to come to the table with a solution.
 And I just want to thank everyone for working together on this issue. We have Elshad Hajeev, the Senior Business Operations Manager for BDS here to present with this item. And sorry, Terrell, I've seen you so many times. I know. Didn't have it written down here. All right, welcome. Elshad Hajeev, Senior Business Operations Manager for the Bureau of Development Services. Thank you, Commissioner Udeli, for the introduction.
 Since that disparity was realized by the Bureau, we worked with BHR and was asked me to fix it. And this LOA will create a more equitable compensation for inspector classifications in Bureau of Development Services. To give you a little bit of a background.
 Most of the inspector classifications in the Bureau of Development Services, the pay scales are at the parity, meaning, let's say, plumbing inspectors and electrical inspectors and building inspectors, the pay scales are basically the same. What happened during the labor contract negotiations is that combination inspectors, electrical and plumbing, that are represented by a different union,
 received 5% increase and then the building inspector, site development inspector series and housing inspector got only three.
 We've been working with BHR, working with the ASME to make sure that the compensation levels are the same and that parity continues in the future. The other reason why we're here is because we are trying to attract qualified candidates to our bureau, and having that disparity actually prevents us from hiring qualified candidates. So this ordinance will provide equitable compensation for all of the inspector classifications at the Bureau of Development Services.
 If you have any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Very good. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. That is two. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for your work on this. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. Item number 247, please. Sorry, lost my item. This is the second reading.
 247, amend the arts education and access income tax to end administrative cost limitation, place cost limitation under city council oversight, and direct the revenue division to work with the arts education and access fund citizen oversight committee to increase the poverty level exemption.
 Very good. This has already been read. It has had a staff presentation. There has already been public testimony on this item. It is a second reading. Please call the roll. Fritz, a quick reminder that arts tax is due by April 15th, and it's now even easier to pay. You just go on Portland Online. It's linked from the front page. I did it over the weekend. It's really easy. I just...
 Fish. I thought we had a good discussion last week. Two members of the public came and testified strongly in support of the action that has been proposed by the Revenue Bureau and approved by the Arts Oversight Committee. Mayor, the one thing that we sometimes omit in those conversations is we don't start by telling the good news.
 And the good news is, thanks to the generosity of Portland taxpayers, 30,000 kids in our public schools now have arts education as part of their basic curriculum. And many of us took it for granted when we were in middle school and high school. It was part of the basic curriculum. Today, that's not the case. Portland voters overwhelmingly said they were willing to tax themselves to make sure that our children got access to arts education.
 What we know is this is not a perfect tax, and there may be some additional tweaks that we need to consider to make it less regressive. But I think the proposal before us is reasonable, and I vote aye. E. Daly?
 Well, I want to thank Commissioner Fish and staff for continuing to make sure the necessary adjustments and refinements that ensure a fair and appropriate collection structure for this fee. I also want to thank the Arts Oversight Committee, Revenue Bureau Director Thomas Lanham, and his team for doing the hard work of collecting the stacks. Aye.
 Wheeler. I want to thank everybody who is engaged in the conversation and the folks who testified previously on this item. And I share Commissioner Fish's belief that this has been very positive in terms of the outcomes. I want to remind everybody that this was brought to City Hall a number of years ago by the public.
 The public, if they so choose, could pull it back. But in the meanwhile, it is our obligation to run it as best as we can. And I believe that the changes that are being made through this ordinance give us the opportunity to better manage this program and to be more accountable in the administration of this program. So I strongly support the work. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 248.
 reappoint Claire Carter to the Portland Adjustment Committee for a term to expire March 4, 2022. Commissioner Udaly. Sorry, I've lost my... I got one ahead of myself. Sorry about that. Okay. This is a reappointment. Claire Carter is the Vice Chair of the Development Review Advisory Committee, and she has served on the Adjustment Committee as well.
 At DRAC, which is short for Development Review Advisory Committee, just in case anyone's wondering, she's been part of the Neighborhood Coalition and Land Use Committees. She's knowledgeable about livability and environmental issues. She worked for ODOT for 32 years before retiring last year from her role as a wetland specialist who focused on water resource permitting.
 Claire is an avid marathon runner, and the reason she isn't here today as we vote to appoint her to the Adjustment Committee is because she is in California where she ran a marathon at Catalina Island on Saturday. She tells staff at BDS that she is looking forward to another term on the committee and will make sure her running doesn't interfere with any meetings she needs to attend. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Daly. Mayor Wheeler.
 So just quickly, the, the, uh, the Entrustment Committee, it is a citizen volunteer committee made up of, um, seven citizens from the community. It probably is not the easiest of the committees to serve on in that they only hear appeals of land use decisions, so
 When they meet, they are faced with typically a competing, contrasting, conflicting opinions from whoever may be testifying. And they have to assess and evaluate what makes sense for that appeal, whether to approve, deny, or modify.
 Claire has been, this would be her second term, obviously. She has served since 2014.
 it's evident she brings her past nearly 40 years of experience working in basically in environmental planning to the committee and importantly bringing her public community service. She, as Commissioner Daly indicated, has served on the Maple –
 Wood Neighborhood Association Land Use Committee and serves on DRAC since 2013. So we look forward to having Claire back on the committee, and her term would be extended through 2022. So it's a four-year term. Very good. Colleagues, any further questions? I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz.
 Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fritz. I was responsible for recruiting Ms. Cardo, and I was in charge of the Bureau of Development Services. I very much appreciate her service in the community and in the city, and I'm happy to support this for a second and final term. Aye. Fish. We're certainly grateful to all of the residents of our city who step up to do public service, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Uday League.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing Ms. Carter our way. I'm certainly pleased to recommend her reappointment to the committee and thank her for her continued service. Aye. Wheeler?
 Great reappointment. And as per everybody else, I'm always appreciative when people of this caliber choose to volunteer their time. There's a lot of things they could be doing, and they're choosing to work with all of us to help to make the community a better place. So I appreciate it. I'm going to put out the same call that I put out last week just as a reminder to folks.
 We are considering putting reappointments, not first-time appointments, but reappointments back onto the consent agenda. And, again, we will take testimony, written emails, calls, whatever from people, if they have strong feelings one way or the other. I'll tell you in the last week I've had approximately zero response.
 responses to that request. So if people would like to chime in on that, please just send me an email at mayorwheeler at portlandoregon.gov. I vote aye. The appointment's approved. Thank you. Next item, 249, please.
 Appoint Anjane Brown, Lorena Nascimento, and Megan Van De Mark, and reappoint Greg Everhart, Brian French, Barbara Hollenbeck, and Damon Shross to the Portland Urban Forestry Commission for terms to expire February 28, 2022. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very pleased to see the new perspectives that will be added to the commission with these three new appointees. Unfortunately, all of them had work obligations, so they weren't able to be here. And I certainly appreciate them volunteering their time on this very important commission. Jen Cairo, the city forester, is here to talk about the appointments.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mayor and other commissioners. Again, I'm Jen Cairo, the City Forester and the Urban Forestry Division Manager. And what I'm bringing to you today is some potential appointments to our Urban Forestry Commission. So the Urban Forestry Commission is a resident advisory body to the City Forester, the
 the Director of Parks and the Commissioner in Charge of Parks, and their duties pertain to policies around urban forest management, advising us on our forest budget, hearing appeals of certain types of permits and deciding those, and also nominating trees for the heritage tree list in the city.
 And the commission is intended to be broadly representative of the residents of Portland, so reflecting the people that we and they serve. And I'm happy to say that we will have, after today, if these folks are appointed, all seats filled, and we will have the most broadly representative forestry commission that we've had in six years.
 So first off, you have photographs and write-ups before you, by the way. Anjanette Brown, this is one of the three new appointees, is an outreach specialist for Oregon Tradeswomen.
 and an Oregon Tradeswoman graduate herself. She has served on the leadership committee for three years in that organization and received an award for extensive volunteer work. She was also an instructor for the Oregon Tradeswomen Girls and Young Women programs. Her statement is that she recently completed a volunteer position with the Community Advisory Committee on Parks and Recreation Urban Forestry's citywide tree planting strategy. That's how we got to know Ann Jeanette, and she really found out about the Forestry Commission.
 And she found a deep connection there with her community in terms of trees and with other local tree enthusiasts. And she's looking forward to serving on the Forestry Commission with us. Lorena, the second of the new appointees, is a Brazilian forester. And she's currently a PhD student at PSU in their urban studies program. She's worked with environmental education, community gardens, geographic information systems, and
 and sustainable development. In Brazil, she's worked with indigenous communities, extension projects, and research with renewable materials. Here in Portland, she is a teaching assistant for environmental classes at PSU and an instructor in the Portland Parks and Rec Sun Schools program.
 She's interested in being on the commission to further her understanding of metropolitan urban forestry policies and also as a PhD candidate at PSU, she's looking for further forest management knowledge that she can take back to Brazil with her when she eventually goes.
 So the third of the new appointees is Megan Vandemark. Megan is an employee of Friends of Trees. She's a neighborhood tree specialist with them serving in Vancouver over the river and in Clark County. And she contracts part of her time to the City of Vancouver Urban Forestry and has previously worked with us in Portland Urban Forestry on our street tree inventory project.
 She has a Master's in Sustainable Development, a BA in Journalism and Women's Studies. And she's interested in serving in the Forestry Commission because she's passionate about trees and the community. And she's very interested, since she lives in Portland, in serving her local community in terms of trees, as opposed to her work, which is, of course, in Washington State. I believe she lives in North Portland, which is an area that we didn't previously have any commissioners serving from.
 Yes, and I'll point out also that Ann Jeanette is almost from Gresham. She's from far eastern Portland, and that's an area also where we've really been looking to get some representation on the commission to bring those perspectives. So those are the three new appointees, and now I'll move to those who are being reappointed.
 So first of those, Greg Everhart. Greg is a landscape architect with 25 years of experience in that field, including 15 years working at Portland Parks and Recreation. She's long since retired from that. She volunteers as a master gardener and neighborhood tree steward, as well as helping with the street tree inventory and with Friends of Trees planting. She also has a leadership role in the American Society of Landscape Architects.
 Greg has also been very active and interested in implementation of the city's tree regulations and currently serves as the chair of the city's Heritage Tree Committee. You all have heard from Greg at least on a few occasions when she was proposing new trees to be added to the Heritage Tree List.
 Moving on, Brian French is also currently a commissioner, and we're looking to see him reappointed. He is a certified arborist who practices locally. He has a broad range of related certifications and specialties, especially regarding large trees and hazard tree risk assessment.
 He's been practicing for over 18 years locally and abroad. He often is helping out in Hong Kong and in areas of Asia because of his special expertise. He's also the principal at Arboriculture International and co-founder and president of the nonprofit Ascending the Giants. He volunteers with Friends of Trees, Hoyt Arboretum, and also helps coordinate the annual Pacific Northwest Tree Climbing Competition.
 Brian currently serves on the Appeals Board of the Forestry Commission and brings great expertise given his commercial and non-profit background to the Commission's work. Next up is Barbara Hollenbeck. Barbara Hollenbeck retired from the Forest Service where she managed the assistance provided by states by their urban and community forestry program for the Northwest, including Alaska.
 In addition, Barbara has worked with universities, colleges, nonprofits, and managed financial assistant grants and provided educational information about community tree stewardship in those states. Prior to her 20 years in that position, she also had some technical and management positions regarding on-the-ground tree and trail management. Thank you.
 Barbara is currently the chair of our appeals board, and she's looking forward to continuing in that role and has provided excellent service to the commission. We're looking forward to having her, like Brian and Greg, continue on. So last but not least, Damon Shrosk is another potential reappointee to the commission. Damon Shrosk is the owner of Treecology, which is a local commercial tree care company.
 He brings years of commercial arboricultural experience and has supported tree care and stewardship activities as a volunteer for many years in many ways. Damon is a winner of the Bill Nadeau Community Awards, which we give each spring at Arbor Day. His was in 2013. And if you recall the big tree hug event that we had at the Hoyt Arboretum a few years ago, Damon was the driving force behind that.
 Damon currently serves on the Appeals Board of the Forestry Commission. He looks forward to continuing in that role, and he also helps out with the Education, Outreach, and Heritage Tree Committees. That completes my presentation of the new and reappointees for your consideration. If you have any questions, I'll be happy to answer them. Colleagues, any questions? Just a comment. Thank you for the report you gave us. I love the fact that there's not only a bio but a photograph.
 And that you've given us all that information that's in the record. And so I really appreciate that you went that extra mile. Thank you, Commissioner Fritsch. Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. I have a motion from Commissioner Fritsch, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further questions or comments? Just my only question will follow Commissioner Fritsch's lead, but this is an extraordinary event.
 extraordinarily diverse and accomplished group of people, and I'm assuming you're going to it has the blessing of the commissioner in charge, the entire cohort. I was personally overseeing the selection process, so yes, sir. Thank you. Please call the roll.
 Fritz, could you just, I'm completely blanking, the name of the commission chair who is retiring, the woman who was with Audubon, starts with an M. Oh, yes, okay. Meryl Reddish, who was the executive director of Audubon for about 10 years. Her term, her final term with the Forestry Commission expired in February, so she stepped down from the commission. So I just wanted to acknowledge that...
 I've met with her on a monthly basis since I've become Parks Commissioner, so that is an unfortunate one. Thanks to Meryl Reddish, also to Mark Bellow, who also chaired the Commission. So people are stepping off and coming on as is intended by our policy of term limits, and I'm very excited about this latest group of folks who will engage with us as we have the difficult task of looking at the tree code, what needs to be fixed in it, what
 what we can do in the interim and before we fix it, and just a whole host of different advisory capacities that the Urban Forestry Commission serves. Fish. Well, we should be grateful that such an accomplished group of people are willing to step up and provide service. And the annual presentation on heritage trees is one of the highlights of our calendar. So thank you for your good work. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Bye. Udailey. Thank you.
 Well, I'm crossing my fingers for another citywide tree-hugging event because I feel like I really missed out, and I would like to participate in that. Aye. Wheeler. Great panel, and I agree. Commissioner Fritz, thank you for the presentation, the way it was laid out. I think it's excellent and helpful to the public as well. I vote aye. The report's accepted. The appointments are approved. Thank you very much. Thank you, counsel.
 Next item, please. Item number 250, Resolution. Approve and terminate limited tax exemptions for properties under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Bureau administers the city's tax exemption programs, as you're aware.
 The Home Buyer Opportunities Limited Tax Exemption Program, known as the HALTI Program, provides a 10-year tax exemption for low- to moderate-income homebuyers, making homeownership more obtainable for families in Portland.
 Home builders apply for the tax exemption prior to starting construction of their new homes. The Housing Bureau approves builder applications through filing a resolution with the council several times a year.
 Fifty-four properties are being approved for the program through this resolution. Homes with exemptions must sell below the annual sales price cap to income-qualified homebuyers planning to be owner-occupiers of the home. Provided these conditions are met, the exemption continues for as long as the 10-year term.
 When developers sell a home over the price limit or to a buyer who does not qualify, or when a home is not owner-occupied, the exemption is removed. Before an exemption is terminated, owners have the opportunity to appeal the decision made by the city. Within this resolution, 19 properties tax exemptions are being removed.
 Today we have the Portland Housing Bureau's Development Incentives Program Manager, Dori VanBakkel, here to answer questions. We obviously have Shannon Callahan, the Housing Bureau Interim Director, here as well. But first, I'd like to offer an amendment to add Trang Thai's property to Exhibit A's approval list. This property was inadvertently left off of the original Exhibit A. Second. Second.
 So let me read the full motion as it was scribed out by legal counsel.
 The total number of exemptions needs to be updated from 53 to 54, and the estimated foregone revenue from $106,954 to $108,972. The list needs to be updated to add number 54 with a record number of 5592-17. The property owner's name is Trang Thai.
 The tax account number is R563350, and the property address is 8935 Southeast Harney Court, zip code 97266. The exemption type is A37. We have a motion from the mayor, a second from Commissioner Fish.
 We will leave that open for the presentation and for any public testimony, and then we'll come back to take a vote on the amendment as well as the resolution. So we'll start with Shannon. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Shannon Callahan, the Portland Housing Bureau. As the Mayor mentioned, this is an important tool to incenting homeownership in the private market.
 We come to you approximately three times a year to list new homes eligible for the exemption and remove homes that are ineligible for the exemption. I am joined by Dory VanBalken, our Development Incentives Team Manager, who's here to answer any specific questions you may have. I have two questions. Commissioner Fish. One is, did you receive any objections from any of the property owners whose tax abatement is being terminated?
 We did not have any go request an appeal, no. Okay. And number two, could you remind me of the history of this? Was this program previously administered by the Portland Development Commission? Yes, it was. So for the benefit of two colleagues that are relatively new,
 These tax abatement programs once upon a time were administered by the Portland Development Commission. There was a certain amount of controversy in the community about the level of oversight and transparency. When we created the Portland Housing Bureau, those responsibilities came to the Housing Bureau, which now has dedicated people that review these things. And I can remember many, many years ago, Shannon, you can too, when you'd have a room filled with people that wanted to testify on this or had issues. Right.
 And I think it's a reflection on how well this is being administered by the Bureau and how transparent the process is that this has now become a routine matter on our calendar. And I want to just compliment staff for the work you're doing to administer this program. Thank you very much. Both Sharon Johnson and Marilyn Hurtley do great work on the team. So thank you. Very good. Any further comments or questions? Any testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 Very good. With regard to the amendment, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. To the main resolution, please call the roll. Fritz. First resolution, sorry. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks to the Housing Bureau for your great work on this. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted as amended. Next item, number 251.
 Approve interim use of the multiple unit limited tax exemption program to capture opportunities for affordable housing in housing developments not subject to inclusionary housing and amend administrative rules. Colleagues, today we're taking up a plan that addresses the projects that were in the pipeline before the inclusionary housing initiative.
 program was enacted. We have an affordability crisis here in the City of Portland. We have declared a housing emergency, and that's why the City of Portland
 enacted inclusionary housing requirements in the first place. Today we're taking up this program for the projects that are not required to build affordable housing. And I want to make sure that we can capture as many affordable units from that pipeline as possible. This is about getting more affordability, getting as much affordability as we can for Portlanders.
 I supported the creation of the inclusionary housing program. I'm tracking it closely, and I want to make sure that it is an effective tool as we move forward. However, there are many projects that entered the development pipeline prior to inclusionary housing. The projects total approximately 19,000 units of housing, and none of them are subject to inclusionary housing.
 My administration has struggled with this question. How do we get more affordable units into the projects that are already in the pipeline and not subject to inclusionary housing? And most importantly, how do we get those units right now instead of years from now? This is not an academic question. We're in a housing crisis, and the need exists now, and the public expects us to act now.
 The multiple unit limited tax exemption, or multi, is a proven tool that we can use to reach back into the pipeline of housing projects, projects that are moving through the system as we speak, projects that are going to be built, and make sure that some of those units become affordable units. Not doing anything means that all of the units will be brought onto the market at prevailing market rates.
 Not doing anything means we lose an opportunity to ensure that we're taking the housing crisis seriously. With the ordinance before you, I propose we use MULTI to incentivize those building housing in Portland to include affordable housing in those projects. The program includes sensible safeguards. For example, these incentives will only be available for two years.
 Also, the total amount of incentives over the life of the program cannot exceed an amount valued at $3 million, about $3 million.
 Third, and I offer the following amendment, only pre-inclusionary housing developments with an estimated first year of foregone revenues of $500,000 or less will be approved. Only vested projects with an estimated first year of foregone revenue of $500,000 or less are eligible for an exemption. Do I have a second on that motion? Second. Do I have it in writing, though?
 We can get you that information in writing momentarily. So, Mayor. Commissioner Fish. I have an additional amendment that I've reviewed with your office and obtained your concurrence, which is to remove the emergency clause. Could I hold off on that for one second, but I'll remember it's there. With this amendment that we have just moved and seconded by Commissioner Fish, for the record, we can ensure the program is available to multiple projects and that no one project will take a majority of the total value of the incentives provided.
 Our housing staff is going to be providing more detailed information on this strategy as part of their presentation, and they'll touch on why we think the $500,000 cap is the right amount for the cap.
 Commissioner Fish has moved that we remove the emergency clause to the ordinance. There's a second from Commissioner Fritz. So we now have two amendments on the table. And at this point, I'll turn this over to Interim Director Callahan and Matt Scheibold and the Portland Housing Bureau, who are here to present. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioner. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau.
 As the Mayor mentioned, the inclusionary housing went into effect approximately one year ago. We saw 19,000 units coming into the pre-IZ pipeline. That represents 42% of all multifamily development that we've seen in the last 20 years. So it is a significant number of units.
 As of February of 2018, we still have approximately 10,000 in the permit process. Madam Director? Yes. You know, for people that are not housing insiders, would you just briefly explain what it means to be vested in?
 So, Commissioner, that means that you met the legal requirements before the date that the inclusionary housing was effective, which was February 1st of 2017. That can be met in a variety of different ways, either with a permit, an application for land use action, or a permit application. And just to put it in context, because 19,000 units seems like a big number. It does.
 Yes. I think I've heard in a prior hearing that that is the equivalent of at least three years of development activity or more. That would be the equivalent of three of our highest years that we've ever seen in the city of Portland. So it's not an equivalent that would be average to what we would typically see over a period of time, but in our biggest of biggest booms, that is more than three times what we would have seen. Thank you.
 So we worked on this proposal at the direction of Mayor Wheeler and our Portland Housing Advisory Commission. Our commission was very interested in finding solutions to incent the pipeline as well. This proposal was brought before that group at the beginning of this year, which they unanimously endorsed bringing to this council. Thank you.
 So as the mayor mentioned, we have before you a slightly modified version of the previous voluntary multi-program, which was a successful program in place for a number of years. As the mayor mentioned, it does have sideboards on the proposal, including time limitations, cost limitations, and now the eligibility of the project size itself. Okay.
 I would like to note that this is all within the agreed-upon cap that we have with Multnomah County. There would be no additional fiscal impact to any other taxing jurisdiction beyond what we've already previously agreed.
 And with that, I'd like to turn it over to Dori VanBochel, who is the Development Incentives Team Manager, to talk about some details of the program. And then Matthew Schibold will review our analysis of the costs and the benefits of providing this tax exemption.
 Sure. So to provide a quick summary of what the program makes available to developers to use and showing how it's similar to the prior multi-program before inclusionary housing went into effect, as the multi is a tool as one of the incentives provided through inclusionary housing.
 So... To clarify, do we still have that program? We have that program as a paired tool with the inclusionary housing program. And so this makes some interim use of the same code of the multi with a little bit of changes from how it's used through inclusionary housing.
 And that program has a rolling $15 million over five years or $3 million. Is this an additional $3 million? No, this would be encompassed within that existing cap with its own limitation on how many units could be approved.
 through this use within that larger cap. And what has been our utilization under the existing program? So the existing program now is through the inclusionary housing. Previously, we have some information that Matt will go through over the last few years, though, that shows the utilization of the multi that is similar to what we would be enacting through this ordinance. Dory, just to follow up on that, because you have this wonderful chart, it says the exemption time frame is 10 years.
 I seem to recall that from time to time the council has extended the 10-year period, but I think it's been a discretionary act. Is that correct? It's not part of the program? Yes. Previously, if there were projects with continued affordability, we had on occasion extended the exemption for just those affordable units through the year.
 And we have that, the council retains that authority. It's not within the current code for the multi-program because it didn't fit very well within the inclusionary housing calibration that we performed to enact that program. So it would have to be, the council would, in the next couple of years, would have to affirmatively include that program.
 option in any code work rewrite? Potentially, but the state statute limits us to a 10-year duration, so they would have to reapply. A development would have to reapply to the city. So we would not only need enacted code language, but we'd need them to reapply, and usually we'd have them do that closer to the time of the expiration. And one of the reasons this has come up in the past is that
 because of the significant need for housing at the 60% level, is the prospect of a renewal, does it make it more attractive for someone to choose that to begin with? And I don't know the answer to that question.
 I would imagine that, folks, that there would be some indication that that would be enticing. But right now the state statute is set to sunset, so we could not commit until that statute was reauthorized. The reauthorization by the legislature and whatever policymaking we do? Exactly. Thank you.
 So to just give that quick summary then, so of the 10 years exemption time frame, the affordability period is the same at 10 years as well. And differing a little bit from how the program was before, we've set the income level for the restricted units at 20% at 60% of area median income for projects designed and built to be less than 5 to 1 FAR.
 and then at 20%, at 80% of area median income for any projects designed and built over 5-to-1 FAR. The reason for the difference is the type of building and the construction cost to build a project over 5-to-1 FAR generally results in much higher market rents and overall cost of construction, making the feasibility of those projects with the different rent types higher.
 only makes sense at those two different levels. And since we're inventing this program, we don't have to mirror the inclusionary housing? So that same type that we looked at through inclusionary housing where there's different income percentage levels around the city, but the 5-to-1 FAR bar is one that's used through the calibration of the inclusionary housing program as well.
 In the prior program, we used it based on market rents in the building, but this is a much more subjective or objective way of reviewing the projects without having to...
 the manipulation potentially of what's submitted as the market rents. Okay, so FAR is floor area ratio and it roughly translates to the number of stories or different floors, right? So in our inclusionary housing rules it was 20% that's what that is, 60%? No, it's actually so inside the central city and gateway plan districts, four buildings that are five to one FAR or above,
 The restriction levels are either 20% at 80% or 10% at 60% with a full tax exemption. And then outside of the central city and gateway plan districts or for any buildings anywhere below 5 to 1 FAR, the requirements are only provided with a multi or a tax exemption on the affordable units. At 20% of 60%.
 It would be 10% at 60%. So I guess that's why I'm questioning, or maybe you'll get to this later too, why is it 20% and not 10%? So there's a full tax exemption in this case rather than just a partial tax exemption. Meaning all of the units, not just the affordable ones? Yes. Yes.
 Wow. So can I jump in on this conversation? Because I have to say that despite everyone's best efforts, there has been a little bit of confusion in the conversation. And I think today we get a chance to really put this on the table and be very clear. I actually applaud your decision to make it 20% of the units at 60% of MFI citywide. That's an improvement over what we agreed to through the IZ rules.
 The question about whether the exemption should apply to all the units or just the abated units is something council has to consider because that's part of the proposal. But to me, this is a very big selling point that you've made it citywide and you've bumped it to 20%.
 Because I had a concern coming into this that we would be, once again, incentivizing 80 percent housing, which is housing we need, but it's not as compelling to me as 60 and below. So this is a change that I think, from my point of view, makes this a stronger proposal. Thank you, Commissioner.
 clarify some of the other public benefits that are available or would be part of approval of any projects coming through the multi-program under this interim use. Developers are required to obtain an MWSB minority women and emerging small business consultant in order to work with their construction contractor in order to strive towards the city's 20%
 participation in construction contracting. That's still not a hard standard. It's still a goal. Pardon me? That's not a hard standard still. It's still a goal. It is still a goal, yes. And so this would be taking real-world people with experience with the contacts in the community of MWSB contractors and helping facilitate the opportunities for them in these projects.
 Additionally, as is required in the current version of the multi, we will continue the requirement that at least 5% of the affordable units are built to be fully ADA adaptable. Dory and the Director, at some point in the future, could you come back to us with options for how we could make
 fully ADA adaptable or accessible units part of our basic code and not something that is included every time we add a carrot. We have seen over time that, for example, eco roofs went from being a niche thing and a thing that you could get a bonus for to now being a mandate. And that reflects a change in thinking over time.
 I think at some point it would be useful for us to come back to this question and say what are some basic standards we want to bake into all of our investments around accessibility, particularly since we know that our community is going to be graying. We're going to get older. And so what should be the standard as opposed to what we can incentivize through these kinds of programs? What is the current standard under the Americans with Disabilities Act? Do you know that, Matt? No.
 I would need to check on that. Commissioner, I think Portland uses 2% and 3% for type A or type B, but I would need to check. And I see Commissioner Udeli. That sounds about right. I mean, I'm also interested in this issue. I'm curious how 5% was arrived at and if we actually know what –
 current demands are for accessible housing and if we are looking into the future because as Commissioner Fish has mentioned, we do have an aging population and this is going to become...
 a greater need in decades to come. And I've been kind of ruminating lately about how, you know, our job is to plan for the future. And I think when most of us think about the future, we think about our children and our grandchildren, not people who are currently or soon to be elders and parents.
 experiencing mobility challenges. So that's something I'd like to see us address. Commissioner, just to be clear, we're all learning every day about things. It's, for example, through the experience of you and your son that I've learned some very powerful things about inaccessible restrooms and changing areas.
 And so we have tried to take those lessons and apply them to the rebuild in the Portland building. My guess is the ADA sets a standard. The question is, can we go above it? And while I think there's different ways you could get there, I think about basic things, like are all the doorways fully accessible? Because I can tell you, having looked at a lot of rental apartments in the city, I
 there's a lot of places where you just couldn't get a wheelchair through, is are the bathrooms designed to be accessible? And I don't necessarily mean everything in the bathtub for someone that, you know, maybe is fully disabled, but can you get into the restroom? Can you get in with a wheelchair? Are there basic things? I think the council would benefit from knowing what are the standards out there. And then over time –
 Are there ways we could strengthen our code so that all units come with a higher level of accessibility rather than using these opportunities to carve out units? And I do think arriving at that number is a little more nuanced than looking at
 demand and the gap between what we have and the existing demand because people with disabilities are more likely to be low income. So it may be that we need to bump that percentage up as far as when it comes to affordable units because we're going to have a greater percentage of people needing accessible units than in the average population.
 The one piece I would add, and I think Dory can speak to the structure and wanting to ensure that some of the
 affordable unit source through the multi or also the adaptable units in the building, so it wasn't just the non-adaptable units, but on assessing the market. You know, we're in a fortunate place with respect to a better understanding of the housing stock because Portland was one of the cities that the Census Bureau –
 selected for the American Housing Survey in 2017, and so we're still waiting for the final results, and we can come back. But it's a much deeper survey of the housing stock that exists across the city than comes through the American Community Survey that's done every year, or every single year. The American Housing Survey is not done every year in Portland. And so a lot of the questions you're asking about...
 our existing rental stock will be very much informed by this new data set that should be available soon, and we can do these kinds of analyses and a lot of other kinds of analyses as well. That's exciting. Are you done with that presentation? Oh, no. There's a few more slides. Commissioner, you do. I do have one more question. So when looking at our inclusionary housing program and looking at this multi-programme
 I'm really interested in are we offering an incentive that's roughly equivalent to what the property owner is giving up in rents? And when I hear tax abatement on an entire building and not just the affordable units, I do have to wonder if they're getting...
 An extraordinarily high return. And that may not be the case. But because I've never been provided with those numbers or, you know, even a hypothetical, it's hard for me to know. What I do know is they're telling us that IZ doesn't pencil out. They're having challenges with lenders with no additional incentives. Although I find that hard to believe within the central city when they're getting the tax break on the entire building. Any...
 So the inclusionary zoning program does have additional incentives and benefits that this program doesn't have. And so I would love to have a dialogue with you about how the inclusionary program was set up precisely for that.
 But we did do an analysis for your benefit to know what exactly this program is giving a developer based on our project experience versus the rent decreases that the developer would be giving us for the same period of time. So you were actually just going to talk about that. So you have a good sense. We're jumping the slide. No, no, no. We're in line with your questions, which is good.
 So now I'm going to turn it over to Matt to talk with you a little bit about the experience of what we've looked at from 30 projects that we had in our last multiple unit tax exemption report, which we reported on in 15-16. And so we did some analysis so you can see a little bit about what this means for a project. And we did do this based on the mayor's amendment this morning to cap the individual project size at 500,000.
 Right. So we looked at, and it's not, the projects aren't from all, all of them aren't from last fiscal year. They were approved in multiple years. But there were 30 projects in the report that were highlighted. And we filtered out eight of them because they wouldn't be relevant to the program proposal to try and give some comparison estimates.
 Four were for buildings that had a first-year tax exemption of over $500,000. And four were partially affordable housing projects that had some market rate residential. So it wouldn't have been a good comparison. Why isn't that a good – isn't that what you're proposing here?
 Because it wouldn't reflect the amount of – essentially the cost of the affordable unit, because there's more than 20% of the units in the building affordable. So I think what – It would imply a lower kind of cost per affordable unit. We wanted to give some real estimates for private market rate developers that were building –
 with 20% of the units affordable. So, Commissioner, when a nonprofit provider has a regulatory agreement with the City of Portland, they're eligible for a different type of tax exemption through the Oregon Revised Statutes. However, when we create that same 60-year affordability period for our regulated housing with a for-profit, they are not eligible for that tax exemption. So they would have to come in under...
 this limited tax exemption. And so that's what Matt has pulled out, is projects that have a larger number of affordable units and I'm likely to be a for-profit developer who is developing affordable housing. I know that's... We'll keep going. I know that Commissioner Fish has moved to take the emergency off, so maybe this is information I can get before the next session. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 So in the 22 projects, there were a total of 2,060 units, market rate and affordable. Of the 2,060, there were 430 affordable units, 293 to 80 percent of the area median income, and 137 to 60 percent. And when you run through the analysis, what you get is that on average –
 in year one property tax exemption that the cost to the city and the county and the school districts and all the taxing jurisdictions was $10,000. It's an average of about $10,000 of tax exemption per affordable unit per year. So...
 When you look at that over a 12-month period of time, that's roughly $833 of tax exemption per month. And then when you move to looking at, well, how does that translate into the discount on rent?
 that renters are getting in those units. I'm looking at the average for Central City and the average for Portland. For new construction apartment units, it's about $2,000 a month in the Central City and about $1,700 a month citywide. What size is this, two-bedrooms? Yes.
 This is just a straight average. Oh, just average. Okay. Yeah. And so in the central city where you're more likely to see five to one construction or above, and thus somebody subject to the 20% of units at 80% of the median income, the affordable rent level is $1,100. It varies based on household size, which would be about a $900 rent discount per month.
 which is, going back a slide, roughly comparable to the amount of tax exemption, slightly more than the amount of tax exemption that the jurisdictions are providing each month. And for the city overall, so outside the central city included, where you would likely see buildings that are being developed at less than 5 to 1 FAR, so they would only be eligible for the 20% of units and 60% of the median income,
 you would see a discount of about – sorry, the regulated rent is $840 a month. And so you'd see a discount of about $860, again, fairly equivalent to the amount of tax exemption being given away each month. And you think the tax exemption is actually slightly more desirable because you get it –
 whether, you know, you only get rent if your unit is occupied, but you get that exemption no matter what. Okay. That does answer my question. Thank you. But, Matthew, what these numbers – maybe I'm just being thick, which I'm experiencing a lot these days. Do these numbers account for whether the abatement covers the entire building or just the abated units? Yes.
 So this is – so the abatement would cover all residential in the building, yes. So the calculations are based on the assumption that the tax exemption is applied to the affordable rental units as well as the market-free rental units. And so these numbers then are a blended number that takes into account that the entire tax bill is being waived?
 This is based on historic performance, which in the past, prior to inclusionary zoning, the tax exemption was on the entire building. So we're comparing. So what you've done is taken just – I'm sorry to have to reduce it to this, but it's probably my level. So let's say the entire building under the program, the owner saves $10,000 in property taxes. I know that's – let's say $100,000. Right. Okay.
 But in terms of calculating the public benefit, you've then attributed the total tax abatement to the abated units, and that's the number that you've given us. We've taken that to the affordable units, yes. So could I jump in here? It's basically a transfer of foregone taxes to low-income renters. Yes.
 And it has to be an approximately equal transaction with maybe a slight benefit, as is the case here to the landlord. Otherwise, they won't participate. It's a completely voluntary program. Yes. And there is no requirement that they do this.
 So for them, they're going to run a spreadsheet and decide whether or not this hurts them. On balance, it doesn't help them nor hurt them, but it absolutely helps those who are the people who are lower income in the units. So the question for us really is the tradeoff of foregone revenues going to low-income renters
 or coming back instead at full market value into the city's general fund. And as we are in a housing emergency, it was my calculation that this is priority number one. Can I ask a follow-up question, Shannon? So now I think I understand apples to apples here. I guess the other question that's relevant, I think, and I've heard from some people, and I just want to make sure I understand this,
 We're making a bet that offering this inducement will encourage someone to participate because it's voluntary. Yes. So we're making a bet based on feedback we've heard from those developers who beat the IZ deadline are vested, but have said if we had a program like this, they might take advantage of it, correct?
 Yes, and I'm sure you'll hear from developers. We did talk with some developers who had asked for an increased incentive package, but we also felt because this package is so similar to what we had on a voluntary basis before that was working, that we were on the right path with this proposal. And so what would you say to someone who says,
 Love the concept. Love what you're trying to do to create some IZ, bring people into the – create some affordable housing with units that are – beat the deadline.
 but aren't quite sure whether the abatement should cover all the units or just the affordable units? What's, from your point of view, the most compelling argument to make it apply to all the units and not just the affordable units? Well, I think it's the math that you see before you about what the value of the abatement is and what the rent discount is. And if the, you know, because the abatement value and the rent discount are so closely aligned, as the mayor said, and there's a little bit more.
 a little bit more of a benefit to the developer. You know, if we skew in a way that there's no benefit to the developer on a voluntary program, we will not get anyone accepting that. And if I could add to that, and then the reason for the $500,000 cap per project is so that we aren't subsidizing, let's just call it out, we're not subsidizing any one developer project.
 We're not overly subsidizing any one developer. This keeps it limited. Well, except that if we've got 10,000 or more units, we're only going to allow 6,000 of them, no, 3,000 of them to have this benefit. So it might be helpful also for you guys to discuss where the $3 million comes from, because this is a subset of a program that's already been adopted.
 And so maybe it's useful to maybe digress here for a moment. Sure. We were trying to create a little bit of a...
 you know, come in now, give us your proposal. Time is valuable to us. These are, you know, if these projects are ready to construct very quickly and we can get new units affordable very quickly, and that was something that was appealing. So we did want to put a value limited cap and also make sure we had room for inclusionary zoning. If for some reason you felt like this program was working and wanted to extend that cap within the foregone revenue cap,
 something you could do, but we were trying to encourage folks to step forward with real-life proposals sooner than later.
 And so that's the other reason we time-valued the proposal to only two years. We don't want these permits to be sitting out for such a long period of time. If people really are ready to develop, let's try to capture those now. But what do we – so the other question, Shannon, someone might ask is we bumped the cap for foregone revenue in negotiations with the county from $1 million to $3 million, and the assumption here is that we're leaving money on the table.
 that we're not meeting the full $3 million of foregone revenue that we've agreed to. So is that true, or does this compete with some other programs?
 Right now, because the pipeline is so vast, we're not seeing a lot of new developments coming in under inclusionary. We went to a rolling cap, so went from a three-year to a rolling of 15 over five years to be able to address development cycles. We felt like this $3 million was an adequate amount of...
 to reserve for the pre-pipeline and make sure that we still had enough available for projects under inclusionary? To be clear, this is a carve-out, three of the 15, correct? This is a carve-out of that, yes. It is not new. It's not taking resources from another source. It is not. Right. There is no increase in foregone revenue. And if we adopt this, does the county have to adopt it as well? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, and that's the historical practice. We have to do them concurrently? Within a reasonable time of each other, yes. And what does the county think about this? We've been having ongoing dialogues with the county for some time, and I believe the mayor has had the most recent conversations with the county.
 Well, and let me address that question for a moment because the county is a sovereign body, and they have every right to take this up, and it is conceivable, and it's happened in the past, that they may have a view of this that either is aligned with us or is not aligned, in which case they may have suggestions for improvements, and that actually sometimes results in a better piece of legislation. So that's the process we have to go through anyway. Okay.
 what we're essentially, the mayor has put down a marker and said, let's capture this opportunity. Here's a way we can do it. It fits within the $3 million cap. And what you're tweaking, the two tweaks that I actually really appreciate is the $500,000 cap and expanding the number of units to 20% at 60%. Because, again, I think that's where there's a more compelling, there's a more pressing need than at 80%. We need housing at every level. Sure. But in terms of what you've documented as the need. Sure.
 I just want to signal something to my colleagues. I want to hear the testimony, but I may withdraw my motion on the emergency clause. There are things I'm learning in this hearing that are very helpful to my decision, and I had talked to the mayor about having an additional week just to make sure I didn't miss anything.
 But I think you're doing a very good job explaining this proposal. Thank you. I'd prefer another week. This is the first time I've had a lot of this information. And so I'd also like to know from the mayor, since Director Callahan said you've most recently talked to the county, what does the county think about this? So as Commissioner Fish mentioned, they are a sovereign body, and they have two options if we pass this. They can reject it outright. Right.
 or alternatively they could amend it, in which case I presume it comes back to us for reconsideration. I'm not sure on that, Robert. Maybe you could, as legal counsel, give us some insight into that. I won't put you on the spot, but maybe in the next few minutes you could do a little bit of research. But it would be my guess that it could come back. I've had staff meeting with the chair and all of the commissioners at Multnomah County. I don't think we've received a solid commitment to a yes or a no vote.
 I think we have received a solid commitment to hear this conversation out, and I certainly intend to go with the Housing Bureau and others to answer any further questions that they may have. So, Commissioner Fritz?
 to do their evaluation, talk to their own staff, communicate with us, communicate with constituents and others who would have an interest. Sorry, Commissioner. So my staff has been briefing me on this, and frankly the more that I've learned about this, the more I like it. What I'm going to do, though, because it just occurred to me that Director Shannon, if you don't mind me being informal, call me Nick, I'll call you Shannon, that you had mentioned earlier,
 that there were projects in the pipeline and a sense of urgency that we might have this tool and let's capture them. What I might suggest is that I withdraw my request to take the emergency clause off and just ask the mayor to set this over a week with the emergency clause, because if the council is satisfied next week, we would have the benefit of an emergency clause on it, and I think there's some urgency. If the council continues to have questions, they retain the option to seek more time. I think that's a more...
 To me, that's a better approach to this because if we do concur next week in this program, I don't think a 30-day delay is warranted if you're telling us there are projects that might be willing to participate. So I'm going to withdraw my motion, and I will urge my colleagues, I would urge the mayor just to set this over with. So the emergency clause has been removed at the request of Commissioner Fish. No. I'm sorry, the amendment. Okay.
 I'm withdrawing my amendment, and I will urge the Mayor to send it over for a week. Very good. Commissioner Fritz. I'm not committing to voting for it as an emergency next week either. Commissioner Fish, when you and I worked so hard with the county on setting up the multi-program or the revisions to it, we were very clear that we wanted to be in full collaboration with the county and indeed with the school districts because they're affected also. So I will want to hear from the county.
 I would prefer not to do it as a, here's what we've done, you can take it or leave it, or amend it. It would be much better to have some kind of agreement ahead of time, in my opinion. I'm ever the optimist. Maybe it's just...
 function of getting older, but I think by next week we may have greater clarity on that question, and I think it may be enough to satisfy your concerns. Well, it would be nice to have that breaking in the interim. Thank you. Although I know we have budget meetings all next week, so that might be challenging. Mayor, is that an approach that you would concur with? So to a point, I mean, first of all, I'd like to ask, is there any practical implications for this to set it over for one week? Okay.
 No, I don't believe so. I mean, I think you could also decide what you wanted to do next week, whether you wanted to pass it on an emergency basis or otherwise. So you could always add or remove a clause that you wanted to take care of. So I'm certainly willing to wait one week to have people have any further questions that are raised in the context of this hearing or otherwise addressed.
 I'm less persuaded by the argument that we should wait to see whether or not our county colleagues agree with us completely on this ordinance. We have a housing emergency. We have the Housing Bureau here at the City of Portland. We have very limited tools at our disposal to be able to reach back into the existing pipeline of projects that are permitted and ready to go that were vested prior to inclusionary housing. And I'm not prepared to give that tool up just because somebody –
 gets concerns about whether or not we should do that. But if there is clarity coming from the county that they do not believe that the dollar-for-dollar tradeoff between foregone future tax revenues is worth the discount to low-income people so that they can live in our community –
 I'll hear that conversation, but I'll never buy into it. So I just want to be really clear. I see this as a matter of urgency. I see this tool as being one that has been successfully used by the council previously. I can see no reason why we would not do this unless we don't really believe it's a housing emergency.
 Now, I'm willing to use whatever diplomatic skills and call in on friendships and everything else I can at the county to get their support. But, frankly, I would hope that they would enthusiastically embrace a project like this and tools like this to get some immediate help for people who are lower income in the middle of a housing crisis. So, Mayor, I've been on this body for too long, and so I'm just going to offer just a slight rebuttal.
 having spent a lot of time in Salem working to get the authorization for these programs, having spent the better part of a year with the county chair, then County Chair Jeff Kogan, working out the big look and coming up with a comprehensive rewrite that was acceptable to the county and the city, having spent time with the county assessor, who's a wild card in this, as you know from your county chair experience, the county assessor doesn't actually have to go along with anybody on a tax abatement, as we learned a number of years ago.
 I actually think we're on the verge of doing something with a broad base of support. I think your approach here of using multi and the tweaks that you proposed have convinced me it's the right approach.
 I think it's a more sustainable victory if we convince a few other people to join us. But that won't be the determining factor in my vote. No disagreement whatsoever. But I don't want to hear no. If they have a better strategy and know of a tool that the Portland Housing Bureau is unaware of, I'm all ears. Yeah. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Matt.
 Chair Khafre is second to nobody in her history of working for affordable housing. So the fact that she's not enthusiastically on board with this already is of concern to me. Let me be very clear. If Chair Khafre is not on board with it next week, I will not vote for it as an emergency. All right. We have public testimony on this item. Is that the end of your presentation? I thought you were going to show me what the multi-utilish has been in terms of how much of the cap have we been up to.
 Oh, as far as on the current cap? Yeah. For 2017, I don't have the numbers on...
 but it's only been for projects approved through inclusionary housing, so it is not a great number. So could you give me in the weeks between this week and next on what has been the utilization since we did it back in 2000, whatever it was? Yeah, absolutely. So 2012 is when we implemented the program after the Big Look, and I can give you a full spectrum of all the foregone revenue. Thank you.
 Public testimony. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly. I apologize. I just wanted to express my general support and thankfulness for your efforts and for the Housing Bureau. I have not been lobbied by the county and met with the chairs recently last week, and this was not a topic of conversation. My understanding of where we're at with this item is limited, but I do believe –
 I don't believe there's necessarily a disagreement on what we are ultimately proposing right now. I think there was some confusion. So I'm really hoping that we can come to a speedy agreement with the county. I mean, one thing that we haven't talked about yet, this $10,000 a unit tax abatement,
 is a lot of money, but we're spending $200,000 of housing bond money to create...
 So I really think we need to look at the larger picture. And I just want to go on record saying a couple things. As we know, we had a mad dash of developers getting in applications before our inclusionary housing program took effect. That's hundreds of developments. That's thousands, as many as 19,000 units of housing being built at market rate.
 which without a number is, I think, somewhat meaningless to the public. The housing that we're getting from the private market is housing that's only affordable to households at 120% of median family income or above. That's, I think, 95% of the housing that's been built in the private market over the last few years.
 There are proponents of density and development who want us to believe that our housing crisis is just a simple question of supply and demand, which is false. Because when you have a gross product mismatch between what is being supplied at $120, which is above the median income,
 And the demand, which is below 100 median family income, it doesn't – we may see softening at the top of the market. And, in fact, we see fairly high vacancy at the top of the market. It does not make any difference to people earning 80 percent or less of MFI. So I just really wanted to take this opportunity to –
 say that publicly because I'm really tired of the oversimplification of this issue that's going on. And just another thing to consider is, yes, there's foregone revenue, or yes, the landlords are not sorry, the developers or the property owners are giving up rent, but we're actually helping them create housing that will be rented.
 It's tough to perhaps nearly impossible to build at 60% to 80% right now, given just the cost of land and the expense of construction. So I think anything we can do within reason to help them deliver the housing we actually need is worthwhile. And finally, I would like to add that I also am very interested in
 the possibility of bumping affordable housing developments in the private market ahead in the queue as an additional incentive.
 Commissioner, can I just make one comment? Please. Because I, too, believe the mayor has struck the right balance on this, and I think we can work out our differences within the family. There is a view that is getting some traction in the media. I call it trickle-down housing.
 And the idea is that if we continue to build at 95% or more of our housing at the luxury level, that there will over time be a benefit to those people shut out of the markets.
 What I have said to some people I respect who adhere to that view is that that's not much solace for people who are today shut out of the market, which is why this council under this mayor's leadership has been focusing on putting subsidies and incentives into housing that is not being met by the marketplace. That's housing at below 60 percent MFI. And number two.
 The idea that if you take the logic of what some economists have said, what they're really saying is that the person who is now can't find a sufficient number of luxury apartments to live in is going to go out to 158th and Powell and displace someone who's in a low-income housing unit run by Joe Weston. That is so preposterous on its face that it's not worthy of our discussion.
 I hope at some point we can recalibrate this discussion so that we say, let the private sector build whatever they want. Let's use some incentives to encourage them to add some affordable units, and then let's put as many dollars as we have into meeting the needs of people shut out of the market. That seems to me to be a sensible approach. Yeah, that's well said, Commissioner Fish. And if I could just add one benefit here is these are vested, a lot of them are permitted, and they're ready to go.
 And so there's an opportunity for us to act quickly. So part of what we would be buying down with that foregone revenue that's focused on the affordability is also timeliness. We could have housing online within a year for some of these projects, which is two to three times faster than we're going to get with a project starting from scratch. Yes, thank you, Mary. So there's people who have been waiting very, very patiently for this.
 to testify. How many people do we have? We have two. All right, so if you could call them up, please. Gwen Baldwin and Mary Seip. And while they're making their way up for their three minutes at the microphone, there were a couple of people who wanted to be here today and could not, as we had to change the schedule. They wanted to provide oral testimony, so they provided written testimony in support of the ordinance, including the Urban League Commission
 the Wellcome Home Coalition, and Mark Madden of WC Properties. And I apologize to those folks for the schedule change, but we do have their written testimony in support of the ordinance. Good afternoon. Go ahead. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and members of the commission, Gwen Baldwin here representing Oregon Locusts. Oregon Locusts, as you may know, is a coalition of developers and investors who focus on walkable, livable urban development throughout the state. And –
 I want to first thank the mayor and his staff for engaging in this conversation with Oregon Locusts over a year ago.
 And it is not easy to find the right balance or the components of balance. But I really appreciate the willingness to work with it and to take the concepts and hand them to Interim Director Shannon Callahan and Assistant Director Matt Shibbold to bring to you this program today.
 We think that this hits the mark in a number of areas that are really important. The balance between affordability and the duration of the tax exemption is important. The citywide application is important. The limited time duration to really incentivize action earlier than later in that queue is really important. We had two concerns and questions, one of which has been answered in a follow-up conversation with Housing Department
 Bureau, related to whether all the regulations and requirements for this program were within Section 3 or whether other aspects of the multi-program applied, which I think Commissioner Fish gets to some of your question about the number of, you know, the affordable units versus all units, as well as is it 5-to-1 FAR built versus 5-to-FAR zoned and when that is applicable. Okay.
 Getting clarity from them, then we are satisfied that that component of where that threshold is is based on built, which is appropriate and will be a more workable program. The other area that we were wanting to draw attention to, and you've had some of that discussion today, is building.
 This program is measured against the status quo, measured against those who will move through the process with the projects that have been vested.
 And what are the incentives, what are the assists that can encourage inclusion of affordability in those projects as they move forward in the next couple of years? And my understanding is that there has always been a priority on the 60 percent NFI and understandably why that is so.
 urge consideration of maybe dropping that inclusionary rate for the 60 to create an even higher incentive for people to incorporate that. I think this is a well-considered and well-thought-out program. I think they've done a really great job. Gwen, can I ask you a question? Sure. Because you're very thoughtful on these issues. If we adopt the proposal that is now on the table as amended with the cap, with the 20%, 20%,
 and the 10 years. Do you anticipate that there are developers ready to take advantage of it? I think there are those who would give a very serious look to it. I can't give a guarantee that there is somebody in the queue who is ready to grab this, in part because we just got the details of this. Everybody is, in fact, looking at it. I do think that
 The dynamic that all programs right now related to housing sit in is that uncertainty. Construction costs continue to go up. Equity investors continue to be somewhat skittish and fluid about what they're investing in. Any change adds to that uncertainty. So the more that we can –
 say we have really considered the incentive in the match to make this something that makes you want to move off of status quo, and that's really the measurement, the threshold. I think this is really close. My only advice would be if you wanted to turbocharge that look at the 60, you might want to consider lowering the threshold. And my second question is, since this entire program comes up for reauthorization in the next couple years in the legislature, Mm-hmm.
 Do you think that your members would be receptive to at least considering the question as to whether the 10-year period is subject to an objective standard for renewal, particularly at the lower end?
 I think we'd be happy to work with you on that and how the parameters work. I think that any time you have really strict restrictions, it's like – It has to be an objective standard because that's been drilled into my head by some of your members. But it does seem to me that if we are able to capture those units at 60 percent, we ought to at least have the option of allowing people to continue to stay in those units if the council believes that it's still – the math still pens us out. I'd be happy to have that conversation and work with you to that conclusion.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. Good afternoon. Sorry. Yeah, afternoon. I'm having fun. Mary Seip. I just want to say how excited I am to see this innovative program
 come forward and the incentive here to try and capture what's already in the pipeline that perhaps we might not have been able to capture. I think this is a really innovative approach. I think that the conversation here has really been you've touched on everything, and I think the balance ‑‑ I especially appreciate the comments that Commissioner Udaly made
 once again you're reading my mind back here but and I guess what I would say is that one of the things is I agree with Mayor Wheeler that I think there is some matter of urgency here I also would want to really encourage
 Get out there and actively sell this. Don't just wait for the developers to say, gee, this really looks nice. Find a way to get out there and to promote this. The whole concept, the idea that all the affordable housing is in one building.
 rather than scattered throughout buildings all throughout the city. I really, really can't say enough about that concept. And, you know, the affordable units or subsidized, whatever you want to call the units in a building that has market rate units,
 they have the opportunity to do things such as not put in granite countertops and stainless steel appliances and hardwood floors and things like that and make these units so that their maintenance and their upkeep and the cost of just constructing them within this space
 that's going to be market rate, there's a lot of things that they can do. You know, oftentimes when we've had conversations here about the affordable housing buildings all throughout Pearl, the comment I often hear is, and you can't tell from the outside that it's affordable housing. Well, you can tell from the inside. Right.
 And like I say, we don't have hardwood floors. We don't have stainless steel appliances. We don't have granite countertops. What we have is a comfortable, well-designed apartment.
 habitable, affordable place to live. And I think the concept of providing incentive that is balanced, and that's the other thing I like is the balance here with what they get in return and what they give up, and spreading this throughout the city and throughout different buildings. I just can't say enough about how much I really appreciate the work that's gone into this.
 So I appreciate your testimony, and I look forward to selling this because it's a rare day when you can sell something to somebody that doesn't really cost them anything extra but provides a discernible, tangible public benefit. So I look forward to that opportunity. Yeah, good. Go for it. And, Mary, we appreciate you.
 Although it seems to me that you're not able to read my mind as easily as you're able to read her mind. So we'll talk about that privately. No, it's the other way around. I'm reading all of your minds.
 Get to the bottom of this. If I could just quickly add that my office is in conversation with private developers who are vested in the queue, who are very interested in incentives for affordable housing. So I just want to lend to this urgency argument that there is real interest. And we've also received some written testimony from some developers who've expressed that this is the right track. Yeah.
 I'm appreciative of that. Thank you both. Thank you. So, Mayor, I am officially withdrawing my proposed amendment. So, Commissioner Fish has withdrawn his amendment. I'd like to keep my amendment open. We're going to set this over, continue this, rather. Why don't we vote on it, Mayor? You want to vote on the amendment? We've had a hearing. Great. I'm happy to do that. None of my colleagues, my amendments, so I'll definitely support it. I think it's the same amendment. So, this was the one that lowers the cap to $500,000 from the $3 million.
 And I've heard from others that the idea of a cap... Come on up, please. There's a correction. I want to make sure we get this technically accurate.
 Shannon Callahan again. So the Mayor's Amendment actually lowers each individual project's eligibility to $500,000 of tax exemption. It keeps the $3 million program size, but makes sure that no project can come in with a greater than $500,000 tax exemption. Yeah, sorry for that confusion because the per project also is originally at $3 million. So never mind.
 Call the roll. I'm sorry, who seconded that? Second. I think it was Commissioner Fish. The motion, yeah, was previously seconded by Commissioner Fish. By Fish. Okay, thank you. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. So we'll move, we'll continue this to next week. Is that correct? Is that when you want this, next week? Yes. Yes. Good. So we will continue this to next week.
 As amended. Thank you, everybody. Good discussion. See, next item. Do we have everybody until 1 o'clock? Can people stick around for a few minutes? Great. 252. I'll work hard to get us done by then. 252. Authorize a settlement and mutual release of claims agreement.
 with Yu Hua Cho, C&O Company, LLC, in an amount not to exceed $111,466 in return for the early termination of a commercial lease and satisfaction of Housing Bureau statutory requirements on certain real property located at 5020 North Interstate Avenue.
 Colleagues, the proposed development at 5020 North Interstate, the property, is an innovative mixed-income homeownership project between Proud Ground and the Portland Housing Bureau consisting of 50 one-, two-, and three-bedroom condo and townhouse units located
 41 of which will be affordable for incomes between 35% and 100% AMI. Since the property was purchased on July 27, 2016, the commercial tenant, Jay's Market, owned by Yunhua Chao and C&O Company LLC, the tenant, has continued to operate their convenience store business
 business and make timely rent payments to the Portland Housing Bureau. Their presence has contributed to the neighborhood and maintained the property in decent condition while plans for project development continued to progress. The tenant has a substantial amount of time left on the lease of their property and is negotiating a settlement agreement with the Portland Housing Bureau in consideration for the early termination of the lease and vacation of the property so that it can be demolished
 and redevelopment can begin. And again, we have with us today, we have Javier Mena joining us as the Assistant Director of the Portland Housing Bureau, and of course we have Director Callahan here. Good afternoon again. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor. We're really pleased to be here because we've reached a satisfactory...
 agreement with the local small business owner that helps us compensate them and also helps us make way for this exciting new development. And we did want to preview a little bit of that development with you today because we are extremely pleased to be moving forward with a multifamily homeownership development in North Portland under the North and Northeast Portland strategy and subject to the preference policy. So with that, we'll just take an opportunity to show you one of our new projects coming forward.
 Thank you, Shannon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Javier Mena from the Housing Bureau. And as Shannon mentioned, this property was acquired in 2016, and with the purpose of land banking, which is one of the strategies created through the Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy, which had a tremendous amount of influence from the community, and land banking was a key component of those strategies.
 So this property, as part of the process, was acquired. We didn't, at the moment that we acquired the property, had any idea as to exactly what we would want to develop on the site. Therefore, we wanted to keep that tenant in place. And as mentioned, it's a great tenant and have...
 had great experience with them. In 2017, we put this property out for development. Pratt Ground was the winning bidder, and so they had proposed a...
 condo development, home ownership condo development, 50 units, 41 of which would be affordable, which in essence put the market not feasible in the future development. The property currently also is in dire need of repair, so really to try to keep it in
 the property there with the tenant, it's not feasible as well. So we reached this tentative agreement, which allows us to move forward with Proud Ground. They are in the final phases of developing their budget. But what you see in front of you, basically we're looking at 50 condos, eight of which would be one-bedroom, 22 two-bedroom, 14 three-bedroom.
 and some townhouses. As Shannon mentioned, homebuyers to this property will be going through the preface policy. And this is a partnership between Progrant, Habitat for Humanity, and the African American Alliance for Homeownership. And with that, I will take any questions. Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. So it's listed as a mixed-use project. Is there retail space in here? Right now that's still in consideration. It depends upon funding. Worst-case scenario, there is an active use of the ground floor, but they will be looking at moving their offices to the area if they are not able to identify funding for the commercial space. So it...
 looks from the person's name that this is a minority business, and I'm just wondering if there was any consideration of allowing them first preference for if there is commercial space to go back into the building. We did talk about it. There will be a challenge in terms of from the time that this project
 We're demolishing the building to when this actually would get built. Right. And we don't know if at this point if there is a – what the planning would be or what the funding would be for that site to the degree that we have had conversations with the store owner. And they definitely would be interested in staying in the building. We just cannot make that commitment.
 Well, I appreciate that the 1100, the 111,000 will get them through until it's finished. I would like to see there to be some commitment to inviting the owner of this business to come back if indeed it turns out that there is commercial space. Will do that. Because it sounds from what you're saying is that they've been a beloved feature of the community and providing a good service. And so if that indeed is the case, then I think it would...
 That would really round out the public benefits to me. I'll just leave that to you to move forward. I don't need an amendment on it. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. Very good. Anything else, colleagues? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. With that, please call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you. To the Housing Bureau. Mayor, can we do a housekeeping matter? Yes. I have to leave at one. I know we have two second readings. Are these transportation things pretty straightforward? So item 256, Commissioner Saltzman is asking that that be moved to the 21st. So why don't we move to the vacation item number 255.
 255, vacate a portion of Northeast Mark Street between Northeast 109th Avenue and Northeast 112th Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 253, and as you can see, folks, we are very close to losing our quorum. So quick is always good in this case. 253, please.
 253, amend contract with Oregon Department of Transportation for the Northeast Columbia Boulevard at OR99E MLK Junior Boulevard project. Good. And colleagues, I just heard this will be our last item for the day. Go ahead.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'll keep this brief. This is a fairly straightforward amendment of an agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to move a milestone date and to modify some language pertaining to the Americans with Disabilities Act. Typically, we put these on consent. This was an older agreement that doesn't allow the Commissioner in charge alone to sign it, so we had to come to you.
 Happy to answer any questions. Well, before we get to that, I just want to mention that Ms. Gerlach's third grade class from Abernethy Elementary is on a History of Portland tour. So we welcome you here today. Thanks for coming to City Hall. Awesome. All right. There's a lot going on here today, right? It's busy. Any questions? One, two, five, three. Okay, thanks. Any questions? Yes.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? Call the roll. Thanks, Hugh. Aye. Thank you. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Could you read items 254 and 256? They're both going to be moved. Yes. Mayor, after we do this reading and we move it and close the hearing, can we get a picture with these young people? You want a picture with us?
 That sound good? All right, hang on for one minute. We have like one little bit of business we've got to finish up, and then we're going to get a picture. Item 254, please. 254, vacate portions of Northeast Wydler Street and Northeast Halsey Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. At the request of the commissioner in charge, that's being moved to April 4th. Please read item 256. 256, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, store.
 stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Northeast 57th Avenue and Cummingsworth Street Local Improvement District. At the request of Commissioner Saltzman, that is being moved to the 21st. There being no further business, we are adjourned. All right, kids, let's come down here to the front, and then we can get everybody's picture with the city council. Thank you.
 All right, good afternoon, everyone. This is the Wednesday, March 14th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fritz? Yeah. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Here.
 Why don't you go ahead and read the statement, please? Sure. Thanks. Okay. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer will preserve order and decorum during the City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you.
 To participate in the council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to speak briefly on any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. So we're here today to hear public testimony on the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Map Refinement Project. On April 4th, the council will deliberate and vote on amendments that were the subject of the public hearing, which is today, for today on March 14th. Carla, could you please read the item? Item 257.
 amend the 2035 Comprehensive Plan map, and amend the official city zoning map to carry out Portland's 2035 Comprehensive Plan. So at this point I'll invite Eric Engstrom, Marty Stockton, and other BPS staff to come up and introduce our meeting today. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. My name is Eric Engstrom. I manage the Comprehensive Planning Group at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me here is Marty Stockton. She is with our District Liaison Program and was the project manager for this effort that we're bringing you today. Thank you.
 Before she goes into more details about the project, I'd like to just briefly put some context on why we're here and what this is. Three of you participated in the comprehensive plan adoption in 2016, and two of you are new since then, so a brief refresher on that.
 In June of 2016, you adopted the new comprehensive plan, and that was done under the state-mandated periodic review process, which is a state requirement that we periodically refresh and update our growth management plans. This was the largest update since 1980, and it was a multiyear effort that culminated in the 2016 votes.
 In 2016 you both adopted the new plan as well as adopted a package of implementing code amendments to the zoning code and maps to carry it out. The plan also includes projects, the citywide infrastructure plan as well as a plan map and a policy document.
 This month, we're bringing you three different projects to help ensure a smooth transition to the new comprehensive plan. And you may recall that you voted in the fall to...
 for a short delay in the implementation of the new plan until May of this year. And that has allowed us some time to both sort out appeals at the state level that are going on, as well as deal with loose ends to clean up and ensure a smooth implementation. And so the three packages coming to you this month are,
 are all in the spirit of cleaning up loose ends that affect the implementation of the new comprehensive plan, and there are three different packages. In general, they are fairly technical and have pretty minor implications, but a few of them do have some policy implications and deserve some discussion.
 But it's a fairly thick package, we realize, with a lot of small details. So as we go, don't hesitate to ask questions. It's a pretty confusing bundle, and we acknowledge that because it's pulling together a lot of different unrelated pieces into one package. The first thing that you're hearing about, which is the subject of today's hearing, is...
 cleanup of the maps, the zoning map or the comprehensive plan map. And so there's a number of sites that Marty will be discussing that we've bundled together as a project to refine the map. Next week you'll be hearing about the zoning code refinement bundle.
 as well as the final package to complete the new transportation system plan. And under Oregon's state land use law, transportation planning and land use planning are kind of tied at the hip. And so the city's new transportation system plan has been traveling along with the project to update the comprehensive plan. And that final step is happening next week. And that's part of our effort to ensure that this all goes smoothly when we turn on the new comprehensive plan on May 24th.
 Because of that fixed date that we've adopted, we want to ensure that there's a smooth process of considering these refinements and the final vote, the second reading final vote of these three things will all occur on May 24th so that they occur with the adoption of the new comprehensive plan. And since you're amending the new plan, that final vote has to occur after the plan is actually in effect, which will be the case on the afternoon of the 24th.
 So the state has approved our comprehensive plan? There's an appeal still pending, and actually there's a hearing tomorrow in Salem that we'll be making our final arguments. We're optimistic that that will go well and that we will have state acknowledgment by May 24th. And if there's any complications to that, we'll come back and brief you on that.
 Final thing to mention is that this is not the Central City Plan. I know you've been dealing with that a lot in the last few months, and so this is about the citywide comprehensive plan. And so most of the mapping questions we're dealing with today are outside the Central City. Great. Marty.
 Thank you. My name is Marty Stockton, as Eric mentioned, and I served as a project manager on this project, and I'm also part of the District Lease Program of District Planners. I serve southeast Portland. That is my district.
 Along with the project team, we had three other of my teammates. So Nan Stark, who is the district liaison for North and Northeast Portland, Joan Fredrickson, who is the district liaison for West, and Leslie Lum, who is the district liaison for East Portland. So that's what made up the project team for this project. Okay.
 So I wanted to refresh our city council members that were here at the time of adoption in June and December of 2016, but then also bring our new members kind of on the same page. The origin of the map refinement project was from the ordinance that was adopted along with the implementation package in December of 2016, right?
 And there was what we call Exhibit O, which was a short list of about 13 sites that council was interested in. They had received testimony on, but at that time they could not make an action on this short list of sites.
 This Exhibit O was a direction by City Council for our Bureau to do either an evaluation or a re-evaluation of these sites in a legislative process. And so, again, that is the origin of this particular project. And so this is also one of four categories of map changes that we're including in the map refinement project.
 The other three categories are the reconciliation of land use and zoning maps that have been occurring at the Bureau of Development Services. So when we have the effective date of the new comprehensive plan map and zoning map on May 24th,
 That essentially will override anything that has gone before Bureau Development Services in this interim time. So we are tracking those very closely and are coordinating with Bureau Development Services staff to make sure that we bring those in. And so that is, again, category number two of packaged map changes. So that means that if a – sorry.
 That means if an applicant has gone through a quasi-judicial zone change, they've gotten approval, but it's different from what we approved in the comprehensive plan map, then we change the comprehensive plan map.
 Exactly. We need to pull those in. So that's the purpose of category number two. And in some cases, the zoning categories have themselves changed, so we need to transfer what they got to the equivalent in the new plan. So if anything went to a commercial zone, so neighborhood commercial one or CN1, we need to make sure it's part of the new commercial mixed zones, so CM1 in that case. Great. Thank you.
 So the third item or category is changes to avoid the creation of new non-conforming development. So there are a number of areas citywide that we are tracking where there has been very recent development activity. For example, along Sandy Boulevard or in the Vancouver-Williams Corridor or along the Northwest Moreland area.
 There were some areas that there were some what we call down zoning. So that means that the development capacity or the height or floor area ratio at the time of adoption was reduced in the comprehensive plan and zoning maps. But development has since occurred. And so, again, there's a bit of a reconciliation so we don't create new nonconforming development.
 And then the final fourth category is a package of technical and policy-related map changes. These are not very exciting, but they definitely include a lot of split-zone sites, cleanup of our overlays, finding new non-conforming commercial sites,
 And a lot of Bureau-coordinated map changes, so we've been working with Bureau of Environmental Services, the Housing Bureau, and Portland Parks and Rec to incorporate some recent acquisitions that those bureaus have made.
 And then also in this group, there is a concerted effort to coordinate with our affordable housing providers. I have mentioned the Portland Housing Bureau, but that also includes Home Forward, Reach CDC, Save in CDC, PCRI, Rose CDC, and others. And so...
 Where appropriate, we are coordinating with them on some select map changes. So I wanted to just show you kind of a slide of everything. And so this is the citywide map and then the colors of the map changes. And you will see that there are 177 map change sites.
 for a total of 184.5 acres, which equals 0.19% of our land use. And so I just wanted to kind of give you a scale of what's included in this project. Again, it's 0.19 of the land area is included in a map change in this project.
 This is maybe a little easier to see. And so this is exactly the same map, but we call this a scatter map. And so you can see kind of the sites pop out a bit. They are color-coded. So, again, the four categories that I just walked through, the blue are the – that were included in the December 2016 council directive –
 The green on the map are where there is a reconciliation with the quasi-judicial map changes that Bureau of Development Services has been implementing. The red on the map is, again, where we want to avoid new nonconforming development. And then the yellow, which is really the bulk of what's included in the project, is other technical and policy-related map changes.
 And I think this slide's important. Most people actually don't know that we have a two-map system in the city of Portland. We have the comprehensive plan map and then the zoning map. And so we are actually proposing changes on both maps within this project. And so on the comprehensive plan map, there are the land use designations. So whether a property is commercial or residential or open space land,
 As well as the center boundaries, and that was a new inclusion that was adopted in the June 2016 Comprehensive Plan Map. So, for example, the Hollywood Town Center or Lentz Town Center, there's actual boundaries to those geographies.
 The zoning map has your base zones, and so whether you have an R5 zone or a new commercial mixed-use one zone, you have your overlay zones, your planned districts, and your trails. And just briefly, the distinction between the comprehensive plan map and the zoning map is that the comprehensive plan map gives you the long-range vision and the generalized idea of the future. The zoning map is what you can get a permit to do today. Thank you, Eric. Thank you.
 I wanted to include this slide because on the first, or going back, overlay zones, a bulk of what is proposed as far as overlay zone changes has to do with the removal of the buffer overlay zone.
 In the December 2016 adoption of the zoning map, there was the removal of the buffer overlay zone on all commercial zoning that had a mapped buffer overlay. If you look at this map and see the red on the map, that has already been adopted as a removal on the buffer overlay zone.
 The blue on the map is where there is a current proposal before you, which is now the removal of the buffer overlay zone on the employment and industrial lands. I'm not sure I recall what a buffer overlay zone is. Sure, and that's a really good point. The buffer overlay zone is mapped –
 on sites where you have, in this case, an employment zone that abuts against a residential zone. And there's oftentimes different widths at how the buffer overlay zone is mapped. But in that overlay, it relates to a code section, the buffer overlay code chapter, which has...
 I would say a higher level of setback requirements, landscape requirements, whether or not vehicle access is allowed within that overlay. And also it talks about exterior work activities or storage in that area.
 We have been working, this is actually tied to the Code Reconciliation Project, which is the project that Eric mentioned that will come before you next week, next Wednesday. But in this project, similar to what was done in California.
 The zoning code in December of 2016, where a lot of those good standards, whether it was for setbacks, landscaping, or exterior work activities, instead of having that live in the overlay zone, it was actually moved into the base zone. And so that's what happened during the mixed-use zones project.
 Similarly, we're proposing to do the same thing. So it's a little bit of a structural where we're taking those standards that live currently in the overlay zone and we're moving them into the employment and industrial zones in the code reconciliation project that you'll listen to next week. One of the reasons for doing that is that the buffer overlay approach requires us to map it and acknowledge all those instances where those two zones intersect.
 Putting it in the base zone doesn't depend on our mapping it. So currently there's a lot of those places where residential and commercial or employment are abutting, but there's no buffer overlay. So putting it in the base zone provides a more uniform treatment of all properties where those two zones are abutting each other. So could you just explain for those of us who are not experts at mapping and planning, what are we really talking about? Give me a concrete how wide. What are you talking about here?
 It governs setbacks and, as Marty said, whether or not you can have vehicle access along that property, for example, truck access to an industrial site or something. And it covers landscaping standards. And so we're talking about – is it –
 Somewhere between 10 and 20 feet of setback and landscaping standards. It will define whether or not on a given property you can actually have access or not have access. Is that correct? On that particular property line, yeah. On that line where the buffer zone is between residential and industrial. So on a corner lot, if the buffer was on one edge and not on the other, that would sort of force the access. So it would say on that edge, no egress. Right.
 And then you mentioned landscaping. Tell me specifically what are we talking about here in terms of landscaping? Typically when we have a landscape buffer, we have two standards. We have either what's called the L3, which is a high screen standard where you would have like a five foot setback of six foot tall evergreen shrubs. Right.
 Or you would have what's called the L4 standard, which is a masonry wall. And so, again, we have areas with the residential abutting against employment that don't currently have those buffering setback and landscaping requirements. So this will require one of those two things. Yes.
 It will require both. It will require both a wall and landscaping. So the people who already have the buffer overlay will perceive a slight difference in the details of the standards, but the content is close. For people who don't already have the buffer overlay, this will introduce an elevated setback in landscaping. So the goal here is to create a consistent standard. Exactly. Is that what you're trying to do? And then tell me a little bit about the setback.
 Because I'm sure when people...
 hear about a buffer between an industrial zone and a residential neighborhood, that already piques my interest a lot. And so what are we really talking about here in terms of setbacks? So a lot of the employment in industrial zones don't actually have setbacks because of the nature of that. And so this special situation imposes a setback of somewhere between 5 and 25 feet, which then that landscaping –
 Along the buffer zone, the requirement for shrubbery. Or a wall. Or a wall. Or a wall. It's not and, it's or? Correct. Okay. And it restricts the exterior work activities in that area as well, so you couldn't have, like, the lumber yard stacking right up against the property line fence or something. Okay. Thank you. That's helpful. I appreciate that digression. Thanks. And I think next week, when you have the code reconciliation project,
 If that is a continued interest to you, especially after the testimony you hear, again, the person that's writing the code will be here before you next week. Okay, I just wanted to have some sense of the magnitude of what we're actually discussing there. The two projects relate because this project is dealing with the map change and the other one is dealing with the code change. Okay, and the consequence, and I'm sorry, colleagues, I just have this last question. The consequence of not understanding
 doing this is you have non-uniform standards. Correct. And let me ask the obvious question. So what?
 We would like to see a little more uniform treatment in this situation. We think there are folks who are living next to industrial and employment districts that would benefit from a more equitable treatment of this. Okay, that's fair. I appreciate it. It's not the end of the world, frankly, though. Okay, I was just trying to figure out, so this is an equity play? Is that a fair generalization? Yes. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. What is a standardization? Yeah, I think that's a better... It doesn't take into account equity. It takes into account...
 what the rules are, making them clear. It would be an equal treatment if you are residential zone next to employment or industrial. And it may save some time at BDS because they won't have to look up the specific location to answer this question anymore. It's a more general standard. Thank you.
 So I just wanted to touch upon some early testimony that you have been receiving. So as of 5 p.m. yesterday, there had been 34 items of testimony the council has received. In that grouping, there have been a number of new requests for map changes. Yes.
 There have been, again, concern over the removal of the buffer overlay zone, both generally but specific to the Willamette Heights neighborhood within the Northwest District Association. Additionally, there's been testimony that we heard when we were before the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but that testimony is continuing before you today.
 Regarding a map change from CM2 to CM3D on Fremont and Mississippi. So we expect more testimony on that site as well. And then generally sites that received testimony, either in opposition or in support, on the proposed draft that came out in the fall, we are continuing to hear from community members on certain sites. Okay.
 So just a process update. We have been at this for about a year. We had an early discussion draft that came out in June of last year where we had that generated 53 public comments.
 On that discussion draft, we did send out a courtesy notice to both affected property owners, affected occupants, and folks within 100 feet of the proposed map changes.
 On the proposed draft that went before the Planning and Sustainability Commission, that is where we did send out the required Measure 56 public notice, as well as continuing on with the courtesy notices. In the legislative notice, we had 176 items of public testimony submitted.
 And now we have the recommended draft, which is what is before you. It was released on February 5th. We sent out our public notices, legislative and courtesy notices starting on February 16th.
 I just want to highlight the courtesy note as part of that is under the new comprehensive plan, we're really making an effort to be more inclusive with who is notified of land use actions. And so notifying occupants or renters essentially is a change that was not our practice prior to this new comprehensive plan and we're attempting to be a more regular practice going forward. So I'll probably want to come back up and talk about next steps, again,
 But we're having the hearing today. We intend or have a tentative date for council deliberation on April 4th.
 And then on May 24th, we have the council vote on the second reading. We are proposing for there to be an effective date also on May 24th. Initially, we were hoping to have the effective date actually go into June. It's not a practice that we like to do emergency ordinances.
 But there are just too many linkages between the zoning code that has to go into effect on May 24th
 and the map. So the buffer overlay being one, some additions and removals of RH zoning tied to the 401 FAR maps, and then all the changes that we're doing to the plan districts. They're very much tied to the zoning code chapters. And so just wanted to share that with you. Good. And Marty, I might ask you at the very end of the session to put that slide up again just so people know where the next steps are.
 So I'm definitely anxious to hear public testimony, so I am including my overview. Okay, great. Thank you. Any questions before we move on? So at this point, let's move on to the minor and technical amendments and errata. We're referencing the March 8th and March 13th staff memos that were distributed this afternoon. Can we get a motion to incorporate these amendments? Okay.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Saltzman. Second. Second from Commissioner Fritz. Are there any other amendments that council members would like to declare? I think Commissioner Fish had two. I have two amendments, Mayor. Let me hand them out. This is Fish Amendment No. 1, and I'll explain them in a second. Actually, I'll do them in sequence. Okay.
 Colleagues, I have two different amendments that I would like to introduce this afternoon. The first is in support of testimony provided by the Bureau of Environmental Services. Through the Bureau's Willing Seller Program, we have purchased a number of properties that are in different floodplains.
 The Bureau purchases properties like these that are prone to damage due to flood. We pay fair market price for the homes, we demolish the buildings, and then we restore the property to our more natural state that helps prevent future flooding and returns natural habitat for plants and wildlife.
 The Bureau has identified 13 of these properties that are currently zoned as residential. I am asking the Council to convert these properties from their base residential zone to open space. And I have asked that these 13 properties collectively be titled Fish Amendment 1. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish on Fish 1 and a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Dan. And I'm now going to circulate what is Fish 2. There's some extras. Maybe that's what it's called.
 and I'll just read a quick statement about this as it's being distributed. My second amendment comes at the request of Albertina Kerr. They have sent in testimony requesting a zone change on their properties from residential to commercial mixed use. The properties are in prime locations and are ideal for redevelopment, and Albertina Kerr is interested in redeveloping these underused properties and building housing with commercial space for their own purposes.
 One of their properties has split zoning on it with R1 on one portion and CS on the other portion, although the central city plan will update this to be CM3. Their other property is also zoned R1.
 Their specific request is to change the base zoning on all three lots from R1 to CM3, and I will introduce this as Fish Amendment 2. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish and a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Clarify question? Clarify. Either for Mr. Dobson or for Commissioner Fish. Obviously the first one I'm very supportive of. The second one, were these changes requested as part of the comprehensive plan or are these new?
 So these are new, it's a new request that we've received as of this comment period. So the Planning Commission hasn't considered them either? That's correct. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I have an amendment which I'm passing out now. Thank you. And that is...
 Portland Parks and Recreation submitted two trail requests which were inadvertently left off. So we did get them in on time, it's just that they got missed. And so I'm requesting the following regional trail segments be added to the comprehensive plan map. The first is Northwest Thurman connecting to the Willamette Greenway Trail along Northwest 15th, which is approximately 425 feet of trail. And the second is the East Delta Park connection to Marine Drive Trail, which is approximately 1,300 feet of trail. Second. Second.
 So Commissioner Fritz moves, and I second what we'll call Fritz number one for today. Colleagues, are there any other? Okay, great. Can I just publicly say that yesterday Marty and the Intrepid team came to my office for a boot camp exercise, walked me through all of these things, took my –
 some of which were pretty basic. And I think the public doesn't always get a sense of, in addition to all the work that staff has to do getting ready for hearings and interacting on things, they also have to bring commissioners up to speed. And I really appreciate the time and care that staff takes to make sure that we're well prepared for these hearings. And, Marty, thank you very much.
 Well said. So now we're going to hear public testimony about the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the MAP refinement project now as amended. When you come up to testify, please begin each comment to the degree that you're able with the MAP change number and or the subject property addresses so that we can be clear with regard to what your comments are referencing.
 But before we start with regular testimony, we have a tradition in the chamber. If there's anybody with young children or special needs, we would encourage you to confer with the council clerk, and we'll get you up as soon as possible. So with that, Carla, why don't we have the first three, please? The first three are David Cole, Doug Klotz, and Janko Emerson. Thank you.
 And they will be followed by Jeffrey Clare, Dana Kraschek, and Robert Johnson. Very good. And for obvious reasons, if you could state your name for the record, three minutes you'll see a light that turns yellow when you have 30 seconds left. It turns red when your time is expired.
 Please let us know if you are a lobbyist, if you're here representing an organization, that's helpful as well. We don't need to know your specific address unless it's germane to the revisions that you're referencing. Thank you. Hello. Hi. My name is Dave Cole. I'm here about change number 1799 for 705 North Fremont and 815 North Fremont.
 I'm here representing about 30 people who live on or around these properties. Over a year ago, the former council voted in favor of rezoning these two properties from R25 to CM2. And at that time, all the neighbors and everyone that lived there considered that to be an equitable compromise between adding density in the city and taking into account that these properties immediately border residential homes on Albina and Borthwick.
 Last year, the property owner of 815 asked BPS to further upzone their property to CM3. It's a small residential lot. And convinced PCRI, who has 705, an affordable housing complex there called Elroy Gardens, to come along with that. Those of us who live in the neighborhood are worried that the six stories that CM3 has,
 right next to single and double family homes is going a little too far. And that CM2 that was already approved really nicely stepped down from all the crazy development that's going on across the street to begin with.
 30 of us submitted a petition to PSC. The Boyce-Elliott Neighborhood Association has BPS reconsidered. BPS's own staff recommended to PSC that keeping with the original CM2 designation was the best idea, but PSC decided to move forward with the CM3 zoning anyway.
 PCRI, which operates the affordable housing on 705, has told BPS that they can only afford to build the CM2 size and were fine with the original designation. The worry there is that with the new valuable zoning, they could be motivated to sell to a developer that would just put in more luxury condos and permanently displace the residents that live there today.
 Those members have been here before this council and testified. Other members of the community, people who have lived in the neighborhood for over 50 years, of all backgrounds, economic and racial, have given testimony saying that this sort of upzoning is going to be too much. And only the owner of 815 and the PSC want this change. I understand we need more density in our city.
 I just hope that we can find a balance between the homeowners and the people who live in that neighborhood and the developers and the renters that follow them. And I hope that we're not all separated by six stories when that happens. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Doug Klotz, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm speaking on – you should have a copy of this in front of you. Speaking about 1717 and 1800, which is a property, several properties on Northeast Broadway, Northeast Halsey, and Northeast 45th. This is a large parcel. It's all currently zoned RX, and RX is not going to be allowed outside Central City now so that it was needed to be changed.
 What Planning and Sustainability Commission recommends is these all be rezoned to RH with a 4-to-1 FAR. Originally the planner had
 recommended a lower zone, but people probably in the Sustainability Commission thought that that was more appropriate. And I agree with planning sustainability. If you look at the map and how that parcel fits on the map, it's surrounded by CM3 at the south and the west and CM2 above and RX on this end. And
 And RH, it includes a 14-story Hollywood East Apartments, an 8-story Hollywood Townhouse, and three 2-story courtyard apartments, which are over at this end. You can see them in that aerial. And directly to the south is the new Providence Office Park building, which is 6 stories. So RH with 4 to 1 is a high-density, well-enrolled zone.
 Code in 33-120-030 says allowed housing is characterized by medium to high height and relatively high percentage of building coverage. RH zones will be well served by transit facilities or near commercial services. And this zone meets all those standards. This area meets all those standards. It's within one block of the Hollywood Transit Center, served by three different MAX lines, three different bus lines, and there's also the number 12 on Sandy, which is right here. And this town center has
 arguably more transit amenities than even Gateway. They're in the Hollywood Plan District. The maximum height on that property, on that area, is 100 feet. And, of course, the existing tower is 176, but 100 feet is the tallest that's allowed in Hollywood today. So I support keeping that at...
 I know you may get some testimony asking for something lower, but I just don't think it's appropriate right there with all the tall buildings already there and a block from transit or two blocks from transit. And since I have more time, number 1777 is on southeast main and 25th. It's a split parcel.
 picture aerial on the back, which is half in R1, half in R5. R2 makes a lot of sense. That's what staff and PSC recommended. I would even argue it could go to R1. There are people on the dead-end street to the west of it who are arguing that that is too much for the neighborhood. On the other hand, on that half block, there's eight houses and four of them are duplexes or fourplexes. So it's already at a missing middle...
 thing going on there. So I think the R2 at least, if not R1, are appropriate. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Afternoon. I am Django Amerson. I own a piece of property. The address is 4404 Northeast Holman. It's over by Fern Hill Park. I've owned it for about five or six years and it's a 15,000 plus square foot lot.
 When I first came into the city to zoning planning, they said, wait, hold on, because it's zoned R10, but there is R5 all around it. And they said, you know, there's going to be a change in the comprehensive plan and overlays, et cetera, in the base plan. Wait and see what happens with your parcel.
 Again, it's 15,000 plus square feet. If you look at the property, it is appropriate for two nice-sized homes for the neighborhood. All the neighbors that I've spoken to have no issues with changing that zoning to R5. Again, right next to it is existing R5. I see no reason why it should still be R10. I understand that the owner can go through a Type 3 zoning process
 This would be sort of unduly onerous and time-consuming. In speaking with Nan Stark, Nan told me to come in and make a Hail Mary, so to speak, here at this meeting. I appreciate that. Again, 4404 Northeast Holman.
 just a last-ditch effort to change to what would be a very logical R5 zoning. Thank you. Thank you. If it was R5, though, you'd be three units, and you might have to do three. Would that be all right? I just really honestly, too, would be is what it would be. I don't think the shotgun row houses thing is what the neighbors would like or what anybody would like. So then what you actually want is R7 because if it's 15,000 square feet. I'll take R7. That's great. Thank you.
 Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next three, please, Carla. Are Jeffrey Clare, Dana Krawczyk, and Robert Johnson. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Can I start speaking? Yeah, sure.
 Just leave the microphones off when you're done speaking. You'll be fine. Thanks. Hi, my name is Jeffrey Clare. I'm following up from Mr. Django. I'm interested in purchasing and developing that property. So speaking to Amanda, yes, you can actually get three. You could fit three if you had R5 zoning. And I would like to do a cottage cluster in there.
 possibly three with three ADUs, and I think it would serve the neighborhood much better than a large McMansion, which now with that R10 zoning, that's the only thing that can be built on that. It's very onerous. It's $100,000. It's a year to go through these type 3 zone map amendment, and it is abutting an R5 right now, and there is an R2 right across the street. So I concur with Mr. Django that it would be,
 R7 would be wonderful, but R5, in my opinion, would be even better. Thank you. So Mr. Jango testified that the neighbors are supportive. Do you agree with that? Yes. Honestly, I think R7 would be easier with the neighbors than an R5.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Dana Krafchick, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I submitted testimony digitally but also handed some out because there's a map on it, and you should receive it. This is a new amendment request on behalf of XPO Logistics. The address of the property is 2169 Northwest Thurman, which is the northeast corner of Northwest Thurman and Northwest 22nd. It's adjacent to the EC Company. Okay.
 We're requesting that this parcel, the entire parcel, be rezoned from IG1 to CM3 with the design review and main street, center's main street overlay. And there's two reasons for this. One is to avoid a nonconforming use in development. So that's category three that Marty spoke about. And the second is to correct a mistake in a split zone, which is the fourth category.
 I'll start with the non-conforming use and development. This property is included in the Conway Master Plan area, so it's a unique property. Even though it's zoned IG1, as part of the adopted Master Plan, EXD uses are currently allowed on that property. The maximum height is 150 feet. Base FAR is 3 to 1 with transfers available.
 It's subject to design review, and its transportation impacts have been studied extensively with that kind of development. It's subject to the LID that will fund the Jug Handle, which is a $7 million transportation improvement, and it's also subject to TDM measures. So it's essentially EXD property now, even though the base zone is IG1.
 Nothing, new construction hasn't occurred on that property yet, but we expect that it will within the term of the master plan, which is until 2022. So after the master plan expires, that would be non-conforming use and non-conforming development. So we're asking that the zone be changed now so that we can avoid that non-conforming development.
 The mistake in the split zone is because the comp plan designation has been converted already to MUU, which is the highest intensity mixed-use urban comp plan designation. A portion of the property already has the Main Street overlay, so it's got an IG-based zone that limits retail and an M overlay that requires retail. So there's a conflict. There's a mistake right there.
 So we're asking that the entire parcel get the appropriate CM3 zoning, which is what the balance of the master plan is. I'd be happy to take any questions. Was this considered when we did the comprehensive plan? The comprehensive plan designated it as MUU. So, yes, it was. But the base zone, for whatever reason, wasn't changed. And did you raise it with the planning commission? I didn't because we didn't realize this was an issue until late last year. Got it. Thank you. Mm-hmm.
 Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Johnson. I am speaking about the property that is at the corner of Sheridan and Southwest Fifth Avenue. And as I stated, I'm Bob Johnson, the president and CEO of Terwilliger Plaza, which is, as we proudly state, a community of empowered and engaged people. Terwilliger Plaza is a nonprofit life plan community, also known as a continuing care retirement community located near downtown Portland.
 A life plan community is a community that provides a broad range of services to persons 65 years of age and older. Founded in the 1950s, Terwilliger Plaza received its first residents following completion of the original structure in 1962. We currently serve about 350 members who reside in independent or assisted living apartments. We also employ about 170 people with living wage jobs.
 The Planning Commission has recommended approval of the MAP refinement project, including adjusting the zoning of a lot that Terwilliger Plaza controls, and that is at Sheridan and Southwest Fifth Avenue. That will combine all of the Terwilliger Plaza property under the preferred zoning of RH, high-density residential. I thank the Planning Commission for supporting this change.
 I urge a positive vote by the council. I thank you for helping Terwilliger Plaza resolve this zoning issue, which will allow us to explore the possibility of a major expansion of our services. Thank you for the opportunity to testify. Bob, can I just make one observation? Sure. Each of us gets invited probably annually to come up to Terwilliger Plaza and participate in a breakfast forum.
 And I have to just say, as an elected official, I think that's the hardest forum to prepare for. It's the most challenging because you look up and you've got retired judges, elected officials, land use lawyers. It's a murderer's row of people that follow the city very closely. You ought to sit in my chair. Huh? You ought to sit in my chair. It's a pleasure. They serve you breakfast, Commissioner Fish? Yeah.
 Mr. Mayor. Don't they serve everybody breakfast now? No. It's an incredible cross-section of our community. It really is. For someone like me that wasn't born here, it's also kind of a history lesson because of just remarkable people that live there. Well, we thank you very much for your support. And if you come, I'll make you a deal for breakfast, certainly. I have a question. Yes. Is this the site that we considered during the comprehensive plan, or is this another one? No, no, this is the same one.
 Yeah, this is the same one, and I'm just thanking you for your support. Yeah, as I remember, we said come back. We'll do it in the next package. Is that correct? Yes, absolutely. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next three, please. Are John Ross, John Brunton, and Samuel Eckhart, and they'll be followed by Dean Vanderbush, Gina Vanderbush, and Lou Montgomery. Good afternoon, sir. Could you start for us? Yes. Thank you.
 I'm John Ross. Thanks for this opportunity to talk. I'm testifying about change number 1799, 705 and 815 North Fremont from CM2 to CM3D. I've lived on Albina for 15 years and I don't oppose high density, but I do question the scale of a building of this size up to seven stories on a street of predominantly one to two story homes.
 I worry about the shadow well that will swallow my garden and discourage my chickens from laying, and the continued loss of urban canopy on our block. Most of all, though, I worry that this model of density, which encourages luxury apartments and condos, is erasing the racial, economic, and age diversity of our neighborhood.
 No matter how well intended, this model is overwhelming our neighborhood with white beer and entertainment consumers of a certain class. The Elroy Gardens housing development on Fremont between Albina and Borthwick is home to low-income neighbors who are racially diverse, frequently immigrants, and includes some of our older neighbors on the block.
 Many of them also happen to be taxi cab drivers who make use of the ample parking lot on the property. I know parking lot is a dirty word nowadays, and rightly so, but I think it's important to remember how this model of density may be displacing a unionized immigrant cab driving workforce living in the heart of the city for a homogenous mass of unprotected contract workers circling and polluting constantly on our streets with Uber and Lyft decals on their windows.
 At some point, we need to look at the unintended consequences of the aggressive infill development that's happening in North Portland. Thanks very much for your consideration. Thank you for your testimony. Commissioner Daly, did you have a question? No, John's just an old friend, and I'm enjoying his testimony. Is this...
 The site that you and I lost on in the comprehensive plan, are they doing even more on Fremont? I'm not sure. I haven't been engaged until recently, but Dave Cole, who sat here first testifier, was probably involved. I'll ask stuff about it. Thank you. Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Brunton. I'm here representing Greater Portland Bible Church in southwest Portland.
 We thank you for this opportunity to testify. Notice was only given shortly last night, so forgive me as I read my script here. Not a problem. Greater Portland Bible Church and Habitat for Humanity request a zoning map change to Lot 9900, located on Capitol Hill Road from R7 to R2. Zoning for the purpose of providing permanently affordable homeownership.
 The property is owned by Greater Portland and adjacent to our worship facilities and parking lot. The lot is also an environmental conservation overlay zone, which limits how it can be developed. Greater Portland is in discussions with Habitat to sell the parcel at a discounted price to allow for the development of affordable housing as a part of the ministry of Greater Portland Bible Church and the mission of Habitat.
 The two organizations have a history of partnership, which started several years ago, actually finished development in 2015 on a half-acre parcel. It was sold at a discount, so Habitat could develop seven units of affordable homeownership housing. This parcel is 6877, and it's adjacent to the proposed parcel, and it's zoned R2.
 The change meets the 2035 Comprehensive Plan Goal of affordable housing development in areas with close proximity to transit services and amenities. It also meets the anti-displacement goals and the goal of helping to close the minority homeownership gap. The site is within a half mile of the Hillsdale Commercial Center, Burlingame Commercial Area, and Southwest Barber Boulevard. We thank you in advance for your consideration. Thanks for being here.
 Can I ask a question? Yeah, please. We have a package before us of upzoning some affordable housing developments, and the theory there is we want to give people the ability to serve even more people. You are proposing to partner with Habitat to build on your footprint, correct? And I'm going to ask staff about that later, but –
 There is underutilized church property throughout the city, and there are some places like in inner northeast where there are some churches that have an older congregation, and they're land rich. And this question has come up quite a bit about what should be our role in facilitating housing that's within the footprint of a – I'm saying church. It could be a synagogue or it could be any faith institution, but I'll use church as a shorthand –
 And from my point of view, the benefit, of course, is you've got the built-in connection with the faith community. You've got a neighbor that is caring about the people that are living there, and so it's kind of a home run. So I'm going to be interested in knowing more about that. But I also think that as churches that have declining membership in certain parts of our city are grappling with this question,
 If we are more flexible in allowing housing on the site, we actually are able to save the church and create a synergy, which I think is very positive for the community. I agree. So thank you. Yeah, thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Samuel Eckhart, and I serve as the construction coordinator with Habitat for Humanity Portland Metro East. I'm here today to request your consideration of a zoning map change for the same parcel that John mentioned, tax lot 9900.
 It's in the Hillsdale neighborhood on Southwest Capitol Hill Road. That is owned by the Greater Portland Bible Church.
 It is adjacent to a seven-home condo project that Habitat built and sold in 2015. The church was also the previous owner of that property and sold it to Habitat at a discount so that we could provide homeownership opportunities to low-income working families. In fact, Mayor Wheeler, you may remember speaking at the key ceremony that summer when we were selling those seven homes.
 The church is again willing to consider selling property to Habitat at a discounted price, which is very exciting given the challenges affordable housing developers face in finding property in today's housing market. While this is a much larger parcel at three and a half acres, the goal is to build 25 to 30 units of housing with parking in the form of townhome-style condominiums. We are requesting that the...
 Zoning be changed to R2 from the current R7 zoning in order to help mitigate the development challenges presented on the site, including the environmental conservation overlay zone. We expect only a small portion of this overall site would be developed given the density of trees and slope. The homes habitat would develop on the site would be permanently affordable. Home ownership units, which means that not only will they be sold to first-time low-income home buyers initially, but they will remain affordable to buyers in the future.
 This will help ensure economic diversity in the Hillsdale neighborhood. This project would also help close the minority homeownership gap as 80% of Habitat homebuyers are households of color with an average annual income under $40,000. Habitat also builds homes to meet the specific needs of families, and 30% of our buyers have had a family member with a disability. In closing, I'd like to thank you for considering this project.
 That would help provide more than 100 people with stable, affordable housing in a neighborhood with great schools, access to transit, and nearby amenities. So was this amendment heard by the Planning and Sustainability Commission? No. I just want to personally thank you, Greater Portland Bible Church, for really being a true community-facing church. I mean, from what you've done with Habitat for Humanity to sharing your facilities from everyone from...
 frisbee golf to aa meetings i mean you are a center of the community and i thank you for that thank you
 I didn't realize you were aware of that. Thanks. Well, I know Dan's aware of that because he was standing right next to me at that key ceremony. We were commenting on the Frisbee golf, and we were concerned we hadn't brought our Frisbee, so we really couldn't practice that day. But that was a great project, and I appreciate the good work you guys are trying to do here. Commissioner Fritz? I was just wondering, do you still have a pastor whose one of the pastor's names is Amanda Fritz? Yes.
 Chris, could you please apologise to her? I'm really sorry. She must have just a dreadful time of having to... Who's that? There used to be... There was or used to be somebody with the same name as me who was a pastor there. And I have always looked for the opportunity to apologise for embroiling her and besmirching her good name. OK.
 Thank you very much. Thank you, all three of you. Appreciate your testimony. Next three, please, Carla. Our Dean Vanderbush, Gina Vanderbush, and Lou Montgomery. And they'll be followed by Scott Doherty, Gary Okamoto, and Gary Daniels.
 Good afternoon. Would you like to start, please? Sure. Thank you. Hello. Okay. I'm testifying in regards to 10840 Southwest 55th Avenue in West Portland Park. Could I get your name for that? Dean Vanderbush. Thank you, Dean. Thank you. I come before you today to request a zoning change in West Portland Park Block 1 from R10 to R7. Okay.
 West Portland Park Block 1 is unique. It is the only block in West Portland Park that is zoned R10. This is causing a major problem for my daughter and me. We bought a lot in West Portland Park Block 1 because, but because the lot is zoned R10 we're not allowed to build a home on the lot. This is a good buildable lot according to city planners.
 And we consulted with them before buying the lot, and they said there shouldn't be any problem with building on it. But we later discovered through the zoning that it can't be built on because in West Portland Park –
 This whole block was owned by the land developer a few months in July 26, 1979. As you probably know, there is a rule in the zoning that prohibits building a home on a lot if it was ever under the same ownership as an abutting property after July 26, 1979. So under the current zoning, because the land developer owned the entire block, for a few months after July 79, our lot must sit vacant forever.
 As you can imagine, this is a terrible disappointment to my daughter and me. If the commissioners change the zoning for this block from R10 to R7, there are two provisions in the zoning that would allow us to build a home. If the zoning is not changed, the lot will remain vacant forever. So I'm requesting that the commissioners change the zoning from R10 to R7. As I said before, Block 1 is the only block in all of West Portland Park that is zoned R10.
 And most of the lots are between 5,000 and 8,000 square feet. And city planners have told me that the lot sizes are more consistent with an R7 or even R5 zoning than R10. What's the size of your lot? Our size is 6,850 square feet. And it was 10840? Yes. Southwest 55th? Yes. And was this taken to the Planning Commission? No.
 No, this is a new amendment request. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Gina Vanderbush. I'm also speaking for 10840 Southwest 55th Avenue. My father, Dean Vanderbush, and I, as you just heard, purchased a piece of property in West Portland Park, hoping to build a house on it. Unfortunately, because Block 1 is Zone R10, we cannot build.
 I am requesting that you change the zoning in block one from R10 to R7 so that we can build a home. I would like to also emphasize the huge impact building a home will have on my life. I am 25 years old. I am an Oregon State grad and have been a Portland resident since 2016. This piece of property is an opportunity for me to invest in my future and stand on my own two feet.
 My father and my father before him have built homes for their families, and it's a tradition for us to do this once or twice in our lifetime. I would like to continue this tradition and settle down in Portland. Building a home on this property would be a life achievement for me. Generally speaking, previous generations were able to save money, buy a home, and create a family future on their own. Now it's different. People my age cannot buy a home without going into crippling debt.
 It is very difficult for most people in metropolitan areas with an average salary to save money for a home because of high rent prices. Our law is within the urban growth boundary, and developing on it would be consistent with urban growth principles of keeping commerce, transportation, and housing within city limits. As a person who holds a degree in natural resources and soil science, I understand the effects that development has on the environment.
 We're not asking for any open land to be developed. It's already an existing lot. We're not asking for any financial help or services either. I appreciate your consideration of my request. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. And just to clarify, you haven't owned another lot in this area? No. This is the only lot you own? Yes. And what's the cross street? It's Southwest 55th Avenue, and there's a private access road that
 That allows access for the property. It's it's kind of tough. It's this little block right here Here's highway 5 and there's a little alleyway out private drive that allows access for these lots. Okay, I'll look into it Right. Thank you. Thank you both. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Lou Montgomery I'm here representing some property owners that have property at six four one six North Greeley Avenue and
 This is their property here, and these are proposed zone change to CM1. So their lot is directly abutting commercial and also directly across the street from commercial property. They've been in the Portland community for over 50 years now. They've raised their family here. Palmer, the owner, grew up on North Webster Street. His father, he's very proud of his father being a Portland police officer for 17 years. His fiance's family grew up in St. John's.
 So like I said, I'm asking that this property be changed to the CM1, the mixed use. Some of the characteristics of the CM1 is that it is a commercial mixed use zone. It's normally in areas where they have a lower density, and this property currently is R5. Most of the buildings they expect to be about three stories tall. Okay.
 And I looked on the Greeley Street Corridor Study, and it's really interesting to see that under the categories at the bottom of that study, it shows that 0% of mixed-use commercial and residential is in this corridor. This is also about one and a half miles from the University of Portland. So what the owners are hoping to do is to develop this property with doing affordable living upstairs and the mixed-use commercial downstairs, they thought, or at the main level.
 They thought that that could be possibly student housing and also more affordable housing for anybody that lives in this area. So we really appreciate your consideration on this. They plan on staying here. They plan on their kids are getting ready to go to college, and they're hoping to keep this in their family. But they'd really like to see the avenue of being able to turn that into a mixed use. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Next three are Scott Doherty, Gary Okamoto, and Gary Daniels, and they'll be followed by Julie Cantonwine, May Smith, and Rich Rogers. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, sir? Sure. Thank you.
 All right. Scott Doherty, and I'm here representing 1809 Northwest Davis Street at the corner of Northwest 18th Avenue. I'm here to request that the council consider a comprehensive plan and zoning map change for a quarter block property located at 1809 Northwest Davis. The property is currently used as a dental office and a surface parking lot. The comprehensive plan change would be proposed from –
 High density multi-dwelling to mixed use urban center. And the zone map change would be from RH to CM3.
 The property is owned by my father, John Doherty. The dental practice occupying the office space was owned by my father until 2017 when I purchased it from him. We're a third-generation family dental practice serving the Portland area for 75 years with over 40 years in our current location.
 Our central location with easy access and on-site parking are extremely important assets to the business. Moving locations would create a significant hardship on the existing dental practice in the form of downtime and access for our patients if we move out of our central location. The current RH zone limits our long-term growth prospects and presents significant barriers to our ability to expand our business at this location.
 And in addition, if the building were to be lost to a catastrophic event, our current zoning would make it difficult or impossible to rebuild the dental office as it exists currently. The proposed CM3 zone would allow the office building and Doherty Dental, the practice, to be permitted outright. Thank you.
 Lastly, the 20,000-square-foot surface parking lot abutting my father's property to the west, owned by Trinity Cathedral. Due to our longstanding mutually beneficial relationship when it comes to parking during the week and on the weekends, we have ongoing discussions related to coordinated redevelopment of both properties with potential for medical office space and shared parking structure. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Gary Okamoto. Thank you for listening to my testimony, City Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler. Thanks for being here. I'd like to bring your attention today to focus on a property at 5505 Southeast 28th Avenue, right across from Reed College in the Eastmoreland area. Earlier last year when I received some notices about the need in Portland for
 expanded industrial areas. I guess that's the comprehensive plan. I saw how it impacted my property, and in this case, the property is underdeveloped or not developed. And so at the western side of 67 feet of it, it's undeveloped. So I didn't think too much of it at the time. However, in talking to...
 Marty Stockton earlier this year about expanding some potential commercial or residential activities or buildings on the property. I was told that the existing store, that's kind of a fruit and vegetable store, is in fact a non-conforming situation. And hearing that, I contacted the store operator, Mr. Daniels here,
 and told them about this concern of nonconforming status. Currently, the site is residential 2, and my request today is for the city council to consider changing the zoning from R2 to CM1. So a little bit of history. The property, I purchased it from my grandparents' estate six years ago.
 They first purchased the property in 1949 and have operated the Moreland Market at that site for the last 40 years. Afterwards, Mr. Daniels has been operating, continuing to operate that store under the name Very Good Produce.
 And so we'd like to, first of all, request the CM1 change so that Mr. Daniels can viably operate his business and continue to do so. For him, his wife, and his son. And for me to also be in conformance with current zoning. And also in the future to consider food cart or sort of a short-term goal.
 because right now there's sporadic food carts in the industrial zones that under the comprehensive plan in that specific area, there's enough property there, one acre, that could have food courts or food trucks. Plus, in the near future, my plan, based upon the requirement of investment, could actually help solve Portland's issues with food.
 low-income housing, college student housing, since it's next to Reed College, and also housing for senior citizens like my mother. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. And perfect timing. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Gary Daniels, and he covered all of my testimony. But I was just going to add that in 1928, in May,
 Giuseppe Polina tried to get this changed because he started the fruit tent. So it's actually been in operation for 90 years. And not only is it for my benefit to support my family, the community seems to really appreciate that you can get produce from the local farmers brought into Portland. So that's just my main thing, and I would like to keep operating it and growing.
 I didn't realize that we were on a revocable permit after 90 years, but evidently we still are. Commissioner Fritz. Have you visited the Neighborhood Association to ask for their support? Not yet, but, I mean, essentially we're basically an island because there's the Revelle's, which is next to the golf course, Eastbourne Golf Course, and then everything else is Reed College.
 Yeah, I just would encourage you to look at the Neighborhood Association, put it down on Portland Maps, and it will tell you what the Neighborhood Association is. Just go talk with them, because when we come back to vote on these things, it goes a lot better if the Neighborhood Association supports the proposal, and it sounds like this is a valued institution. So I certainly would appreciate getting a letter from them saying that they support it. So for clarification, that would be the Eastmoreland Neighborhood Association, or that would be Reed College?
 It would be the Neighborhood Association. So if you go to PortlandMaps.com, it'll tell you what your Neighborhood Association is for that address if you just dive it in. Marty said she'd give you all the skinny on it. Okay. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, gentlemen. Next three, please. The next three are Julie Cantonwine, and it will be Mac and Penelope Smith, and they'll be followed by Rich Rogers, Jeff Carr, and Jason Leonard. Very good. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, please?
 Sure. Sure. I'm here in support of Mr. Okamoto. A couple months ago, I decided to come back from Maryland and do business in Portland. I've been doing business in Portland for the last couple of decades, and I'm a chef.
 and I wanted to open a restaurant in Portland, and financially it's going to be a little bit out of reach. And so in order to bring our Cuban hand pie bowl cart using fresh ingredients and fresh food ingredients,
 And to be able to open that right next to the Berry Good Produce stand, actually would be a wonderful place to do business. Because we do support local farmers, and we locally source our food and our produce and our meats. So I'm in here to support Mr. Okamoto and Mr. Gary with the food produce stand, because I think it's a great idea. And it's a great area. It's right across the street from Reed College.
 And I love the story behind how the land became and the whole story about how this produce stand has been operating on this revocable, you know, thing for 90 years. It really should stay there. It is definitely a community staple there. So that's all. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is Mack Smith. I'm talking about the 2125 Northwest 33rd Avenue in Willamette Heights. Okay.
 There is a buffer zone there, and they're talking about coming closer within 10 feet of that particular property. I live a couple houses up. This issue was settled at one time before, in the 90s, and because they were going to put a truck stop there, which would include a lot of pollution, etc. I am a chemist, and I've worked with all the...
 state and local labs on air quality and water, et cetera. This is a geologically unstable hillside. It has silt at 7 feet 11, 7 and 11 feet, and it had a landslide that closed the St. Helens Highway in the 50s.
 It separates our particular 100-year-old neighborhood from becoming an annex of the industrial zone. Changing the buffer designation puts us in the same visual, auditory, and environmental hazard.
 as if we lived right in the industrial zone. There are two, no, there's three springs that are on the west side of the street, and they've been there for years. And there's also a spring on the eastern side of that particular property. There's also a sewage opening that is cleaned out on a regular basis. So there's a lot of things going on. The...
 Present buffer zone being kind of – it has, I would say – Trees. It has trees. It has bushes. It has everything that's there. It's not a very stable piece of property and would require quite a bit of work. I guess I'm worried about, as a chemist, I'm worried about the pollution and et cetera. They have some –
 Right now they have quite a few places that repair trucks along the way, and this would probably include something of that nature. They were thinking about a truck stop where they would do fueling, repair, et cetera. And I just wish you would reconsider this. It would disturb a lot of things in that particular area. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon.
 Hi, my name is Penelope Smith and Mac is my husband and I'm representing the Willamette Heights Association. We're very concerned about this area because the present buffer zone barely keeps out the noise from St. Helens Road, including trains and the commercial noise from other side of the road and the road itself.
 There would be more noise pollution from business and from St. Helens Road with less of a buffer zone if that was developed, which it would be very hard to develop because it has so many creeks running through it, and it has lots and lots of vegetation, a lot of wildlife uses that area, and environmentally it would become a disaster if that was really developed. Okay.
 and it would really lower the value of our homes if it was put into a development where it was a commercial business that added a lot of pollution. If the business would have anything to do with diesel repair or truck stoppages, there will be a tremendous amount of pollution with or without the buffer zone. The value of our houses would take a full hit with all of the above houses I have mentioned previously.
 Whomever wants to build there could care less. We kind of feel this is more about money, and we can't understand why anybody would want to develop that with all that's going on in that area, and it's such a steep incline. We don't know how they would be able to do it without building a huge wall, which would not really prevent a landslide because it's such a steep incline.
 So that is our concern, and we'd like you to reconsider keeping the buffer zone that's there presently and has been there. And this was settled in the 90s, and now it's come up again that somebody wants to develop that area. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Appreciate all three of you. Thank you. The next three are Rich Rogers, Jeff Carr, and Jason Leonard, and they'll be followed by Larissa Zimmerman, Mel Hatzos, and Christopher Rosengren.
 Good afternoon. Would you like to start, sir? Yeah, I'm Jason Leonard. I just found out about this a couple hours ago, so I don't have much prepared. But I own the building on 3587 Northeast Prescott Street. It's an old grocery store building built in the 20s. And from the 70s until I bought it in 2013, it was run by an upholstery business. And now I run my poster restoration business out of it. It's the Afish Studio and Gallery. Okay.
 And the reason I found out about this is I'm in the middle of a land use review, trying to expand on top. And it was brought up that potentially it could be up for rezoning, so I got in under the wire a couple hours ago. I think it makes sense to change it from non-conforming to a CR. I just learned about CR today, but I did a little research and basically just anything I do in there as a non-conforming status is very tricky.
 And I just, it's always been a commercial building. It's a unique spot in the neighborhood. You know, I spent a lot of time and energy restoring it. It's a unique thing in the neighborhood. And I just think for even for the future, it makes sense to have a conforming status. So I don't remember what CR is. What kind of use do you want to be allowed on it? Well, now I'm forgetting a little bit. But it's basically commercial residential mixed use. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.
 So I mostly just run my private studio out of there, but sometimes do gallery events. And I'd like to do more for the neighborhood. Everybody that talks to me about the building wishes more was happening in there. They like the building. I think it would make things easier for the expansion I'm doing, too. Just non-conforming is a very tricky thing to go through the land use for you. Yeah.
 So the just straight CR zoning doesn't come with a specific height limit? The building height is intended to be compatible with the scale of surrounding residentially zoned areas. So how high are those surrounding? Everything in a block radius is an older two-story house. Okay.
 But beyond that, there's a lot of new development that is definitely 30 feet. A lot of new construction. So this is what I've been running into with the land use review because I was just under the assumption that 30 feet, I could do 30 feet. So I've been designing it based on that.
 But they say that it's too high, even though it's the allowable height. So I've been trying to bring it back down to around 22, which would be the size of a two-story house. I'm familiar with this property and with Afish Studios. And it is an interesting just little anomaly in this neighborhood along Prescott. There aren't a lot of commercial opportunities. And Prescott is a pretty major thoroughfare. And it really could have been...
 like a lot of these other pockets, like 30th and Killingsworth, where it ended up being a four-corner business. I mean, it's an old brick building. The house next to it, actually, the guy who lives there, his grandparents built that house and this building. So I'm friends with him. But he's told me a lot about the history of it. But yeah, for whatever reason, it just became a one-building corner. But Prescott right there gets a lot of traffic, and it's kind of this walkable thoroughfare to Wilshire Park. So I get a lot of foot traffic, and
 It's just always been known. It's been there for 90 years. So I would suggest you contact Marty Stockton and have a chat with her about specifically what the right zone would be. And, again, as I've said to other people, going to the neighborhood association, since you just thought about it, it would be good to get their support before we make our decision. Yeah, definitely. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Jeff Carr. I'm the CEO of Albertina Kerr, and I'm here to support Commissioner Fish's amendment related to our property. We have a historic property, which is our headquarters, in northeast Portland at 424 Northeast 22nd. And during the new plan that was developed, our historic property was upgraded to CM3 zone, and we have...
 two parcels at 2307 Northeast Flanders that is a parking lot in a thrift store.
 And we operate it all as, and it's been there since 1920s, pretty much as its own campus. And so the two parcels that are not a part of the historic building parcel were remaining R1. And so we would like to have those consistently zoned, all CM3. And the reason that's important, we didn't realize this was all happening until we were looking into actually how we're going to restore our building. Yeah.
 We are presently in the process of developing 120 units of affordable housing for our workforce to try and really target low-wage workers in our campus on 162nd between Halsey and Gleason. And so we would love to have the opportunity to actually consider developing this property in the future to increase the stock of affordable housing for workforce folks in our community.
 We would respectfully hope you'll support the commissioner's. So, colleagues, I'm new to this conversation, and some people that we respect really highly regarding the community have started to think about this. And the concept that really has drawn me in is that we have nonprofit providers in our community that are land rich and are currently having trouble recruiting people for certain positions because of the housing market.
 And the idea that Albertina Kerr and others are thinking about is what if we leveraged the land on our campus
 to build affordable housing so that we were able to offer someone not just a job but a place to live that's also conveniently located. There are a multitude of nonprofit entities that are in the same situation where they're competing for a workforce that's being pushed out of the community that are rich in land, and it seemed to me that it's –
 a very big discussion that we ought to start engaging. I can't think of a better synergy with our climate action goals and many of our other values to have, you know...
 these developments on site. Now, there's some legal issues they're going to have to work out. I don't know how the Fair Housing Act applies. I don't know. There are specific legal provisions that say you can build senior housing only for seniors and therefore restrict it to seniors. I don't know about employers building housing that's then deemed a benefit that they offer employees. That's a legal question. Okay.
 But I do think the concept of leveraging that resource and then having people live and work in close proximity is brilliant. And I hope it's something that we can find a way to support. And Albertina Kerr is sort of in the front of the line, in the queue in terms of wanting to test this assumption. Thank you.
 Well, and I appreciate that, Commissioner. We actually, our goal is to test this on our campus out in Gresham. I mean, I wish we were on the east side of 162nd. We'd be technically in the city. But on our Gresham campus, and we actually got a planning grant from the Meyer Memorial Trust, specifically to bring together five of the six largest nonprofit human service organizations in Oregon who are all struggling with the same issue. And we're in the process of identifying the problems.
 parts of our property through this grant that could be available for housing. And actually, I had a meeting yesterday. You were talking about churches yesterday. There are six Methodist churches that gave me their property addresses. And so with the partnership with Gurdian Edlin, we are looking at all of these parcels and looking at what we think we could actually develop in terms of the numbers of units.
 of affordable housing and essentially use our land that we own outright as equity to put into the deals and then figure out how to use a combination of low-income tax credits and traditional financing and then find equity financing that would enable us to bridge that gap to build really targeted workforce housing.
 By the way, just one last comment. There are plenty of employers in town that, as part of a recruitment strategy, offer incentives where they will help people with down payments if they want to buy a home, other kinds of things. I will tell you that when my wife got out of graduate school and was thinking about her first teaching job, one of the questions that she asked employers was, does it come with any housing on the campus? Is there family-friendly housing in town?
 And employers increasingly that can answer yes to that are in a more competitive position. So I think the concept is really worthy of exploring. Well, we surveyed our 700-plus employees and got a 44% response rate, over 300 responses, 60% of the people that we surveyed.
 just kind of said, we're thinking about doing this. 60% of our employees said, if you did it, we really would like to take advantage of it. So it really demonstrated to our board that there's a significant need out there amongst our low-wage employees. And this is R1 to what? Our historic building is CM3. R1 to CM3. And so it's R1 to CM3. And am I correct in that?
 We don't, it doesn't seem, there's no minimum or maximum density associated with the commercial mixed use. So we can give the zoning, but we can't compel a minimum density. You're asking the wrong person. I did talk to Marty about this. I'm kind of looking at staff for a nod. Yeah, sorry.
 I can, we can take it offline. It's just interesting because the residential zoning does come with maximum zoning.
 I'm just curious how many we can squeeze on that. It's my understanding what we could develop right now on the parking lot, essentially we can't use the CM3 zoning for our historic building because we can't knock it down. Right. So it's really worthless on that property. But if we switch from R1 to CM3 on the parking lot in the other thrift store building –
 I believe it goes from enabling us to build about 19 units of a housing upwards of 277, depending on probably a little less than that based on the setbacks and things like that. But you're not going to get rid of the thrift store, are you?
 We certainly have loyal thrift store shoppers, and so we're not suggesting we're going to rid ourselves of that. I think I hear a friendly amendment. I could be convinced of it. I'm going to save this and move us along. Okay. Good afternoon, Rich. How are you doing? Hey, good afternoon. Mayor, commissioners, thanks for the opportunity to be here today. I'm Rich Rogers with Community Development Partners.
 We are affordable housing developers. We have a portfolio of around 1,200 units spread over 15 communities, and we have about 600 more actively in the pipeline here in Portland today.
 I'm here to talk about a couple of parcels right across the street from each other on Mallory and Northeast Alberta. The addresses are 126 Northeast Alberta and then 126W slash I Northeast Alberta, which is the parking lot attached to the abbey across the street. The staff report refers to one of them. Our initial request is related to both, but I'll speak to both of them quickly.
 On the parking lot, we're requesting a zone change to CM2. This is a parcel that's a couple blocks off of MLK, a couple blocks off of the Vancouver Williams couplet. There's a lot of activity there. We feel like this will just stitch that together nicely. We propose this parcel as one of four residential or mixed-use buildings that include apartments.
 That will encompass 160 units spread along Alberta from Mallory to Northeast 27th, 100% affordable, with affordable commercial space on the ground floor. And that's the request for the mixed-use zoning.
 talks with BICEP, the Black Investment Corporation for Economic Progress, about managing and hopefully owning the ground for affordable commercial space so that nonprofits and aspiring business owners can retain and establish and deepen some connection to a community that's been heavily gentrified. The housing will all be aligned with the city's north-northeast preference policy, and a
 Essentially, we need the CM2 zone change to both make the affordable commercial work and in order for our pro forma to pencil out on the total 160-unit.
 project across the four sites. The other site that we're requesting a zone change on is right across the street. That's the former Mallory Avenue Baptist Church. It's now the Alberta Alley. We own that as well. It's been functioning for a few years as a kind of community arts hub, providing affordable art space and performance space for a variety of tenants.
 We're going to, our intent is to move our small offices into it, but breathe more life into it so that it better fulfills its mission of providing affordable art space. Our request there is simply that the zoning be made a community facility. It's a historic church that was built in the 40s.
 We're going to apply for historic tax credits and fix it up under that rubric and keep the historic nature of the facility, but hopefully continue to use it and breathe more life into it as a community space. We anticipate using it as a location for resident services for the residents of our community, providing college-age arts instruction as well as performance space for the community at large. Thank you, all three of you. Appreciate it.
 The next three are Larissa Zimmerman, Mel Hafsos, and Christopher Rosing, and they'll be followed by Miles Sisk, Barry Smith, and Silas Beebe. Good afternoon. Would you like to start? Hello. I don't know. I'm nervous. Don't be. Good afternoon. My name is Larissa Zimmerman, and I'm here to oppose Map Change Number 1799, Fremont and Mississippi zone changing from CM2 to CM3 zone,
 I'm not here representing anybody but myself, but I am a poor resident of Portland, Oregon, with family roots going back multiple generations on both sides here in the state of Oregon. I've worked low-paying service jobs my entire life and...
 So when I was able to finally purchase my own house about 15 years ago when they were throwing loans at people that probably shouldn't have been able to get them, I was not surprised that I was able to buy in the Albina neighborhood, Boyce technically, but Mississippi.
 That area has been traditionally low-income housing simply because of the historical institutions of racism that date back to the redlining that occurred after the Vanport flood and exodus. And I would just ask that you all please keep in mind that visionary plans about the future of Portland have often been experienced by this neighborhood of north and northeast Portland as acts of violence.
 The I-5 development in the early 60s, Memorial Coliseum, the expansion of Emanuel Hospital, basically one piece at a time destroyed what was a thriving African-American commercial neighborhood. There was also urban renewal in the 1960s, removing houses that were deemed blighted, neglect by law enforcement and investors so that black-owned businesses
 residents were unable to actually invest in their own properties. So I moved into this neighborhood and discovered that what I now understand is I was part of the first wave of white gentrification. Black families are leaving and are now busing their children in to attend the Boyce Elliott Grade School from out in the numbers. So what is being done to...
 keep diversity, to keep this neighborhood a place where people like myself or people who have been there longer than I have, who can't compete economically with the development that is actually happening all around us.
 And just to bring it back to the particular parcels of land, they currently contain a low-income housing complex, which, as John Ross pointed out, are good neighbors, and a single-family home that is a rental property. And that woman who lives in that house has already been given her eviction notice. They're planning on selling the property. The low-income housing is going to go away.
 I would love to see more low-income housing in my neighborhood, and I really would prefer not to have a seven-story high-rise condo at the end of my block. There's going to be one across the street. They're in the process of building it. But in that transition phase, it would be nice if it just stepped down a little before you got to the one-story houses like the one I live in. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor, a couple questions.
 So this is currently R25. It was previously recommended for CM2, and now we're moving to CM3. Did I get that right? That's my understanding, but I'm not good at this planning talk. So the current owner of that affordable housing development is PCRI? Yes.
 But you said that the affordable housing was going to go away. Are you saying that's their intent to sell it? My understanding is they intend to sell the property and put in, at this point, I believe it's four stories. And then the CM3 would allow them to take it as high as seven if there are certain conditions. All right, that was my confusion because earlier testimony stated that PCRI doesn't intend to build to the full size.
 height allowance of CM3, so I was just wondering who was lobbying for CM3 versus CM2, but I guess we'll find out from the Planning Bureau. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to all of you. My name is Mel Hafsus. My partner and I own a property over in southeast Portland, 1135 Southeast 80th Avenue in Montevilla, Mount Tabor.
 and what we have is a business residential zone residential right now. It's a grocery store small neighborhood grocery store that has been in existence since the early 1920s. It has been operating as a grocery store from that time to even today and what
 we have is something of an incredible part of our neighborhood. We have recently realized some of the words that have been thrown around are relic, Mayberry, fictional community, and even the statement inevitable forces that are at work. As you see, we have been there for 22 years plus. I am no longer 45 years old.
 I am no longer completely healthy, and the word gentrification had no meaning to me until it was perhaps on my doorstep. And I realized that, well, perhaps what would be the best thing, not for necessarily us, but for our neighborhood, because we not only work in our neighborhood, but a block away we have a home, what would be best for our neighborhood?
 And we have asked that, and we have perhaps come to the realization that maybe it is time for us to move into another direction, but what we have is such a gift to the neighborhood that maybe we need to make it something that somebody really wants to hold on to. And I think what that would be is maybe not Mayberry. Okay.
 but perhaps something with a little different classification that would allow a person to carry it to the next step. And we feel that we have been given a gift and being able to stay there for 24 years, but perhaps it is time. But I think with a different zoning...
 opportunity to perhaps take it to the next level is something that we need to give thought to and I would appreciate consideration and in our 22 years I just want to say thank you city of Portland for allowing us to experience what we've experienced. The planning commission and all the information and the help that they've been. I thank you all it's been a delight. Just to clarify, what's your zone now and what do you want it to be?
 Pardon me? What is your zoning now, and what would you like it to be? It is R5. And what would you like it to be? Well, it's my understanding, according to Marty, that it's a RC, I believe, or commercial residential. So what's that? We have that now. We have a house on the property along with a separate...
 So you're happy with whatever the Planning Commission said it should be. Is that correct? Well, unsure, but I think what needs to happen is some kind of a definite something so that we know what we can do and what we can't do. Got it. Thank you very much. Yes. Thank you again. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Christopher Rosing.
 I would like to express my objection to the rezoning of 9131 North Lombard to commercial mixed use. This is change number 1848. I own and live in the 110-year-old bungalow across the street at 9130 North Lombard, and I have for 10 years. The City and Portland Bureau of Transportation Actions have already nearly turned the entire block into a commercial enterprise.
 My neighbor to the left has already zoned commercial mixed use and has had part of his property confiscated to expand a turn so the semis coming from Rivergate could pass through easier. This reduced his two lots into one, and as he cannot sell his individual lots anymore under city ordinance because they are now too small, he can only sell it to developers at any current market price. Right now, he offers affordable rental housing, but not for long. My neighbor to the right is an apartment complex full of renters who are unlikely to complain to City Hall about zoning differences.
 Now the city proposes to rezone the house across the street, which also has as its neighbor an apartment complex, which for 10 years I've seen no one except ethnic minorities and single mothers live in. And between that and the rent law proposals, it seems the city proposes to make it safer for single homeowners to Airbnb rather than rent rooms, while simultaneously sacrificing affordable Section 8 and affordable housing to developers one building at a time, reflecting on what she said earlier. Okay.
 So this looks like a back room zoning done from behind a desk with little input and insufficient thought given to the residents of the area. I propose the city rejects the rezoning of 9131 North Lombard or at least rezones my property so that I can sell it after you've turned my entire block into the property of corporations and I'm surrounded by antiseptic concrete and glass commercial ventures with an incessant stream of semi-trucks going by because no one will want to live there.
 Additional note, since I have time, according to the Mixed-Use Urban Center designation of the Comprehensive Plan, the proposed zoning change for number 1848, development will be pedestrian-oriented with a strong emphasis on design and street-level activity.
 However, thanks to the actions of PBOT, which I believe was over the objections of the St. John's Neighborhood Association, this particular corner is a major thoroughfare for commercial truck traffic from Rivergate, averaging now several hundred semis an hour during business hours. It's one of the least safe intersections in the city for pedestrians. So the definition of the zoning proposal and the actions of PBOT seem to be in direct contradiction to one another, which is further evidence of the lack of foresight and study in this proposal."
 The main point is the block is a mess. This zoning doesn't make any sense, and I'd like the council to consider it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you. Carla, by my count, we're down to the last 10. Is that correct? Yes. Okay, very good. Thank you. Next three are Miles Sisk, Barry Smith, and Silas Beebe, and they'll be followed by Eric Ovala, Stu Smucker, and Sam Noble. Good afternoon. Would you like to kick us off, please?
 Sure. Thanks. So my name is Miles, and I'm speaking on 1717 and 1800, the changes around the Hollywood region, and I am in support of keeping those at RH 4.1.
 For disclosure, I also manage Felicia Williams' campaign for Council Seat 3, just so that's aware, although I'm not going to be speaking on anything related to that today. So I wanted to talk a little bit more about density in that region. As it was mentioned before by a previous testimony, Hollywood is a major transit section in this city, and this is quite frankly exactly the type of place in the city where we should be building higher density housing.
 But more specifically, I wanted to speak on my concerns about the constant defense of single-family housing in the city. Now, here's my major concern. You on Portland City Council, you're making decisions now that we're going to be living with here in Portland for maybe the next 40, 50, 60 years. And that's why I come here is there's a very good chance that I'll be here in 40, 50, 60 years from now.
 And one of the major concerns I see with single-family housing in Portland in general is I view it as being dynasty housing. We're not going to stop seeing growth in Portland. People are not going to stop moving here. It's not just economic factors. It's not just Portlandia. It's not big, evil developers. It's climate change.
 People are being driven to the region. California is a tinderbox. We're not in a bubble. It's not going to pop. Things are only going to keep getting more and more expensive. And I have to ask myself in 40 years, all these single-family housing units that we're fighting to defend, what are they going to look like? Who is going to live in them? Right now, I'm only seeing it being one of two types.
 People that come from out of the city that can afford million-dollar bungalows in North Portland in 20 or 30 years since the demand is just going to keep driving things up if we don't meet it with supply. Or the families of the people who currently own this housing. There's not room for anybody new. There's not room for anybody young. Okay.
 So I just wanted to express my concern in general with that concept, especially in areas like Hollywood, which are major transit-oriented places where we should have higher density housing.
 That's really all I have to say. Awesome. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon, sir. Hi. My name is Barry Smith. I'm an architect here in Portland, and I work with a lot of home builders, small developers, and property owners in this space outside Central City and outside some of the plan districts. We've been auditing the 2035 plan and the subsequent changes to the mixed-use zone and the residential zone. And what we've been finding is that...
 When we start adding the modeling that is helping protect neighborhoods from these higher density areas of development, we're not able to capture all of the floor area ratio that's available. We're barely getting to the base zone floor area ratio. And in the mixed use areas, the bonuses all come from inclusionary housing.
 I submitted testimony to the Planning Commission to look at some areas of the cities where we might use some of the tools in the 2035 plans and overlay zones, like urban corridors and urban centers, like Hollywood, Gleason between 60th and the Gateway District, Stark. I submitted one for 82nd from Woodstock to the southern boundary of the city. And I think we need to revisit the entire Southwest Community Plan again. I think it's really hurt our...
 a lot of efforts on that side of town. This is probably my request is a city planner for employment act. I support the refinement that's going through, but I think we're going to need to continue to revisit our neighborhoods and start adding tools so we can get things like greater building heights where it's appropriate to capture that space
 that we can deliver as affordable we by the way are one of the first three projects we have a project on 54th and woodstock which was one of the first three projects in the first round of inclusionary housing approvals and my clients went through quite a gambit and the poor folks at the housing bureau went through quite an ordeal trying to figure out what to do and i think it might be
 Good for the council to reach out to some of the people that have gotten inclusionary housing approved and are under construction to ask them how to make the process go faster, smoother. A lot of people are trying to avoid doing this. I think it's the future, particularly when it's tied to bonus densities, where it may not be tied anywhere else, and we ought to figure out a way to capture it.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Good afternoon. Howdy. I'm Silas Beebe. I'm here to testify about property number 1728, which is 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road. I'm a fifth-generation Portlander. I spent most of my 44 years here in this neighborhood and seen it gone through extensive redevelopment. My family has worked hard to maintain the livability of our beloved neighborhood, city, and region.
 myself and dozens of my neighbors who have also testified, urge you to retain the buffer designation for the lot or at least provide some sort of amendment, additional overlay protection or conservation easement or something to maintain the protection it offers the many adjacent homes.
 The site serves as the sole and minimal buffer between homes with many families and children and the air and noise pollution of heavy industry and the highway that are already so close. Removing the buffer overlay allows most kinds of industrial work outside and inside manufacturing, rail yards, diesel repair, warehousing, chemical treatments, etc.
 and reduces setbacks down to zero feet from the back of a residential lot and five feet from the side of a lot. And there's a lot of homes right there that would be directly affected if they had manufacturing or industry zero feet from the back of their lot with families. The specific site and the neighborhood in general have a long history of landslides and some homes nearby are already condemned because of slides up there on Thurman.
 There are three small streams running through the site that increase the likelihood of slides and make development more difficult. The city's own Northwest Hills Natural Areas Protection Plan cites the environmental and energy benefits of maintaining the natural habitat on this site.
 and notes the sighting of many bird and mammal species. And neighbors, like myself, can attest to frequent sightings of animals in this forested strip. You see deer, coyotes, skunk, raccoons, pileated woodpeckers, flickers, bald eagles, owls, many more. And the Northwest Hills is
 Natural Areas Protection Plan, I could read a couple of excerpts from that. The environmental consequences section says resource protection of this area would result in positive consequences. These consequences include protection of site as groundwater recharge area, protection of habitat for native wildlife and habitat interspersion with the Balch Creek area,
 ecosystem, protection of forest and watershed resource values, including clean water, air pollution, and microclimate amelioration. It's also resource protection result in positive consequences for energy. Reduction in industrial and residential energy consumption for heating and cooling systems, transportation, or infrastructure use would result in energy savings. And those were direct quotes from the city's own natural areas protection plan. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. Are Ross Cornelius, Doug Capps, and Eric Ovala. And they'll be followed by Stu Smucker, Sam Noble, and Ted Everhart. Greetings. Welcome. Thank you. So, Mayor and members of the Council, I'm Doug Capps, member at Trinity Episcopal Cathedral. Thank you.
 member of a parking study committee which started this whole process for us that brought us to where we are now. With me is Ross Cornelius. John Spencer is in the audience available to answer any questions. We're here on number 1821 of the map revision project and our study or report. Trinity is located at Northwest 19th between Davis and Everett. Its main Cathedral is and
 and it has a half-block surface parking lot on Northwest 19th on the east side of 19th. That particular parcel is zoned high-density residential today. We need increased parking capacity to accommodate Trinity's growth. So the commercial zoning that would occur in this process will help make it possible to provide and expand services to our membership. Thank you.
 to the neighborhood around us, and to the community at large. We're contemplating a mixed-use commercial development with structured parking. I want to mention that we've been in communication with NWDA, the planning committee of Northwest District Association, on this proposed change. We're committed to a collaborative process with the neighborhood to assure that whatever our development –
 plans turn out to be they will meet the needs of the community and i also want to mention that we support another request that you heard about earlier of an adjacent property only owner doherty dental their property is adjacent to this parking lot they have parking we share the parking today back and forth them to ours during the week ours to them on the weekend and evenings
 and we support that in the event that it will help facilitate a possible joint development with the dental office since we are contemplating medical offices in the mixed-use project that we're looking at. And with that, I was going to turn it over to Ross just to add a couple of things, too. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, Commissioners. I'm Ross Cornelius, a member of Trinity for over 30 years now,
 I've been working with Doug and a number of the parishioners to try to figure out our parking challenges and how we do that on the currently zoned RH lot across the street. It's been difficult to figure out how to add parking and get the housing built at the same time. I've spent my whole career just about in housing development and affordable housing development, and I'm very keen to that issue.
 The benefit of the zone change that we're proposing on the half block across the street is that we're currently parked on two other lots that Trinity owns to the west and to the south that are quarter blocks that are also zoned RH. And those are jammed parking on Sunday mornings. The whole neighborhood down there is very full.
 of parking. And being able to put the parking that we're accommodating on all these different surface lots over into one spot frees up those other lots for future development. And so we're sort of on a phased approach here. We've got to solve our parking needs first, but it does allow the opportunity to contemplate further development on Trinity's other sites, which we're very excited about.
 And Commissioner Fish had mentioned the synergy between the churches and religious institutions in the city and the potential of development. We've heard a lot from our parishioners, particularly elderly parishioners, the need to want and desire to live close. Trinity is a...
 kind of a cultural center as well as a religious institution. And many people who have been there for a long time want to live closer and participate in the rich arts and music and food programs that we have. So this would allow us to our first step towards, hopefully, as a second step providing housing for them, as well as potentially for some of the employees of Trinity. So I'm unclear. It's presently zoned RH-RH.
 And you're asking it to be rezoned to what? To CM3 on the half block across from the cathedral. Great. Thank you both. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is Eric Oyella. And you heard from Dean and Gina Vanderbush earlier today.
 I'm here to support them in their request for zoning change for this block in West Portland Park subdivision. It's in the Crestwood neighborhood, I believe. And my mother owns a lot nearby or on the same block of...
 And there are a total of seven properties there. Five of them have been built on. These two lots are vacant currently. But with the current zoning being R10, Dean Vanderbush was requesting that it be changed to R7. This would allow these two properties to be built on. This would benefit infill...
 housing. These properties are close to I-5, so they're lower cost. So it's going to be very conducive for first-time homebuyers. And originally, this property that my mother owns was buildable. Back in early 1980s, my father purchased it. He was intending to build a house on it.
 And he actually did go in for a permit, though because of the recession that came about, he did not pull that permit. And then late 80s, my father passed away, and my mother's been trying to sell that property ever since then without success. We have an offer on it currently, but it will not sell unless it's developable.
 And under the rules that evidently were brought about in the early 1990s, that is not possible because of those rule changes. And so we're requesting that this zoning be changed to R7. And as I said, none of these properties meet the R10 requirements.
 square footages that this is zoned currently. And the properties range from I think the smallest being 5,000 square feet. My mother is 92 years old. She doesn't speak English very well, so I'm testifying on her behalf as well. It would
 greatly benefit her. She's been paying taxes on these for all these years. It's been a financial drain, quite frankly, for her. It would benefit her. She does not have a huge income. She's on a fixed income. This would greatly benefit her. Could you give me the address of the property again, please? The address? 10810 Southwest 55th.
 And is this north or south of the freeway? It's west of the freeway in that location. Or I guess it's northwest of the freeway. And it's in the Crestwood neighborhood? Yes. And have you been to talk to them? Have you talked to the neighborhood association? I have not. This came about quite recently, actually. We understood that... So there's not a... What is it? A change request currently...
 listed for this. And it sounds like this is an area, it's not just a single lot like we heard about previously. There's several lots that are all in the same problem? Well, there's a total of seven lots on this block. Okay. And if, and ours is, my mother's is one and Dean Vanderbush's is the other one. And are those the only two that are affected by this?
 Yeah, they're the only ones that could be developed now as info. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, all three of you. Thank you. Thanks for coming in. Next three. Stu Smucker, Sam Noble, and Tad Everhart. And the last person who will follow them is Christine Martin. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, sir? My name is Stu Smucker.
 As set forth in the recommended draft to the map refinement project, the property located at 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road received more public testimony than any other property affected by the map refinement project.
 In October last year, 27 people weighed in regarding removal of the buffer from that property. The testimony was unanimous. All 27 people opposed removal of the buffer. Not a single person, not even the owner of the property, weighed in supporting removal of the buffer. There are three reasons given on page 21 of the recommended draft of the map refinement project for removing the buffer.
 None of the reasons pertain to specific properties. The overarching rationale appears to be that the buffer needs to be removed for citywide consistency. Thank you.
 This property has unique characteristics. First, it has three streams on it. Second, it has an unusually steep slope and sandy soil, as set forth in expert testimony submitted to the city in 1991. I do not believe that the expert opinions offered 20-plus years ago and the unanimous voices of 27 landowners and residents offered five months ago should be disregarded."
 Some of the people who oppose removal of the buffer have lived in this neighborhood for decades. In light of the unanimous opposition to the city's proposal, I submit that the buffer should remain on the St. Helens property. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, mayor commissioners. My name is Sam Noble. Uh, I live in the Mount Tabor neighborhood. I read it about 62nd and Stark, and I'm here to talk about two properties, uh, under consideration in this proposal. Uh, the first is at five 11 Southeast 60th, which is at the intersection of Southeast 60th and Stark. It's, uh, to the West of my house. It's a downhill. Um,
 I understand that the Housing Bureau owns it. So in many ways, I recognize what I'm about to say is mostly for the commissioner in charge of the Housing Bureau, which I believe is you, Mr. Mayor, because I fully support the zone change that the Planning Bureau proposes. I think that the city needs a lot more subsidized housing, and this is a really good place for it. It's entirely possible that a building, a three-story building on this site could affect my view. I'm not really concerned about that.
 What I am concerned about, though, is that in the interior of the Mount Tabor neighborhood, there are very, very, very few, call them kind of four corners kind of things you see through the city. There are very few areas where you have kind of a confluence of little commercial pockets,
 where you could ever have anything that grows into useful commercial services for a neighborhood. And right now, this site, I believe, is used as a daycare by the YMCA. And I think that's great. Those services are very hard to come by. The thing that I'm asking for here is for council or for you, Mr. Mayor, to encourage...
 in the strongest possible way that the housing bureau maintain some kind of service to the neighborhood on the ground floor. Something that keeps the street front active would be fantastic. The current daycare service is great. And then as much housing as you can get above it. But what's important to me is that
 this little commercial area that is two blocks from my house, not wither and die because right now housing is more valuable than commercial services, or just because of the way the mission of the Housing Bureau encourages one particular outcome.
 So the second site I want to talk about is a few blocks from my old house in the Buckman neighborhood. It's 2438 Southeast Main Street. I think you've heard a little bit of other testimony about this site before.
 I lived in the Buckman neighborhood for nine years. I walked up that street by accident several times. This particular site ends in a cul-de-sac, and so it's always a frustrating, memorable experience to be up there because you have to kind of turn around and go back. It's a grossly underdeveloped site with a really weird configuration that doesn't make any sense on a map that says this is a single-family area. So I...
 encourage you to accept the Planning Bureau's proposal or go a little bit further and observe that since the site is mostly empty that it might be appropriate to even zone the whole lot R1. Thank you very much. Thank you for your testimony. Appreciate it. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Councillors. My name is Tad Everhart. I'm here with Peggy Curl. We both live on Southeast 59th Court, and I'm speaking in regards to Map Chain 1662, as Mr. Noble did. We wanted to point out that we own the properties west of your property. We're at the bottom of a steep slope that's approximately two stories high.
 tall uh we welcome redevelopment we think that the school probably is not safe especially for children so we're looking forward to redevelopment and we especially welcome affordable housing it's a great site with schools and good transit so it's going to be an asset we're also appreciative of the fact that the city is the developer with non-profits we hope for much better development than we'd see with a for-profit developer quite frankly
 We're 10 neighbors. We're a pretty close neighborhood around a one block cul-de-sac street. And we're not here in opposition, but we are here with concern. And we've met with the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association a couple of times. They're writing a letter in support, sharing the same concern. And the concerns are twofold. First of all, it is a very steep hillside. And so we're roughly two stories below your site. If you build a very tall building with a
 big mass, we get even less light. It wouldn't be so bad, but to the south of us, we have the same situation. A two-story steep slope with a three-story apartment building. So Portland, we're dark and cloudy most of the year. Light is a precious commodity. We hope that you don't shut off too much of it. And we respect that you have a balancing act here, but please keep us in mind. The other concern that we have, quite frankly, is the intersection. And
 This is probably one of the intersections that you struggle with because it's a confluence of history, where two streets were apparently developed at different times, so they're not aligned. Southeast 69th Court jogs, where
 where intersections start, but it's also at the top of the hill. The result is people racing down the hill or racing up the hill so they don't have to stop. So high speeds, misaligned, no turn lanes at all. People get out in the middle of the intersection, and their life is in their hands, quite frankly. So I don't know if this is an opportunity to use some of your land to try to fix that intersection.
 But I think it's only a matter of time before we have a fatal accident if we haven't already had one there. So our concerns are twofold. Don't make the intersection worse with development that's perhaps too much for the site, but also consider the possibility of using part of your site to realign the streets. Thank you. Very good. And you said there's a letter forthcoming. Is that correct? I'm not sure if I ever seen that.
 but we met with Stephanie Stewart, the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association voted unanimously with one abstention to write a letter of concern sharing our concerns. Great I appreciate that thank you thanks all three of you. Last I think one is that correct? Right, Christine Martin. Last but not least good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Well, Mayor and Commissioners, thank you very much for your time this afternoon. My name is Kristy Martin, and I own a house at 3435 Northwest Vaughan. And some of my neighbors in Willamette Heights have already done a great job talking to you about our concerns. I'm here today to voice my concern that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is proposing to remove all buffer zones.
 This includes a lot at 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road, a buffer that separates the industrial zone from the residential zone of Willamette Heights.
 Please carefully review the history and the features of this property. Because of the three creeks and the steep slope, which can be 25 degrees in some spots, this is a geologically unsustainable hillside that has a long history of landslides. It is vital to allow the vegetation on the property to grow to prevent erosion. This area should remain a conservation overlay. Please make an exception and retain our buffer designation.
 Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. So could we ask our staff to come up? That concludes the formal hearing, and I'll give the formal language in a minute, but I didn't know if there were burning questions that people wanted to have answered today while we have the staff here. May I have a procedural question? Commissioner Fish. So I have a staff person who, along with me, has been keeping a running list of –
 We've had people come up and give us particular tax lots or addresses and been very thoughtful about their issue. And some, for me, I need more information than for others just in terms of follow-up. What's the next step?
 You've been making the list, too. So what do we get next from you that helps us sort this out? Okay. So you do have two staff reports before you or staff memos. So one dated March 8th and one dated March 13th. So there's some more information in the staff reports.
 At some point when there's the close of the public record, I do want to have a consolidated list of all the public testimony that we have received before council. So that's in the works. And so that would be a forthcoming staff memo. As far as specific information regarding tax slots or sites, I think it's going to have to be a conversation that we have between –
 your office and how I can kind of assist, because there are a lot of sites that we're tracking right now, so I just would need to know some specifics. And I may not necessarily cover it in a forthcoming staff memo, so I need to know what sites you're curious about. We could, in a follow-up meeting, just go through our list. That would be great. I will tell you, though, because we've been doing all this comprehensive plan stuff in Central City 2035,
 We find it incredibly helpful to have a recommendation from you as to, you know, in two respects. One is, is this a major or minor thing? Because sometimes some of these strike me as being very technical in nature or correct a problem or correct an inequity. Some of them seem to have a broader policy question. Some actually, you know, had some pushback, so where there's some disagreement in the community.
 So that, you know, sort of taking out the ones that are more technical and, yeah, this is a legacy issue or historical issue and we think it's fine, that's helpful. And then flagging the ones that you think are the bigger policy questions. And, I mean, I put an amendment in on Albertina Kerr, so that's – presumably that's a policy question. And, you know, there's a couple of questions we'll have to ask about that. But I would just say we welcome a little guidance from you. And if there's some things that you want to –
 I won't say take off the table, but essentially say that in a normal proceeding, we consider these consent items, as you have done in other proceedings, Eric. That's helpful to me because if you don't think they're a big deal, then that's helpful. If it is a contested or is out of sequence or raises a policy question, then we're going to ask you to help us understand the underlying question. Okay.
 Does that make sense? Absolutely. So it sounds like we can do a wrap-up memo that has a consolidated list of everything in play, and we can try and sort it the way you just described. Yeah, and the ones that you honestly think are no big deal, I mean, we reserve the right to disagree with you, but when you do that, it's always helpful for us to sort of figure out what's just a technical fix versus what has a bigger implication.
 What we did before the Planning and Sustainability Commission is we did have that kind of technical wrap-up memo. And then working with the commission, we had, and you'll probably recognize the format, but we had our big amendments chart that we started working through. But I think we do have right now the April 4th meeting on the schedule for further deliberation.
 I don't know at this time how much time we have for that meeting, but I definitely would want to work with you and prioritize what we're going to be talking about at that meeting. Yeah, and it sounds like you're going to have to do the round-robin with the offices because I'm sure we'll each individually have lots of questions given the testimony we've had today. Right. Commissioner Saltzman. Is it incumbent upon us at this point to bring forward –
 I mean, issues we've heard that we resonate with, do we need to bring those forward? Yes. Let me give the formal language just so we have that on the record. So we have concluded, obviously, our hearing today on the 2035 Central, the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Map Refinement Project. The oral record is now officially closed. The written record is going to remain open until Friday, March 16th at 5 p.m.,
 I will ask my fellow commissioners to propose any amendments that they may have by March 30th. We'll come back on Wednesday, April 4th, to deliberate and to vote on amendments. So that concludes the formal business portion and puts on the record the dates. We have a time on April 4th.
 It'll now be 2-15. Oh, it's a time certain. Yeah. 2-15, time certain on April 4th, and this will all be noticed. Carla, do we have a duration of time? Do we have an hour or 90 minutes? This is how long council wants to go that afternoon.
 We love this stuff. Is that the only thing on it? There's nothing else, no. So, Meg, could I make a slight suggestion, a note of what you just said? You said that the written record closes Friday, March 16th at 5 p.m. I hope that the staff is not going to start work on it at 5.05 and work all weekend on it. Would it make any difference to you if we make it Monday at 8 o'clock in the morning? No.
 Because lots of people might want to do it over the weekend rather than... We have no preference. Any objections? I think that sounds great. It will give the neighborhood associations an opportunity. I'm sorry, I didn't know. So Commissioner Fritz suggested rather than closing the written record at 5 p.m. on March 16th, since we're not expecting the staff to necessarily work all weekend, let's just keep the record open until Monday. At what time, Commissioner? I said 8, but...
 Because that's the opening of business. I think Joe Zender is nodding there. So that just doesn't – So 8 a.m. That means that the staff doesn't – the time for staff processing doesn't change. Just make very clear we want you to take that weekend off. Great. Okay. So the written record is going to remain open then until Monday, March 19th at 8 a.m. Can I ask one other question, Mayor? Yes. It's directed to Commissioner Fritz because I was paying close attention to some of your questions. Okay.
 I appreciated that you offered the guidance to a number of people to go to the Neighborhood Association and see whether this is a controversial proposal or not. But you also said in a couple of instances you raised the question of whether this had come through the Planning Bureau or was coming directly to us. And I would benefit from just having a preliminary understanding of your view of the significance of that distinction.
 Which is how much vetting has it had by our citizen advisory body? Even with the staff's very well laid out list of amendments, it seems to me without...
 having had time to really look through it, it seems there were at least two or three new requests which you haven't heard before. So certainly I would want to get their opinion on that. And it's not that it has to go through the Planning Commission. Clearly people can come in at the last minute and they just did. It's just where there is a Planning Commission recommendation, I'd like to know what it was.
 If it hasn't been considered, then it's up to us to try to figure that out ourselves. Okay. Thank you. And then on the same line, could I ask a follow-up question? Will you then notice any request that is new today? Because you had mentioned that you tell the nearby neighbors. Will you do that for the new request that came in? Typically at this stage we wouldn't because there's not another hearing scheduled, so there wouldn't be an opportunity for further debate. Okay.
 I wonder if once you've done your memo, if you could send it to the neighborhood coalition so that at least they could have the opportunity to look through or something like that. Absolutely, we can do that. And if you'll notice in the staff reports, the way that I organized the tables is I did it alphabetical by neighborhood association just for ease of looking at it at a glance. I did notice that. Thank you. That's very helpful.
 One other thing I want to mention, just because it came up several times, is the topic of religious institutions and housing and how can we coordinate with that dynamic came up. And I just wanted to mention that BPS actually did seek and was awarded a grant from Metro using some construction excise tax dollars to work on a project that will help troubleshoot that issue and figure out if there's some ways we can facilitate that kind of work.
 I wanted to mention also that my questions about have you been to the neighborhood association doesn't mean the neighborhood association has to agree. It's just Commissioner Fish will remember that we – this is a glimpse for our two new colleagues. We spent multiple days of four-hour hearings going through – I mean, imagine doing this all through the city, every single lot, people coming in. We did that. And so to the extent –
 There's been things in the media that says neighbors are opposed to all development, et cetera. What we actually found was a lot of the time neighbors came in and said, absolutely, this fits. And I would imagine that several of the requests that we heard today would get support from the community. As Commissioner Fish said,
 if everybody's fine with the proposal, then that's good information for me to perhaps not worry so much about it. By the way, I still have vivid memories of those hearings, Amanda, because one of the things that stuck out was someone would be at that chair and they'd say, now I'm talking about the property on this corner with the fire hydrant front, and Charlie would say, no, actually that fire hydrant's been moved to the southeast corner, and you'd come in and say, no, and actually you're thinking two blocks down. This is the street that has the dry cleaner on it, and at that point I would like
 My head would explode. Slight exaggeration, colleagues, as is usual for our colleague to the left. The level of detail that you brought was enormously helpful. Thank you. All right, anything else? Last words? Very good. Oh, I just have one more thing. I wanted to thank everyone that came to testify today because it was a really pleasant...
 and very informative and I just appreciate how thoughtful everyone was and I didn't hear anyone really kind of advocating strictly for their own benefit. There was just a lot of recognition of community benefit and need for affordable housing and...
 It's just really appreciated. So thank you. Glad you're starting to catch the planning bug. I think it would be helpful for all of us, certainly for me, is if you could give us a memo about the buffer zone. What are we losing? What are we getting? Is it really an even exchange or not? Absolutely. And I've already flagged that as something that we'll probably want to talk about at our April 4th deliberation as well. Yeah. If you could get that to us ahead of time, I certainly appreciate being able to read it. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you, everybody. We're adjourned. Thank you.
 Indeed.