Everyone, thank you all for being here. This is the Wednesday, March 11th morning session of the Portland City Council. It's great to have you all here. Keelan, if you could please call the roll. Fritz, Hardesty. Here. Udaly, Wheeler. Here. And now we'll hear from legal counsel on the exciting rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping keep your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. First up is communications. Number 194, request of Trish Baker to address council regarding proposal to name a park or building after Commissioner Fish. Good morning. Thank you for being here. And the microphones slide around, so if you want to bring it a little closer, about six inches seems to work the best for everybody. Good morning, Mayor Ted Wheeler and fellow commissioners. My name is Trish Baker. I am here this morning to make a request as a private citizen. As you all are aware, we lost our beloved Commissioner Nick Fish back in January. He contributes so much to our community that I feel we should dedicate his memory by naming a building or park after him. Also, it would be nice to have an award that would be designated for an individual or group whose ideals and attributes best reflected Nick Fish to be given during the Spirit of Portland Awards ceremony. I hope you will give my idea a lot of consideration. Thank you for allowing me this opportunity to speak. Thank you, Ms. Baker, for being here today, and thanks for expressing your sense of urgency to honor our late colleague. And thank you for remembering him. We miss him dearly. I also want you to know that Patricia and his entire family, they are open to ideas and considering ideas, and we'll certainly pass this along to them as well. And we appreciate it. Thank you very much. We're taking our lead from the family. Thank you. I'll pass this along. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty had a comment as well. So, Ms. Baker, I just want to reaffirm we had the pleasure of meeting a little earlier this morning. Yes. I told you we look scarier than we really are, right? And I was right, right? We didn't. No, not at all. Thank you for making me feel comfortable. I appreciate your support. You are very welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Number 195, request of Chas Bridge-Green-Johnson to address counsel regarding Black Lives Matter, especially during this time. Beware the Ides of March and filing to be elected closed yesterday, March 10th, 2020. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. Madam President of the Council, Joanne Hardesty, Mayor Ted, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning. When I wrote down my communications requests, it's always important in this city, maybe the whitest major city in America, to advocate for the Black Lives Matter message. Since I signed up, our brilliant Portland Police Department has gone through the courts again. And when racists and neo-Nazis come to town to protest, what does Chief Jamie Resch's brilliant police department do? They arrest women of color who are dancing in a manner that distracts the police. So all you brilliant elected officials, not just here in the city council, but also including thankfully departing DA Rod Underhill, racially waste taxpayers' money and taxpayers' time having a jury trial of a woman of color dancing in a way that distracts and or offends the Portland police. So obviously this issue is best focused on Mayor Ted Wheeler because he is also functioning as the police commissioner. It's a jury trial so our brilliant DA Rod Underhill, thankfully, hopefully we'll have a winner in the May primary election. Mike Schmidt or another excellent candidate will be the one to replace our lame duck district attorney. And we'll see a DA who does not waste the public's time protecting police from twerkers. I think the Willamette Week has found Joe Biden's campaign slogan, live cheap or die trying. That's pretty much the message that the Democratic Party is saying, that it's a group of oligarchic elites that... I think that if we can just roll back to when Joe Biden was vice president under Obama and everything progressive was being stifled by Mitch McConnell, that we'll have made progress. Ending the Trump administration is in no way progress. Different candidates talk about what they'll do on day one. Only Chloe and Ted of those of you who are here are running for reelection. So I look forward to hearing more about your day one plans. Joe Biden has not even made it clear if on day one the only thing he will do is establish a blue ribbon commission to determine which child can be uncaged until the commission determines if any other children should be uncaged. So November is looking bleak. May is looking better. We have some awesome candidate issues going forward here. We're going to be talking soon about funding the public elections funding. So I thank you for making some little light shine here in Portland. Thank you. 186 request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding hospital security to stop calling police with demands that they arrest people in mental health crisis. Good morning, Sarah. I am really scared right now. We come clear on the second part. So if I could have a little, maybe an extra minute so I could speak a little slower. Because my vocal cord that's doing it is really bad. That's fine, Sarah. No problem. Take your time. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs. Well, the city may not have control over hospital security staff. You do have control over the police who are often called to arrest people in mental health crisis. They list those unwanted on hospital property. Case employed is the case that you center this past November. Commissioner, I heard a CEO and I talked at eggs recently. I am not without. about Mercy, about the difficult situations the staff is facing at Unity. But this was the case that man was an obvious mental health crisis. And from what I ascertained, he was kicked out for solely in distress, kicking the furniture. It left him handcuffed, unproperly dressed for the weather on the loading dock. Thankfully, a Portland police surgeon pushed back, refused to arrest him. A hospital psychiatrist came out, agreed with the police surgeon, took him back in for care. A report from Disability Rights Oregon showed that in 2017 to 2018, 142 arrests at the request of hospital security staff for unwanted. 72% of people deemed unwanted or homeless, 35% of the 142 arrested were people of color. I am often told when I am at the psychosis due to my PTSD to go to the emergency room. I live only two blocks away from Good Samaritan and that was because of my fear of the medical staff. Because of medical care, I get there second to none. bit on the receiving end of aggressive behavior by the security staff. One time I went into the emergency room and I as a patient de-escalated a person in a mental health crisis while hospital security just stood there and glared and left once I the person de-escalated. I am scared that I would become one of those 142. Mayor Wheeler as police commissioner I am asking that you start taking a stand that you will not allow Portland police to be used to do hospital security's dirty work. Thank you, Sarah, and thank you for acknowledging that the police officer at Unity did the right thing. And I'm very proud of that decision. I know a lot of police officers who did the right thing, and they're trying to get it spammed. So, again, I'm not without mercy. It's what the staff is facing. My gratitude is with what I have personally experienced. We are reading and... Thank you, sir, for coming in. You have friends here and we appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. I want to also thank you, sir, for coming in and for your very powerful testimony. I think you raise a bigger issue, which is we have security that are trained outside of. of a first responder system and they don't answer to us the public, they answer to a private employer. And I have found that whether it's on TriMet, whether it's at OHSU, private security are trained to do inappropriate things in my opinion. And because we don't have oversight over them, we have to figure out how to hold them to a higher standard and make them report to us about the kind of incidents that you've described. This is becoming more and more prevalent, and I'm just amazed at how often I find out that private security of just, well, that's the way we were trained. Well, who trained you that way, right? Yep, yep. And clearly they need more de-escalation training. Clearly they need more accountability and standards in place. So I just want you to know that I hear you and I see this, and I see it through a lot of systems, and our mental health system is just one of them. Okay. I was a patient in that ER de-escalating somebody else in the waiting room. And security at the Good Sam ER was just glaring. And once I got that patient de-escalated, they walked out. Thank you, sir. Thank you. 197, request of Alex Wilson to address counsel regarding decriminalized nature of Portland. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Ted Wheeler, Commissioner Hardesty, Fritz, Chloe. My name is Alex Wilson. I come on behalf of people, plants, animals, and fungi. I'm a canvasser and organizer for Decriminalize Nature, who is currently working to decriminalize entheogens for the City of Portland. These medicines are so powerful that it moved a then 19-year-old to overcome his depression, his anxiety, to drive across the country, and to join a coalition of activists that you see behind me, working to fight for our rights to use these medicines. If you've ever had teenagers, you may know how hard it is to get them to be motivated. My mom would say it was a miracle, but in the year that I've been working on this campaign, I've met thousands of people who have shared similar healing stories. and many of them are here with us today. Antigens have been used for thousands of years by indigenous people of North and South America. Persecution for using them is nothing new. It dates back to the conquistadors, who would disrupt their mushroom ceremonies and their mescaline cactus ceremonies. They would slaughter innocent men, women, and children. Every day, we live that same trauma when our rituals are forced to be underground because of the threat of persecution and penalty from the law. While the rituals behind these cultures do not, while the rituals behind these cultures belong to those people, the plants and the fungi and the animals belong to all people of Earth. It is our birthright, under cognitive liberty, freedom of speech, to worship how we see fit, to worship how we feel fit. This is an argument for civil rights, for human rights. But let's consider the good things that this will bring. Science has caught up and we now know that entheogens are safer than coffee, that is to say very safe. Johns Hopkins, NYU, Imperial College of London are all universities that have been studying psilocybin mushrooms and they've found conclusive data that says that mushrooms and other psychedelic plants and fungus can help combat PTSD, addiction, depression, cluster headaches, Entheogens have the capacity to transform consciousness, but they require a ceremonial setting and a facilitator to guide the experience often. I'm here to ask that we have a commitment from our city council and from our law enforcement not to enforce or prosecute any users or practitioners of entheogenic medicine. We are in the midst of a mental health crisis and we cannot be ruling out solutions, especially when the solutions are plants that are native to our environments right here in Oregon. Thank you so much. Thank you, appreciate it. Thank you and I have copied down the words I want to research. Entheogens, psilocides and can I ask you one follow-up question? You said something that was interesting. So there's the medicinal effect And then you also talked about the need to have a particular environment. And you mentioned it wasn't a religious environment. You said a ceremonial environment. Could you give me a few more sentences on that? Sure. So... A mushroom ceremony could look like sitting around this campfire with your friends, sitting with mushrooms. It could be having a healer or a practiced shaman administering a dose of mescaline cacti. It could be in any setting, but what's important is that it's treated with reverence and respect for the medicine and that people sit. and experience what they're going through with medicines and what the medicines have to teach. It's important that when we use these medicines, we take time to learn about them and not to be distracted with other things. Often, I think, entheogens and mushrooms have been associated with the party scenes, but they've been used for much longer as ceremonial medicines because they can occasion mystical-type experiences. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you for your testimony. Very welcome. Thank you for hearing me out. Yeah, you bet. You were nervous, weren't you? This is my first time. You did an excellent job. Thank you. Come back. We appreciate your time. I will. We will be back on April 1st. We'll have all four communication slots. We hope to have four people testify, and we hope to make a bigger case. We're going to keep showing up until we get this thing done. Wow. Hell yeah. We'll probably still be here. Good. Thank you. Appreciate it. It's over now. All right. Thank you. You survived. We'll see you at Blue Bus, okay? Yeah, we appreciate your being here. Thank you. Next individual. 198, request of Sheila Mason to address council regarding St. John's Welcomes the Village Coalition. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Good morning. I'm Sheila Mason for the record. I'm here as part of the St. John's Welcomes the Village Coalition, a growing group of now more than 420 neighbors supporting the transitional tiny home village by the Joint Office of Homeless Services and Do Good Multnomah on the property of the St. John's Christian Church. In 2017, I had a home in Kenton and got involved with the Kenton Women's Village Pilot Project, part of the Kenton Neighborhood Associations. Like some neighbors in St. John's, I was also initially opposed to the Kenton project for all of the reasons that you regularly hear and was very vocal about it. There was a point early in the project discussions where we were working through a draft of a good neighbor agreement, a document that at that time was quickly shaping into a rule book where one type of neighbor was getting to define how another type of neighbor was going to be able to exist in the community. At that point, I took a pause. What would I say if, as a woman living alone in my home, a group of well-meaning neighbors came to my door with such an agreement, stating that, out of concerns for everyone's safety, I wasn't allowed to have male guests over after dark? It was absurd and wrong, and I realized I had to look at the problem differently. House neighbors are far from perfect, and privilege is invisible to those of us who have it. I started doing some basic research and was humbled to find how incredibly disconnected I was at the time to what was happening with the state of wages, housing options, and support, not only in my Portland community, but in many cities across the U.S. I decided then to commit myself to actions and solutions in this space, which is what brings me here today. I believe that many small, well executed community supportive solutions like the transitional tiny home village plan for St. John's and others are one way to make a measurable impact in our housing crisis right now. I'm grateful to be regularly welcomed into the Hazelnut Grove community and to have been voted onto their board. I see the residents both current and past as leaders and change agents in their own right. and that they, along with groups like Dignity Village, Right to Dream 2, and others, have helped pave the way to show what solutions can be possible. Villages have been proven to work. I am also continually amazed with how kind, compassionate, and inclusive my neighbors are. They say really lovely things like, we need to do better for our neighbors in need, and I want my child to live in a community who cares for its most vulnerable. And everyone deserves a home and everyone deserves to be welcomed and loved. We are the St. John's Welcomes the Village Coalition. We will continue to grow in support of this transitional tiny home village in our community as the project breaks ground and is built. We are behind the Joint Office of Homeless Services, Dugud Multnomah, the St. John's Christian Church, and appreciate your continued support. We are ready to engage, volunteer, and welcome this village. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. So relieved. Thank you. I just want to tell you how much I appreciate the evolution of your thinking. It's easy to just take a stand and just believe that you are absolutely right. Yeah. It is rare for people to publicly say, this is where I started, and I'm absolutely on the other side now. I want to applaud you. Thank you. When you knew better, you did better. We can't expect anything else from our neighbors. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, and thanks for acknowledging that Kenton Women's Village was a tremendous success. Yes. I think it far exceeded even the leading proponents' expectations of what would be accomplished there. Absolutely. It really was terrific. I remember asking at the point, like, what we thought the pilot, what would define a successful pilot. And at the time, the pilot program was planned to be about a year or 18 months. And they thought that they would be wildly successful if we housed seven women during the pilot period. And I believe during the pilot period, they housed more than 20. So. So more than three times what was expected. And I think that was a big surprise to all of us. And, yeah. I'd just like to add how important this story is. My office worked with the Kenton community and the Kenton village in that kind of development phase. I was there the night the Neighborhood Association took the vote. It was really tense. I had no idea which way it would go. Mm-hmm. And I believe it was about 75% for the village. And the second vote, a year later, I think, was unanimous. People in St. John's, there are people in St. John's who are opposing the village out of fear. And stories like yours are just absolutely essential. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. Caitlin, has any item been pulled off the consent agenda? No. We've had a request for two items to be pulled, 203 and 204. Very good. Could you please call the consent? Fritz? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item is 199. Amen the FY 2019-20 budget to include appropriations for funds to support the open and accountable elections fund given the unanticipated cost related to the special election. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm going to take a moment of personal privilege to say good morning to my parents-in-law at Cherrywood Village and all the other seniors who are self-isolating because of the coronavirus. We may have even more people watching us today because I don't know if there's all that much competition for daytime television. So thank you very much to everybody who's here and thank you to everybody who's taking care of people in retirement homes and in our community. With that said, I am excited to welcome Director Susan Motte, who's going to tell us this latest item in the Open and Accountable Elections Programme. Last week, the Council authorized the director of the Open and Accountable Elections Program to change the match cap for special elections if available funds were not sufficient to cover the potential full cost of the election. I should just backtrack because there may be some new people watching. Open and Accountable Elections is a matching program where candidates... who are running for City of Portland offices, have to raise a certain number of small donations. They agree to cap their donations, and if they raise enough donations from enough people, they can qualify for the Open and Accountable Elections Fund, which we established in 2016 and which Director Mote has been getting going for the last year. and done an amazing job of it. So now we're at the, all of the other rules have been in place for a while, modified with my colleagues' assistance as need be. And for the regular elections, the elections for seat one, seat four, and the mayor's office, there is sufficient funds in the election fund to cover the expenses. And we're just absolutely delighted how many candidates are using the program. for the special election, which of course is tragic that we are even having to talk about it. We haven't had enough time in the program to date to be able to build a fund to look for unforeseen circumstances, so there isn't enough money to cover for special elections. And yet we still wanted to make sure that people running for Commissioner Fisher's seat would have the opportunity to use this innovative new program. and so that's why we're here today. I'm here to ask you to allocate $750,000 from contingency to the program to ensure that there are adequate funds to cover potential matching funds needed for the special elections. Mae cael cyfres arbennig yn y cyfres cyntaf yn y flwyddyn hwn yn fwy heriol na phryd yn ei fod yn ei fod. Mae Susan Murtagh, Daniel Lukau a'r cyngorion arbennig wedi gwneud gwaith anhygoel o reoli'r her anhygoel hon a chadw costau yn ein hysbysiadau. Bydd y Cyngor yn allu 750,000 o gyfnodolwyr, bydd y Cyfarwyddwr Moté yn gallu seilio cap cyd-dynol sy'n gyffredinol, a fydd yn galluogi ymddiriedolwyr i wneud cynllun da yn trafod adnoddau'r ddinas. Felly eto, mae'n ymwneud â seilio anghenion, cymorth a chyfrifoldebau. Mae'n rhaglen gwirioneddol, mae'r ymddiriedolwyr ddim yn rhaid i'w ddefnyddio, ond mae'n amlwg yn agor opsiwns i bobl sy'n gallu gwneud cyllid cymorth fel y mae'n ei angen i'w wneud ar draws y dinas. Os ydych chi angen llai na 750,000, byddwn yn cael cael cyfnod i'r arian gyda'r arian gyffredinol, er bod yn glir, gyda'r nifer o gyfansoddau sydd wedi cael eu cymryd, yn ogystal â'r rhai sy'n cael eu cymryd, mae'n anodd y bydd hynny'n digwydd. Ond rwy'n gwneud y cymhwysoedd hwnnw. Rwy'n mynd i fynd yn ôl i'r Cyfarwyddwr i ddweud a oes gennych chi unrhyw sylwadau? Nid oes gen i unrhyw beth i'w ychwanegu, ond rwy'n ar gael am gwestiynau. Rwy'n hoffi gwneud un sylw, Prifysgol Fritz. Yn amlwg, byddwn i'n rhywbeth yn ddiddordeb i ymdrech i mewn i sgwrs am arian ar gyfer cychwynion yn seilfa lle rwy'n gweithio ar gyfer y cychwyn. Mae ddau ffactor o ddiffidio ydw i. Rwy'n hoffi bod yn ymddiriedol iawn am y cwestiwn. Yn un peth, er mwyn i gael y arian allan o'r drws ar gyfer y cychwyn, mae'n ei angen i'r pob un ohonom fod yn bresennol ac i'r pob un ohonom yn gwneud yn ystod y cychwyn. Nifr ddwy, dyma am swydd nad ydw i'n ei rhedeg ar gyfer. Felly roeddwn i eisiau bod yn glir iawn a chael y ddau pwyntiau hynny ar y record. Diolch, Fyrdd. Rwy'n gwybod bod Comisiynydd UDAILY wedi cymhwyso'r cwmenni. I fod yn glir, rydym wedi cyhoeddi'r arwain sy'n cael eu rhedeg. Felly, dyma gyfle arbennig ar gyfer arwain arbennig. Nid yw unrhyw un o'r bobl ar y Cyngor yn cael eu haeddu gan y rhaid hon. A byddaf yn cymryd rhan mewn y rhaglen Cyfrifon a Chyfrifon, ond nid yw hyn yn effeithio ar fy nôl mewn unrhyw ffordd. Felly rwy'n hapus i'w cefnogi. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Diolch yn fawr. Rwy'n hapus i chi roi'r cyfrif ar y rhaglen oherwydd roeddwn i'n bwysig o wneud yn siŵr bod yn defnyddiol i'r Elysiad Genedlaethol. Felly rwy'n hapus i glywed os yw'r arian wedi'i gadael, bydd yn cael ei adnabod i'r Ffin Genedlaethol. Rwy'n credu mai dyna'r peth cywir i'w wneud oherwydd nad ydym yn cynnig Elysiad Genedlaethol. Rwy'n hoffi ymgymryd â chi a'ch tîm. because you haven't missed a beat. It just absolutely fascinates me how quickly and effectively this program was up and running. And then we threw another wrinkle, which was a special election, and you still haven't broke a sweat. I don't know how you do it, but my hat's off to you. And I am very happy to support this program. I think it has already changed how people run for office in the city of Portland. And I look forward to seeing what's next. Thank you. Let me just ask you some questions, Susan, some leading questions. How many candidates do we have participating in the program altogether? In the special election, there are 19 candidates, and 13 filed a notice of intent to participate. Okay. And how many in the other races? In the other races, there are 37 candidates, 10 filed a notice of intent to participate, and 8 were certified. In the special election, 5 have already been certified. So you have 13 already qualified, certified rather. How many staff do you have? I have one full-time staff, and I have six temporary election aides. I have a question too. Yes. A leading question. So in an age when everybody is watching election apps with tremendous interest, how's your technology working? Our technology is working beautifully. It's also, we think, cutting edge. We don't believe there's any government that provides real-time campaign finance data in a publicly digestible manner in the nation. And if anyone goes to openelectionsportland.org, they can see a map of the city and where contributions are coming to candidates mapped across the city and charts that shows how much of their funding is from mega donors, large donors, small donors, and really micro donors. And if they're coming from people, entities, what percentage are coming from people, entities, political committees, immediate family, self-funding. Yeah, that was a shameless plug on my part. As a government enterprise, we're here, we're functioning well, and our technology is working just fine. Thank you. Commissioner French. Well, particularly when it was funded for a very small amount with the volunteers at the Civic Software Foundation and the technology staff and the oversight committee voiced concern about it, and yet they did deliver it on time, and it works. And so I think it's important to remember that with technology, community input and with a lot of good work on behalf of city staff, government can get good things done in a very short time. Very good. Public testimony. How many people do we have signed up? We have two people signed up. Very good. Call them up. Let's hear them. I apologize if I mispronounce this first name. Leilani and then Charles Bridge Crane Johnson. Very good. Come on up. Morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Karma. I think this is an absolute disaster. Thank you. You know, from my position, when I look at the candidates, I look at your potential to raise money within the private sector, not take it from within the city that should go to more important services such as COVID-19 preparedness plan. Wrong time, wrong time to move money. And in my opinion... we very well may see a cancellation of the elections because of COVID-19. And I think people around the world are starting to take this serious. No mass gatherings. We don't need to be having these elections when we're doing preparedness planning. We don't wanna interrupt the leaders currently in position. I want the election canceled till further notified by the public health officials. Period. I don't want any money transferred right now to this. I wanted to go to COVID-19, the most important issue we have in this city. This is wrong. This is wrong timing. You're taking money that could go back to COVID-19 preparedness. Absolutely disagree with this. Disagree with how many people are gonna be accessing this money. Disagree with how this is handled. And again, to you Commissioner Fritz, when you leave, Because of me, it'll be a badge of honor that I will wear. Outrageous, outrageous that you are not taking COVID-19 more seriously and you will be removed from your seats for acting in the manner that you have up to this point. Follow Italy, follow China, follow South Korea, follow Seattle, follow San Francisco, take it serious. that people's health is number one first, not the economy. No more mass gatherings. Not the economy first. The people's health first. And if you don't like it, exclude me for saying that, Commissioner Fritz. You are not a health professional. Look at the disaster at Unity. You failed miserably on that. For you to even speak about people's health is a disgrace. I will wear it as a badge of honor when you exit for good. Thank you so much for my time. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Madam President, Council, Hardesty, Commissioner Nurse Fritz, and Commissioner Chloe Udailey. I will also say that when we're talking about allocating money, I am deeply concerned about how the poorest people in our community are going to access hygiene services. This morning I was visiting an SRO where the management had distributed a letter, but people who are on low income or people who are actually sleeping outside. Could you stick to the current? Sorry, Mike? Did I not say Charles Bridge, Trey Johnson? No, but the issue is about opening up to the public. Exactly. So this money, I am in favor of it. If we would just get more money out to help support people with COVID. This is a great, not Mayor Ted so much moment, but a Mayor Mike moment, actually. Outside the special election, we have two Mikes running for mayor, Mike Callahan and Mike Jenkins. But in the special election, it's good to know that we are a flexible enough city to get the funding out to cover that amazingly large pool of 19 people, even if they're not all qualifying for the public financing. So I thank the council for getting that money in order, and I hope we can additionally do something for all the people who are in transition projects and in tents and under bridges. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any further discussion of Commissioner Hurst? Thank you. Charles, I just want to tell you that... Every single day we are upping our responses to ensure the safety of our most vulnerable people on the street. I don't want you to even think for a second that we're not... very concerned and being very proactive because we also read newspapers and we actually read health reports and we talk to the health department on a daily basis so help us dispel that myth that the City Council is somehow sitting on their hands and just waiting to see what's gonna happen that's not who we are okay excuse me excuse me you guys heard the rules up front we all agree Mimi, you're in violation of the council rules, and if you cannot stop, we're going to ask you to leave. Mimi, welcome back. Are we back on? I see nothing but a blue screen. Closer. Closer. We're getting there. We're back in session. Okay, we're back in session. We don't have the right pictures, but we'll solve that in a minute. Okay. While I never support people disrupting our democratic process or taking the microphone away from other people who have a right to those microphones as well, this is an important issue. There's a lot of misinformation out there, and I think it is important that I address some of these issues. So I want to give you the latest information. information. But before I do that, I also want to tell you what my role is and what the city's role is in this process. Because a state of emergency has been declared around COVID-19, what happens is the city then becomes part of what's called an ICS structure, an incident command system structure. And this would be the case if we had an earthquake, if we had a weather event, if we had some sort of a manmade situation, we would go into an ICS command mode. The reason for that is to make sure that every jurisdiction understands what they are doing and communicating effectively and getting the right information and the same information at the same time, and then able to communicate to the public consistent messages based on the most recent information. So this is not an opportunity for entrepreneurship, bird dogging, grabbing the microphone and talking about what we think is happening. In this case, COVID-19 is a public health threat and therefore the leadership is coming in this order from the Oregon Health Authority and the governor at the top of the food chain. Next comes county governments because county governments under state law are given the authority for public health. Here in our county, in the metro area, we have chosen to have a tri-county health officer, that's Dr. Vines. We, at the local level, have the Office of Emergency Management and our first responders, some of whom are here in the room. They connect into this ICS structure through the county. In fact, right now at 10 o'clock is the time they all meet. They've been meeting regularly. They've been having calls. I have personally been engaged. I spoke to the governor just this morning to get the latest from her perspective. It's a fast evolving situation. Here's what we know right now. Now, the Oregon Health Authority yesterday announced the first presumptive case of COVID-19 in Multnomah County residents. And it happens that cases are counted by county of residence, not necessarily where somebody is hospitalized. The new case brings Oregon's total to 15 cases in seven counties. The Multnomah County Communicable Disease Team is working to identify and isolate anyone who may have been in close contact with this individual in the last 14 days. The person is being treated at Portland Veterans Affairs Medical Center. The individual has no known contact with a confirmed case. The individual has not traveled. So the case is being investigated as a community-acquired case. Here's what we're doing. Portland is coordinating directly with Multnomah County Public Health in an unprecedented collaboration to respond specifically to COVID-19, including embedding several city staff members at the county emergency operations center, which is live. Portland's emergency coordination center is at partial activation as of this morning to support the city's response to this incident. A city coordination team has been established and is meeting daily to ensure a consistent structured approach to our response. City leaders have been meeting with labor leaders internally to ensure questions are being answered and that our employees are in the best situation possible to continue operations during this emergency. We're encouraging city employees at higher risk of severe illness to telework if their job allows and stay home if they have any symptoms consistent with COVID-19. We're encouraging city boroughs to limit large gatherings that could pose a risk for transmitting COVID-19. We're placing seven portable toilets and hand washing stations in the community, details will be forthcoming. We're following public health advice to look out for the people who are most vulnerable to complications from COVID-19. That is, according to health authorities, anyone who is 60 or older with a serious health condition, including lung or heart problems, kidney disease, diabetes, or anyone who has a suppressed immune system. Anyone who is vulnerable should follow the Federal Center for Disease Control and Prevention current recommendations, which are to stay home as much as possible, avoid gatherings. Public health is telling us to expect more cases as testing becomes more available and the results come in. Clackamas and Washington counties and the state of Oregon have now all declared a state of emergency to help support the public response. With regard to the homeless population. The homeless population is a highly vulnerable population. Even younger individuals who are homeless are at greater risk of having or contracting COVID-19 because they tend to be a population with coexisting health conditions. All of the shelter, well first of all the winter emergency shelters are going to remain open regardless of weather. Within all of our shelters they are following specific protocols to keep people at appropriate distance so that they do not come into contact with each other or at least minimize the risk of COVID-19. Those within the shelters who are highly at risk to COVID-19. So older individuals, people who have pre-existing health conditions will be moved out of the shelters and into motels and other locations for their health, their health, safety and protection and the protection of others. This situation will change on a daily basis. if not hourly basis going forward. The unified source of information, place where people can go for information, is the Multnomah County website. It is being regularly updated based on information received from public health authorities. So that is the best information that I have right now. Mayor? Mayor? I just want to add a couple things. I just want to confirm, first of all, that PBOT issued the permits today for the seven hand-washing stations and seven portable toilets with hand-washing stations. They'll be distributed in 14 locations across the city. I spoke to Senator Wyden this weekend about a bill that he and Senator Merkley crafted and passed in the Senate. It's an $8.4 billion bill. aid bill to help combat the virus. Thank you. And I think I'm forgetting something, but I'll leave it there. Well, Nurse Fritz just reminded me, I forgot part of the talking points. Wash your hands, this is from the CDC. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth from unwashed hands. Cover your mouth and nose when you cough or sneeze. Stay home if you feel ill and stay informed. You can go to Multnomah County. You can go to the Oregon Health Authority has a specific COVID-19 fact page, which is being updated daily at the federal level. The Center for Disease Control also has a COVID-19 web page. Or read any publication or listen to any radio because this is all anybody is talking about. So thank you for your patience and your forbearance. Commissioner Fritz. I remembered the last thing that I wanted to say. Commissioner Gailey, then Commissioner Fritz. One is that I'm supporting a moratorium on evictions during this crisis. I am pursuing the possibility of a rent freeze during this crisis. And I want to note that Italy just told the whole country that mortgage payments will be suspended during the outbreak. So while I'm deeply concerned about public health, I'm also incredibly concerned about the economic impact. to our local economy and especially to residents who can't sustain the loss of a single paycheck. Yeah, good. Commissioner Fritz. And on behalf of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, I need to state that no particular ethnicity or race is more susceptible to COVID-19 than another. We have been experiencing increased instances of hate crimes against certain populations folks here in Portland and that is utterly unfounded and just bear in mind that there's well everybody's vulnerable there are people who are more vulnerable than others and it's up to those of us who do not consider ourselves vulnerable to take these precautions as well so that we protect everybody else and also that we be mindful of being especially kind to each other in this particularly challenging time. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you so much. I agree with everything that my colleagues said. I really appreciate the mayor just making time to have this conversation because, quite frankly, this is a topic that's on everybody's mind. And I want to remind folks that first responders are taking additional precautions because one of the first cases where there's a presumptive positive are with AMR workers. Right. And so we just don't know what we don't know yet. And I also want to caution on any kind of rent freezes or things like that because, I mean, we have restaurants who can't stay open because they can't pay their workers. So we have small businesses that will close down. We have mortgage payments. And so as a council, we've had no conversation about limiting, trying to mandate anything yet. So I don't want people getting... out of control about what we will do and won't do. I think we have to look at the whole picture and who's being impacted most severely and come up with the best policies that we can. I appreciate that we're starting to have the conversation, but I want to be clear. I've made no decisions about any kind of policy decisions as of yet because, as the mayor says, this is changing by the moment, by the hour, by the day. Very good. Thank you all. Thank you. Hopefully that's helpful. Call the roll on 199, please. Friends, so obviously we do have an all-hands-on-deck on this issue and also on open and accountable elections. And first of all, thank you very much to Director Susan Matei and Daniel Lukio, her assistant director, for their outstanding work on this project. I'm really excited how it's going and how many candidates are using it, that the candidates are using it appropriately. And with this funding, and I thank each one of my colleagues for agreeing to this funding, with this funding we will enable the special election to move forward with the program as well. As a reminder, the open elections program gets about 1.3 million in ongoing funding each year, since there's only an election every two years and there's... A small amount of that money goes for staff time, but there's usually up to a million dollars for each race. So this is a smaller allocation, and there will likely be a lower cap allocation. And it's appropriate to do that given that there's a shorter time frame, so staff and other expenses would be lower for the special election. So I'm very excited to continue taking all of these step-by-step approaches to make sure that this program is successful in its first run-through. Hi. Hi, Asti. New daily. Well, I'm grateful for the work that Commissioner Fritz has done to champion public election financing and the work Director Mote has done to successfully implement open and accountable elections on a compressed timeline. I have been and remain a strong advocate for fully funding this program. I vote aye. Wheeler. I'm sorry we have to take this vote because I wish, frankly, Nick were still here, and I know everybody else does too. That being said... It's very important that we put all of our elections on equal footing with each other. It would not make sense to have the open accountable elections process for some of the offices and not for others. That wouldn't sit well with me or anybody else. So I'm happy to support this. I thank you for bringing it Commissioner Fritz. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item is going to be item number 200, time certain. And before I forget, I didn't mention my social media page. If you can withstand it, we are scrolling regularly updated information on my social media page. So for those of you who are into Twitter, go for it. Item 200. Item 200. Accept North Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy Oversight Committee 2019 Annual Report. Colleagues, this year we celebrate five years of the North and Northeast Housing Strategy. An initiative to address the legacy of displacement in North and Northeast Portland through investments in new affordable rental housing, opportunities for first time home buyers, and retention programs for long time residents. While there have certainly been challenges over the past five years, and this Council has not been shy or reluctant in any way to identify those issues, there have also been many tremendous successes, and we're going to hear about them today in today's report. Excuse me, sir. Commissioner Hardesty. I apologize for interrupting, but this is time certain for 10 a.m., Oh, believe it or not, the clock hasn't been changed. Oh, my bad. I already sent a note to me. We have, like, the world's largest novelty clock, and it's wrong. I know, it's wrong. Yeah, no, it's funny because I sent a text message about 20 minutes ago. You know, it is Wednesday. Any chance we could get the large novelty clock fixed? While there have been many challenges over the past five years, there have also been many successes. Yes. Which we will hear highlighted in today's report. We're also going to hear about a recent study of the preference policy and its impact on well being. Conducted by Dr. Lisa Bates and Dr. Amy Thurber of Portland State University. I want to particularly thank all the members of the North Northeast Housing Oversight Committee for their continued diligence to see that the city delivers on its promises. I'd like to now turn it over to our panel, and first up the panel, as I understand it, Dr. Stephen Holt from the Northeast Oversight Committee Chair, Dr. Lisa Bates, the Northeast Oversight Committee, and a distinguished PSU professor, Leslie Goodloe, who we know from the Portland Housing Bureau. She's our business operations manager. Good morning. Thank you all for being here. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fretz. President of the Council. Hey. Hey. How are you, Commissioner? That's Madam President. Good to see you. Madam President of the Council, Commissioner Hardest, and then Mayor. It's never a dull moment, is it? It is never a dull moment. It is good to be sitting here. It's amazing to think that we are in this space. I remember a few years ago when this discussion happened in early 2014, right? And there was consideration as to how to address a $20 million allocation to be set aside for affordable housing. At that time, the director of the Portland Housing Bureau, Tracy Manning, was considering how they would go about doing this work, and they hired a consultant, and a variety of staff members went to different community-gathered spaces to ask people to get engaged. And I, with a host of peers from the 1145 group, were involved. approached about it and out of that group my peers suggested I participate in what was I think Four was it three three meetings to talk about what this would look like and here we are five years later Still talking about what this could look look like in the time that it takes to Introduce a child into the earth and they're in preschool here. We are looking at what we have accomplished and hopefully and Some of the things that have transpired have deep meaning and great significance. The other thing that was interesting about that process was, as I was considering being involved, the thing I kept hearing over and over again is, don't put your name on that. Don't put your hand on that. Don't get involved in that. You don't want to risk reputation. You don't want to risk your engagement. Because historically, the city's not kept its promises. We've seen this repeated over and over again. We know about the impact. We know about gentrification, displacement. And you probably don't want to put your name on that. And my response was this. We can all be critics forever. We can point at what hasn't happened and we can shout into the darkness. Or we can determine to be different and get involved to try to lift a process, roll up our sleeves and go to work. And so I decided that's what my approach would be and I'm excited to say that after some ups and downs, some ins and outs, and that's what happens with change, that we have an opportunity to talk about what happens when people are willing to go to work and go to work around something meaningful and significant and make sure the promises are made, our promises kept. My attitude about being a critic is this, that don't be a louder critic than you are willing to be an investor to make something different. I don't think you have the right to merely criticize if you're not willing to go to work. And so in light of that, here we are five years later to talk about this incredible work. And so I am grateful for this committee that many who have been involved in a variety of other spaces and places and ways, volunteer and or professionally, have been a part of this group. Dr. Lisa Bates, Dr. T. Allen Bethel, Tristan Dallas, Dr. Karen Edwards, Jillian Suraj, Sheila Holden, Marlon Holmes, Virgie Reese, and Felicia Tripp, who've given great work to this effort. And we're going to do something a little different. I'm going to do my best to not be as verbose as I have in times past. Being a preacher and a professor, I have no shortage of words. What we're going to do today is a little play-by-play, kind of with the assistance of Leslie Goodloe, the business operations manager. She will kind of go through some specifics and particulars, and I will do color commentary where necessary. And then Dr. Bates is going to color commentary. Like a sportscaster. The phraseology from the basketball days says you've got the play-by-play person, then you've got the one who kind of expands and elaborates. So that's kind of our role. Play-by-play would be lessly. I will add a few comments here and there, and then we're going to turn it over and talk about what we found out regarding the preference policy, which has been probably the most challenged issue, but I think some profound insights will go along with it. Ms. Goodlaw. Well, good morning, counsel. I'm going to run through the. Sorry. Yes, sir. I forgot to mention that we started with $20 million and we're now over $90 million in terms of the investment and the work. And I want to thank those who have voted and supported to get us to this space because for every family it matters. So this first slide shows where we have allocated dollars over the four goal areas. And then the second, so that's the top graph is how it's been allocated. And the bottom graph is how the funds have been expended so far. And then we have about just a little over $28 million that has been committed but not expended. And then the remaining dollars are in our Preventing Displacement Home Retention Program. So we've got just over $9 million left in that program. Lots of accomplishments in 2019. one of our multifamily buildings opened, the Magnolia. We had three multifamily rental projects go under start construction. The number of preference policy home purchasers increased from seven in 2018 to 33 in 2019 and then PCRI's first home ownership development project was completed and sold to four preference policy families. shows you where all of the investments are through the North Northeast housing strategy. The blue dots are land banking. So we have two pieces of property that we purchased and are going to use for future development. We have six multifamily rental projects and three home ownership projects that are under development or will soon be. One second. The upper dot on the Cary Boulevard identifies the Kerry Boulevard space that is the opportunity for home ownership so we're super excited about that yes I just have a quick clarifying points if you could there may be people watching this who don't know what the preference policy is could you just give a quick two sentences on what we mean by that the preference policy is a opportunity for people that have been historic residents of Northeast Portland to be moved up on a waiting list so they get they can get three points for their own from them from themselves and three points for their parent grandparent or guardian having lived in Northeast Portland for a total of six points and as people apply they get put onto a list randomized and then um We send those lists over to either our rental projects or to our home ownership partners to help select how people get apartments or houses. Thank you for calling that. So this next slide, preventing displacement, this is our first strategy. We have, as you can see, we have up and down in our list, being assisted between with home loans, but that's because of the amount of time it takes from start to finish. So it takes about 18 months, so that's why you see we do a lot. And then the number, the big number is those that have closed. So they start in one year, they close in the next year, they start in the next year and they close. So that's why that number's up and down. But wait, this is the preventing- Displacement though, right? That's home repair and home repair loans and grants. Okay. And so we've helped a total of 556 homes with home repair grants. A total of 793 grants, so some families have received more than one grant over the course of the five years, and they're eligible to do that. And 128 families have had home repair loans, so for just about 800 households have been assisted with home repair loans and grants. Leslie, could you please connect the dots between home repair loans and anti-displacement? So those dollars are to assist families, mostly seniors, in repairs or upgrades to their homes in order for them to continue to stay in their home. Things like fixing roofs, adding pull-up bars, steps, ramps. doing lead abatement, lead paint abatement in houses. So any variety of things, painting the outside of the house so that their neighbors aren't complaining about what the house looks like. So that's how we're hoping to keep people in their homes. Thank you. I appreciate that. And it's forgivable. Yes. So those loans are forgivable after, I believe, I'm just going to check. 15 years? 15 years. Okay. And do they have to pay it back if they sell the property within that 15 years or? Yes. Yes, they do. Commissioner Eadaly. Thank you, Mayor. I have a question about the loans versus grants and who's been accessing them and how that breaks down by race. I'm getting ready. That's the next slide. Okay, sorry. Great question. So the chart on the left shows the home repair loan households. So the colors are by year. So the first bar is African American or black households. And then the second bar is white households. So generally we are pretty even between black households and white households. And then other racial groups have had less, received fewer home repair loans. And then the grants have gone primarily to African American households. from the beginning since 2015. So you can see that those are the total numbers compiled into one bar. I mean, I guess I'm curious, do a lot of people apply for loans and can't qualify for that? Like, how do you determine if someone's going to go for a loan or a grant? And do you feel like the allocation of dollars for each program is... So the loan program is managed through the Bureau. Yeah. And people, there are requirements, so they can't have a reverse mortgage. So there are some criteria that would prevent people from getting a home repair loan. The grants are managed through our community partners, and those are for smaller dollar amounts. A loan can go up to $40,000. The grants are somewhere between $5,000 and $10,000. And we are in the process of evaluating whether or not we should increase the grant amount to, to allow for more significant repairs with the grants so someone can get their roof done, they could get their house painted, they can replace furnaces, those kinds of things with grants. Okay. And I will add that the Oversight Committee is absolutely advocating for a greater dollar amount in the granting programming so that we can help more families that then won't have an economic impact that lasts. Our goal is not only to help people stay in their homes, but then not to give them more burden while they do that. And I'll just say I definitely support that. I think this reflects. perhaps reflects the challenge we had early on with the home ownership program is that if we're trying to remedy past harm to people who have been denied economic opportunity and have their housing, you know, their community taken away and their housing torn down, we can't then present them with a program that requires them to meet the qualifications that an average house will. Yeah, the same standards that we use everywhere else. Yeah. And so similarly, I mean, I'm just, I'm very interested in delivering remedies and I don't, I would want to see, I would support more money going to grants for that reason. Thank you. Yeah. Okay, the next slide is strategy two for creating new homeowners. And the bar graph shows out of, so we separate, we are currently separating out by funding source, which pot of money people are paid, their down payment assistance is paid out of. We will be bringing forward a recommendation to the oversight committee at their May meeting to... change the goal and to just collapse all of these into one we'll still track it on the back so that we have one uh goal of um how many home home buyers we are trying to reach by 2022 so we have 17 that have purchased through our north northeast interstate tiff dollars we have um and this was as of december 31st this is not through right now And then you can see the rest. I mean, you can see the slides. And then we've had five families that have been able to purchase a home. They came through the preference policy. They received home ownership counseling, and they were able to buy a house or receive a house without any subsidy from the city. So we're very happy that even though they don't get any money, that people are benefiting from the service that we're providing. Are these all new homes that people are buying, or can they use the programs by existing homes? Most of these are market rate in the market in the interstate URA, except for the CET dollars. Those were for construction excise tax dollars. I know I'm trying not to use acronyms. Well done. People could use those anywhere in the city, and that was for current stock. Thank you. Do you happen to know if any of the homeowners were descendants of any of the people who lost their homes in the eminent domain action the city took on behalf of Manual Hospital? I don't know that, but I can find that information out. I'd love to know that. Okay. Thank you. So a couple things that I wanted you to know that as of today we have 25 North Northeast DPALs, five Prosper purchasers, nine from our construction excise tax, and six without any subsidy. We have 82 homeownership units under development, 35 two-bedroom units, and 47 three-bedroom units. And 30 of those are at 35% to 61% of AMI. 30 will be at 61% to 80% of AMI. And 22 will be at 81% to 100% of AMI. And AMI is? Very good median income. Thank you. Same effort. Exactly. So strategy three is creating rental homes. We have three projects that are scheduled to be completed in June or July of this year. And Magnolia II opened up, and it is currently leasing. At the time we wrote this report, they were about 60% leaseable. Some highlights of our creating rental homes. We have exceeded the goal. We had a goal of 380 units, and we're at 501 for the housing strategy and the dollars that were allocated. Fifty-two percent of the units are going to be family size, which was another one of the goals from the oversight committee and the information we received through the forums. We're going to be able to house approximately 1,254 people. And we're going to be able to serve very low-income families through a combination of Section 8 vouchers and PSH, permanent supportive housing. We have 80 project-based Section 8 units, 17 PSH units, and 67 units at 30% AMI. Additionally, we have 51 units at 50% and 380 units at 60%. Of the 501, there are 57 studios, 182 one bedrooms, 189 two bedrooms, and 73 bedrooms. Strategy four is land banking. As I noted earlier, we have two pieces of property currently that we are hoping to develop in the next few years. We purchased the Strong Family property on Alberta and Williams, and that came before council in August, I believe. And then we also purchased the Cary Boulevard property from the Water Bureau and Prosper's Board approved moving that into the URA. So we'll be able to use tax increment financing to develop that property. And that one is going to be for home ownership. The next slides are around our DMWESB participation. This is for home repair. You can see both the racial breakdown and then the percentage of time. And I'm sorry, I don't have my reading glasses on. Okay. I know that feeling. One is grants and one is loans, I'm sorry. So that is the percentage of participation by race and ethnicity in our home repair grant and loan program. Excuse me, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. This is the first time that Slavic shows up as a group as I've gone through the forms that you have. And so I'm just curious... this because the other charts that you show as you break down the demographics, this was the very first chart that actually started listing out the Slavic community as an individual ethnic group. And so I'm just curious if we didn't do it on like the front end when you talk about, The breakdown with other categories that you've charted, I was just curious when that category started showing up and then how you've been tracking it since then. Because I was thinking, was it in the white category before, and then somebody said, no, we need a separate category? That's a great question. I can't answer that question, but we'll make sure we can get you an answer for that. I just noticed it popped up, and I was like, oh, where did that come from? Okay. Thank you. That's a good question. The next slide is for our rental construction participation, both the number of hours and then the diversity. So by group, so WBE, MBE, so the percentage of work that they're getting, and then the actual race, ethnicity breakdown of that workforce. So if I could stop you for just a moment before you move. This is one that really fascinates me. I noticed that with the minority contractors, 58% are non-certified. And so that's always a question in this chamber around certified versus non-certified. First, is there a demographic breakdown of the non-certified? Who are these 58% of the contractors that got the bulk of the contract dollars? Should we learn something from this experience that we haven't actually institutionalized at the City of Portland prior to this program? Those are the questions that come up when I see this. Because as you may be surprised to know, we have a hard time finding minority contractors at the City of Portland. And so it would be very interesting to find out much more details about how this happened, how this worked, and how do we duplicate it in other city efforts. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Friis. Well, that's when I'm reminded by Commissioner Hardesty that the late Harold, Harold Williams Senior refused to become certified. He just said, look at me. And so I Again, I would be interested in, of those non-certified, how many may be minority or disadvantaged people but choose not to get certified. And I would hope that the information we learn would help to then give us strategies around some of the barriers that impact the certification process. Well, we already know that only 20% of minority contractors are certified by the state of Oregon because it is a very – cumbersome process. Yes, it is. And the fact that we focus so much of our energy on that 20% of workers just makes me a little batty. So I'm fascinated when someone has found a way to actually hire minority contractors now and actually get the money as compared to certifications. Well, I appreciate your comments, having been a small business owner who's had to go through the process of certifications. I'll just echo some of the interest and concerns expressed by my colleagues. I am interested in barriers, any barriers that you may have identified that we could work on. to the MWESB issue. And Dr. Holt, you laughed when I mentioned my friend Harold. Of course, I meant Harold Williams, not Harold Washington. I'm sure Harold Washington had the same experience. I'm sure he did. Right. Sorry. That's funny, but I can't. All right, the next slide is, speaks to our policy goal around the preference policy. We did two rounds of the preference policy in 2019. One for 5020 North Interstate, which you're gonna be hearing about in a little bit. That's a home ownership condo development that we had 651 applicants that claimed point preference, 115 applicants claimed eminent domain preference, and 80 percent identified as a race or ethnicity other than white and then for the magnolia two round we had 717 applicants that claimed point preference 73 claimed eminent domain preference and 73 percent identified as race or ethnicity other than white and um over the many rounds of the preference policy up until the one we just did, we had 3,417 unduplicated applicants for the preference policy. So we've had quite a few people apply. And now I'm going to turn this over to Dr. Bates to talk about the study that was done by Portland State. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. So myself and Dr. Ami Thurber, who's here with us today, were the investigators of this work that we conducted last summer with folks who moved into the first three buildings through the preference policy and the North Northeast strategy. And Dr. Thurber, really, I want to make sure to credit her for – her work to develop this framework that we use around individual and community well-being and we also work with some graduate students from the school of social work in our work to survey interview and do focus groups with folks living in those buildings so there's the two on MLK and then another building over on interstate we have talked so much about process of the preference policy, and I think this is the first time that we've been able to, because significant numbers of people moved into these buildings, and we've been really able to talk with people about their experience. And we wanted to try to speak with them about why they chose this opportunity, what it meant to them, and what their experiences were as they, in some cases, moved back into the neighborhood or moved into more stable, affordable housing in the neighborhood. And we wanted to try to provide this information to the city, to the oversight committee, and also to help think about what other kinds of programming or resources might be important as part of the strategy moving forward. So we spoke with folks about their experiences and also their ideas about what they might like to see in their buildings and in their communities. So our first big area of finding is that, indeed, the preference policy is meeting the people it was intended to serve. So it is, as Leslie described, there's a... not impossibly complicated, but there's some process around determining people's point ranking in the preference policy. And so we wanted to find out first, is this actually really housing the folks who have that deep and intergenerational connection in Northeast Portland? And it is. The large majority of people have lived most of their life in northeast Portland. Again, some have more recently moved away from the community. And we found folks had been scattered throughout Portland, up into far north Portland, into east Portland, but also into some suburbs who have moved back because of the policy that the – The large majority of the preference policy residents are black, reflecting the history of the neighborhood. Again, it's not a racial policy. It's a place-based policy. And we know that this was a place that was segregated and had the majority of black folks living in Portland in Northeast. The majority are women-headed households. And in this round, at least... About half do not have children living in the home, half do. These are two of the buildings don't really have many family size units. And so I think that may be a difference as we go forward with some of the buildings that have more bedroom size units. Commissioner Hersky has a question. Dr. Bates, did you know if recruitment was based on the size? So you got certain people applying because they knew that they didn't have kids at home, so they needed a smaller unit. So, you know what I mean, when the recruitment was happening, was it a broad-based recruitment or was it very narrowly focused? It's very broad-based recruitment onto the preference policy list. But then the sort of complication, I think, where we've had a lot of our conversation is in the lease-up, where then the actual specific units, incomes, and people have to get matched up. really on the ground right and so moving from that very long list of people who are waiting potentially to who actually gets into the units is how long does that wait how long does that wait from the time we recruit to the last person on the list actually gets into a place well it depends on the round so we just did a round just closed it and we're in the process of verifying points but for That was for the three buildings that are not going to be open until June or July. Okay. But people, as soon as we've had verified points, folks will be referred over to the property management companies, and they'll start screening people and lining people up for units that they'll be able to move in once the buildings are completed. So some cases it's going to be three or four months. In other cases it wasn't as long. Thank you. You ready for the next slide? Sure. Okay. Secondly, one of our main findings and theme is that place really does matter. The concept of the preference policy is that North and Northeast Portland is important to people and that there needed to be an opportunity for people to continue to live there. And we also know that many people need affordable housing. What we found is that 80% of the folks that we surveyed said that their connection to the neighborhood was their primary motivation in applying for this opportunity. So place was really an important component of their prioritization. At the same time, they also did believe this was their best chance for moving from a waitlist into housing because of the preference policy. Knowing that they would have an opportunity to potentially be prioritized on a waitlist was also an important finding for them, an important factor for their application. Okay. At the same time, being convenient to work or school wasn't really a primary motivation. It was really a broader sense of connection to the history of the neighborhood and the community. So 91% said the history of the important map. history of the neighborhood mattered to them. When we spoke to people in interviews and focus groups, there was a lot of conversation about what it meant to be where you're familiar, where you know people, still having friends and family nearby, even with the amount of displacement that there's been, still feeling like this is a sense of home and familiarity. I know how to be here and how to get around from here. And The vast majority, over 85%, still said they feel like they belong in the neighborhood, even with the changes that they've seen. So that debate, I'm fascinated by this particular part of your survey because as I was reading it, I was thinking, and I wonder where those people shop. And I wonder what their favorite restaurants are in their neighborhood. And I wonder if there are cultural norm places that are gathering spots. So on one hand, when I think about how wonderful to be able to afford to live in a neighborhood that you have a 30 plus year history. but we don't live in our place, right? We have to engage in a broader community. So what's the experience once you walk out that affordable door into restaurants that may or may not be welcoming and may or may not have what you consider your cultural norms. Did people talk about that? Yes, so that was part of our framework as well and if we go forward we'll see some of those tensions. It is I would say it's an experience in which one, people are, you know, overwhelmingly relieved by their housing situation, and they feel very connected to the neighborhood, and they feel a sense of like, yeah, I am here, and I belong here. And also, there are some tensions and challenges around the things that you described. On the positive side, in terms of improvements to well-being, and keeping in mind that that there are a substantial number of people who are moving back to Northeast from neighborhoods where they may have not felt as comfortable, welcomed, or have the infrastructure in place that we, the physical infrastructure and social infrastructure that does exist or is more accessible from Northeast Portland. that people, many people are saying they've increased their participation in art and cultural events, for example. I think we talked to a number of people like very soon after Good in the Hood, and so that was a reference point of like it's just up the street to be able to go to that festival and have that access. About half of people are spending time volunteering, and a quarter of those folks said they have increased their engagement in that way since moving in. And about half say that getting to work in school is more convenient. Although that wasn't a major motivating factor, they were having more convenience. And again, the transit options, the walkability, clearly better than for folks who were living in the eastern part part of the city and East County. That piques my interest as transportation commissioner. There was a recent Harvard study on upward mobility that found that commute time was the single biggest determinant of a family's ability to lift themselves up out of poverty. And when I saw that stat, was it 80% didn't identify... getting to work and school about 50% no no the previous oh sorry convenience to work or school was not a primary factor but 50% have had improvement I'd be interested if we could some other time drill down into that a little bit more I'm wondering if people have just become so acclimated to having to have unreasonable commutes that um That's why it wasn't indicated, but then they move and realize it has an impact. Anyhow. Dr. Bates, could I ask just a couple? Yes, of course. I'm sorry that we're interrupting. That's a sign that we're really interested in this subject. You have more questions than my students will this afternoon. All right. It's the last day of class. They might surprise you. You never know. First of all, maybe I'm just stating the obvious. You went to individuals who already have been engaged in this policy, and they voluntarily submitted this information. What was your response rate? Oh, so in our survey, it was, I'm kind of like, it was quite high. We surveyed most of the people who are housed through the preference policy in each building. And then also interviewed probably about 35 people across the buildings. Great. And the reason I raise that is there's some things obviously we would not ask and housing authorities would not ask as people are seeking the housing. And I just wanted to clarify that this is a post-housing survey where people voluntarily chose to participate. I wanted to make that crystal clear, particularly the racial data. In our world and the university, we take great care to protect the confidentiality and anonymity of folks who participate in our research. This research is actually resourced from Portland State University. It is not by the Housing Bureau. So we're not reporting on people in any way to the city of Portland or any housing provider. and that's a conversation we have very clearly with everyone as we survey and have interviews and focus groups and i will say that the the conversations that we had i think were quite frank about their experiences in the buildings with providers with management as well as in the community at large so we're sharing here more this kind of high level experiences that people are having and thinking about the neighborhood and how it it relates to the policy and strategy at large. But we will be continuing to share out more information, again, in an anonymized sort of aggregated way to providers, and then also coming back around to community again to talk with them about... what we heard from them. So we have shared that building by building with everyone who participated in the research, was able to see what the results were, and then we'll have a larger community gathering once this time of community gathering may resume. Very good. And my second question is related to, and maybe you'll talk about this, in which case I'll stop, but the level of knowledge that people had about the preference policy, where did they learn about it? Do we have a sense of that? Yeah. I don't off the top have, I know we asked about that, but I don't off the top have a good response to that. Um, I think there were a lot of avenues that people were finding out about the policy that they talked about. Um, a lot of folks sort of through, through personal networks, um, like heard about it and then sought out the information. But that's something that I can come back around with. Thanks so much. I appreciate it. I'll just make one more comment, and that is that I share Commissioner Hardesty's interest and concern about kind of the larger – cultural fabric around those residences. Let's go to the next slide. We'll go to the next slide. Cool. Yes. And whether, yeah, okay. Yes, because... I'm going to stop talking now. I might have to say something else. This place and community matter a lot to folks, and they speak about their connection and feeling that they should be in the community and also reported mixed experiences, feelings, and some risks to their well-being living in the community as it has changed so dramatically. Fewer than half of the people felt that if they wanted to find a good job in the neighborhood that that would be possible for them. Some folks are still quite precariously housed. They are very cost burdened, even living in a regulated unit, and they were worried about their ability to kind of hang on even again in a subsidized regulated unit. And is that at 80% of MFI or AMI? Most of the units are 60%. Wow. Or lower. Most of those interviewed, to your point, Commissioner Hardesty, described a need for more low-cost stores and amenities. So groceries, absolutely. Restaurants, both in terms of cost and also in terms of a feeling of welcoming and inclusion. And while about 70% agree that people of different backgrounds get along in the community, over a third agree. did say there was a lot of prejudice in the neighborhood and about a third had experienced discrimination in area businesses. So people are having some challenges. We had conversations around conflicts with neighbors, for example, around parking cars. And that may happen in many contexts where there are multi-family buildings being built, but here there is an additional kind of layer around race and class. that is, may create additional tensions. I have, well, I'm just fascinated by this because I think that we can learn a lot by whether or not we are... really helping people be grounded in a community that they love or whether we are actually isolating people from the ability to fully experience a community regardless of what community it may be and so as you were talking I'm thinking about we talked about like restaurants walking in the door and I always all people of color know, walking in the door of a restaurant and sitting down and knowing that you're not going to get served, right? Or it's going to be a very long... process or people look at you weird when you walk in. I am very interested in more data around just how people are experiencing being in a community that is a hundred times different than the community they were raised in and grew up in, and the cultural markers no longer exist. And so what's our job as a city to develop a community in places where people were shocked to find out people of color and people who spoke different languages actually were now living all around them? What's our role in making sure that we're not just isolating people in places that they are barely holding on financially? And then there's no cultural resources that are there for their benefit. Yeah. I think that's a great point and I don't want to interrupt. I want to add two things that what you highlight is the conversation I had with our prior mayor when we began this process, that it's more than just building spaces. It's also community development. And how do we put in some processes to address acclimating those who have no idea or value of the history? and why this would even matter. They don't care. They're paying market rate. They've built their businesses, et cetera. What do we do beyond just sticks and bricks? And so the challenge for me is that our committee has its charge, and you do the work of what the charge is. But within that, how do we then try to take advantage of the other opportunities? Now, I'll add one other piece, that it's not just helping people move back. It's also how do we help people in space and in place where they find themselves in these new communities that have transitioned. So this is only one part. It's only one piece. It's only one element, but it's a valuable element and a valuable piece and a significant one as we're talking about. But the nuances are incredible. And I'd love for us to spend some time thinking through how do we influence really developing healthy community and and not just spaces, but how do we approach this whole thing. I'll just briefly finish by saying I'm the new liaison to Venture Portland. So I'm going to be much more involved in conversations with the small business community. I'm particularly interested in how the city can create a better kind of avenue for small businesses to give us feedback on how our work is impacting them. I'm interested in how we can help. protect our legacy businesses, especially culturally specific minority-owned businesses in North Northeast Portland, and then how we can support an expansion of those, not just businesses, cultural centers, and other amenities that people want to see. Because even though the African-American demographics in North Northeast have flipped historically, we still have a significant population there relative to the central city, right? So it's not like people are returning to a community where the black community was entirely erased. There's something to build on, and any way I can participate in that conversation and support, I'm really interested. Well, I think our... You know, our question at the end of this phase of the research, and we do intend to repeat this process with the new buildings that are coming on in the summer to continue to build this knowledge. The space that we landed on was asking exactly this set of questions. We have a housing strategy. What if we had a community strategy? What would that look like? The residents of the buildings... already have articulated a number of their own ideas, both for themselves, for people living in the building with them, but also in the way that they might integrate and connect with people in the community, with talking about community history and the things they would like to see around them. And so I think as we move forward and continuing those conversations in the community, we'll be able to surface... those kinds of ideas for community development programming. And I do think the question is, where do those go in the space if we don't really have a community development function at the city of Portland? We do. It's called Classical Portland today. Yeah, an economic development function. But more around the civic, cultural, and community building space, how do we create that space Through, I think, a range of partnerships of community-based organizations, philanthropy, the city, et cetera. Social acclimation. We help people learn how to live together. Right. Right. It has to be about more than, more than just housing. And we recognize that in many ways and next steps would be to find out what, what could that look like? Um, and how can that be resourced? And I guess, is that part of your process? Is that part of your next step or is that part of somebody else's next step? Um, I think we're, we see ourselves as partners in that next step. Um, it's certainly in terms of convening, um, in community. So I presented this in a longer format to the last oversight committee meeting. Again, we're planning... on a community forum where we can share this out with everyone but also have lots of generative conversation around what folks are interested in seeing now it's six months later so they probably have different experiences and ideas at this point if you get the date nailed down I'd love to participate absolutely but it's on my calendar if I don't know two months ahead of time chances are really hard so Absolutely. Well, I would say, Commissioner, it would be excellent to have that conversation and think about how we craft something that really looks at how communities get developed. I don't know that it exists. from a holistic standpoint, but it would be fantastic. The conversations that this oversight committee has had have been very much along the lines of everything you've articulated, and the limitation is we have what we have. We have to deal within the confines of the structure of the work that we've been charged with. So it would be awesome to think about how we can do city and do city. So the last two slides are yours. This last two slides. You know what? I'm going to speak from my heart. Danger, danger, danger. What you illustrate is some of the opportunity and some of the accomplishment and the challenge around this work. It has been five years of rolling our sleeves up and doing our best to make sure that city partners, that nonprofit partners and others do business differently. This hasn't been done before. This is the very first of its kind. And I think we've accomplished some significant things. And at the same time, we have significant challenges that remain. Some that are beyond our scope and some that are within our realm. And I'm going to go out on a limb here. And the limb I'm going to go out on is what impacts me around this reality. I'm native to the city of Portland, and I happen to be and have been for a few years now a 6'3 black man. And in every environment I go into, I'm a 6'3 black man. Before I'm Dr. Holt, before I'm professor, before I'm pastor, before I'm influencer, before I'm consultant, before I'm a 6'3 black man. I know the impact of being in these spaces. I also have been a recipient of Section 8 and so forth, and I know the dynamic of living as somebody who's looked down upon, who needs assistance to get up. The value of this work and the significance of this work and the opportunity of this work cannot be underestimated. We have an obligation to do something meaningful in this city and it's going to take all of us to do it. We celebrate what we've accomplished, but by no means is this the summit. By no means do we stand here and say we've arrived. We've done some good things for some good people. We've got a lot more to do. I always say it. I'll say it again. It is time to make sure that the promise is made, our promise is kept. Thank you very much. Beautiful. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Friends, thank you. Thank you for the partnership with the Housing Bureau, the community, Portland State University, Dr. Bates. I have one request when you do the report next year. On page 1, it says it's part of the history and the charge of the Charter. In March 2014, Mayor Charlie Hales, with the support of Housing Commissioner Dan Saltzman, dedicated an additional $20 million in tax increment financing dollars from the Interstate Urban Renewal District to affordable housing to begin to address the ongoing threat of displacement and gentrification. So next year, would you add, and the support of Shadow Housing Commissioner Nick Fish? Yes. I, under Mayor Hales' administration, I, there were basically three housing commissioners. There were three people who cared so passionately about this. So when this was presented to me, I was like, that sounds good. I also, so that's just, it's important to give that credit. Yes. Um. Agreed. And I, I think your words at the end, uh, Dr. Holt, um, Commissioner Fish would echo those as well. Yeah. Promises, uh, made need to be, promises kept. Um. Last year when we had this presentation, I think there were a lot of comments to the extent of, is that all? Or what's next? What's more? This year, it's clear that you've stuck with the program, you've run the course, you've continued doing the good work, you've modified it in response to the good research that Dr. Bates has done to produce even better results. and it's really working. And so it was fascinating to get the demographics or the information about the number of families, people returning who still have friends and family in the neighborhood. There's so much work to be done, and yet you are making really, really good progress. So congratulations and thank you. Bye. Hardesty. I think Commissioner Fitch was talking about me. I do want to say when I first heard about this policy, I had some colorful words because in my mind, if we were not centering race to address racially discriminatory policy, how could we possibly actually serve the people we say we are going to serve? It is clear that the preference policy has centered African American experience and the interstate urban renewal area and has prioritized those individuals coming back. It is easy for me to say when I was wrong, I was wrong. We are starting to have an impact on a small number of people who have 30 plus years of lived experience in the city of Portland. I am giddy about the housing units that Proud Ground and others are doing that will come online this summer. Because when people talk to me about affordable housing, that's actually housing people can afford to live in who work for a living in the city of Portland. When we are talking at 60% of area median income and below. You know, people can figure out a way to live comfortably when they're working two, three minimum wage jobs and housing with that criteria. Yes, last year I was woefully disappointed in the number of people who we had moved into home ownership opportunities, and that has increased. But I do certainly understand from talking to housing providers how difficult the process is, is to prepare people to be ready for home ownership opportunities, especially if you've been living by the seat of your pants for the last decade or so. And so I don't believe that I was inappropriate in my questioning of Dr. Holt last year. I think I did what I do with everyone, try to hold them accountable to what they say they will do. I want to applaud the team, the oversight committee, with standing firm and being clear about what the objectives were and holding everyone accountable to those outcomes. I want to appreciate the fact that this is the most diverse contracting field that the city council has ever seen presented in front of us. And so I have many, many, many questions about that that we can unpack later. But I want you to know that you have my absolute... respect and appreciation for all the volunteer time that this committee has put in to steering this in a way that makes us proud here on the city council, that we actually can point to something that we made a commitment to, and we are starting to see the results of that commitment. Are we done? Not by a long shot. Are we satisfied with where we are? I'm not. And I don't think anybody in this room is. But do we see a path for the future? Absolutely we do. But as we've talked about today, you can't just pluck people down in a community and expect somehow it's going to all be... like a tossed salad because that's just not how people roll, not today in this environment that we're in. So we have an obligation to not just isolate people in communities, but to actually really make sure we're building strong communities where everyone can be prosperous. I am very happy to vote aye on this report and look forward to digging into the rest of that research and finding out what else does the city need to do to ensure that we are walking our talk and not just doing whatever the shortest, most efficient thing is to do. I vote aye. Thank you, Danny. I just got so lost in Commissioner Hardesty's words, I can't remember what I was going to say. I want to talk about those broken promises in further detail sometime. And that term is perhaps a little too kind. We instituted social engineering through racist public policy for decades. And we have an obligation to remedy that. And broken promises is part of it. So I'm looking forward to that conversation moving forward. I want to appreciate the work of the Oversight Committee and of Dr. Bates and Dr. Thurber in looking at the impact of the preference policy on well-being. I'm so fascinated by this work because while housing is a basic need and a human right and absolutely the right place to start, it's not enough. We want to know that people are actually better off. that their quality of life is improved, that they're able to build wealth, and that they're headed towards a healthier, more vibrant future, not just that we've stuck them in a box in the neighborhood of their choice. As always, I want to thank Bishop Holt and Leslie Goodloe. I feel like it's been a long time since I've seen you. So nice to see you again. For everything you've done for the North Northeast Housing Strategy and continuing to guide Council through this important work. I vote aye. Well, I hope former Commissioner Dan Saltzman is watching. Last year, I think all of us were very disappointed with the results. And I don't think it was because of anything that the committee was doing or anything the housing bureau was doing. It was just a very radical idea in its conception. And I liked to tell Dan Saltzman despite his best efforts to appear otherwise, he really is a radical at heart. And this is one example of where this was a new idea. It was a fresh idea. It was an out of the box idea and Along with my colleagues last year, as we were looking at the results into year four, frankly, we were wondering whether it was ever going to amount to much of anything. It was not living up to its promise. But, boy, what a difference one year has made. Dr. Holt, thank you for your persistence and your leadership. And I will extend that to the entirety of the Northeast Oversight Committee. You guys could have walked away from it. And you didn't. You stuck to it. You doubled down. And you've made it work. I also, Leslie, I want to thank everybody in the Housing Bureau. And I see Shannon, Director Callahan in the back. You took some heat for this. Last year was my recollection. A little bit. You stuck to it. You stuck to it. And Dr. Bates and Dr. Thurber, I want to thank you for giving us some objective analysis of what people who are actually directly impacted by this program are telling us about the program in terms of whether we're hitting the right center, whether we're hitting the right objectives, whether we're actually achieving the goals that we set out to accomplish. I'm actually very encouraged by the results that you put forth today. So it took a little while to build the momentum, but it feels like it's here. And that's exciting to me. And so I hope you leave feeling that your work has been validated and that you're on the right track and that we're getting somewhere. You're right, Dr. Holt, we're not there yet, but we're heading in the right direction. We're taking the steps and we're seeing the progress behind us. So thank you for your leadership. I'm very happy to vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. I've had a commissioner request. Commissioner Hardesty has noted that half the fire bureau is here waiting to testify on the two items that were pulled off of the consent agenda. I would rather not have them sitting here in the room. I'd rather have them out in the community doing their hard work. So if you wouldn't mind, could you call item number 203? Accept the State Preparedness and Incident Response Grant from the State of Oregon Office of Emergency Management for a 700-gallon fuel transportation trailer. Who pulled this item? Lightning. Is he here? Of course not. Are there any further discussions on this consent item? Does anyone have any questions? Questions? Call the roll. Aye. Hardesty? Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Before I cast my vote, did anybody else want to testify on this matter? Oh, Shedrick, really? I'll suspend the vote. Shedrick, comment up. So close. No, I just realized. Thanks. I should have made the call. Okay, and I'm going to hold you narrowly to this. This is a consent item. It's about a very specific grant, so that's what we need to talk about, please. Shedrick, go ahead. I support this if it has anything to do with the state of emergency. Again, I have a real problem. about being warned by security that I am standing up or making comments about people resigning, like the mayor or city council. And the truth is, I may not have voted for the mayor, or I voted for the mayor or city council, and I don't want you there. So, of course, I'm going to stand up and disrupt the meeting and say you resigned. Or that you didn't meet my expectations. So I want you to resign. Right? And a lot of things here... A lot of discussion here does not violate the core Constitution of the United States, but it does violate the Bill of Rights. But the Bill of Rights is an amendment to the Constitution. Bye. Thank you. Maggie? Okay, we're talking about the housing, right? No. No, we're talking about this is to accept the state preparedness and incident response grant from the state of Oregon. It's for emergency management, and it goes to those firefighters you see in the back of the room. And they would like the resources so they can respond to incidents in the community. Are these the ones that did the calendar? Are these the firefighters and EMTs? These are command staff personnel standing behind. The calendar? This is actually not the issue on the agenda, Maggie. Oh, okay. All right. None of us like the calendar. This isn't about the calendar. Okay. Well, you know, firefighters need to do their jobs, and so if they, whatever they need to do it, they need. So that's it. Okay. Thank you. Call the roll. Thank you. Oh, yeah, the ordinance is stopped. I didn't prepare that speech. In practice, Commissioner Udaly. If I could just say once again, we've said many times, city council is a limited public forum. We have the right to set the time, place, and manner of how the public participates. We read the rules at the beginning of the session. We are absolutely not violating anyone's constitutional rights. That is a just complete... misunderstanding of how this body and how this chamber works. 204. One sec Diane. Read 204 please. Also consent. Authorize application to the Department of Homeland Security through its Federal Emergency Management Agency for a grant in the amount of $330,000 for technical rescue trainings and $1,300,000 for station source capture exhaust system for a total of $1,630,000. Any testimony on this item? Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Hardesty. I want to thank my fire leadership team for showing up today in support of these efforts. My apologies that you had to wait so long. Thank you very much for being here to answer questions. I vote aye. Udaly. I'd also like to thank the firefighters for being here. This is a gross misuse of their time, and I apologize that you've had to sit here for the last two-plus hours because this was unnecessarily pulled from the consent agenda. I vote aye. Democracy, it's the worst form of government except for all the rest. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, back to the regular agenda. 207, please. Pay construction contract claim settlement for construction of the Fano Basin pressure line system upgrade project number 810. One second. Hold on for one sec. Which one are you referring to? I was just noticing that we've got community members who've been waiting a long time. For what? For this one. For 211? Yeah. Sorry, staff. Does anybody mind if I move to 211? Okay. Okay, we'll be quick and we'll get to city staff. Thank you for your patience. Please suspend the last item, read 211 instead please. Authorized conveyance of city owned property located at 5020 North Interstate to Proud Ground and funding in an amount not to exceed $9,500,000 to its affiliate, 5020 Condo Project LLC for construction of a new home ownership condominium development located in the Interstate Corridor Urban Renewal Area. Colleagues, the 5020 or 5020 condo project is the third Northeast homeownership development, the second to come in front of the city council for funding approval. The project provides affordable homeownership opportunities for first-time preference policy family, giving priority to families with historic ties to the neighborhood that have been impacted by displacement as the surrounding area is gentrified. We've just heard... quite a lot about that in the last report. The city is pleased to see the first mixed income building blending market rate homes with permanently affordable homes along the interstate corridor. This project not only provides stable housing in a high opportunity area, but offers families the ability to participate in the equity increase of their home and to create wealth for the next generation. We're pleased to see how this project contributes to the overall north-northeast housing strategy, which we just heard about Good afternoon and welcome. Do you want to kick us off? Shannon Callahan, Director Callahan, Portland Housing Bureau. Hello. Good afternoon, Mayor. Nope, not quite yet. Good morning, Mayor. I apologize. We somehow do not have our beautiful PowerPoint available for us. You'll just have to talk to us. I'm just going to have to talk to you. PowerPoint. It's actually a very short and beautiful PowerPoint that Commission... New Daily will watch it later. It shows you what the building is going to look like. So we do want to highlight just a little bit of that and if you'd give us just a second we'll pop that right up. Yes, that's it. Thank you. We appreciate it. So we were here this morning to talk with you about the 50-20 condo project and on North Interstate. It is one of the long time project in the works, a very complex and yet extremely exciting project being undertaken with by Proud Ground. This is really our first foray at the Housing Bureau into a multifamily condo home ownership structure. And which is prioritized for preference policy families. So as you heard this morning, this is the third home ownership project with the North and Northeast strategy. This is a mixed income project. All of the affordable homes are family size, so two and three bedrooms. The building itself we estimate will house approximately 218 people. And we expect construction to commence later this month and open early next year. The project itself is located on a wonderful transit line on the interstate in Alberta on the MAX. 19 of the units, up to 19, will be available for families who make as low as 35% of median family income. which is an incredible undertaking to get families into home ownership at that income level. There will also be up to 17 units for between households at 60 to 80, and then four units between 80 and 100 percent MFI, as well as 24 market rate units, and this will be an Earth Advantage Gold building. This just really illustrates the layout of the design of the project itself from an aerial view, and then all of the other funding partners that come together to make projects like this possible. Homeownership can be even more challenging than a rental project because one of the main subsidies we rely on for rentals is a low-income housing tax credit that's frankly not available to homeownership. So it takes more from a lot of different funding partners to make these projects even possible. And so this morning you'll be approving or we're asking you to approve, before I turn it over to Diane, an amount of funding not to exceed $9.5 million. I will say that we don't anticipate all of these funds remaining in the project. Because of the unique nature of a home ownership project, we're also providing something that we've never done before, which is a construction loan to the project to help make sure that the project has the funds they need to develop. And then, of course, will be paid back upon sale. We're also asking for something that is unusual as well, which is an ability to add up to a million dollars from this funding into the project to better align the home ownership opportunities to the families that come through the preference policy. We would hate, of course, to create units at a higher income level if that's not the families that we're seeing. And so some of the creative financing we've been working on is a way to solve for that so we can meet folks where they are as they come off the list and make sure that the families that we've prioritized as a city have the best shot as home ownership as they can. So with that, I'd like to turn it over to Diane. Before you turn it over, I'd like to ask one quick question for clarification. The home ownership units, and maybe I should have been waiting for Diane to answer this one, now that I think about it. What's the range that those units will sell for? Diane, we have that for you. Do you have the price points right in front of you? I may. I will tell you that I have a lot of materials right in front of me. Let me see if I can give you one. Let me see if we can answer that for you. Exactly. Before Diane. I leave and the whole thing breaks down into chaos. We can provide you. That's a small question. Commissioner Hersey, we can provide you with a complete breakdown of the estimated price points. The most price is $127. 127,000 for the lowest price units and those are estimated based on the affordability calculations. I should have gone to a CISO. Oh, thank you. 160,000. For a three bedroom? For a three bedroom family size unit. That is amazing. The highest the affordable units is all three bedrooms is 274,000. I thought it was, yeah, more like 274,000 for the... highest three-bedroom units. And there's only a few at that level, thanks to the million dollars of additional subsidy to bring down those price points. And then what is the market rate? So I'm buying a condo at market rate. Do you want to just come up with a couple? Actually, let me try. We actually do have an appraisal on all the market rate units. And just as an example, the one-bedroom market rate unit would go for about $260,000. So quite accessible, actually, to other channels. You know, those dollar amounts really does clarify. Oh, fantastic. Who it is we're attempting to provide home ownership opportunities for, and I am very appreciative. I got to tell you, I'm giddy about this project. I don't normally play favorites, but I'm really, really giddy about this one, and so I'm going to shut up now and let you do your thing. Thank you. But you don't necessarily have her vote. That's right, that's right. I recognize that. I assume that. It's all the processes worked its way through. Always assume you're the underdog. That's right. Good to know. Mayor, commissioners, my name's Diane Lin. I'm executive director of Proud Ground. In the spring of 2017, Proud Ground reached out to Habitat for Humanity Director Steve Messonetti, who's here with me today, to begin to build a team to respond to the Portland Housing Bureau's NOFA for a condo project at 5020 North Interstate in the heart of the North Northeast community. The vision for this project is inspired by Proud Ground's commitment to equity and our experience working to pair low and moderate income families with with affordable homes as part of the African American Alliance for Homeownership Collaborative that we were part of. Through ProGround and Habitat's unique partnership, the condominium units will be affordable to families that fall, again, as you've heard, as low as 35% of median income up to 80 with only a few at the 80 to 100% median income, and those are three bedroom units. With this project, Prog Ground hopes to give families a viable opportunity to reestablish their neighborhood roots through first-time home ownership, which is hugely stabilizing for families. Prog Ground has assembled a diverse team of development professionals who have deep experience in creating home ownership in North Northeast Portland for displaced families of color. Development partners include Carleton Heart Architecture as our architects, LMC Construction as the general contractor, the extraordinary team at the Housing Development Center as a development consultant, it's a non-profit team, and Gina Woolley who's with us here today. She's right here, my right hand person on this as the owner's rep for this project. She brings over 40 years of experience in the community and development. I'm an act two. That's right. The majority of these firms were selected and are NWESB certified with track records in working with community stakeholders and have been committed to hiring minority-owned and professionals and subcontractors. We'll be showing you results in that area. Representatives of these businesses, most of whom would love to have been here today because of timing, we have just a few, but they are with us and have been extraordinarily committed to this effort. This is your implementation team. They're committed to breaking new ground on a development that, as Shannon Callahan just said, is somewhat challenging for homeownership development. PROGRAM has leveraged the city's resources with about $2.6 million of funding from Oregon Housing Community Services LIFT funds for the first time in Oregon history Metro's Transit Development Orient grant program, Enterprise Community Partners, Myer Memorial, Oregon Community Foundation, and Collins. We have nearly confirmed, and that will have a lot to do with your decision today, a deconstruction loan by Heritage Bank, who's been an extraordinary partner on the project, thanks really in part to the mezzanine loan that PHB offered for this project. Changing zoning code led to the inclusion of 25% active use on the ground floor, adding another additional element to the building, including a community space strongly requested by the neighborhood association. We are here today to ask for your support for the city's role in this project. The conveyance of land, the mezzanine loan, the six million of construction loan that will remain in the project to ensure the units stay affordable to residents for generations to come. Building this 64 unit, family friendly, mixed income, energy efficient, transit oriented, State-of-the-art intentional community where at least 40 of the units will stay permanently affordable Designed for families who were displaced or at risk of displacement will create a legacy in this community. I know Proud grounds board. I think you forgot something, but I'm sure There's many more elements. I Progroun's board and our staff has contributed extensively to this effort. Our team will be providing listing services as a brokerage in kind to, in addition to the deference of most of the developer fee for this project at this point in time. Thanks to the team of professionals, critical partnerships and funders, we feel confident even in these uncertain economic times that this project will be a showcase for homeownership development into the future. I want to thank you all for your support and if you do vote today to support this project, we would so love for you to join the celebration for groundbreaking in early April. Excellent. Except if we vote against it or not. But only if you're not invited. You're not invited if you don't vote. No pressure. I'm very happy to answer your questions, but I defer to my colleague, Steve Messonetti. Thank you. Hi, Steve. Thank you. Steve Messonetti, president and CEO of Habitat for Humanity. And I'd say it's truly an honor to be a part of this North Northeast strategy work and especially to be in partnership with Proud Ground on this project. This really is a unique project. The first truly mixed income multifamily condominium development in our city. The city's partnership and subsidy on this project will make it possible for up to 19 of the preference policy households for this building to be sold to families earning between $30,000 and $40,000 a year. So those are the under 60% MFI group, and most of those will actually be closer to 40% AMI. And most of those units are that, well, all of those units are two and three bedroom units. And we expect most of those will be families with children, sometimes multi-generational families. And even though they only make up 30% of the units in the building, we expect that'll actually be closer to half of the people in the building because of those larger families. Habitat is committed to supporting these households both by financially guaranteeing their mortgages to ensure they get an affordable mortgage. That's no more than 30% of their income. And that mortgage is below market interest rates, which are already low. In addition, Habitat's committing $390,000 to these households in the form of forgivable second mortgages in order to get the price point first mortgage down to affordable levels. Your support of this project will not only be transformational for these families and their futures, but will be supporting one of the most innovative, culturally specific, mixed-income homeownership projects in the country. And lots of eyes are on it. Thank you for your support of this project, helping to stem further displacement of African-American residents in northeast Portland and close our city's disgraceful minority homeownership gap. Thank you. Thank you, Steve. Good afternoon, my name is John Robertson. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing and listening to my testimony today in consideration of the 50-20 Condo Project. I would like to share a story of my son. It's a short story, if I may. It's a story of a young disabled adult that has navigated his way through the complexities of health systems, human service programs, and preference multi-family housing assistance programs. John's life journey began 36 years ago. But the roads or the routes of affordable housing are directly related to and aligned with determinants such as health disparities, education, access to information, drug and alcohol abuse, mental wellness, income disparities, unemployment disparities. And of course, what we're talking about today, home ownership disparities that for us began 50 years ago. It's a story that has been told by African-Americans in Portland for many years. And John's story is no different, but it is unique. Beginning in 1960, our families were displaced due to urban renewal. Redlining access to affordable housing, housing mortgages and loans, and laws and policies that landlords and leasing agents use to discriminate against people of color. While these families were forced to rent, 64% of the time, people of color were cited with higher rents, higher deposits, and additional fees. And it's affected all of those neighborhoods that we're talking about today. Our Story by John Robertson, Jr. will be read by John Robertson, Sr. It was in the late 60s when my grandfather moved to Portland to settle after the work in the shipyards in the Bay Area dried up and the service veterans no longer had steady work. Grandpa served in two wars, Korea and Vietnam, yet he never did receive a GI loan to purchase a home for his family or a financial loan to further his education. So foundationally, nothing could be handed down or inherited. So the family rented houses in the Albina neighborhood and bounced around in inner Northeast. As the kids grew older in the 70s, Grandpa was forced into housing assistance in Southeast Portland, even while having a decent professional career as a long-haul truck driver and eventually working with the Metro TriMet. The 80s started seeing rising rent and cost of living increases for a lot of communities of color, and many family members were moving further and further out of central Portland. As tough as the times were, I was born in the 80s to young parents John Robertson Sr. and Carla Walker. I was diagnosed as autistic at age five. Most agencies were not familiar with the autism spectrum in the 80s, so lots of recertification and assistance were mandated or even denied. Dad worked hard, steady and full while I continued to go to school. Mom worked part time, but it seemed like we were always above water with limited income, moderate transportation and bad health habits. My brother and sisters were born five and eight years later. We bounced around in two and three bedroom apartments, duplexes and houses for 15 years in north and northeast Portland, which included me changing Portland public school districts. Ironically, our last house as a five person household was our nicest and roomiest. However, the years of stress and mental depression gave way to the parents separating and eventually divorcing. Dad was a non-consodial parent for about three years and rented a tiny bedroom house on Lombard and Six. Mom couldn't afford the nice roomy house and bounced around and eventually settled with family members and the kids moved back in with dad. Now that dad was a single parent, rising housing prices forced us to move to southeast Brooklyn neighborhood. a three room duplex. Me and my brother shared the basement, my sister upstairs. Somewhere between Lombard Street and my mom's move to Texas is when my application for displaced families was submitted. Over 15 years later, several lotteries, several screenings. My name was selected through the Portland Housing Commission and I was selected for by Habitat for Humanity for the Affordable Housing Program in collaboration with Proud Ground. Fast forward to today. And my dad is still guiding my living process, but me and my brother, my niece and my nephew are in the process of purchasing affordable housing by mid year 2020. Through the efforts of Proud Ground, being a young parent and raising a disabled child could never be easy for any community member. But add that to systemic barriers and gentrification, it can be a real burden. Some even stated over the years how sorry I am for your burden. Statements to my dad that minimize the strength and fortitude it takes families to keep moving forward. My dad always said I'm not a burden but a blessing. And now that blessing is coming to fruition with the opportunity for affordable home ownership for myself and my siblings. My brother and I will share space again and it will be all come as a result of proud ground and helping guiding our paths. Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm speaking as an African-American male and a single parent and a widower. It was with the government that has facilitated the dominance of our communities and our businesses and homeownership and culture in Portland area in the past. And so it should be with our government leaders today where we need to champion these connections with what Proud Ground, Portland Housing Commissioner, and Habitat for Humanity is needing to do to rebuild these relationships for the future. Previous preference in affordable housing programs, excuse me, Previous preference in affordable housing programs have cared for more people than expected, reduced houseless families more than expected, saved more medical and mental health costs than expected, and saved more lives than we ever could imagine. As we heard today, according to the Census Bureaus and Portland Housing Bureaus, nearly 10,000 families were displaced. These families simply cannot grow a community if you scatter them to the wind. The 50-20 condo project you are considering today will give a similar opportunity to 40 or more families as part of this commitment the city made to North and Northeast Portland. Homeownership helps stabilize families like John Jr. And gives them a chance to live in the community they were raised in and access to affordable options in the Portland neighborhood. In order for this work of empowering our neighborhoods to be sustainable, it has to be done by us for us. And so the sweat equity models and the shared equity models provide for families support and help each other and bring cultural diversity back to the community. By enacting the preference policies and affordable housing programs with the 50-20 condo project will help marginalized families with historical roots in north and northeast Portland come back or stay. and putting them in affordable housing units or affordable home ownerships. Please support the 50-20 condo project so these needed units can be built for families like ours. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Robertson. Appreciate it. Does that complete the panel's presentation? Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? We have one person signed up, Maggie. Thank you for the presentation. It was excellent. Maggie, you want to come up? Hi. You can't go back and undo past injustices, but you can go forward and deal with current injustices. But I would like to say one thing that... All those things are important, but one thing is really bothering me. It's kind of like, okay, people were displaced and... they're screaming to get back into these old places that were redlined, just like Chicago and New York. And, you know, I grew up around three major military bases. And one thing that was happening when I was growing up is people were starting to integrate into neighborhoods. So we had, you know, African American and Asian and, Jewish and Christian and the one thing I think is so bad about human beings is why can't they create community together based on where they live and not the color of their skin or their religion or you know and they're fighting to get back into this redlining it's like we're so bad we're so bad such a horrible creature that we can't just go oh here we're all in this neighborhood together and you know we're all different types of people we're all different genders we're LGBTQ we're you know we're immigrants we're you know everything and now back to redlining. And that's what's kind of been niggling at me about this. And are we doing any studies about people that are integrated into communities that were traditionally white? And how are they doing there? And are they creating community? And can they... create community together. Commissioner Herst. That's what's been bugging me. I appreciate, I really appreciate you saying that housing by itself does not create community as you well know, right? And yes, wouldn't it be wonderful if we all started from the same place, right? That we all if we just all showed up in the same neighborhood. I show up here and even though this place is a country club, you know, I'm saying homeless people are part of the community. I just can't imagine why anybody would call this place a country club. I have much higher standards for country clubs than city council, right? You guys don't know about the pool? No, nobody told me about the pool. Or the cocktail parties, the secret cocktail parties. But Maggie, I hear you. It is not community members who are displaced, who are stressed out. It is not their job to build community, right? When people are trying to survive, we should not have the added burden that is their responsibility to reach out to folks that may or may not be welcoming them into their neighborhood, right? Right. So, so I appreciate what you're saying. I think we have to deal with the emergency. And then it's like, OK, so how do we build community where we are? Right. We can't undo the past, but we can set a standard for the future. Thank you, Maggie. Thank you. Any further discussion? This is an emergency ordinance. Kaylin, please call the roll. Friends. Thank you, Mayor. I suggested that we move this up in the agenda, partly because I noticed our non-profit leaders and others sitting in the audience, and partly because it did seem to follow on so well with the previous presentation. We sometimes say it's my honor to vote for something. In this case, it's my responsibility to vote for this. And thank you so much for your moving story and... congratulations that your son is going to be a homeowner and your family is able to show that you have been survivors and that you're going to be able to move forward and so I'm very grateful to you for coming to explain in your own personal experience why all of this matters. So thank you very much for all of your work everybody thank you to the Housing Bureau, Mayor Wheeler, aye. I want to add my appreciation to both Director Callahan, the staff at the Housing Bureau, and the incredible community partnership that's been created with Proud Ground and with, I'm forgetting, with Habitat for Humanity. Thank you. I'm old, right? I get those senior moments. I forget what I'm saying in mid-sentence. This is the kind of project where people, when we talk about housing that people can afford to live in, this is the kind of project that I talk, I think about. This is my vision. This is what I think we don't do enough of. And I know how difficult it is to fund projects that are outside of the box, that are visionary, that will have a long lasting impact. And so I just want to applaud everyone who made this deal happen. And I am very proud to vote aye in favor of this. And I hope this isn't the last time we see creativity like this, as we continue to address the crisis that is housing in our community. So thank you all, I vote aye. You, Daley. I spent 12 years before coming to City Council as a low-income, single parent, raising a child with a severe disability and a cost-burden renter. It's hard for me to even talk about it without getting emotional. It's traumatizing to live under those circumstances. And I was already brought to tears earlier when you said that There would be a number of units available at 35% of median income. That's incredible. That's less than 200% of the federal poverty level. I don't know if anyone else has figured out how to deliver housing to people that low income. And, you know, considering that the federal poverty level dates back to a time when a loaf of bread cost 22 cents, we know that we're hiding poverty in this country. We know that you need to earn five times the federal poverty level to afford rents or have any hope of buying a home in Portland without deep, deep subsidies. So this is just absolutely incredible and I'm surprised. so thankful and proud of the way the community has come together I've had a laser focus on tenant protections the first three years I was here and now I've turned to anti-displacement and This kind of work is essential to that We need to get low and moderate income families into home ownership Opportunities so they can be truly Stable so they can build wealth so they can choose their communities and they can put down permanent roots, it's absolutely life-changing and So it's, I want to make sure I don't forget to, well, I don't have any thank yous, but I'm going to thank everyone who came today and everyone who's worked on this project. And obviously, I vote aye. Wheeler. I want to thank the panel for their presentation today and all the hard work that's gone into this. We know that home ownership stabilizes neighborhoods, communities, and it gives families the opportunity to build wealth for future generations. Helping families to build equity in a home is a long term solution to intergenerational poverty. But the opportunity to purchase a home, unfortunately, is currently out of reach for many Portlanders, and there continues to be a deep and quite frankly a persistent disparity for communities of color in particular. This project is just one of many steps that we're taking as a city to address that imbalance and to begin to bridge these gaps with meaningful pathways to home ownership. Particularly for those who've been marginalized and excluded from these opportunities in the past. I'd like to commend the team, Proud Ground, Habitat for Humanity for its commitment to helping so many low-income families realize their dreams of home ownership. Thank you, Diane, in particular, for your leadership. Steve, thank you for your leadership at Habitat. You guys have been great partners. This project also comes as a result of tremendous collaboration amongst partners, including the North Northeast Oversight Committee, the Heritage Bank, the Oregon Housing Community Services, Meyer Memorial Trust, Metro through their TOD grant, the Housing Development Center, and of course the Portland Housing Center. I'd like to thank all of you, and I would like to thank the Portland Housing Bureau for your tireless efforts to bring this project to fruition. It is really something that all of us in this community can collectively be very proud of. I also want to thank the North Northeast Oversight Committee for their diligence and hard work over the past five years with the North and Northeast Portland community. I'm very proud to vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. This is going to be a great project. Look forward to it. Thank you all. Next item please, 207. Pay construction contract claim settlement for the construction of the Fano Basin Pressure Line System upgrade project number E10599 for an estimated cost of $500,000. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services worked with a contractor on a large scale project in Southwest Portland's Fano Creek Basin. This ordinance would authorize a settlement with the contractor, which is reached after working with the city attorney and a mediator. Here today. is Bill Ryan of Environmental Services, Chief Engineer and Molly Washington, Deputy City Attorney. In the interest of time, maybe what we should do is just ask, are there any follow-up questions? Or is there something you need to tell us? No, that's fine. Nope. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? We lost our clerk. I'm sorry? We lost the clerk. One moment. She'll be right back. Is there any public testimony on item 207? Maggie signed up. I do not see Maggie. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work and for your patience. Aye.
 Hardesty. Thank you for coming to what I think is a good agreement, and hopefully whatever we've learned from this process we will put in place so we won't have to do this again. I vote aye. E. Daly. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Three hours later, right? Yes. No worries. It's one of those things, the longer you wait, the less you have to say. Sort of a trade-off here. Next item, 208, please. Accept bid of Faison Construction, Inc. for the Creston Park Playground Improvements Project for $1,332,810. Colleagues, Creston Park, located at Southeast 43rd and Powell, adjacent to Creston Elementary, is one of the final remaining projects funded by the 2014 Parks Replacement Fund. But the park, which is celebrating its centennial this year, needs a little bit of TLC. This project will remove a decommissioned waiting pool, expand the playground, and add accessible play features, add new picnic tables and benches, and improve the ADA accessible paths. Parks conducted extensive public engagement, and this design reflects the community's desires and input. Joining us for a brief presentation are Robin Laughlin and Gary Datka from the Parks Capital team. Hello, welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Robin Laughlin. I'm the Capital Renovations Program Manager with Portland Parks and Recreation. Part of my duties are to help manage the bond program. And with me today is Gary Dutka, our Capital Project Manager in charge of the Creston Park project. We're here today to request council to accept a bid from Faison Construction for the Creston Park Playground project for the amount of $1,332,810. Say, I have an odd request. Commissioner Fish never resigned. Can we make sure his name appears on materials like this, please? Absolutely. Thank you. Absolutely. That makes it hard to keep going, doesn't it? Indeed. The Creston Park project is part of the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond Program that was generously passed by voters who approved the $68 million bond measure to address critical park needs without increasing tax rates. As you know, the bond funding goes towards our parks most urgent needs in our seven priority areas. Playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, accessibility, protecting workers, Pioneer Courthouse Square, restrooms and others. This project fits into the playgrounds theme and we'll be renovating the existing defunct playground. It is the ninth playground renovation that we've been able to make in our city as part of this program. In addition to the bond funding of $1.1 million, the project was able to amplify that investment from our community by receiving additional funds from the system development charges in the amount of $950,000 to provide an expanded playground experience for kids in this neighborhood. We were also able to receive $290,000 from Portland Park and Recreation's Capital Fund ADA program in order to address accessibility needs in the park. The total allocation for this project is $2.34 million. Looks great. Sorry, and I didn't mean to throw you off. It's okay. It's just jarring to see my name there. I didn't earn it. Oh, sorry. No, sorry. I had another thing this morning. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Thank you for having me here today. My name is Gary Dutka. I'm a capital project manager with Portland Parks and Rec. I'm here today to discuss and give a brief overview of another great parks replacement playground project. I will discuss its location, neighborhood characteristics, current conditions, and the public process that we went through to arrive at the design. I will also discuss some of the details of the improvements this park will bring. Creston Park, located in southeast Portland, generally at southeast 45th and southeast Powell, is a community park in the Creston Kenilworth neighborhood and is adjacent to Portland Public Schools Creston Elementary. This map shows the park location just west of Foster Road and south of Powell Boulevard. The park serves two census tracts split by Powell Boulevard within its half-mile walking distance or 15-minute walk boundary. Based on past combined census data, the population served as typical of Portland's race and origin characteristics, with 83% reporting as white, 6% reporting Asian, 5% Hispanic, and 3% African American or black. Acquired by Portland Parks in 1920, Creston Park is a developed and pastoral 14 and a half acre park featuring a play area, tennis courts, restrooms, public picnic areas, outdoor pool and a pool house, a parking lot and decommissioned waiting pool. The park boundary shown here in the red box. The playground is located towards the southeast corner of the park with the main access from the south at Southeast Francis. The renovated playground and picnic spaces will also provide a much needed improvements for this park which receives heavy use by an active neighborhood and accessible pathway improvements will create ADA compliant paths of travel access to other major assets within the park. Installed in the early 1980s, the post and platform play structures and wood play equipment, few swings, are disjointed play components that are spaced too closely for kids to make a play circuit and create a cramped space for unprogrammed physical play. The existing equipment is no longer ADA compliant to current standards, lacks play value for collaborative and imaginative play opportunities, and has ongoing maintenance concerns. For these reasons, we feel they have reached the end of their useful life and must be replaced." Additionally, the play equipment intermixed within the large mature Douglas fir trees is surfaced with engineered wood fiber, making access and mobility difficult for some playground users. Directly adjacent to the playground and occupying a large space, the decommissioned concrete wading pool will be removed as part of this project to expand the play area, increasing capacity and adding much play value and much more needed space. Throughout the playground renovation, Portland Parks does not anticipate the project will remove any of the existing large mature firs, and only two smaller trees within the park may be removed to accommodate accessible pathway renovations. Portland Parks conducted public involvement with students, parents, and park neighbors through a community focus group meeting and two public open houses in order to understand their perspective regarding the current uses of the playground, what's missing from the current playground, and what activities children value most in play. We also connected with neighbors about the positive aspects of making improvements to the park and solicited and discussed public feedback to gain support for the design of the play area. I'm actually, I'm very happy to say that at our final open house, Portland Parks received 73 respondents. 90% of those respondents either loved or liked the new playground design. With this community input and support, Portland Parks and Rec developed a final design that will construct key improvements that focus on accessible play features such as slides, climbers, swings, balance play, and spinning elements. We'll also install durable, accessible rubber safety surfaces that provide access to all play equipment in an equitable way. We'll be installing accessible picnic tables, benches, and other gathering spaces. other site amenities such as new accessible drinking fountain, trash receptacles, and much-needed bike racks. We will also make ADA accessibility improvements to interior pathways around the play area, to existing restrooms, and to the playground from the park entries at Southeast Francis and the parking lot at Southeast 43rd. Portland Parks and Rec has an anticipated ongoing annual O&M budget for this project of $13,320. And the design consultant team led by Mayor Reed, landscape architects utilizing a Portland Parks on-call contract supported 74% of the contract fees to WBE businesses. An additional 8% to DBE businesses, 3% to ESB businesses, totaling 85% of the $178,000 contract fees. Commissioner Hardesty has a question. Thank you. As I look at the subcontract opportunities, there was only 9.34% that were COVID certified. And then 41.99% of the subcontracts were from non-certified subcontractors. But there's no demographic breakdown for the 41.99% that are non-certified. And so I'm also curious as to why we're only not even halfway to the goal for certified firms. Can you repeat that? If I may, I'll respond to your question when I present the procurement piece. Gary was speaking to the design contract alone. Okay. And I can address that a little bit after my final slide because we do have some thoughts on that. Okay. Commissioner Fritz has a question. No. No. I was just noting that with the completion of this, and Commissioner Fritz had a huge hand in the 2014 Parks Bond. She did, yes. This is sort of the last commitment that was made under that bond, was it not? There will be one more after this. Which is the one after? This will be Gabriel Park. Oh, yeah. Soon, we hope this summer. That will be a fully inclusive play area, and we are super excited about that. That's great. Can I ask you sort of a strange question? You may not have the exact answer, but when we designed the play area, We're trying to make it accessible and obviously we're trying to make it fun. So this is sort of the latest, greatest. You said that kids tend to play in a circuit. There's also opportunities for engagement and we're using the latest designs that kids themselves say they want to play with. So this is sort of what modern kids want to see, right? But what's the age group that we look at when we're thinking about designing the play area? Obviously, you have to think about little teeny tiny kids, and you have to think about older kids. What's sort of the age range that we think about? I think that's a really good question and it's something that we talk about with our public meetings quite a lot. Typical play equipment goes in age ranges of 2 to 5 and 5 to 12. But I'd say in all of my public experience or public engagement experience one of the things that most neighbors ask for is play opportunities for older kids, the preteens, the teenagers because it's one of our hardest and age groups to include, especially in a playground. A lot of those ages don't go to playgrounds specifically, but we know that they go with family members or other caregivers. I think that's where we need to allow for expanded playgrounds with SDCs to allow more of that runaround space, more social areas, whether it's social circles of rocks, you know, where kids can come together and hang out. But it's also about, sorry Commissioner, it's also about allowing the younger kids to learn from those older kids and how they play. So really trying to make valuable experiences for older kids that younger kids can also learn from. And then one last question. Could I just comment on that? Please, yeah, you've got it Commissioner. I know that you've been to Gateway Discovery Park and you are impressed. That playground, I think, exemplifies how it's designed so that all users can use it and all ages are interested in it. Two of my favorite memories were two maybe 10 to 12-year-olds sitting underneath one of the rocks having a nice little conversation. And then the other one was there's an adaptive swing there. And there were two teenagers sitting back to back on the adaptive swing on their cell phones, but swinging and going back and forth. So it's an example. If you design it so that everybody can figure out how to use things, or in particular if there isn't a single way to use something properly, kids will figure out ways to use it. I got to tell you, that's still my favorite park on the planet. So no pressure, but just so you know, because I still remember the beautifully colored piano at the entry when you walked in. Anybody who has small kids know that kids are so used to seeing signs that say, do not touch. You know, if you break it, it's yours, blah, blah, blah, right? And the sign was just so simple in its elegance. It said, play me. You know, we have to give credit to Piano Push Play, which is a non-profit. We haven't had a presentation on that since you've been on the council, but they put them all over in the parks. And people can donate their used pianos just so that you put them out there. So, yeah. We should bring them back. Well, we've got lots of partnerships. Parks has lots of partnerships. Yeah. really do bring people together. Sorry, Mayor, you had one final question. No, no, no, no. Sorry, I just, one more thing for Commissioner Hardesty. This one is an inclusive playground, but it's not an entirely accessible playground. The one in Gabriel Park, we have four, we will have four. We have Arbor Lodge, which was the first Harpers playground. We have Cooch Park, which is done now. We have Gateway Discovery Park, and then we will have Gabriel Park. So, inner southeast or southeast in general is the one quadrant or area of the city that doesn't yet have it. And that's for a future parks commissioner to decide how to allocate system development charges to do that. Awesome. Thank you. Commissioner, you daily have a question. Well, I just want to commend the Parks Bureau for adding another inclusive playground to... our inventory. My first interaction with City Hall was an attempt to expand adapted swings across the city. My son has cerebral palsy. He has a severe physical disability and in a typical park the only thing that he can really enjoy doing is sit and watch or swing if there's an adapted swing and and there weren't very many back in the early 2000s. There was a concern at the time, well, I And also I'll say our standards for accessibility are very minimal and don't lead to meaningful inclusion, which is a ramp to the playground, an ADA accessible surface, and a transfer platform on the play structure. And for a child who depends on a wheelchair or a walker, that's just not adequate. Okay. Oh, I lost my train of thought. You said something. I'm old too, huh? No, I'm definitely getting old, and I'm real tired right now. Oh, really? Why? Well, I've had one day off in the last seven weeks. I won't mention why, but... At the time there was concern at the bureau that if I got what I wanted which was 50 swings dispersed across the whole city in playgrounds that were already ADA accessible and had an existing swing set that we'd be over serving kids with disabilities. And as Commissioner Fritz noted, everyone enjoys these features. And in fact, our accessible playgrounds are among some of our most popular, such as Washington Park. and Harper's Playground at Arbor Lodge, which I was an early supporter and fundraiser for. And it can be really overwhelming for kids with significant disabilities and families to navigate spaces that are super crowded and overused. So I love that we're dispersing them now across the city. You don't have to drive as far to have accessible fun. And I just hope to see this continue. Thank you. So Robin, could you please give Commission Udallian an update as to how many playgrounds now have adaptable swings? Because I know that most of the Bond, not right now, but... She looks like a yes kid to shout out. Because I know that most, if not all, of the Bond projects, playground improvements, we do include them. So I think that would be a good milestone for you to... I do just want to make a clarification because sometimes the words get mixed up. This will be an accessible play area, not an inclusive play area. Gateway Park will be an inclusive play area, which is in the lines of Gateway Discovery Park, Harper's Play at Arbor Lodge. So this is an accessible – accessible play area. There's several different types of play experiences that will be accessible for kids that get around with wheels. There are adaptive swings. There'll be two adaptive swings. The spinners you can transfer from chair into the spinner and you can feel that that motion. It's too bad Commissioner Hardesty left. We do try and include music of some sort in all of our playgrounds because I think that sensory experience is paramount for a lot of kids. And I think as we start to lose some of our music classes in younger grade schools, this is just a really great outlet for kids to bang on something and make music from it. Yeah. There's the official use of inclusive and there's the more, I guess, casual use. And for me, anything that's physically accessible and includes something my son can enjoy is inclusive, which may be a sad testament to how unaccessible and not inclusive many spaces are, but I appreciate the clarification. Great. So then I'm going to finish up if that's okay. Yeah, thank you. We just get so excited. We're just going to stay here all day. I mean, I'll talk about players all day long if you like. If you want to hold us to shut up so we can finish this report. Go ahead. Fair enough. Go for it. The successful bidder for the project is Faison Construction for the amount of $1,332,810. Faison is a certified M and DBE business performing 48.6% of the work. Including the contract is an additional 9.3% of the work will be performed by certified firms 1.9 to WBE and 7.5 to ESB. So we are here today to ask Council to accept a low bid from Faison Construction, Creston Park Play improvements. With the acceptance of this bid, we would proceed with construction set to begin yet this spring, and we anticipate being completed by this fall. happy to answer more questions. And I think in response to Commissioner Hardesty's earlier question, my recollection is that Faison Construction is a minority contractor. They are, yes. The prime contractor is minority. I do also just want to add, so Faison, I worked with them at Glenhaven Park. I'm happy to have them on this project. They've already had some discussions with me about ways to get those numbers up. It does mean changing out some materials that we're not typically using at parks. We've tried to standardize a lot of our materials so that maintenance considerations are easier for us. So in order to switch out one product we do need to do a little bit of back-end work but that would be an excellent way of bolstering that number and that was brought to us by Phazon. So I do want to say that they are cognizant of that. I greatly appreciate that, and I just want to say that I have the same expectation of minority contractors that I do of majority contractors. If we set an aspirational goal, I don't think they get a free pass just because they're a minority-owned firm. So I have the same question for everybody, so I appreciate the response to that. Thank you. Could you say again what the ongoing maintenance for this park is like? The O&M budget is $13,320. Oh, yeah. Not bad. I'll entertain a motion. Move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you for your work on this. You know, you summarized the community process. This was not an easy community process. And the fact that you got to near consensus at the end is a testimony to that. It actually wasn't a very easy project internally either because there were some fairly strenuous discussions between urban forestry and recreation and the bond project, et cetera. And you were able to work it all out. So thank you so much. Thank you, former director Mike Abate, interim director Kia Selly, and current director Adina Long for their support of this bond process. Robin, you've done amazing work throughout. You all have. I feel really happy with how it turned out and as we had some discussions yesterday with the park staff as far as next steps for funding, it's really clear that when you do what you're saying to do, what you say you're going to do, as was in the previous discussion, if you make a promise, you keep a promise and we have kept our promises on this. And I'm extremely happy to go around the city still and see them all. with happy families just enjoying your great work so please say thank you to all of the park staff for this and also again thank you to Commissioner Fish and his staff for continuing up the project. I know that there are some final things that he has planned to get done that you'll be announcing in the future as well as the amazingly good work that's so necessary on how do we provide ongoing sustainable funding for parks, both for construction, maintenance, and operations. So I appreciate my colleagues recognizing that when you bring on new facilities, starting a few years back, we said that yes, we are going to maintain them, we are going to add to the budget, and so I appreciate that we're going to be doing that. Aye.
 Hardesty. I loved having a conversation with Commissioner Fish because he would always want to prove to me what a fabulous job Parks was doing around minority contracting. And he would always go, yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll talk in detail. But he knew that the questions would come and that I would be appreciative of the very intentional work that Parks has done to ensure that Parks not only benefits all community residents. but that we also are making opportunities available to grow small minority and women-owned businesses so that they become primary contractors and are able to go out and hire other subcontracts. And I think Parks has been a model in helping us achieve those goals. So I want to be... Be very clear, I'm very grateful for the work that you've done. I can't wait to see the conclusion of this bond and to see what vision we have moving into the future, ensuring everyone has access to the beauty that our parks make up. I vote aye. New daily. Well, I'm just going to say ditto to all the thank yous that Commissioner Fritz already enumerated. I also have a hard time talking about Commissioner Fish without getting emotional. I will say that he took a particular interest in the challenges that I faced as the parent of a child with a significant disability, and I feel like he really quickly integrated that into his thinking, not just about parks but about bathrooms and other issues. that he had a hand in at the city. I will say that I'm thinking about summer vacation and travel with a child who has complex health needs and mobility challenges is very difficult and very expensive because I have to bring one or two helpers with me and air travel is not really feasible and I have to have a specialized van and I Although I'm in a position where I can afford that, most families like ours can't. And it's just yet another reason why these parks are so vital. So I'm excited to visit it. I think we're going to do a summer parks tour of all these accessible and or inclusive playgrounds. And I better start working out now for those lesson transfers. I'm happy to vote aye. Wheeler? Well, I want to thank everybody who's been involved in this at the Parks Bureau. I, of course, want to thank Commissioner Fritz again for her longstanding leadership and really pushing this forward and carrying that 2014 Parks Bond. And Commissioner Fish was doing a fantastic job with the Parks Bureau. And I appreciate his work and the work of his staff. And all the folks who had anything to do with this is just great. It's one more of those great spaces where people can come. They can see themselves there. They can feel welcome there. The community can engage. Kids can play. It's the best of all worlds. I'm happy to support it. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Okay. Thank you. Next item, we have two more. We'll try to be as quick as we possibly can here. 209, please. Authorize a temporary inter-fund loan to exceed $200,000 from Portland Parks and Recreation System Development Charge Fund to Pinnock Parking Lot Capital Project Fund to provide interim financing for parking meter installation. All right. We have City Treasurer Bridget O'Callaghan and City Debt Manager Matt Gerak here today. Thank you. Can you give us a brief presentation? We'll get you on your way. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Patty Tye. I'm principal debt analyst in the- Oops, sorry. Division, unfortunately, Matt Gerak and Bridget O'Callaghan are engagements today and- Thank you. Couldn't be here, but I will take their place. I'm reading the notes, I apologize. The purpose of the legislation we're bringing to you today is to authorize an internal loan to pay start-up costs of the Pidek Mansion parking project in an amount not to exceed $200,000. Given the relatively small cost of the project, conventional financing is not viewed as a viable financing option. So Treasury and debt management are recommending that an inter-fund loan to finance the proposed project be put in place with city resources as the funding source. The parks director and the city attorney have approved the use of the parks system development charge fund as a temporary funding source for the parking project with the understanding that the funds will be fully repaid with interest no later than June 30, 2024. The Interfund loan interest will accrue at the city's investment portfolio rate and will result in no lost earnings to the system development charge fund. It's expected that the Interfund loan in the Pittock Mansion parking project expenditures will be included as part of the fiscal 2019-20 spring budget monitoring process. So with that, I'll be happy to answer questions. I've got Victor here to answer questions on a specific project. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Is the Pinnock Mansion a commercially sound investment today? Victor Sanders with Portland Parks, just for the record. I don't have that information for you. Right now, Piddick Mansion is managed by Piddick Mansion Society, one of our nonprofit partners. And so they collect the revenue for that facility. So who's going to collect the parking revenue if we put parking meters in? And why are we doing that? Yeah, so let me step back a little bit. This project began in early 2019 under Commissioner Fish. We started to look at different park sites that were having serious issues with overuse, I shouldn't say overuse, but with traffic and access issues. Piddock Mansion Society approached us at that time and indicated that they had done some studies to show that in 2009, about 150,000 people visited the mansion on the grounds and today it's about 300,000. So that's double the number of folks that have been at Piddock Acres Park and Piddock Mansion in just 10 years. So they were experiencing a lot of significant public safety and traffic congestion issues inside the park facility. So under Commissioner Fish, we approached the society and said let's work together on this problem and worked with the neighborhood, the Hillside Neighborhood Association, and the hillside neighbors to help develop a solution. So over the last few months, what we've been doing is working with those neighbors and the society to help come up with a long-term solution to help create a sustainable trajectory for the park itself. The funds that will be raised for the parking project would stay 100% inside the park, similar to what we do inside Washington Park, where all of the money is reinvested back into the backlog that we have inside the park right now. There's about 14 capital projects that are behind that. waiting for funding, which represent about 3.6 million in overall investment that needs to be made. Primarily, many of those are access-related roads, sidewalks, parking areas, lighting. So what we're looking to do with this project is advance the parking action plan. And so parks would collect that revenue, and it would stay with parks in order to reinvest it using those capital investments and shorter-term investments. maintenance, seasonal maintenance and ranger coverage inside the park. How do we benefit from owning the Piddock Mansion and not actually owning the Piddock Mansion? Right? I think that's a great question that I can come back to you with more information on about what that looks like. Pittock Mansion has a really rich history inside the city back in the 60s before when it was going to be sold and actually demolished. And folks came together and formed that society and ordered together funds to maintain it. So the city did manage it at the time in partnership with the society and then I think just in the last 10 years we actually gave it completely over to the society to manage. So they take that revenue for entrance fees and manage it entirely themselves. I think this is a deeper conversation and it won't be answered today but I'm always challenged by these partnerships where they keep all the money and then we do all the maintenance. Yeah. These are things that make me go, hmm. Actually, we don't do all the maintenance. So they have been, the foundation has invested a lot of money. We have supplemented that. For instance, when the balconies and the roof were needed repairs, so we did subsidize that. But in terms of this item that's on the agenda, For the most part they are financially responsible, so it means that we don't have city staff that we have to pay taking care of this historic resource. We have a non-profit doing that. But for this particular item about the parking lot, back when I had parks this was identified as a problem because we have a challenge. in that people who are going to run on the Wildwood Trail park at Pittock Mansion, they don't go to Pittock Mansion, so there are no entrance fees. So then when people are wanting to go to Pittock Mansion, particularly for functions, weddings, it's quite popular for that kind of thing, and there's a small rose garden, plus the view is... Spectacular. Spectacular and I'm happy to have it as a city resources. There's nowhere for them to park. So it's actually a parking management tool to add the meters as well as adding some revenue for Washington Park, which still needs a lot of additional funding. All right. Great. Any further questions? Any public testimony? One person signed up, but they've left. All right. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you for your good work on this. Thank you. Next and last item, 210, please. Approve application under the Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program under the Inclusionary Housing Program for Brookland located at 4245 Southeast Milwaukee Avenue. Dori VanBakkel, welcome and thank you for your patience. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. The Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption or Multi Program is one of the financial incentives provided to inclusionary housing projects. that choose to make units affordable rather than paying a fee in lieu. And these are projects within the market that otherwise, outside of inclusionary housing, wouldn't be providing affordable units. Each multi-application comes before City Council for approval as part of the state requirements of the program. And this particular building is a mixed-use apartment named Brooklyn. In the Brookland, in the Brooklyn neighborhood of the central city or east side, there will be 160 units with six of them affordable. Those six units have been reconfigured through one of the options of the program to be three-bedroom units. So all of the affordable units are... three bedroom units and will be restricted at no more than 60% of median family income. So that involves both the rent and income maximums for folks living in those homes. In addition to the 10-year tax exemption provided by this program, the project through inclusionary housing will also receive reduced construction excise taxes and system development charges for those affordable units only. The total tax exemption for these six units over the 10-year period of the tax exemption with the 99 years of affordability will total about $74,000 or about $1,300 per year per unit of that 10-year period. I'm happy to answer any questions. Any questions on this item? Any public testimony on this item? One person signed up, but they've left. Anything else for the good order? Good of the order. All right. Please call the roll. Prince. Thank you for your usual good work. Aye. Hard to see. Thank you. I love seeing these projects at 60% MFI as compared to 80% because I think it helps more people that way. I vote aye. Eudaly. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Appreciate your patience, Tori. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we are adjourned. Good afternoon, everyone. This is the March 11th, 2020 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. It's great to have everybody here. We only have, well, I'll start with Keelan. Can you call the roll, please? Yes. Fritz? Here. Artisty? Here. Udaly? Here. Wheeler? Here. Is anybody here from the community? Not a city employee? No. Okay. Well, I would ordinarily read the rules, have the rules of order and decorum. I think we can suspend or disband with those for the moment. So with that feeling. I don't know, Mayor. They look like a lively bunch. Well, Tom is always sort of questionable. He looks like he's well behaved so far. Watch out for that guy. Could you please call 212? Oh, my gosh. 212. 212. 212. 212. I did learn my numbers at some point. Authorize city attorney to initiate a validation action under ORS 33-710 through 720 regarding expenditure of ratepayer funds to implement the community opportunities and enhancement program and the resolutions and ordinances creating and implementing the community opportunities and enhancement program. Very good. So colleagues, the city's purchasing power is significant. We all know that. And we have both the opportunity and the responsibility to use public dollars to advance the public good. This is especially true with our public construction projects. The Community Opportunities and Enhancement Program, or COEP, is an important part of the strategy to bring more and better contracting opportunities to minority women and emerging small businesses. Over the last few years, we've made good progress updating and standardizing our policies. The outcome of that is the COEP program. We've launched the program, and we're very excited about its future. And we want to get it right, especially where we're talking about dollars whose uses are restricted. This is true of the city's two utility bureaus in particular, Environmental Services and Water, who do major construction projects and who will be the major contributors to this program and whose funds are restricted by charter. Today, the city's attorney's office is requesting council authorization to seek Multnomah County Circuit Court validation of a rubric to guide our expenditures of rate payer funds in this program. In January, council authorized the Office of Management and Finance, the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and Prosper Portland to enter into an intergovernmental agreement to implement the COEP using 1% from each city's project hard construction costs to fund the program. Because the charter tells us how we can and can't use rate payer funds, Procurement, Prosper Portland and the city's attorney's office worked with our utility bureaus to create the rubric to guide the spending of rate funds in this program. That's interesting. I haven't heard the word rubric. in like 15 years and then it shows up twice within three paragraphs in my talking points. It's a little trivia for those of you watching. The court's early guidance and hopefully validation of the rubric, there it is again, will confirm that our, we can turn this into a drinking game, non-alcoholic, will confirm that our spending is in line with charter restrictions. I appreciate the hard work of everyone who helped think through this challenge and designed this. what is the word rubric rubric we have omf director tom reinhardt water bureau director mike stir ps director mike jordan karen moynihan with the city's attorney's office to walk us through the need for this validation action tom please take it away tom you could call it if you want well good afternoon mayor wheeler and commissioners my name is tom reinhardt chief administrative officer for the city of portland I'm joined today by my colleagues Mark Stewart from the Water Bureau, Michael Jordan from the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Karen Moynihan, Chief Deputy City Attorney. Today we are requesting that council authorize the city attorney's office to file a validation action proceeding to determine the legality of rate payer fund expenditures to implement the community opportunities and enhancement program, what we refer to as the COEP. The city completed a disparity study in 2010. Based on the findings from the study, we identified gaps in contracting opportunities for women and minority contractors. This led the city to create the COEP program in 2017 as a way to intentionally address these historic disparities that have prevented equity and diversity in contracting opportunities for communities of color and women. The city is committed to changing this disparity in the construction industry. Our first citywide equity goal states, quote, we will end racial disparities within city government so there is fairness in hiring and promotions, greater opportunities in contracting, and equitable services to all residents. Today, we are not only talking about increasing equity in contracting internally, but implementing and supporting actions that will support the industry regionally and ensure a diverse workforce for future projects. The COEP intends to establish a reliable source of funding, as the Mayor stated, to support diversifying the construction industry. This will be done by collecting 1% of hard construction costs on all our projects, on our large city projects in particular, and funneling it into contracting opportunities for traditionally unrepresented contractors. As the Council may recall, in January of this year, the Office of Management and Finance, Office of Equity and Human Rights, and Prosper Portland entered into an intergovernmental agreement to implement Phase 1 of the COEP, which you approved. This phase will use funds from the Portland Building, the Yamhill Garage, and Washington Park projects. I want to take a moment to thank Lester Spittler, Kathy Sherrick, and everybody else who worked so hard on that effort. We believe that diverse workers and contractors will improve the services that ratepayers receive, and that by training diverse workers and extending opportunities to historically underrepresented groups, we can create long-lasting connections and share resources that will benefit the entire community. We are back today to revisit the issue raised during the January hearings with all of you and address the question, quote, how will the city guarantee that the 1% funding derived from rate payer projects will be spent in a way that is reasonably related to providing water and sewer services? With that, I want to hand it over to Karen. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Karen Moynihan, Chief Deputy City Attorney. As you know, in 2012, the city was sued by a group of ratepayers for the expenditure of ratepayer funds that they alleged were not authorized by the Charter. Over the course of the next five years, the City Attorney's Office litigated the issue of whether a wide variety of expenditures such as sewer funds expended on stormwater improvements at Riverside Cemetery, or water funds being used to maintain city fountains were authorized by the Portland City Charter. One of the lessons we learned from the litigation was how important it is for council to be fully informed regarding the way that ratepayer funds are to be expended, and the Council's intent in exercising its discretion, and this is important, when authorizing such expenditures, be clearly reflected in the Council record. Today, we are asking Council to closely consider the purpose of the Community Opportunities and Enhancements Program and its implementation with the use of ratepayer funds. We will demonstrate to you that there is a particular need to increase the capacity of a trained, qualified, and diverse workforce on Water Bureau and BES construction projects, that could be addressed through the COEP. Finally, we will ask you to authorize the City Attorney's Office to file a validation suit in Multnomah County Circuit Court so that the use of ratepayer funds on COEP will be reviewed in advance by the court and hopefully provide a level of assurance that the expenditures will withstand anticipated legal challenges. Water Bureau Director Mike Stewart and BES Director Michael Jordan will now explain their Bureau's needs for a trained, qualified, and diverse workforce. Good afternoon. My name is Mike Stewart. I'm the Director of the Portland Water Bureau. Currently, both the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services have multimillion-dollar public improvement projects on the horizon and underway right now. Additionally, we've identified positions on our construction project where there is insufficient number of qualified contractors, including COVID certified firms. COVID is Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity. It's the state office that certifies minority small business, women-owned, veteran-owned businesses. We lack sufficient contractors available to perform in the necessary trade jobs. Our priority is to complete these projects on time and on budget. But we know that there are often not enough construction firms who have the capacity, much less the number of trained and fully qualified workers that we need. According to the 2018 Portland Metro Regional Construction Workforce Market Study, The 2016 workforce supply would fall short by more than 1,000 minorities and nearly 1,500 females and 445 apprentices to fill the needs for all trades in the region over the next five years. That's the period we're in right now. To this end, the Water Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services support using rate-payer funds to increase capacity of diverse firms and train and retain a diverse workforce. The current workforce development and business technical assistance systems are robust and streamlined, however they need more capacity to fully support the diversification of the construction industry. By using these existing systems we will create efficiencies and continue to build capacity where the City has already invested. We understand that funding pre-apprenticeship training and providing supports for pre-apprentices and early apprentices will result in people ready to go to work. We understand that providing business development to small firms will increase the pool of diverse firms who will bid. This program will ensure we have an adequate number of trained, diverse workers to complete our projects and meet our equity goals. Ratepayers deserve this level of efficiency on ratepayer projects and from our city. By fully utilizing these 1% funds, we can create the largest, most diverse construction industry possible in our city. The COEP will benefit the infrastructure bureaus and rate payers as well as support the city's equity goals and benefit the community. I'll turn this now over to Mike Jordan. Thank you, Mike. Commissioners, thank you for hearing from us today. The city has a long history of attempting to be inclusive with minority and women owned businesses in our contracts and in our construction work. This program attempts to do more than that. This program approaches changing the market in the Portland metropolitan area. We've gotten better at being able to get minority and women owned businesses into our contracts so that they have the money that comes from that work. That's not enough. We think that we are really in the business of trying to evolve the market, both the market for contractors by allowing them and giving them the supports to grow their businesses so that they can become prime contractors and participate even further in our work. But for the first time, I think, the city is attempting now to get into working on the workforce and diversifying and growing the construction workforce. If both of those markets can be more robust, speaking selfishly as a utility, the costs of our projects will maybe not go down, but the upward pressure won't be as great. If we can expand those markets, it is in our interest along with the community's interest. So, we're very excited about the approach that's being taken, particularly with workforce. If we're going to be successful in that realm, we will have to have a consistent, steady, professional effort that does not ebb and flow with the amount of capital dollars we're spending from project to project. It will need to be that kind of an effort. So, I can tell you both utilities are very supportive of the approach and are ready to be involved in the project. So thank you. Thank you. So to be clear, because there's been some understandable confusion over this in the past year or so, we have nearly a million dollars that's ready to be granted through the Prosper Portland granting process that is non-rate payer funds. And that is still on track. So I want to make sure that if there are questions forming in council members' heads, I want to address that. This is intended to win a validation for the rest of the funds that will be eligible for this program. So the funding is ready to be deployed through phase one of the COEP, and we need to address the ratepayer funds. In order to do that, as we have said, staff devised a rubric. It's attached as Exhibit A to the resolution. It frames the various ways that ratepayer funds may be used. And now, without further explanation or context, we want Karen to go through that rubric with you. Yeah, and I'm going to ask Ty Kovach to come up to help me out with this a little bit. Mayor, I had to look the word rubric up. I had to look the word rubric up. I feel like you're trying to bring the word rubric back. That's what I think is going on. It didn't come from you. You're making it cool. I want to know how a rubric is different from a matrix. I'm just kidding. That was not in the definition. We'll get back to you. We'll get back to you, Commissioner. Thanks very much. And so, first of all. I just want to thank my colleagues for taking something that could be really boring and actually making it fun. Thank you. That's what we're here for. Sorry, Karen. I interrupted. There you go. That's okay. Thank you. First, I'd like to bring up Ty Kovach. Oh, Ty's here. He's the. Hey, Tom. Ty's the Water Bureau's Director of Maintenance and Construction. And he's been working within the Water Bureau on apprenticeship programs. programs for quite some time. So he's going to jump in in a couple of spots and give some real life examples here. So can I just ask the question, Mayor? I know you all worked really hard to do these very detailed presentation, but you're asking us just to give the attorneys the authority to find out if we can do what we've already voted to do. Is that right? Yes. And And additionally, to let me go to the circuit court and have them look at this specific rubric and say, and it's really, it's a great question. Because we're going to ask the court to say, look at this. We have all of these columns. We have an X and a Y axis. We want to make sure we believe that any project that falls anywhere on this rubric is, is consistent with the Portland City Charter. Now, what we may end up with is the Circuit Court saying, yes, on 1, 2, and 4, not on these. And so we will either get full approval or... or we'll get guidance, or the court could come back and say, you can't spend ratepayer funds on COEP projects, period. That I don't anticipate because we are drawing a direct nexus between these expenditures and the relationship with water and sewer services. And Commissioner, if I could address what I think is underlying at least part of your question, we understand the value of your time. And we wouldn't be here if we hadn't learned from the past that it's important to walk through this with the council and have all this on the record that this was fully understood. Correct? Correct. Correct. And Commissioner Fritz was actually instrumental in the Riverside Cemetery matter because she provided testimony and the court cited to that. Because the question is, to what extent does the council have the discretion per the charter to spend right-paid dollars? So if we have explained why there is a... that nexus and in particular as we go we do need to go through this rubric so it's then all in the record so that if it's challenging the future the attorneys can say yes the council heard this agreed that this is our rationale and that means that you and I don't have to read the entire thing in our closing remarks but I am quite proud of myself for quite inadvertently giving the rationale for why we prevailed on review of the cemetery. Well, thank you very much because I was like, I was just wondering if we had met before because we have all had this conversation ad nausea. So I just, I was clear that there was a purpose to which I was unaware. Please continue. Thank you very much for entertaining my question. Thank you. And I'm not going to walk through every single item. We're just going to give you some examples. You'll notice that on the X axis is the water and sewer activities that we are going to be putting forth to the court. And on the Y-axis, we have the different types of activities that the COEP program will be funding for workforce and individual training. So I'm going to just walk through one of each category. If you look at 1A to start with, the expenditure... on the y-axis is for business technical assistance and the activity is specific to a water, bureau, project or service. And so one example of this type of activity would be a service provider connecting with a Washington Park Reservoir subcontractor who needs support with bookkeeping practices. The service provider would perhaps offer five hours of one-on-one training to that subcontractor and refer the subcontractor to a bookkeeping program for additional services. If you look at 1E, the expenditures for business technical assistance But this activity supports a BES environmental obligations. And as you know, BES has many obligations that were considered to be in compliance with the Portland City Charter, such as complying with the MS4 stormwater permit. So an example here would be a service provider supporting a landscaping business that wants to expand into stormwater management by maintaining bioswales throughout the city. Again, these are just examples. The service provider might help the business assess its cash flow and personnel policies in order to hire additional staff for this work thereby growing that business. If you look at 2C, the expenditures for outreach and recruitment of diverse workers, and the activity is specific to a BES project or service. An example here would be a service provider recruiting apprentices from their prior pre-apprentice training programs to work on an active BES project that might need female apprentices, or they could provide recruits training. They could recruit registered apprentices to work on an active BES project. Just a couple more. If you look at 3D, the expenditures for workforce training, including pre-apprenticeship training, and the activity increases diverse workforce supply for BES projects or services. The service provider might offer a pre-apprenticeship training program, and the curriculum could include site visits to an active BES project, or learning city rules or regulations for environmental protections and exposure to trades most common for BES projects. Finally, if you look at 4B, the expenditures for retention of diverse workers and the activity is increases diverse workforce supply for water bureau projects or service. In this instance, a service provider could develop a mentorship program to retain apprentices in the plumbing trade. Now, these examples show a broad range of activities that could be performed that support the success of water and sewer projects. At this point, I'm going to ask Ty Kovach from the Water Bureau to give a couple of examples of how the rubric could be implemented on Water Bureau projects. That will conclude our presentation, but I want to point out that today we also have with us Prosper Portland's General Counsel, Allison Keene, Assistant General Counsel, John Mosserman, and Shea Flattery-Batine, the Economic Development Manager at Prosper, who can also help us answer any of your questions. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Turn it on. I should know that. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Ty Kovach from the Portland Water Bureau. And we've been having a number of brainstorming sessions around the rubric that Karen has developed and you know broadly I think the program there's a lot of opportunities for us to find the nexus between supporting the infrastructure in our community to help women and minorities join the workforces that support our projects so I think those ones are pretty clear and Karen has touched base on those but in the water bureau this is an endeavor that we have been pursuing for many years most notably probably for you is through our apprenticeship program which is the one of the only public apprenticeships in the state where we train utility workers and water operations mechanics through a Boley sanction apprenticeship program that's become a really successful source of helping our workforce in the water bureau diversify at least as it relates to our field staff. One of the areas that we have been challenged in that regard is in the pursuit of bringing women into the construction field. And there's in our community there's about 4% of women of the construction field is women who are interested in that. And so when we do a recruitment, we have found many times that we're competing with the other construction entities, PGE, Northwest Natural, the county. Everybody who is in that space is pursuing the same relative handfuls of women who are in those programs. And so we had one recruitment a few years ago where we offered the job to seven different women and we got one. So that is an indicator of part of a challenge and so we've linked up with organizations like Oregon Trades Women. And it's been a really good partnership and they have a great pre-apprenticeship program that they do where they put women through a variety of trainings. And it's a really great foundation and they introduce them to a variety of trades. But where they have trouble competing is when we do the recruitment. and you use the civil service process and they're competing against people who have construction experience that's beyond the foundational kind of trainings that you get in the oregon tradeswomen so an initiative that the water bureau is bringing forward hopefully in this budget cycle will be a request for you guys to consider for what will be five maintenance workers that the water bureau will employ on a one year basis where people from programs like Oregon Trades Women and others that are in targeted areas that we're pursuing will come in and work for us for a year. And in that year, they'll gain a commercial driver's license. They'll get real world experience working side by side with our crews, learning about the water system in the only, you know, we're the best place to learn about the water system in the state of Oregon. And they get one year of real world experience. And what that does for them is make them very marketable in the construction universe. It makes them compete really strongly when we do our recruitment for our apprenticeship programs. And gives us the opportunity to then access those people more often. Because when it comes down to us competing for them, they've worked with us. We've built a relationship with them. And they're going to be more inclined to choose us over our competitors. So this notion, this model that I'm talking about is something that we're doing anyway, and we're doing it on a relatively small scale. But I think it's scalable. I think it's something that we could use the support from these outside entities. You know, if our target audience was women, the Oregon Trades women probably could use resources that come from the program that we're here today to discuss to support those women who are learning in that area. opportunity that they're going through making sure that they can have the best opportunity to be successful and at the end of the year when they've had that experience and their marketability is better those organizations have those connections to those potential employers and even if the Water Bureau doesn't end up hiring the individuals who come through that, we've been successful if they've found a place to land. While they're working here, they can apply for other bureaus jobs on internal recruitments and those kind of things. So that's an idea, a concept that I think we could really actually flesh out over the coming months and years to with a program that has support like this that's available. A second thing really quickly that I'd just like to mention is a number of us in the Water Barrel went through a year-long results-based accountability equity program that was really an insightful thing. And part of that process, we worked on developing concepts and ideas that could be implemented in the pursuit of equity in our organizations. And one of those is on the professional side of the water barrel where we have people who require certifications and who require certain kinds of experiences. There's built-in barriers in the system to getting people of color and women in particular to engineering-type jobs and other... science and technology oriented positions. We have in our apprenticeship program, for example, recruited a bunch of really quality people who are now advancing into other positions in the organization, but there's kind of a ceiling for them at the moment. If there was an opportunity to provide those people the education that they would need to become qualified for those internal positions, we could begin to grow our own because, again, the water barrel, when they're trying to hire an engineer, is competing with CH2M Hill for the very limited universe of women and people of color who might be interested in that field. We have people who are building the system on the ground right now who are very intelligent, who have every – capability of becoming qualified to do those design functions and to do those other kinds of roles, but they lack the education for it. So if the Water Bureau could concurrently gain the benefit of those people by employing them, while also having a program that could help put them through the educational components that they need to do CAD or do engineering, it's an opportunity I think that really could be a model that a lot of bureaus in the city could employ. So those are just a couple of ideas that we've had in discussing routes by which we could make these resources utility specific. And I'm sure more will come out of it. What's the benefits of the Water Bureau of having a more diverse workforce? I think that has sort of been a broad city goal for a number of times. The different perspectives that people bring to the table are, radically enhance the quality of our work. It enhances the value of the communication between people. It helps our folks set the tone and lead in the community on the concepts of equity and the concepts of helping, you know, overcome some of the, white male dominated universe that's happened in history. And I think it's the responsibility of government to lead in that way. So that's one benefit for the workforce. Obviously, the more ideas and the more angles of attack we have on the different problems that we are pursuing, I think the better the outcomes we have and the better the quality and more well thought out they are when we go to implement them for the broader community. Thank you. Before we move to our extensive public testimony, Karen, it's my understanding we need to move an amended resolution. Yes, it was. Yes, it's an amended resolution. It was in the Tuesday memo. It was. But I believe I have to entertain a motion for the amended resolution. I move to adopt the amended resolution. A motion from Commissioner Udaly. Thank you. A second from Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Please call the roll on the amended resolution. Prince. Aye. Hardesty.
 Aye. New Daily. Aye. Wheeler. It just changed one of the whereases. Aye. The amended resolution is now under consideration. And public testimony. No one signed up. Shockaroo. Please call the roll. Fritz. So this is really important. Thank you very much for your work. Thank you especially, Karen, having been a veteran of many of these legal battles and making sure that we get it right. I appreciate what Ty Kovacs just said in terms of what's the benefit for the Water Bureau in having a more diverse workforce. You know, I would imagine we're one of the few Water We know from our experiences on the council that when you have different kinds of people who think different kinds of way, you tend to get to better outcomes. In particular, many of our water bureau staff, they work in the field, and so they're going to be in contact with our community members. They need to be able to communicate with our community members, and community members need to be able to relate to them as people like everybody else. And so I think it's really important. I know it's really important that our crews are engaged reflective of our community, not only because of the good jobs that that provides and the fact that we have both city and state and federal equity goals, but also because it is operationally better for the Water Bureau and of course for the Environmental Services as well, to have the kind of workforce that has multiple different capacities including language capacities as well as various others. And so I appreciate the documentation. As I mentioned, I will not read it into the record. And we know that this is really important because if the council has made a considered decision on moving forward with a program like this and is able to document why we're making that decision, then it's highly likely it has to end up in court, and we appreciate that. Hardesty. I am always thrilled when we're proactively seeking a legal opinion. This is something, of course, that's near and dear to my heart, which has been, it seems, our theme today, keeping our promise. when we talk about who has benefit of these contract dollars and who doesn't, and how do we ensure that as we move forward that we are actually growing the workforce that will have the opportunity to work on these projects. This is absolutely the right proactive move for us to take, and how wonderful that we're actually asking for an opinion before we get sued, because, you know, people like to sue us for some odd reason. But this is going to be good work. I'm thrilled to see the commitment to actually moving forward on this work. And I'm very proud to hear directors say this matters. This matters personally, it matters professionally, and it matters for the city of Portland. I vote aye. New Daily. Well, colleagues, staff, I am thrilled to share with you that a rubric is a matrix, but not every, oh, I don't know the plural. Matrix. Matrices are a rubric. But joking aside. It's been a long week. This is great and necessary work. I really appreciated the response to Commissioner Hardesty's, I mean, sorry, Commissioner Fritz's question. And thank you for your caution and your diligence. I vote aye. Wheeler. Well, I want to thank all of the city boroughs for working on this because it is important. And all joking aside, after a long day, we can poke a lot of fun at this. At the end of the day, is it a rubric? Is it a matrix? I still think of it as a chart. But the important thing is what we're seeking here is consistency in our approach. And making sure that the use of rate payer funds in particular comports with the appropriate legal definitions of how those dollars need to be spent. And with this guidance, of course, early guidance, we hope that the chart will be validated, confirming that our spending will actually be in alignment with the city's charter. And I have great confidence, based on the great work you're all doing, that that will be the case. So thank you for your hard work. Sorry it came at the end of a very long day. We should have a better way of celebrating this. But we'll just celebrate by giving you what you need to get going on it. I vote aye the resolution, the amended resolution is adopted. Thank you and we are adjourned.