Really amazing story. Eric Larson is really good at digging up these stories that nobody's ever heard of from about a hundred years ago. I think he sort of specializes in that right around the turn of the 19th, 20th century. Fascinating writer. Okay, I think we're ready to get to work.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the March 11th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll, Carla? Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Hales? Here. Well, good morning, everyone. We have some very pleasant non-conference.
 council item business to do this morning because we've got students here. We're going to talk about literature and publishing and studying our city. So I just want to welcome everyone here. First, I want to welcome back to Portland with another group of students, Professor Atsuya Yoshida from Tokushima University. He is here again with his students. Welcome to Portland. Nice. Great having you here.
 And then we also have a proclamation up front and another one in the council calendar. This one's also about literature and actually involves one person in particular on my team, so I'm going to exercise this privilege. It says, whereas Portland is a city of readers and a city of writers, and whereas Portland is home to Powell's City of Books, one of the greatest independent bookstores on the planet, as well as a wide array of smaller but also excellent independent bookstores,
 And whereas Left Coast Crime, an annual gathering of mystery authors and mystery fans, has chosen Portland for its 2015 convention. And whereas the long-standing book club in Portland, Friends of Mystery, is being honored for its contribution to the genre.
 And whereas mystery authors Chelsea Kane, Timothy Hallinan, and Gar Anthony Harwood will be honored at the convention. And whereas whodunit fans from all over the country will gather March 12th through the 15th at the Double Tree by Hilton Hotel in the Lloyd District.
 and this is not here, but whereas one of the participants will be our own Dana Haynes. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim March 11th, 2015 to be Left Coast Crime Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day, not by committing an actual crime, but by reading one of these great authors' books about crime. Thank you.
 Dana, this is for you. Dana has an amazing life discipline, which is he, in his very little spare time, writes books. Yeah. Well, good. Well, Mayor, normally at a moment like this, the guests that you've honored would hand out free copies of his book that they've all read.
 I'm sure that could possibly be arranged. Okay, let's move on next to communications items because we have a group here to speak to us as well, also students. First item is 252, request of Bernal L.S. Cannellani to address council regarding youth leadership at Harrison Park Elementary School. Polo, come on up, and why don't you bring the first of your team. Yes. Yes.
 And speaking of writers and writing 253 also request of Janice McDonald and Tim Schultz to dress counsel regarding safe routes to school and the Harrison Park Elementary School Jade Journal project. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Good morning City Council Thank You miss more love for your patience and your persistence in getting us on the calendar this morning. I
 And for getting our Harrison Park students, their teacher sitting to the left of me and our staff to the right in front of our city, our city council. My name is Ronald Atang Sayang Katalani. I facilitate our city's immigrant and refugee integration programs. It's a constantly changing set of eight city bureaus and newcomer community partnerships.
 integrating our city's 70 or so vigorous ethnic streams into the life of our robust mainstream. Key word here is integration, the integration of subtle Portland's wealth in parks and environmental stewardship, our nationally envied livable neighborhoods and transportation alternatives, our priceless community policing,
 blended deliberately with our New Portlanders' abundance of social, cultural, and spiritual wealth. This mix, this joint bank account is enormous, and it's growing every day. It's complicated, but that contents for another discussion for another time. This morning, I'm humbled to present to City Council the central ingredient of all of our equity and practice partnerships—
 The love, of course, of Harrison Park teacher Mr. Tim Schultz, his love of education, but more to the point, at the core of his curriculum is teacher Tim's love for his students' families. It is, of course, your Transportation Bureau staff Janice McDonald's love of biking, running, and walking, but it's really about her love for our shamelessly ambitious immigrant families and their bright and brave children.
 So I'm really humbled. I'm honored to introduce my colleagues in this field. We want to make sure to thank Mark Moscato from Know Your City, worked with a grant with the Regional Arts and Culture Council to deliver these children, to deliver these newspapers, to deliver this morning. We're so proud of everyone.
 And Janice, folks may know, grew up in the Mexicano barrios of Houston. I thought she was just another Mexican chica with the crazy curly hair for years and years. And Tim has only one vowel in a family name of seven letters, and I'm happy to sell him some of my vowels. So I think we'll start with Mr. Schultz. Thank you, Kavala. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Tim Schultz and I'm a teacher at Harrison Park. I'm here to speak out for bald people everywhere. Just wanted to lighten it up for my students there a little bit. I'm here to help give my students a voice with issues affecting their community. I want to share with you how the Jade Journal came to be and explain why my class wants to speak with you today. In working with Mark Moscato and Travis Neal from Know Your City, we created a curriculum to create a classroom newspaper. Thank you.
 Mark, Travis, and I sat down with the writing curriculum and worked to integrate it with our newspaper project. We also organized guest speakers to teach the students specific skills that they would need to be able to create a newspaper. Before each lesson, Mark, Travis, and I would go over our goals for the newspaper project to make sure we were staying focused and working together. We discussed how we wanted the paper to help all students understand and to feel a pride for their community and neighborhood.
 We wanted to give all of our students a voice to share what they think is important in their lives and the community. And it's really important that you know that the Jade Journal and the articles in it came from the students in the class. It was not given to the students by adults. These came from the students, from their hearts, and from what they cared about.
 Articles such as how the internet is making us dumber came from a homework assignment from one of the students in my class. Every class we spoke to, we had, we spoke to the students about how this newspaper would only be successful if it came from them and their hearts. The articles are a reflection of what the students in my class felt were important for people to know.
 The J Journal was created by the students of my class and as a reflection of the challenges they face and information they hold. It was inspired by kids who are incredibly talented and knowledgeable, each in their own way. I sincerely hope you enjoy what my students share with you and are inspired by them like I am every day in their class as their teacher. Thank you so much for having me. It really means a lot to us. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 Thank you for having us here. My name is Janice McDonald. I work in the Bureau of Transportation on Safe Routes to School. As you know, Safe Routes to School is a partnership of schools, communities, City of Portland, community organizations and agencies to make it safer for people to walk and bike, roll around their neighborhoods and to school.
 The program started in 2005 with eight schools in three different school districts and has grown to over 100 schools in five different school districts. Safe Routes encompasses six E's, education, encouragement, valuation, enforcement, engineering, and equity. But I think it's time to also add an A for advocacy. In the Jade Journal, the students from Harrison Park are advocating for the livability of their city, neighborhood, and school.
 They are advocating for themselves and their safety of getting to and from school. These youth are becoming leaders in their community by voicing their concerns and taking initiative and finding solutions. In our work with schools, Safe Routes staff are building youth and adult partnerships. We have attended student council meetings and organized focus groups with students. We are asking how Safe Routes can benefit their school communities and the livability of their neighborhoods.
 We are listening to their voices and working together to come up with solutions. We are excited about the initiative that these young people from Harrison Park have taken to get to know their city.
 The Safe Route School staff look forward to collaborating with these youth to build upon their efforts so students are safe to walk, bike, and roll to school. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Appreciate you being here and having our kids understand they own this place and they have a stake in steering its future. So thank you for taking that approach to these young people. Look forward to hearing from a few of them as well.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Tim, maybe you and Carla can orchestrate what happens next. Yeah, there's three to call, correct? Why don't you just bring the children up you have on your list. You want to stay there, Tim? Then we can pull up another chair if you want to bring all three up. First up we have Jo Chan. Good morning. Hi, my name is Jo Chan and I'm a student from Harrison Park School.
 I am here to talk to you about our safety and how we can make it better and safer for people. The first thing that I think will make our community better is more sidewalks. I think more sidewalks would make us more safe because we can walk on them so cars and trunks don't drive where we walk. One time when I was walking to my grandma's house, a car almost hit me because the street that I was walking on had no sidewalks.
 It's really important to walk on sidewalks because it will prevent death and kids, teens, and grown-ups could walk to school or go to work easily. In our community, mostly kids get hurt because kids walk to school and home. There was a kid in my class who nearly got hit by a car while walking to school because there were no sidewalks.
 There should also be police around places where kids walk and play. But the police should be nicer to us and help us out more. And to do that, they can watch out for bad people and help us when we get hurt. The last thing that I think will make our community safer is more streetlights and crosswalks.
 It will make us safer because it will stop cars from speeding and people can cross roads without watching out for cars. I also think that the crosswalks should have more time for people to walk because some old people walk slower. So there you go. Those are the things that I think will make our community better. Remember, safety is important to everyone. I really hope that you make a change to our safety. It is really important to us and it might be for your family too.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Next up is Samantha Martinez-Mendoza. Good morning. Good morning. Hi, my name is Samantha. I am a student at Harrison Park. I am here to speak up for what I think is wrong in my community.
 I want to share with you how unhealthy food affects my neighborhood. I always have one of my friends inviting me to eat hot Cheetos or Takis when I really don't want to eat them. I live really close to a 7-Eleven, and I sometimes wonder, why don't I live next to a healthy grocery store? I want to be able to walk to a store that has good and healthy food for my body. When we are almost out of our fruits and vegetables, my mom has to drive far to get what we need.
 Me and my family want healthy food because it's not only healthy for you, but you get nutrients and vitamins in your body. I want my community to know that they are going to be able to walk to a healthy grocery store. I really do hope that when I am playing outside, my friends are eating healthy snacks, not all those chips and candies. I hope that you can make that change in my community. Thank you for hearing what I have to say. Have a wonderful rest of the day. Thank you. Applause
 And next up is Joey Chambers. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, Mr. Mayor and city councilors. My name is Joey Chambers, Jr. I highly doubt you know who I am, but I know who you are. I'm just a normal fifth grader that has a lot of the same thoughts about Portland that other fifth graders have. The school that I go to is called Harrison Park. Our school is in the Jade District on 87th Avenue. I'm here today to share my thoughts on the Portland Police Department with you.
 My thoughts on the Portland Police Department are first. I think that the police need to be more social and observant because some people are walking around the streets scared of being killed, mugged, raped, kidnapped, or attacked. An example would be one day my sister was walking to come see me and my little brother at our old house on Powell. On her way to our house, a man in a blue car said, Hey, baby, get in. After that, she ran all the way to our house and was okay once she got to the house.
 Second, my old teacher, Miss McCormack, was about nine years old when a man in a car started to follow her and her friend to school. So they started to run, and they eventually got away safely, but almost got kidnapped. That's why the police need to be more vigilant and patrol more often and not just on one street. They need to patrol all the streets of Portland because if bad people can't do one thing on one street, they'll do it on another.
 The reason I care about this stuff is because, first of all, I don't want my hometown that I'm from to have a bad reputation because I'm going to be a famous baseball player when I grow up. Second of all, I don't want my kid to grow up the way I did. I hope you put some thought into what I said instead of just listening to what I said and be done with it. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, guys. Thank you.
 So perhaps you saw the announcement yesterday that we're going to be having a new baseball team in Portland that will be playing at Lentz Park starting in 2016. Yeah. So you'll have a lot of good college players coming to play over the summer. There will be 30 home games at Lentz Park and better Little League facilities too. So, yes, we are listening, and thank you for your testimony. Good job, all. Do we have any more, Jim? Andy? Andy? I still can't see. I don't know if that's just us. Next up is a very excited Andy Nguyen.
 good morning hello my name is Andy Nguyen I'm a student at Harrison Park school I'm here to give a voice to my community I'm here to talk about police there are things happening in my community that shouldn't be so I'm here to put that to a stop I want people to know kids and teens are getting hurt police should be driving around neighborhoods people are mugging other people's on the streets robbers are breaking
 in houses with guns and scaring families. Police should also walk around schools. Homeless people are just sitting around and looking for cans. Police should be more focused on kids. Police should also worry about things that being on the ground. Kids see all type of things. They find gun shell, drugs, and broken beer bottles. They might get caught or even die. Other things
 is when people who, other things are when people who speed. Last week I was walking home and a car almost hit me. I had to jump out of the way before I got hit. If the police were on that street at that time, they could have stopped the person in the car. I'm just worried kids in my neighborhood aren't safe, so I'm going to stop that. Great job. Thank you. We have time for one more question.
 next up is Vicki Tran hi my name is Vicki Tran I am here to tell you that we need a change in our school lunch the food makes me sick we need a change in our food I want you to know that our food is bad the food is dirty when I eat it I find hair in my food I
 We need real food because some of the food is fake, like, for example, cheese, because the cheese won't stretch like real cheese. The cheese that we have breaks. People need to donate money for real food and better food to eat like a fundraiser. We also need cooked food because the food is sometimes uncooked and it makes me sick sometimes. Lunch ladies should be able to cook the food. The food we eat is boxed and it should be made, not boxed.
 Boxed food is unhealthy for your body. I get sick when I eat the food. Also, when I eat the food, it's either dry, uncooked, soggy, or dirty. When I eat the food, it dries up really quick. Like macaroni and cheese, for example, it dries up within a minute. I think that we should have better foods to eat because the foods are not clean.
 Portland Public Schools serve snack almost every day, and when I get the fruit, it's either dirty or rotten. The lunch ladies need to wash their fruits better so we can eat them. We should also have different drinks besides milk, like juice. Thanks for listening to what I have to say. I hope you make these changes soon. Have a great day. Thank you. Got one more? Next up is Elaine Tang.
 Hi, my name is Elaine Tang. I am a student at Harrison Park School. I am worried about the communities eating most of our unhealthy food. I want you to know that we need a change in our food.
 I likely want everyone to know that they are putting unhealthy foods in their body. I also want some more healthy foods added into stores. Also removing the unhealthy food. A lot of people are eating sodium, calories, fat, sugar, uncooked, and overcooked. Some stores are even hard to get to. Where I live, there are not a lot of healthy stores around. Healthy stores are at least seven miles away from me.
 I think there should be more healthy stores around for the community to get to. I think healthy stores should be somewhere around Southeast 82nd Street. Our community is getting sick eating the unhealthy food. What people eat gives them bad or good health. One time I saw a group of guys eating unhealthy junk food.
 After an hour, the group of guys were getting sick and laying on the ground. After that, the group of guys got help. Our community means a lot to me. That's why we need a change in our food. The food is very unhealthy for kids like us. I sincerely hope Portland, Oregon could help my community. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for doing this.
 Thanks so much for bringing these kids today and for getting them involved in our community, making really good points to us as community leaders about healthy food and safe streets and better police protection. So we get a lot of testimony in this room. Not all of it is this well thought through or this well presented. So nice job. Let's hear it for all the kids. Thank you very much.
 Again, we have copies of this here for everyone, the wonderful publication that was mentioned that I read yesterday, and I think it's great. Nice work. Keep up the good journalism as well. Thank you all very much. Let's hear it for Harrison Park. Hey, I see myself. Thank you. Thank you.
 This weekend they had a big community project building garden boxes.
 Well, that was a great start, and we really appreciate them being here and for all of us to have the chance to hear that. So we'll move on to the regular calendar. We have a proclamation and then a report as times certain items, a very brief consent calendar, and a few regular agenda items. So let's start with item 257, please.
 Did you want to dispose of the one item on consent first? Sure, we can do that. We have one item on consent. Anyone want to take it off consent? Okay. Going, going. Roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. 257.
 Proclaim March 15th through the 21st, 2015, to be Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. This morning I'm pleased to welcome our honored guests with Kerry Clark, Young Audiences Executive Director, and his two special guests. Please come forward. 2015 is an important year for the arts. We're celebrating a number of milestones, including Portlandia's 30th birthday.
 the 35th anniversary of our Percent for Art program, the 10th anniversary of Work for Art, and thanks to the generosity of Portland voters, this year approximately 70 teachers will be in schools, spread out over six school districts, teaching the arts to over 30,000 children. That's quite a year.
 And today we get to take some time and recognize one of our great local arts organizations, Young Audiences of Oregon and Southwest Washington. Before I introduce Kerry, who is no stranger to this building, I'm pleased to read the following proclamation that the mayor is issuing today. Whereas Young Audiences of Oregon and Southwest Washington has been inspiring the young people of Portland and expanding their learning through the arts since 1958,
 1958, by the way, was a pretty good year. And whereas the city of Portland recognizes the critical role that the arts plays in the development of young people by fostering creative thinking, grit, collaboration, and the 21st century skills they need to succeed in school, work, and life. And whereas Young Audiences of Oregon and Southwest Washington is the region's largest and most dynamic arts in education nonprofit organization,
 serving nearly 80,000 young people in over 200 schools annually. And whereas Young Audiences leverages the considerable artistic resources of Portland to benefit children in partnership with educators through innovative programs such as Arts for Learning, the Run for the Arts, the Right Brain Initiative, and the new LIVE SET, which stands for Sound Engineering for Teens.
 And whereas the nationwide network of 30 young audience affiliates is rallying together for National Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week to raise awareness for art and education initiatives in the schools and community venues. And whereas the city of Portland stands proudly with other cities, counties, and states throughout the country to celebrate the vision of, quote, all the arts for all the kids, end quote, to consider how far we have yet to go to achieve that goal.
 and to thank young audiences for its leadership in making real progress towards it. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim March 15th to the 21st, 2015, as Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this week. Let's give them a round of applause. Thank you.
 Gary, congratulations and take it away. Thanks so much for the proclamation and for making the time to have us in this morning in the midst of all the important work that you have going on, both to mark a milestone for young audiences and to celebrate the work that our community is doing to ensure that the arts are part of all kids' education and life. Joining me today are Judy Rompa, the president of our board of directors, and Audrey Kuo, our development director.
 We're honored to be here to commemorate Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week with you, as is happening in many communities across the country. But before we get to that, we wanted to share just a little bit of information about how we at Young Audiences of Oregon and Southwest Washington are doing our best to serve this community, about which we all care so much. Young Audiences has been bringing the creative resources of our community into collaboration with classroom teachers for the benefit of kids since 1958. Thank you.
 We are the largest and most comprehensive arts education nonprofit in the region, serving, as you said, nearly 80,000 children annually in nearly 200 schools in partnership with over 100 teaching artists and arts ensembles. That service takes many different shapes, and I'm pleased that you've actually seen one example recently here in Council Chambers.
 Just the other week, during the Regional Arts and Culture Council's State of the Arts presentation, Young Audiences teaching artist Aaron Nigel Smith led a classroom of fourth graders from King Elementary in a civil rights resistance song, which they'd learned as part of their exploration of civil rights issues in their class. This was a part of a Right Brain Initiative residency program that we at Young Audiences couldn't be prouder to be a partner on.
 Across Portland and beyond, young audiences teaching artists are working with students and teachers in countless different art forms, from theater to music, animation to textiles, and beyond, all to explore all manner of curricular and cultural questions. You can see that service taking place in the shape of residencies, workshops and performances in classrooms throughout the city.
 But some of Young Audience's most important work takes place behind the scenes through our professional development offerings for classroom teachers and teaching artists. We're proud to be the go-to resource for quality teaching artist training in this community. Now, at this point, I'd like to turn the mic over to Audrey to share with you about a new signature program that we're launching and an exciting milestone that we've just crossed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Carrie, and good morning, mayor and commissioners. My name is Audrey Quone. I'm the development director for Young Audiences. We're very excited to be launching a new program next month called Live Set, which is a live sound engineering training course we're producing at Mississippi Studios in North Portland. Live Set will offer 10 underserved Portland high schoolers from North and Northeast Portland this spring an opportunity to get real
 real-world, hands-on experience in the art and science of live sound engineering, giving them an employable skill and connections with a professional community and a cohort of peers. We're excited that this program will be free for students, and we invite you to join us on May 3rd at Mississippi Studios for a concert that the live set students will engineer,
 to showcase what they've learned. And I'm also delighted to be able to make an announcement here for the first time anywhere. Many Portlanders are familiar with Young Audiences program run for the arts, which has been helping students raise money for their schools for their arts programming for 37 years.
 Just this year, we have hit a critical milestone, and the run for the arts has now raised more than $15 million for the arts over its history. And it just happens to be great timing that that's happening in 2015, so hopefully we'll raise another million in 2016. We'll come back and announce the $16 million mark. But that $15 million is helping schools engage students through the arts, which
 which has been proven in study after study to improve academic performance, literacy, grit, graduation rates, and just about every other positive outcome you can name, especially for English language learner students and those coming from low-income backgrounds. Young Audiences is very proud to be a part of that. And with that, I'll yield the floor to Young Audiences Board President, Judy Rompa. Thanks, Audrey. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners.
 Young Audiences of Oregon and Southwest Washington is part of a national network of Young Audiences affiliates who are uniting together across the country to draw attention to the importance and power of arts education next week. By proclaiming March 15th through the 21st Young Audiences Arts for Learning Week, you're helping Portland declare its support for arts education and the role of creativity and joy in the lives of all children. As the board president of Young Audiences, a parent, violinist, teacher, and lifelong Portlander,
 I want to thank you for your steadfast support of the arts and arts education. The work of our organization simply wouldn't be possible without the critical grant funding we receive from the Regional Arts and Cultural Council, the Arts Education Access Fund, and Work for Art. Your support is truly making a difference in changing young lives, opening up worlds of possibility. Please know your support is vital and that we appreciate it tremendously. Thank you.
 Now, it's one thing we realized to hear thank you from us. So we wanted to try and bring you one step closer to the thank yous that we represent and that really matter, those of Portland students. And to that end, we've brought each of you an individual thank you note from students from Woodstock Elementary School that they wrote to Young Audiences Teaching Artist Ensemble Dragon Art Studio, who visited their school recently to share the art of Chinese puppetry with them.
 And I think that you'll agree that these illustrated thank you notes are pretty darn special, and we'll bring those to you in a moment. We're also extending an invitation to each of you to the Night on the Town with Young Audiences Gala that we have coming up this Saturday, March 14th, at Pure Space in Northwest Portland.
 We'll be celebrating 56 years of inspiring children and expanding their learning through the arts in Oregon and Southwest Washington, and we'd love for you to be a part of that. So thank you once again for having us and for all that you do to help service organizations like ours ensure that creativity is a part of every child's life.
 Thank you. Mayor, I have the honor of representing the city Saturday night at the gala and I'll read the proclamation that you have issued. But I just want to take a moment to reflect on a number of events that we've celebrated over the last two weeks. And this was not intentional, but it's just played out this way.
 It began with the state-of-the-arts presentation, where, as you noted, there were the young people from an elementary school who sang, and there was also a young woman who won the poetry slam contest.
 And we were very inspired by that. Fast forward, Portland Public Schools hosted a showcase at the Newmark Theater where artists from all throughout the school district came and performed. And the visual arts were displayed throughout the theater. And they're now downstairs. We have paintings and sculpture and representative work.
 and then friday night uh josh albert and i were at the schnitz for a concert of the metropolitan youth symphony which is a you know world-renowned youth symphony but what was truly amazing about that night is they were joined by artists and musicians from beaumont middle school grant high school and wilson who all participated with them both as musicians and choirs celebrating the arts
 Every one of those events highlights something very important, which is the importance of investing in young people at an early age through the arts. And when we got our report a number of months ago on the Right Brain Initiative, the council was flabbergasted by the data. Because it turns out that young people were performing well in all kinds of areas because of the arts.
 And so we know that's working. We know that the kinks in the arts tax have been worked out, and more money is now going into the classroom and going out as grant money. And then we have all of these nonprofit organizations that are doing amazing work.
 And I've had the great pleasure on two occasions of writing a check for one of my children who did run for the arts and then going to every house in our neighborhood, contributing to that 15 million. Carrie, you made a big difference when you were here in this building working with Mayor Adams and working on arts issues. And you're now continuing to make a great difference at young audiences. So on behalf of the council, I want to thank you all for your great work.
 Thanks very much. Can we get a photograph here? Yes, please. Can we acknowledge the rest of our young audience as supporters in the room? And would they be welcome to join us for a photograph? Great. Thank you. Come on up, gang. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up. Come on up.
 Oh, great. Those will be fine. Thanks very much. Yeah, I suspect Mr. Fritz, like I was, was reminiscing about those of us who are veteran parents of the Portland Public School systems have many, many run for the arts efforts with our kids.
 Yes, I was explaining it to my staff yesterday, some of whom do not have children, and basically children run around in circles. And the question was, well, how's that different? And the answer is, well, the parents count how many circles they have run around, and those of us who have extremely competitive children practically drop dead at the end because they've run so hard through so many laps. Yep, they do. They worked hard at it. That's great. Thank you all very much. Okay, let's move on to item 258. Okay.
 Accept report on Portland Parks and Recreation Park Ranger Program. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. This is in response to your request in the budget to have a report on Portland Parks and Recreation's Park Ranger Program. Here to present this morning is Galena Burley, the Park Security Manager, and Park Supervisor Hassan Arthurie. Assistant Director Warren Jimenez will be manning the PowerPoint. Well, good morning. Good morning.
 Thanks for having us here today. My name is Warren Jimenez. I am the Assistant Director of Portland Parks and Recreation, and it's a pleasure being here with a couple of colleagues, Galena Burley, who is our security manager, and Hassan Arthri, who is our ranger supervisor, who gets to go in and give you that update today. So it's a pleasure being here this morning to talk about the ranger program. Warren, are you doing a PowerPoint? I am. Because apparently our monitors don't work. Do you want us in the audience so that we can see it? Oh, here it is. There it is. Pull it up right now. Okay.
 All right, we'll go ahead and get started. Thank you for having us here today. I should say, which means good morning in Russian. I just had to do that.
 Before we go into our report, this report is just a synopsis of current state and some history. We will provide you with information about our current staffing levels. What's very important in this report is that we had to divide the city in east and west side. Basically, the river is the dividing point, and that's going to be very helpful when we talk about our data and our staffing numbers.
 In front of you is a really nice quote from one of our community partners. I'm not going to read it. It speaks for itself. And then I'm going to go ahead and dive into a few points that we'll cover in this presentation. As I mentioned earlier, we'll go through the program overview and background. We'll talk a little bit about performance measurements, current staffing levels, and a few policy options for City Council to consider afterwards.
 We have, in Portland, our rangers are ambassadors, which means that they are charged with providing information and educating park users, gaining voluntary compliance, as well as enforcing park rules throughout the city of Portland. I don't know if you knew, but our program started about 25 years ago. Back in the early 1990s, the program was started to provide additional support, eyes and ears, on our growing system.
 At that time, we did not have any permanent rangers. We had one ranger supervisor and about 10 seasonal staff. Our program continues to have a seasonal component March through approximately October. In 2010, thanks to Commissioner Fish, we were able to receive our very first permanent ranger in Forest Park. In 2011, again thanks to Commissioner Fish...
 We were able to convert some of our private security dollars from central business district. I'll refer to it again in my PowerPoint. And that helped us create three more full-time rangers. In 2013, we had converted our contract to lock up bathrooms. Citywide, we lock up approximately 60 bathrooms all over the city. And that led to a creation of few seasonal positions.
 And very recently, in 2014, we started our Washington Park program. Dedicated funding from parking revenues pays for three full-time rangers and approximately 3,000 hours of seasonal staff up there. So what does all of this mean, all of this history and all of these great commitments? It means that today we have about 14 rangers on daily duty available to patrol our entire system, 11,000 acres, 200-plus properties.
 Those 14 rangers, that number varies a little bit. Again, I mentioned we have a seasonal program. We have a few extra rangers in the summertime. But typically we have seven rangers, seven full-time rangers paired up with seven seasonal rangers. We do work seven days a week, by the way. So as I mentioned earlier, the previous commitments in Washington Park, Forest Park, and CBD led to all of our full-time rangers being on the west side of the city. Again, use the river as your dividing point.
 And on the east side of the city, typically on a daily basis, we have a couple of rangers available to respond to what we call calls for service. And our capacity east of the river has been very limited.
 Calls for service is something new to us. We've always responded to calls for service, I should say, but we started a new customer service program a few months ago. It really came to fruition to help us be a customer service point, a storefront, as well as a place where residents could call and make a report about any issue in the park system.
 We get about 200 to 300 calls for service per month, and we are educating community members as well as our partners to use our dispatch customer service function to make their phone calls to the program so we could then prioritize our resources and deploy rangers to places where we have chronic problems.
 In the next visual, you will see that our calls for service at the moment are much higher for Eastside. On average base, it's about 60% of all calls that come for Eastside of the city.
 This map illustrates the few points I already made a little bit better. The city is divided in west and east again. Looking at the west side, you will see that calls for service, average rate is about 36%, 86% of our rangers. Again, mind you, it's daily staffing level. We do use management discretion to assign them to different parts of the city when need be, but most of them are assigned to west side. And then east side, and that's because of the funding, it's dedicated funding.
 Funding, various commitments that were made over time. Yes, ma'am. Eastside, which again geographically includes all of North Portland, all of East, Inner Southeast, Southeast
 We have 14% of our rangers assigned. The model has been very reactive, to be completely honest. We have to dispatch rangers to different parks, let lengths park when things come up. And then, as I mentioned earlier, the calls for service are a lot higher for that part of the city.
 I think I have a couple more slides to go. One of them is our performance measures. I should add that we have quite a few more performance measures. They're all noted in your report, the document that you received earlier. Some of the measures we are developing currently and making some changes to how we track data in general. But for the purpose of today, what we'll cover are percentage of residents feeling safe walking in the park alone. That's an auditor survey outcome. It's a very important outcome to us.
 Number of positive and educational contacts. As I mentioned earlier, rangers are ambassadors, and counting positive contacts is very important. Number of park warnings and exclusions we write. We do have authority to issue both. Nuisance abatements. Hassan will talk more about what that means. And then various camping contacts that we make throughout our system.
 Before I turn it over to Hassan, I know I've pointed to him a couple of times. The very last thing for me is we have the slide here. It's the city auditor survey. I don't know if you could see different colors. But if you look at the very, very top line, it's blue on my end, you will see that overall perception of safety according to the auditor survey, and they do it based on neighborhood coalitions, I believe,
 has gone up. We've gone up over the last few years from 79 to 83. Small margin, but a good one. If you look at North Portland right below that and East Portland way below at the bottom and dotted green line, you will see that those two are tracing behind the rest of the city. East Portland gone up and down, currently tracking at about 57%. Now Hassan will tell you a little bit about our performance measures and our successes in the field. Thank you, Galina.
 As we review the next few slides and data, please note that one-time funding to increase ranger staffing in 2012 carried to 2013 and created additional capacity to respond to and address more issues in the field.
 As such, in June 2012 and 2013, we had more rangers. Excuse me. In the summer of 2013, for example, the program had close to 30 seasonal staff compared to the summer of 2014 where the program capacity decreased to only 12 rangers. The reports by rangers typically go up in the summer months because of additional seasonal capacity from March to October. As Galena mentioned earlier,
 Rangers are trained to be ambassadors first and do their work on an enforcement continuum. Their primary job is to ensure that each park user enjoys their time in Portland Parks. They attempt to make positive and educational contacts first and use exclusion authority only when it's necessary. As you can see in the data, the number of positive and educational contacts Rangers make greatly outweighs the number of exclusions and warnings.
 With that said, the top three parks where exclusions and warnings were issued in 2014 include Washington Park, Governor Tom McCall Waterfront Park, and South Park Blocks. The top three reasons for warnings or exclusions include alcohol, controlled substances in park, and camping. Rangers also address about 2,500 nuisance issues per year. These activities range from litter pickups to disposal of hypodermic needles.
 In addition, the rangers work with community groups and agency stakeholders, such as the Office of Neighborhood Involvement Graffiti Abatement and the Willamette River Keepers to help keep parks clean and safe. In addition, rangers assist people living outdoors with access to social services, and they also address to attempt to abate property-related impacts. All rangers are trained to assess the situation and attempt to help campers find alternative sleeping arrangements,
 and most contacts made in the field do not lead to camps needing to be posted or removed. If a posting of a camp is necessary, rangers provide those individuals with information to join and also let them know of other social service opportunities. We work with JOIN to find shelter for anyone who is medically fragile or with child. Rangers also provide advance notice prior to cleaning.
 up to seven days, but at least 24 hours, unless there's a significant safety risk, we provide campers time to gather their belongings as well. Rangers coordinate removal of trash, and if campers have any salgable personal property, we tag it and take it to the storage for 30 days. Now I'm going to turn it back over to Galena to let you know how Ranger presence makes a difference.
 Well, I think you've already covered how it makes a difference. Let me highlight a couple of very special examples. And really the key here is consistent ranger presence. So most of my examples are going to be west of the river or nearby. In Washington Park, we started the program, as I mentioned, in January of 2014, and we put three full-time dedicated rangers as well as a number of seasonal staff to support about 500 acres of property in various venues.
 What we've seen in Washington Park is refreshing. According to police data, the number of reported crimes, type 1 and 2, for the park has declined by 50%. Now, I will tell you, more research is needed to understand the link between rangers and crime data, and it's declining by half. But it's certainly refreshing, and these early results are encouraging. Another great example, how many of you know Holiday Park?
 Holiday Park had a great private and public partnership there last summer. We received funding from a private partner who paid for both ranger security capacity and for programming in the park. So I need to make sure that both of those are included.
 Rangers were in the park seven days a week, approximately eight to ten hours per day, and then we also did programming, everything from yoga to various activities for kids. We had a little library in that park. What we've seen during the 2014 Holiday Park pilot program is that ranger presence combined with programming in the park made a huge difference. We've seen a decrease in gang activity and park violations. We've seen an increase in the number of people coming to the park just to enjoy it and to participate in programs.
 And certainly we've seen that the not-so-positive activity was displaced and positive use patterns have emerged. Another great example in 2015, thanks to Commissioner Saltzman's office, we participated in the 2015 street count outreach. We did it as civilians. We did it for a couple of weeks. All of our enforcement was suspended. Our rangers had a great time, and they gave out a number of hand warmers and socks to people living outdoors.
 And one that's very close to my heart, I wish those kids from the earlier presentation stayed because we work with kids a lot. We have a very successful summer playground program. And last summer alone, our rangers have made over 2,700 contacts with kids. And kids absolutely love to see rangers. You know, we have those junior ranger badges that we bring with us. And, of course, we teach them about parks and how important they are for future generations.
 Before I turn it over to our commissioner, we do have a couple of invited guests that I would like to ask to come forward to say a few words. Jean Quincy, who is a member of Oregon Marine Board and a resident of Portland. And we also have Randy Teague, who is the Neighborhood Response Team Supervisor for East Portland. Thank you.
 Before you do that, are there any questions from council for this panel? I have some, so maybe we can be able to end. Okay. We'll have you come back later. Thank you so much. All right. So Randy and Jean. We also had a few people sign up for public comment. We'll have that, too. Thank you. Good morning. Okay. Thank you. I'm going to turn it over to Jean. All right. Mayor Hales, council members, my name is Jean Quincy. I'm the chair of the council.
 I am here as a member of Wasabi Paddling Club and as a citizen concerned for our green spaces. I would wish to start by expressing gratitude for the additional funding that was allocated to start cleaning up River Place Dock.
 Due to this funding and the additional presence of park rangers and law enforcement, we are now hopeful that the River Place area is on return to being a safe, clean, and enjoyable place to engage with the river. Thank you for making the safety of your boating citizens important. The funding truly has made a difference. We ask that it become permanent so that the progress continues to be made as there is still much work to be done.
 When our waterfront groups reached out to help with the continued lawlessness on the river, it became apparent that there were simply not enough park rangers and or law enforcement officials to get the job done. And the waterfront is just one of Portland's many outdoor gems.
 I also bike along the East Bank Esplanade and I hike the trails of the local parks, such as Hoyt and Forest. Our green spaces are fabulous, but all of them are prone to the same influx of abuse by those that would use these spaces not for recreation or engagement with nature, but for dealing illegal substances, prostitution, and general lawlessness. In a city proud of its parks and green spaces, we must ensure that our citizens utilize these spaces in the manner intended,
 and that the spaces are safe. Simply, we need more parks rangers and law enforcement. I think we even heard that from the children earlier. From the website of the park rangers, what do they do for us as citizens? Couldn't be said better than the first two paragraphs. They serve as goodwill ambassadors, provide positive presence in Portland parks and park facilities. Rangers serve multiple roles by providing information, helping solve conflicts, and enforcing city code.
 We like to say the rangers are the eyes and ears of our parks. Park rangers work closely with our maintenance crews and other staff, such as those in customer service. They maintain relationships and contacts with the police bureau and other criminal justice agencies, animal control, neighborhood associations, youth services, and other social service agencies to identify, prevent, and address concerns within parks. Thank you.
 Parks rangers are crime prevention. It's like having an ADT sign in my home window. The president says, not here. Please continue to provide rangers and law enforcement in our parks and green spaces and waterways so that all the citizens of the city and our visitors may safely enjoy the beauty we have built. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you so much. I'm going to turn it over to my partner in crime prevention, Randy Deak.
 Mr. Hales and council uh I was actually coming down here today it was very gratifying for me to be able to see all these kids and to you know witness firsthand your commitment to the the children in this community it and obviously in my occupation you don't sometimes you don't see a lot of these positive things and I really appreciate that I just want to say that much up front
 And it's important to know that 40% of our children live east of 82nd. And that community is a large immigrant community. In my work with the Africa House, they expressed the desire to have positive role models in the community. And the parks are really an opportunity for council to extend that.
 your intent and the intent that I saw here today can be extended to these to these citizens and in working with Galena and Mr. R3 over the last year they're very committed and they've they're doing an outstanding job these park rangers are professionals they provide me from the law enforcement side a value set of eyes and a perspective that is different than law enforcement's perspective
 And it's very valuable to see and to have that information. And then along the green spaces that are a little less controlled than parks, having these men and women out there walking around, they provide a safety net that we're unable to provide, frankly. We don't have the personnel to have people walking these green spaces and paying attention to people.
 and the consistency that I know that the ranger program has attempted to have this consistent presence in the community on the east side and being responsive to the citizens who have complained and really want some, that vitality in their park that they see on the west side.
 I've been getting a lot of positive feedback, especially on the south end, along the Spring Water Corridor. And it's very helpful to me to have these consistent eyes that can first spot. We have people that live along the trail that are displaced and they have mental health issues. They have physical issues. They have addiction issues. And to have these consistent eyes out there that can see this person on a day-to-day and see that they are starting to decompensate or that they are having some problems.
 You know, they are members of our community and they deserve protection and this gives us some continuity in that effort. And it's been extremely helpful and I work with the parks off and on in the 22 years I've been here in many capacities, but in my current capacity and in the last year especially working with Galena, it's just been way more intense, way more engaged.
 And I really appreciate the efforts that Parks is putting out, and I appreciate the Ranger program. And that's why I came here to talk. I have a question. Yeah, I do too. So go ahead, please. Is it officer? Sergeant. Sergeant, excuse me. Let me get it right. Sergeant, thank you for joining us. Back in 2011, there was, when the Parks Bureau made the change, there was some concern that
 that was expressed that, and I'll just try to paraphrase it, some people were concerned that with a more robust ranger program that the communication between the police bureau, the rangers, and clean and safe might not go as well as hoped.
 And we heard from Commander Day back in 2011, 2012, that the communication was pretty good. But since you're here, could you tell us, since we are talking about coordinating among three different entities, how is that communication going? It's very good, actually. A member of the team is, we hold a monthly meeting, a problem solving meeting that encompasses the entire community. So all issues. So Parks has always got someone there
 listening to concerns and presenting concerns, and then I doubt there's a day that goes by that I don't hear from Galena. And my guys report daily on the days they're working that the parks rangers are out there, that they communicate very specific things regarding people on the trail, regarding campsites, regarding people who may be becoming a problem. So my assessment of the communication between
 Law enforcement, at least as far as East Precinct is concerned, and parks right now, is very good. I think the management I've met with
 Lynn Barlow has come and talked to me and laid out her concerns for these green spaces. And I've met with Colleen, as I said, many, many times. And I'm very appreciative of the program. And when I asked to come down here, I had absolutely no problems. I think that it is improving. I can't speak to 2011, but I can speak to I've been in the neighborhood response team since 2012.
 and it has just improved incrementally over the years. And I'm going to say 2014 has been a very significant increase in communications and what I see as outreach from the parks. Thank you, Sergeant. Thank you.
 Yeah, that was my question as well. Let me just follow up on it a little bit, both for you and for the Parks Bureau. I'm glad to hear the level of coordination is good now and or later. Let us know, particularly me as Commissioner in Charge of the Police Bureau, what changes we ought to make in terms of communication protocols or anything else to make it
 seamless between the two sets of folks and particularly with respect to the fact that we plan to continue to expand walking beats in the police bureau so we're going to have more officers on foot doing what they did you know over the last year in downtown and Hawthorne other parts of the city so as we expand that effort how does that need to dovetail with what
 what the Rangers are doing. So again, happy to hear we're generally working well together, good, but what do we need to do to make that better? And then how does the combined effort accommodate the fact that we're going to have more officers on foot or on bikes over time? Well, I think my, we've had this, we've already talked about this, we had a meeting last month about this topic.
 And in the area of improving, I would like to see – of course, it's going to cost you money.
 But I would like to see if we can get rangers on ATVs so they're more mobile. And it's just a training issue. It's a two-day training program. I just put four officers through it. We have a couple of ATVs in the East Precinct, right? We do. We got five ATVs. And I think that having parks and police doing patrol together is effective. I also think that having them just out there together, because our roles are different,
 I think that's by design. You need to do that by design. So I think it would be up to parks management how they want to present themselves. If it's a more enforcement-oriented piece, then I think you bring blue shirts with you. I think if it's an outreach piece, then we govern our response according to that. So I think that there is a fit. I think it does dovetail. I think that the professionalism of the organization dovetails nicely with the expectations of the police bureau.
 And I think that when we start increasing the walking beats, you're just going to increase your effectiveness by putting a ranger with a police officer. I don't especially – that's a similar model to what we did in the fun center. For some time, we would split gang enforcement officers up with security personnel and with patrol officers in order to spread the expertise around. And I think that the Parks Bureau brings a certain expertise that officers aren't going to have.
 And I think that that's a positive thing there. Great. Thank you. Thanks very much. Colleen, anything you want to add to that question? Absolutely. Just to add that we've made a number of tactical decisions specifically for that reason to improve upon already an amazing relationship we had with police bureaus. So our rangers attend calls for service, roll calls, basically.
 We do have different expertise. We also attend many of the community problem-solving meetings. We go to every problem-solving meeting at each precinct, and that's been very helpful. The one we have here in Central Precinct is also attended by Clean and Safe and many of our other partners. So we are at the table together talking, brainstorming, coordinating, and it's just been really great to have everyone be on the same page.
 So that's been very helpful. MR. Can I ask another question? MR. Please. MR. And this is to either of you or both. One of the issues that the council grappled with a few years ago is how do you measure success? And I'll give you a specific example.
 It was the hope of the council that rangers would be working upstream, preventing bad things from happening, building relationships, convincing someone not to escalate a problem, maybe using persuasion to get someone to move along rather than lead to an arrest. But it always raised the question for us is how do you measure that?
 How do you quantify that? How do you measure the positive benefits of having someone de-escalate a situation or work upstream so that you don't have a downstream problem?
 We could look at the outcomes. We could look at specific parks where we have consistent presence. Washington Park and Holiday Park are great examples of that. While you can't really put a number, and maybe you can, maybe you have to be more scientific than me, on prevention specifically, the value of the outcome of having ranger presence on consistent basis is clear. Crime goes down, positive use goes up, you
 You could quantify that and maybe do a baseline assessment. It's something that we're considering. We're actually looking at possibly adding to the way we measure our data some of those less concrete measures. But even with concrete data that we have now, we could see a huge difference. We see that the crime goes down, and we see that positive use in parks with consistent presence make a huge difference.
 Yeah, actually, let me follow up on that. You may have something else to add, Sergeant, and jump in, please. But we've got location-specific criminal offense data from the police bureau. You've got education contacts. Now that we have a performance dashboard system at the city, we might want to consider graphing those two things together. Presumably, if everything's working, we'll see that pattern, that there'll be more education contacts and less arrests in the same place.
 in roughly the same time so it'll be i think we have it looks like now that you provide us with this data which is good um we ought to be able to put those two sets of numbers together and look at them and i think that'd be very helpful for us we um the uh directly on point for this is we've utilized strategic services basically our compstat people uh they they've been very good about providing us we just did a study and uh
 of the trail and and what we did is we went four blocks on either side of the trail just to get an idea of what's happening not only on Chubb but how it impacts the neighborhoods so we had the ability to capture data from the from the perspective of part one to arrest those types of things but I you know if you'd asked me this question when I was had been here for five years I probably would have answered it differently that I'm gonna answer it now
 I've come to learn that responsiveness is as important as effectiveness. If you measure effectiveness in numbers of arrests or however you measure that, I think that the responsiveness and communicating effectively is extremely, extremely important. And people understand that we can't just make problems go away, but when we don't respond, they don't understand that. And our responsiveness is...
 is 90% of the battle, the rest of it's easy. And I can't emphasize that enough. I mean, if I've learned anything in my time, it's that. And then consistency is the other piece to address. How do you measure and how do you get to where you're managing civilized and good behavior versus compelling civilized and good behavior? And I think it's just consistency. I spent the first five years of my career in corrections.
 And you can enforce the rules because there's a lot of them, but you can enforce two rules consistently and get a lot of compliance. And I think that it's consistency, and I think that's what the parks rangers are asking for, is the ability to provide that consistent coverage. And I concur that that consistent coverage is going to go a long way into tamping down.
 the spikes of bad acts and maybe just keep those acts into just little things that can be managed on the very lowest level. But it's going to require consistency. I'll just affirm, Mayor, sort of that goal. I think there's a lot of agreement on working towards those performance metrics and finding the right ones. And I think what you see in the report is good baseline type of data, and we want to continue to sort of improve those to determine and measure the success of the program. Exactly. Thank you.
 Other questions? Great. Thank you very much. Carolina, what's the maximum number of hours that a seasonal worker can work over the course of a year? They could get paid for 1,400 hours. They do have sick and vacation, and so that's included, 1,400 hours max. Right. And so what we do, since we do have year-round work, we have to lay people off and hire somebody else, and that also impacts the consistency of coverage. Yes, ma'am.
 And can I follow up on that? And when you lay people off, you run the risk that you can't hire them again and we lose talent. So a question I had is the memo, the written memo that you've given us concludes with some policy options and some funding options. And my question to my colleague is, do you have any current budget asks in the system for any portion of this? Well, yes, I do, Commissioner. Sure.
 I want everybody to know I did not pay him to say that. Actually, I didn't know. No, I know. So actually what I'd like to do is take the public testimony and then get down to those policy questions if we could. Great. Thank you so much. Thank you. Okay. We have no other invited testimony, Commissioner? Correct. So whoever signed up, please. Okay. We have nine people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Susan West, Joe Walsh, and Reverend Charles Johnson.
 Good morning. Good morning. Yeah. Yes.
 Go ahead Susan, I think you're first. Okay, I'm Susan West. I'm chair of the River Place Condominium Association Security Committee and I'm turning in 154 signatures that I've collected this week in support and you've also received many emails. We want you to know that the River Place docks, parks and waterfront are loved and used by thousands of Portlanders as well as hundreds of its residents but in the last five years it has gone downhill.
 The waterfront has gone from being a jewel to an armpit. It is an embarrassment to our city and a danger to our citizens, and citizens are in an uproar down here. My 90-year-old mother, visiting teenagers, paddlers, and tourists cannot safely walk alone now in our River Place neighborhood on some days and most nights. My family and friends are offered narcotics on the esplanade. There is human excrement floating near our docks.
 I pick up drug needles all the time and see excrement all over our neighborhood. Our cars are prowled and our residents are intimidated.
 Bikers with children going to OHSU daycare or the international school right here, Portland State students and commuters pedal on dangerous roads and sidewalks to avoid the new vagrant population that have taken over the wonderful and expensive new bike path under the Harrison overpass.
 Enough. Volunteers have been cleaning this area weekly, but we want the City to pass a budget sufficient to consistently clean up and care for high-use areas like River Place. Our parks need enforcement, which calls for an adequate budget, and our citizens need protection.
 Galena Burley, Park Security, has been very responsive to our efforts to improve things. The contract between the parks and the Sheriff's River Patrol, putting Deputy Shanks and the crew down 10 to 20 hours a week, has been a huge improvement. In a month, we've gone from 25 boats controlling the dock to now that we have about 15 on the dock and around it, plus eight dinnies tied up there.
 and it's made a huge difference in safety, so please renew the contract. It's a little dangerous. We want the rangers safe, and we want other people to back them up to come in, which is the Sheriff River Patrol.
 Please put money in the budget to clean up park and city public places. A very few people are holding hundreds of us hostage as they use our public spaces as their living rooms, criminal stashes, and drug dens.
 Now, we're doing our share, really supporting the city of Portland. Down there, we've started River Place Walking Patrol under ONI's Jacob Rostef and Mark Wells. We've started a SAL partnership and are cleaning up continually. And we're doing a wonderful spring cleanup headed by the Portland Parks on April 11th.
 So we're volunteering. We love you and back you. But we want you to pass budgets that your city and the park staff need to do their job. We're 100% in support of the parks and your police and the walking patrol. Please give them more money in the budget. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks for your volunteer effort as well. Morning. Morning.
 Morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We are in full support of the Park Ranger's
 We would like to see park rangers on the east side. We were stunned to find that you have seven positions, if I understood it, and zero on the east side, except for Hollywood Park, apparently being paid by one of the corporations on that side. So we're also...
 mindful that to have seven park ranges as permanent positions and then laying off people, as Commissioner Fish pointed out, you lose that talent all the time. And that's sad because you need the park ranges and you need them permanently. I know Commissioner Salisbury gets nervous on this about having more park ranges, but
 To have seven permanent park rangers in how many parks? 212. I mean, that's obscene. And the park rangers obviously do a better job than our police department, where obviously
 We're more friendly being advocates for the homeless with the park rangers than we are with the police department. And they do act as ambassadors, but we are concerned that they don't move into law enforcement. So we're a little bit nervous about them excluding people and having that power and not going to their heads. We're all human beings, and when we have power, it's very hard not to misuse it.
 So we would like to see the program expanded. We would like to see permanent funding. We join in the question about can we clean up better and can we patrol our parks better. You can't do it with seven permanent employees. Again, that's obscene.
 You know, we spend so much money on so many other things. We need more, and they should be permanent, and we should keep them and value them and thank them often. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And as has been pointed out, what's really behind the employment and staffing level of the rangers is human beings in crisis.
 So it's actually, although we have to look at budget figures according to the department and such, what we really know is that we're not managing the city of Portland budget well enough to deal with human beings in crisis. Some of these people are hopelessly addicted to drugs that they're injecting and leaving their needles around. And that means with the county and the state, we have to find more money to put them in treatment and rehab, right?
 We don't yet want to find that money, so we push them around from an area that's enforced by rangers to an area that's enforced by private security to an area that's enforced by the police. So when we talk about budgeting for the rangers, we have to remember that Joy of Joys, it's a competitive situation. We're also talking about creating more...
 stabilizing housing like we have in the Bud Clark Commons. And now's not really the right time to get into the discussion of substance abuse in that building. But rangers are deprived of effective tools, just like the police are, to manage these things because they know that when R2D2 is full, the only option is to send people to jail, where depending on what level the arresting officer or ranger charges them with,
 They'll either be released in a few hours on recognizance, or they'll sit in there eating up spaces. So while I'm very supportive and glad that our fellow voters have found additional funding for programs in parks, mostly capital programs, we need to realize that the situation that was talked about with the River Place docks is not going to be fixed citywide by more enforcement. We're just going to push troubled and addicted people off the River Place dock
 to the next place that has a slightly lower level of enforcement. So we're really just chasing our tail. So what we need is for the rangers that are going to speak after me to keep the pressure on you and to educate all of our fellow citizens about how we need to shake loose money for stabilizing housing and for treatment programs so that there aren't as many people
 injecting drug users, being pushed around from one place to another, being transient and vagrant as they try and escape from different levels of enforcement. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. The next three are Andy Jansky, Maggie Skendarian, and Scott Gibson. Good morning. Good morning. I'm here – Put your name on the record again. Sorry. Maggie Skendarian. I am the Johnson Creek Watershed Manager at the City of Portland's Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm here to talk about the –
 So I'm here really not to provide public testimony, but really want to provide some perspective from BES. We only recently found out about the report and wanted to be sure to have the opportunity to highlight the important multi-bureau, multi-issue nature of the implications that are here. In the nearly 20 years that I've spent working in the Johnson Creek watershed, it's hard to identify any issue that's been as troublesome or as entrenched.
 as those we faced in the last three to four years, keeping our city natural areas safe and clean. BES has partnered with parks for decades to acquire and protect hundreds of acres of sensitive natural areas citywide, with about 140 of those acres specifically in the Johnson Creek watershed. Additionally, BES has acquired over 300 acres of sensitive natural areas citywide,
 that support our ability to implement the Johnson Creek restoration plan, which helps us reduce the impacts from nuisance flooding in Johnson Creek. As a result of that land acquisition, we've done a number of restoration projects, and some of the land that's been purchased simply is protected to maintain the natural benefits that it provides.
 The lack of ranger coverage for our east side property makes it nearly impossible to keep up with the calls that we get about illegal camping and other dangerous situations on the east side. I would ask you to pay particular attention to page 20 of the report that discusses the camping and the dramatic increase that we've seen in this situation over time. As the last speaker mentioned, the ranger program...
 These folks are doing an incredible job, and I just want to make sure you all know that the staff of these various different bureaus work together remarkably well. Astrid de Grooy is an amazing individual at PARC. She and I talk multiple times a week. We're at wit's end, and we really feel like there's just a compelling need for a comprehensive approach to this problem. As the last speaker said, we can get more rangers, and we can then –
 do additional enforcement, but what we're doing is moving people from place to place and really not addressing the root problems. So I think particularly if we could get folks together from housing, parks, BES, police, we already work together to some degree. We'd like to work together more. We'd like to have tools that we could use to help actually address the problem. So I hope that there would be some funding in place to not only –
 increase the park's range of coverage, but help us address the root problems that are creating a fair amount of the demand upon them, and that puts them, quite frankly, in danger and doesn't do anything to address the public health and safety issues that are at play. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Andrew Jansky, also known as Andy Jansky. I wanted to be a forest ranger my entire life, as I handed out the drawing I did when I was in Raleigh Park grade school in 1974. This is a gem. It's pretty hard to find those things, save those little drawings the kids gave you earlier. Anyway, right there I say I like nature and animals. I like trees. I'd like to study trees and animals. And then you did, so it worked out. And I did. Thank you.
 So I'm here to support parks about funding rangers. I'm involved professionally in parks management, and it's a very challenging job. I've done a lot of parks where we end up pushing people to the next park that we have to build and then do the same thing. So I know they typically get to deal with problems that no one else will. They're not paid enough, and it can be extremely scary when they're out on patrol alone. Yeah.
 They provide a key role as being an ambassador, being seen and visible, and the numbers requested probably don't even accurately touch what is needed.
 But I do have one idea how to fix the problem. I'm part of an organization that provides volunteer trail patrol. Imagine the ski patrol, little red shirts on. Four to five volunteers roam the trails. They have positive contacts. They wear red shirts with crosses. They're trained in first aid. They help direct people. They call police and rangers when they need to. They're all volunteers, limited cost. They'll save the city money. What's the problem?
 They're on bikes, and they're a part of the IMBA National Mountain Bike Patrol, and they're certified volunteers. We could easily get 25 of them around here. Bikes have been systematically excluded from Portland for 25 years. The next exclusion is coming up Monday, provided by Commissioner Fritsch and Fitche.
 So rather than solving problems and saving money, this action will just add another place that rangers need to focus their enforcement. It's lose, lose, lose. So at this point, we need some leadership from the top. We need a ranger to put on his hat and say we're going to solve this problem, not divide the community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Scott Gibson. I work with Labor's Local 483, and I'm here today to speak out in support of the ranger program. It's a very good program. We really hope that council sees their way to move more seasonal park rangers into permanent positions, give them some job security and good jobs, and
 We look forward to working with the contingent workers task force to look at the seasonal rangers and their duties. Thank you very much. Thank you. Others? The last three who signed up are Alan Field, Mike Boyer, and Lightning Watchdog X. Good morning. Go ahead. Good morning. You can go ahead. That's fine. Good morning, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Alan Field. I'm on the Richmond Neighborhood Association Board, but I'm not here speaking for them at all.
 I've been very involved with Sewellcrest Park over the past 10, 15 years, everything from movies in the park to the community garden to I'm the site steward for the off-leash area. I have close contact with Jeff Milks and Betsy Redfern about park upkeep. Galena asked if I wanted to provide any comment related to rangers, and my focus has always been dogs. I did have a very bad troubling experience with rangers a year and a half ago with my dog.
 leashed, very old arthritic dog. And since then, I've worked a lot with Brian Tierney and Galena. And I have to say, over the last year and a half, the quality and training of rangers has greatly improved. And my message has always been, for rangers concerning dogs, education is always the key. The ranger program isn't a dog catching group. And that's not what it is. So it's very encouraging to hear that.
 What's always important is somehow if the city can involve the off-leash site steward groups, that would be great. Dog owners patrol themselves. We have a 45-person listserv at Sewellcrest, and the rangers should show some discretion in dealing with dogs. And one issue that's focused that happens at Sewellcrest and is probably happening at other parks is in the mornings you have a group of transients –
 camping in an off-leash area. And for the most part, they're harmless. They want to be left alone. What happens is dog owners will stay away from the off-leash area, saying that the transients scare them. So I don't know if there's an easy fix to that, but it's nice that the rangers know that's a problem and they show discretion and don't necessarily ticket people. For Sewellcrest, what I've been telling people, trying to educate them that homelessness is not a crime,
 If you see a crime in presence, call 911. What I've been telling people, another way to do it is ask the mayor and the police chief to expand the Hawthorne Foot Patrol to cover Sewellcrest Park. So it's encouraging to hear Mayor Hales say that they're going in that direction. I think that would really help to have a growing partnership between the police department, the foot patrols, and the rangers. So it's not just on the rangers side.
 responsibility to deal with the transients in Sewell Crest. This last year there was a noticeable difference in quality of the transient population. It's a younger crowd. Many obviously are altered mental state. A lot of metals collecting and if the Hawthorne Foot Patrol could expand to cover Sewell Crest, that would help out the rangers and help the
 all the neighbors who write to me as a neighborhood association and get on Next Door Health and complain about that. So that's going to be a growing issue this summer, so I'm optimistic that that can be a new focus this summer. Thank you. Appreciate that.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Salzman, Commissioner Fish, appreciate the time. My name is Mike Boyer. I'm an employee at the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Up until this past January, I was the Crime Prevention Coordinator assigned to the downtown area in particular from 2008 through 2014. So I was there for the...
 inception of the funding through the Central Business District to improve the ranger staffing. And at ONI, we are all about partners. And the men and women behind me right now have been phenomenal partners. I've been engaged in trainings with the communities, showing up to community meetings, anything you need in terms of problem solving on particular issues with parks, clear communications. I can't say enough positive about the work that they've done in the downtown area.
 I'm here on behalf of myself. I don't necessarily speak for the entire Bureau, but I can say at ONI we definitely value the Park Rangers. Personally, I'm a little indebted to Galena Burley. When she was a crime prevention coordinator, she hired me as an intern, which is how I ended up here at the city. So as much as I am not a fan of testifying in front of counsel with the TV and all, I would do anything for the Park Rangers and Galena Burley.
 I think Glean's report made it very clear the equity issues that are going on with the Rangers. In downtown, we've been able to have the resources there, their services, and they've been a tremendous asset. And seeing those stats up on the big screen, how clearly it's a portion of what's going on on the east side, I can't say enough how important their services would be for the issues that the police are expressing in their report to help them address public safety and livability issues. Okay.
 Beyond that, they have a tremendous skill set in dealing with vulnerable populations. Being involved in their training processes and hiring processes, early phases, that was such a huge emphasis. And to see how they've interacted with social services, the houseless community, and other vulnerable populations has been truly impressive, and they've carried through on that training. So again, I appreciate your time this morning and hearing me provide some support for the park rangers. Thank you.
 Thanks morning. Good morning. My name is lightning. I represent lightning watchdog X seven Rangers per 212 parks. I mean, anybody can look at that number and have a concern about that. One of the issues I haven't heard today is where does Multnomah County fit in on this type of funding? We're talking about a shortage of Rangers on the east side.
 I think it's time that Multnomah County steps up and offers funding to do an IGA with the City of Portland and offers funding on these east side parks. Another issue I have, again, is pertaining to Multnomah County River Patrol. Again, I'm absolutely against any funding going from the City of Portland to Multnomah County River Patrol. Again, if you hear the term Multnomah County...
 They have a surplus of funds. The funds need to be coming from Multnomah County to River Patrol for more security patrols in various locations on the river, which is their job to do anyway, not to be funded by the city of Portland. They have ample funds to fund this. Another issue I have is that
 We're getting up to that July 1st no smoking in the parks. Now, during those discussions, everybody said there won't be any additional rangers needed to do that. Obviously, you can see by the numbers here there needs to be additional rangers. So let's let's not focus on the smoking issue. Let's focus on the fact that the Eastside parks have a limited amount of rangers and there needs to be ample funding.
 I see seven full-time. It needs to probably be 14 if you're looking at the east side. I think that's a reasonable assessment to look at and get the proper data to determine that. But Multnomah County needs to step up to the plate and begin to fund this, and they need to begin to fund the river patrol and make sure they have adequate funding. They've saved over $1,000.
 85% of their overtime pertaining to the suicide watch, that is up in the millions of dollars in savings alone right there just on one issue that they have ample funding to fund additional rangers to handle this problem. Thank you. Thank you. Others? That's all who signed up. Okay. We'd like to have the staff back up for a couple questions. Okay. Okay.
 Well, staff's coming back up, Galina and Hassan. I want to just tell you a couple of reports that I had regarding the parks rangers working with people living in parks. Okay.
 One was in Forest Park where it was a couple with a baby, and the rangers tried to connect them to services. There weren't any services available, and so the rangers went above and beyond and were able to connect with the families of the men and the women who were in the park. There had been some estrangement, and the rangers were able to work with them to get the family to –
 come together and the parents of those campers then came to later to thank the rangers for their intervention so that that's one example of a happy ending one of a less happy ending was a camper a mother with a small baby in lens park the rangers tried to connect her with services and were told that the wait for a mother with a baby is six weeks to get into housing and so that in fact about
 Less than six months ago, I was in Lentz for a neighborhood association meeting and talking about the challenges of people living in Lentz Park and there's just nowhere for them to go. So I did appreciate the suggestion that there needs to be a multi-bureau look at how do we
 help people who have to live outside pending finding more affordable housing. Certainly there is a challenge on the Springwater Corridor in particular and the Foster floodplain, and I agree with Maggie Skandarian's characterization of astridity
 Dragoi and her amazing work trying to find services in partnership with the rangers. If we were to get funding for additional full-time rangers, I think certainly assigning one or more to the spring water corridor would be a high priority for me. But first, let's go to the questions from council, and then I'd like to frame the discussion. Thank you.
 Okay, great. Thank you. So first of all, great report. I think you've done a good job of following the direction that we gave and that I asked for and asking for this in the first place. I want to see some additional data to follow up on this. And that is, I asked, you know, this sort of conversation sort of got started when I asked Mike Abate. So the park rangers program is great. How will we know when we have enough of them?
 I mean, we clearly don't. Everybody gets that. But how will we know when we have enough of them? And that's obviously a matter of judgment as well as data. We're not going to be able to do that by data alone. But I'm very interested in seeing what national best practices are. What are other cities our size, larger or smaller, who have both a police force and a ranger program? How are they allocating that effort? How are they measuring?
 level of effectiveness, level of coverage, and what lessons can we learn from them. In policing, there are some ratios like two officers per thousand that are crude and imperfect, but at least they're commonly used. So we can at least look at those ratios and say, okay, well, Denver has 1.6 officers per thousand, and we have one, you know.
 That's not enough, and it isn't even all that helpful, but at least it's something. It's something sort of numerical. Again, you've provided some great data here. I think when we start cross-referencing those data with police calls for service, with arrests, one of the great successes, Sergeant Delan was here, one of the great successes of the foot patrol work in the police bureau is they had a huge number of contacts and very few arrests.
 Success. That's great. We don't want crimes. We don't want to arrest people. And the more situations that are intervened early by rangers or police officers that don't result in an arrest, it's a better outcome for everybody. So please keep trying to find those kinds of data or those kinds of national best practices, and let's see how our ranger program compares to others.
 Again, that won't necessarily dictate what we do, but it should help inform it. Second question that I have is what did we learn from the holiday park experience?
 So I don't know if you want to take that up now, but this was kind of a one-off of a single property owner, Cypress Equities, paying for enhanced services. How'd that work out? What did it cost? A couple of things. In reference to your first question, absolutely, and we recently became members of International Ranger Federation, so that will give us an opportunity to not only look with
 within our national programs and local programs, but also internationally. So stay tuned. Holiday Park, one of the significant, I believe, takeaways from that was that when you put rangers and programming together, you see a tremendous change in the use of the park. That rangers alone do change the dynamic of behavior, not so positive behavior is displaced, but bringing that positive usage back up, very important to have in that programming component.
 Hassan did a lot of work, was my predecessor in that. I don't know if you want to add something more specific? When we looked at the issues that Holiday Park had previous to a ranger presence, it was a negative image of the park even though it's in a beautiful area next to a mall around a lot of businesses.
 A lot of people avoided walking through the park just because of the element they perceived was in the park. Once ranger presence was consistent on a daily basis and we provided programming and just a happy face for people to see, we saw people walking through the park that normally would walk around from the MAG station just to avoid going in the park because of who was in the park.
 And so it was great to see people really coming in, eating lunch in the park, spending time with the rangers, talking to the rangers, people really asking about the ranger program. How do they – people also inquiring how they become a ranger. And so because they saw the work we did in the parks, they saw the impact we had, they saw the negative element that was in the park.
 basically go away. We received a lot of great compliments from the Portland Police that worked in that area because we were the eyes and ears there, a consistent presence where we worked very closely with them and some of the issues that they normally had to deal with were no longer an issue because there was a range of presence in the park. I do believe that just that presence alone and consistency does make a difference.
 We do have a pilot program planned for this next summer as well. So our goal is to look at exactly what you said earlier, look at the data from police perspective, and then our own data and compare it and see what kind of changes we will be able to actually measure in terms of decreases in crime and criminal activity. We did not do that for the pilot last summer. Yeah. So how much did that program cost this summer, last summer in Malady Park? Do you remember?
 I don't remember. We'll get you that, though. Later. Yep. So Janet Bebb's here, so we're going to invoke the spirit of Fred Kent for a moment, and that is most people know the story of Bryant Park in New York, right? Surrounded by a high berm, lots of trees, big grass lawn in the middle. It was drug deal central. Fred Kent, under the Lindsay administration, removed a lot of the trees, lowered the berm, added entrances, and put 1,000 folding chairs in the park.
 Behavior changed radically overnight. Notice that there was no mention of police presence, Rangers or otherwise. So I hear the voice of Charles Jordan in my ear, and I want to pose a question to the Parks Commissioner and your staff for later. Love the Rangers program. Want more of you. I stopped by Holiday Park with my wife and played ping pong on National Night Out. Here's the tough call. Would you rather have a rec worker out there supervising ping pong
 Or would you rather have a ranger if we're going to put more effort into Holiday Park? I know what Charles Jordan would say. Sorry, rangers. He would say, put that rec worker out there, give those kids something positive to do, and you'll never need the ranger. So the principle that Fred Kent demonstrated in Bryant Park is still true, which is positive activity drives out negative activity.
 So I want to pose this fairly rhetorical question now for when we get into the budget process and make choices about how to enhance the level of programming in parks.
 because the right solution to a park with unsavory activity might not always be more rangers. Mayor, can I just respond to one part of that? Because I actually was involved in the Bryant Park transformation. And the one thing you left out is that the city of New York decided to privatize Bryant Park. It is not a public park.
 And just to give you an example, there is one of the safest restrooms in the city of Portland in Bryant Park, and that's because it has an attendant facility.
 The reason Bryant Park is safe is they have actually private security force. One of the things I was going to ask our friends in terms of data is when you follow through on the mayor's request for data about the ratio of rangers to parks or park space or whatever the national best practice is, which I think is a very important data,
 If you could drill down and ask the question, how many of those rangers are publicly funded and how many are privately funded? And I'll give you an example. New York City has made a judgment that they are going to allow businesses to pay for rangers in Manhattan parks. Now, there's an equity component to that because the fact is, if a major company is located across from a park, that they can afford to pay for a ranger there.
 But if you're in a low income section of the Bronx, how do you have the same model? So it raises equity concerns. But a lot of the rangers that you see that are full time dedicated to parks in Manhattan are actually paid for by private companies. And you know that because as you enter the park, there's a sign saying the Gap Company is paying for this ranger or whatever.
 So I would also ask you to consider to what extent in those ratios at pure cities are the rangers publicly funded or privately funded? And I'm not advocating for privately financing, but, for example, at Holiday Park in northeast Portland, Dan Biederman, who is the gentleman who actually did Bryant Park,
 has come out to Portland, hired by the company that's revitalizing the mall, and he wants to bring a Bryant Park model. I think that's great. The only problem is we can't do that in every part of the city. It's additional resources because there's a public-spirited business that wants to do that, but that doesn't help Commissioner Fritz build parks in East Portland or maintain those parks.
 So I think the data, I'd also like to see the ratios, but I'd like to also be able to separate out the privatization. And in New York City, there are now, I don't know, two dozen business improvement districts, and almost all the public spaces, all the major parks have a private partner. And you can do that in a city that has that kind of wealth. That's not currently our model.
 and I'd love to see more private support for our parks. But if it is something that we're going to fund publicly, let's also figure out how we can afford it and what is the right model.
 Thank you, Commissioner. That's a very helpful framing. I'd like to respond to the mayor's question. I would absolutely go for more rangers, and I'll tell you why. When we went to Shaver Elementary to announce that Beach Park was going to be built next door to their school, I got up there and I'm explaining that I'm in charge of the city, I make decisions for the city, and polite applause. The rangers got up in their uniforms talking about how they were going to be present in the park,
 Every single kid afterwards, there was a conversation about what do you want to do when you grow up? I want to be a ranger. I want to be a ranger. So by being uniformed and being in green uniforms and, you know, what we heard today was a great respect and even love for our ranger program. That's unusual for people who have to deal with some behaviors that are not right. And I think that that...
 I agree with your question is when will we know when we have enough? I know right now we do not have sufficient. So we shouldn't wait to figure out what's enough, because if we did, I think the number would be overwhelming. So thank you very much for your presentation, and thank you to the rangers who are here today in support of this report. I would like you all to, and if the cameras, we don't have our monitors going on here, but if the cameras could just pan to the front row here. This reflects...
 the beauty of our city, with the people that we serve, our people reflected in the rangers that are here today. And I'm really proud of you. Commissioner Fish, you were the birth parent of this expanded program. I've been honored to be the adoptive parent of it. And Galena has done an amazing job since she was appointed to be the manager, following in the footsteps of Art Hendricks, who is now the equity and inclusion manager for Park.
 And these things don't just happen. Galeena's experience with the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, we're talking about building community through parks, which is one of the reasons that I feel so honored to be in charge of the Parks Bureau. So to summarize, we have only 14 rangers on duty for over 200 parks. Twelve of them are assigned west of the river because of the funding sources. So the parks east of the river are underserved. We have a few options. We have the status quo.
 which leaves the glaring inequity and underserved. We have more flexibility from historical commitments to patrolling forest parks in the Central Business District. That then would leave those areas underserved, and we heard from River Place that the temporary funding there is much needed and appreciated.
 And we can add additional funding in FTE. And what I have in the Parks Bureau budget is a conversion of seasonal rangers into full-time rangers, $80,000 to create six permanent positions. $80,000 ongoing? Yes. And that's for six positions. And that's because of the great work done by Laborers 483 in the formation of the union and the great work done by human resources.
 resources to set the salaries and the benefits of the seasonal ragers pretty close to the full-time rangers because essentially they do very similar work. But the offset that we were required to put into the parks budget because we weren't allowed to just ask for new ongoing, the offset is to have fewer seasonal ragers. So it's
 So to be clear, that request does not expand services. In fact, in some ways, it will decrease service. In fairness to you, that request was made before the city announced they had a $31 million surplus in this budget to carve up. Right. So that's a good issue for the council to grapple with. We now have additional ongoing resources, which I would hope we would have a discussion on the principles of how we're going to decide how to allocate those resources. I would like...
 So what we really need is seven more full-time rangers in addition to the seasonal rangers. We have done the analysis of what is the coverage citywide and what do we need in the winter. Clearly, the challenges in the winter are more people sheltering outside, not having enough shelter space for them, and then how do the rangers help them to live where they are. And we are going to be having a contract with Right to Dream, too, to –
 further improve our training of rangers on how to interact with people living outside. I appreciate Hastan and Galena working on that. We have the city that we have, not the city that we wish we have. We're working towards the city that we wish we had. In the meantime, we need to give the rangers the compensation and the tools to do what they can, given that many of the 2,000 people living outside in Portland are living outside in parks.
 I'm a little concerned, Mayor, we're going to lose a quorum. Because I know you have a commitment coming up and we have still some things. I do. But I have a couple more questions. So I do want to get them on the record. One, you're going to be preparing a business plan. Please include in that what you envision as the role of volunteers.
 Absolutely. In addition to rangers. Okay? Want to see that. Don't have to see it now. Secondly, when we get to implementation and budget issues, we currently have an intergovernmental agreement with the Multnomah County Sheriff for $98,000. Is that in your packages as a proposal to continue that? It isn't currently right now. So that will go away at the end of this fiscal year? Correct. So we probably need a package to come forward from the Parks Bureau to continue that intergovernmental
 intergovernmental agreement with the sheriff's office unless you have some other solution for how that service is going to be provided. And so do not do exceed, so it could carry forward into the next fiscal year, depending on how much we've utilized it. Okay. Well, let's take a look at that, because if the sheriff is backing our play, obviously there are people in the community, and I agree with them, that don't want that to go away. Okay.
 I'll save the rest of my comments for when we vote. I have some more instructions for the budget proposals. Great. Thank you very much. Mayor Hales, I move the acceptance of the report. Second. Any further discussion? Roll call of the three of us anyway.
 Well, thank you, most of all, to our parks rangers and the work you do on the front lines every day. I'm really proud of the work that you do. And thank you, Galena Burley and Hassan Athari, for preparing this report. It's excellent. And thank you, Commissioner Fish, for really starting this program and giving it the attention that it deserved, even during the course of the recession. Let it be noted that we funded extra services through the ranger program during the recession, and it's now paying benefits. So thank you, everyone.
 I want to start by thanking Andy Jansky for this. I archive all of my son's art and schoolwork, and he thinks I'm nuts. And so I really appreciate this. I can take this home and say this is why we do it, because someday you'll want me to reclaim something you did when you were younger. I love that.
 I am so proud of the work of the Rangers, and I want to echo what the commissioner in charge said, thanking our team here for their excellent presentation and thanking the men and the women who wear the uniform. While the presentation was going on, I had my office pull a few things from the Internet because I want to be reminded about a different conversation we had in 2011. And I pulled some of the press coverage, and it was pretty scathing when this issue first came to Council.
 We had some very big critics. There were some very caustic editorials, and there were a lot of people scratching their heads saying, if it ain't broke, why fix it? Why shift away from the clean and safe model? Why expand the ranger program? One of the things I learned through that exercise was we need to do a better job articulating the why. So we did, and we took the challenge, and we articulated the why. When we were finished,
 We had the whole community telling us we were on the right track. And that wasn't because we were making the case any more thoughtfully. It's because they were experiencing what it meant to have rangers performing these functions, building relationships. In effect, I would say, Mayor, this is the essence of community policing, except they don't carry a gun.
 And instead of arresting people, they build relationships and they go upstream and they prevent things from happening. And we started hearing from people all over the city saying, I know who my ranger is. I have their phone number. I can call them when there's a problem. And we hired great people to lead this effort. In fact, I think I could only find one story that was positive, and it was from the Mercury.
 And Dennis has now gone over the dark side. He's over at another newspaper. But when he was at the, he did a story saying, the city succeeds with gentler touch in the parks. And what he did is he interviewed all the stakeholders. And this is in 2012. And the two-way person said, this program was making a difference. Law enforcement, business, community, everyone was saying this was making a difference. You are the ambassadors.
 doing great work in our community. And we have a basic principle in this city, which is when people demonstrate that they are providing a valuable basic service and they do it as efficiently as you do, I think we are compelled to support your mission. I think we're compelled to. This is a basic service and you've made a case today that you have exceeded our expectations.
 So I think we have to invest in your success, and I will look forward to working with Commissioner Fritz and my colleagues in the budget to do that. And finally, someday I hope to get a hat that says Ranger on it, but I'm reminded that until I give Sam Sachs my head size, he can't order one, and I am prepared to pay for it. All of us spend a lot of time out in the community, and when we're in our parks, particularly at official events,
 It is a point of great pride when our rangers are there with us and when they are doing such a great job and seeing how they interact with the public. This is our chance today to thank the team for the report, thank the men and women who do the hard work for their service, and I hope have this council commit to continuing to improve the terms and conditions of the folks who serve. And one final note.
 In 2011, when we were getting a lot of flack for talking about doing something different, Commissioner Fritz stood shoulder to shoulder with me. And everything we did, she supported. And then when she became the Parks Commissioner, she put this program on a stronger foundation, and she ensured that the men and women who worked for the city got to choose the representative of their choice and through the bargaining process secured better terms and conditions of employment.
 So I thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for being such a strong supporter of this program. And as long as I'm on the council, I will be a strong champion of what you are trying to do. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. Aye. Hales. Well, first, I have to start with two warnings for Commissioner Fish. First of all, we should check the city code, Commissioner, because I know that the city
 I know it's illegal to impersonate a police officer, and it might be illegal to impersonate a ranger. So before you put that hat on, we should make sure that you won't get arrested for that. Secondly, as someone whose sons are older – MR. I will not be sending a letter to the Iranian governor – MR. All right. Don't do that. MR. – Iranian government on any nuclear deal, Mayor. MR. Please don't.
 Secondly, as a father of sons who are older than Chapin, I'm sorry to report that you can take this home all you want, but it won't convince your son that you're not crazy until the testosterone starts to wear off around age 25. So let me go directly to some issues here. Sometimes I'm flummoxed in this role of being a community leader because you say things
 and you think you say them clearly, and then people pick them apart and say, well, what he really meant was, so I'll really try to do this. I'm not smart enough to do that. I want our folks from the press to know that. They probably already do. I'm not smart enough to not say what I mean, so I'm going to say what I mean. I love the rangers program. I want to see more rangers. I want to pay them properly, and we should have more of them for full time. No argument about those issues. But...
 But, no, but before we get to simply funding more rangers with the money we have, we've got some things to work out. The sheriff is backing our program right now. What is lightning's right? We've got to sort out the question, and this is partly my job as I sit down with the county chair and figure out who does what. We've gotten through the last couple of city-county budgets by getting a little more clarity about whose lane is which. And, frankly, we've fuzzed this one up again.
 because of an urgent situation on the docks and the river that required the rangers help and we had to pay for it in order to get it. So that's an issue to put on the list for Chair Kofuri and I and others to talk about. But we got to figure that one out before we just write checks to solve problems. Secondly, I am not suggesting that we privatize parks when I bring up the question of the Holiday Park example, but I
 We have three business improvement districts in Portland in which property owners tax themselves to pay for enhanced services. I think we have three. We have the downtown clean and safe district, and we have two transportation management associations, one of which is in the Lloyd district. Seattle has 28 BIDs.
 Let me say that again. Our city, the same size as Portland, 150 miles north of here, has 28 such districts in which businesses tax themselves extra to pay for enhanced public services.
 I will be very favorably inclined, I'll say this sentence as clearly as I can, I will be very favorably inclined towards budget proposals which leverage other funds in addition to the momentary good fortune of us having more of our own. I will be very favorably inclined towards having BIDs and other localized funds
 revenue measures, pay for enhanced local services. So I want those who want more to help more.
 I think Cypress Equity has demonstrated that there's capacity in the Lloyd District, and probably elsewhere, to ask property owners to help fund enhanced services in places where we don't now. I think if you look at the situation in the Central East Side, you would reach the same conclusion that I've reached, which is it's time for a Central East Side business improvement district to fund enhanced services there. So I'm going to be pushing that idea, and I want us to not,
 simply rush to pay for services elsewhere in the central city that people in the downtown clean and safe district are paying for through a BID I hope I've been clear about that so I will be very interested in budget proposals which rely on those principles of leverage because good times mean others have more resources not just the city general fund great work so far more conversations to come thank you very much
 Let's move on to the regular agenda. Item 260. Authorize a grant agreement with Janus Youth Programs, Inc. for $15,000 to support one outreach specialist to continue outreach to homeless and runaway youth and ongoing training and coaching of volunteers. Do we have a presentation on this? Yes, we do. Sergeant Dilan. Good morning. Good morning. Apparently I've been abandoned by Dennis again. Okay.
 So I'm here today. I was supposed to be here with Dennis Lundberg from Janus Youth. I'm not sure where he's at, but I'm here representing the Police Bureau and giving our support for this proposal. As you know from previous testimony, due to a clerical error through their grant program, the Yellow Brick Road portion of Janus Youth was unfunded as of October of last year, and they're not able to apply again until October of this year. In response to that, we spent the fall campaigning.
 For funds from other sources, the Clean and Safe Board responded by donating $15,000 to the program, and I'm very proud of council for matching that. I think that speaking for the foot patrol at Central Precinct,
 uh the program was vital uh to our success and to uh give us additional options and trying to address the various things that we were addressing in downtown portland um they were our greatest partner in this uh not once did i call and not get exactly what i needed from them
 And so if I may call it a personal crusade of mine to continue this program and to continue funding of this program, they have my full support. Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions for Sergeant Flann? Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I just want to take advantage of speaking in a positive sense twice in a row.
 Obviously, our organization would support the continuation of this program, and we urge you to support it. And unfortunately, from our understanding, it was some kind of a clerical mistake that they were excluded from applying and to keep the funding going. So we hope that you support it.
 We need more of these things. I know we're always asking for more money, but that's kind of what we do as activists. We ask you for more money and more involvement, so we would just support your continuation of this program. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you.
 Good morning still, I think. My name is Charles Johnson, for the record. And there is some connection between this and the earlier item where we had the 25-page good report from Galena, the new park security director. We didn't talk about distressed juveniles that are encountered by the rangers, an area that really should get specific attention. And although it's one particular agency, Janus here, who had a paperwork glitch recently,
 I want you to know that all citizens want to see tight cooperation between you and the different semi-private organizations such as NAFI and Janus that are not just a safety net but a lifeline for homeless children.
 So I'm glad that the police officer was able to come up here and present the fact that we did find a bridge solution. That's certainly what needs to happen in a city that just talked about its $30 million revenue-aheaded projection and surplus situation.
 So I hope that Janice and Nafi will be facilitated in a conversation with the rangers to really make those numbers reach out. Social science research shows, as you mentioned, in the past couple of weeks.
 that when children have adverse experiences, that really sets them up for failure. So I hope that in addition to this little bridge financing, we can expand the program and cooperate with the rangers to get more outreach to distressed youth. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else? Then it's an emergency ordinance roll call, please. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Great partnership. Aye. 261. Aye.
 261, authorize a contract with Land Morphology PC to provide planning, design and construction administration services for improvements to leach botanical garden not to exceed $433,314. Mr. Fritz. Good morning. Thank you for your patience.
 My name is Ross Swanson. I'm the capital project manager for Portland Parks and Rec. I am joined by Kia Selle, the planning and development manager for Portland Parks and Rec, and we are here for questions.
 But I'm here today to request City Council approval for the contract with Land Morphology Landscape Architects for the Leach Upper Garden Development Project. Again, the contract amount is $433,314. The contract scope of work will provide design for the recently expanded upper garden property. Recently, we acquired 1.3 acres adjacent to the garden, and that sort of catalyzed the need for this design work.
 The second task at hand will be to develop a strategic development and phasing plan for the garden. And then finally, we'll have construction documents prepared for a catalyst project to help provide better access to the garden. In particular, I'm excited about this design firm because they occupy a niche market in botanical garden design, including they've designed gardens for the Brooklyn Botanical Garden and Chihuly Garden to the north of us.
 But more importantly, their lead designer, the guy who will be putting pen to paper worried about scope schedule budget like myself, has also been an executive director for small gardens himself. So while he's worried about my worries, he's also going to be worried about David Porter's worries and how to move forward in that garden. Some of the nuts and bolts, the contract has 23% MWESB participation.
 The contract is funded through a combination of SDC, Parks SDC, and PDC's TIF funds through the Lents District. We anticipate construction to start in spring of 2017, and we do already have a rather extensive public outreach committee put together, and we are going to be meeting on March 19th, and it's an 18-member committee with broad diversity. And that's it. Thank you. Questions? Other questions? Doesn't sound like there are any. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Come on up. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Linda Morrow, and I'm president of Leach Garden Friends Board. Now, most of you were here in 2010 when the Leach Botanical Garden Master Plan was approved by City Council. And the Master Plan has served as the city's guide for the future development of Leach. In 2012, the plan was updated to further define the Upper Garden Development Project.
 And with the approval of this contract today with Land Morphology, we will begin to realize the vision for Leach outlined in this master plan. We feel this is of critical importance to the community immediately surrounding Leach.
 But it will also have benefits for all of Portland, because botanical gardens offer a needed respite from the nature deficit that's talked about so much these days because so many people live in urban areas. Botanical gardens are places of stunning beauty and sources of education and conservation.
 They inspire people to preserve and to conserve. But in order for people to embrace these values and pass them on, they need to have access in their own neighborhoods to places like this. Realizing the potential of Leach is critical to this East Portland neighborhood, a highly diverse, underserved area with very few amenities currently in place. I think we need to keep in mind that Leach is more than a park.
 more than a natural area. It's a botanical and cultural treasure where education happens, where culture happens, where art happens, and healthy communities are formed. Thank you.
 Raising leach to the standard of our other world-class botanical gardens here in Portland, like the Japanese Garden and the Chinese Garden and Hoyt Arboretum, will enhance leach's financial sustainability, and it will make leach a regional attraction, which will enrich both East Portland and the city as a whole. We are very excited to move ahead on this project. It's been 30 years in the making, and we are grateful for your support. Thank you.
 I'm going to defer for a moment to Carol Hertzberg. Hi, I'm Carol Hertzberg. I'm a PDC project manager, and I'm working with Ross on this leach project. Just very quickly, leach is very important to us because it is a key cultural landmark in an area that
 has few and many are unknown. And Leach, I'd say, outside of the immediate area is unknown, and we want to change that. So, and the other thing that excites me about this project, it is a real partnership between parks and PDC. And this is a new model that we would like to
 follow and we're really, really thrilled that it's happening. So I'm David Porter, Executive Director at Leach Botanical Garden. First off, I'd like to thank Kia and Ross and the City Parks staff. We could not do this project without their leadership and organization and wisdom. It's very important. Second point that I'd like to make is that in many ways, Leach's partnership with
 As I think all of you know, we are the host also for Portland Audubon's Eastside operations. The wonderful Talon Youth Program operates there. They have bird programs and education programs. And their Eastside base is there. So, thank you.
 We're growing relationships that make Leach a resource, a platform in which many different things can take place, not just the beauty and the botanical collections. It's important, but it's a very nuanced place.
 I'm very, very excited about the outreach program that's accompanying this new design. And I'd like to introduce James Drasnin, who is our new development director, who will be helping us raise private sector money to match public money for the garden. And James has some printouts that he'd like to hand to the commissioner, mayor and commissioners.
 We are so conscious of being in East Portland in a very extraordinary place in the city, and one of our donors was kind enough to give us an anonymous donation to support really significant outreach to people in East Portland.
 So we are engaging with a group, a community engagement group called the NICE, Northwest Institute for Community Engagement, who will be doing intercept surveys at places like the new Portland Mercado and the Jade District,
 talking to people in their places and in their languages about Leach Botanical Garden. What you are seeing is the almost finished version of a full-page ad that will be in the East Portland News, dropping to 50,000 East Portland households on April 15th.
 the ad will be in four language languages one of them being english vietnamese russian and spanish were identified by an americorps person that we had working who showed that the city's most prominent languages other than english were russian vietnamese and spanish and so we
 There will be ways for people to participate in talking about and learning about leech that will help inform our really great design team as we move forward. I think it's going to be one of the most exciting phases of Leech Gardens' existence. We will learn a lot, and we hope that leech will no longer be Portland's secret garden after all those people hear about it. Thank you. Sorry, I forgot. Partnership is absolutely with Friends of Leech Garden, too.
 It goes without saying. Thank you all very much. Questions for our team? I just want to note, Mayor, that one other thing about the Leach Garden is it has a terrific gift store. And they have holiday sales during the year, and you can actually buy herbs. There's a beautiful book about the Leach legacy and family. And the space in their home is available for rental.
 And it's really one of the gems in our system. So congratulations. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then it is an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call. So this is an emergency because we want to get the money out of the door and get going on the project as quickly as possible. And thanks to Kia Selle and Ross Swanson. I have to say, as the Leslie Knope of Parks and Recreation, I enjoy having an R. Swanson in the Bureau.
 Thanks to Commissioner Fish, whose vision and insistence on assigning Portland Development Commission's tax increment financing money to this project was visionary and is the reason that we're able to do this today in partnership with some park system development charge money that we now have.
 recognizing that the community around Leach Botanical Gardens and the business district in Lent doesn't have the capacity to help fund things like this absent public resources. And so this is an underserved area of the city, and it does indeed have an absolute gem both in the house and in the garden. And I encourage it's open for business even today. So I encourage folks to go out the next beautiful day that we've been blessed with and enjoy it. Thank you for your support. Bye.
 Fish. I love what's, Commissioner Fritz, I love what's on this handout we were given. Leech Garden is an East Portland public garden, and that's why it's very important to us. In addition, as I learned, it's one of the great botanical gardens in the world, and the leeches were really visionaries, and it's a wonderful place to visit, and we're lucky to have such great leadership. You know, 10 years ago,
 you wouldn't have said that if you went out to Lentz and beyond that you'd need more than a day to hit all the great attractions necessarily. But today, in addition to...
 leach botanical garden the foster natural area zanger farm and the new urban grange lens park the mercato which is slightly obviously to the aspect all the vitality that's going on because of the community members advocating to make sure they got their fair share of resources is very exciting congratulations uh to all and we look forward as a council to joining you when the work is completed hi saltzman yeah that's a great step forward and i appreciate all the uh
 all the efforts to make and keep leach botanical garden a great place to go thank you hi hails great place great team look forward to more great results thank you very much aye okay we have three second reading items remaining 262.
 Amend contract with Brown and Caldwell Inc for additional work and compensation for the Southwest 86 Avenue pump station and upper ten tenances project number e zero nine zero five one four three hundred sixteen thousand 194 dollars roll call please Fritz. Hi fish. Hi Saltzman. Hey hails. Hi 263
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Southeast Hawthorne Salmon Sewer Reconstruction and Green Street Project, number E08668, for $4,590,000. Roll call, please. Fritz? Well, I particularly appreciate the extra effort to ask the community about the hours and duration of this project. So thanks, Commissioner Fish. Aye.
 We're also, based on the conversation we had during council, we're going to schedule an event before the construction begins just to make sure the community and the businesses understand what is planned and give us one last chance to fine tune it. And I was pleased, and I think in response to your question, Amanda, that they confirmed that holidays and the business and the community festivals have been carved out as days for where there will not be construction.
 Trying to limit the impact. Aye. Seltzman. Aye. Hales. Aye. And 264. Authorize a contract with Raftalis Financial Consultants, Inc. for the Water Bureau Cost Allocation Audit Project in the amount of $169,490. Roll call.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Hales? Aye. The auditor has requested that item 265, which is scheduled for 2 p.m., be referred back to her office. So without objection, I am referring that item back to her office, and we will reconvene at 3 p.m., not 2. Mayor, do you have a sense of how long that program will last? I would estimate an hour and a half.
 Thank you. We're recessed until 3 p.m. I would say that's a wild underestimation. Yeah, man, two hours. You've gone this afternoon too? Yes. You've gone this afternoon. That's right. That's right. Okay. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council for March 11th. Would you please call the roll?
 Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Hales? Here. And Commissioner Novick is away. We expect Commissioner Saltzman to join us shortly. So welcome, everyone. We have one item on the calendar this afternoon. Would you please read that, Carla? Item 266. Yes.
 Transmit report on a potential citywide policy for removing barriers to employment for individuals with criminal histories. Thank you. Well, I'm very pleased to kick off this discussion this afternoon and to welcome folks here who want to talk about this subject and about this important idea.
 I think this is one of these times when we as a community come together and do the right thing, and we do it in consultation with everyone involved. There are advocates here that we'll hear from today. There are business people who have figured out how to bring new people into their workforce who've come out of the criminal justice system. I think we're going to learn a lot this afternoon, and we're going to move forward on something where this community once again does the right thing.
 The city of Portland has already adopted policy which we call banning the box. We'll hear a little bit more about why we can't quite use that phrase to describe what we do here in Oregon. But we've already banned the box for city employment, and Multnomah County has done the same. Our human resources director reports that that's a great success, and we want that success to spread.
 It's our intention to have first our city attorney who's worked on this idea come up and make a presentation, then to be followed by some invited testimony from a number of people who are here today and then have public testimony after that. We want everyone, obviously, to try to be as succinct as possible because we have a lot of people lined up. So I won't make any longer speech than that to kick this off, other than, again, to say thank you for caring and for being here today.
 about an area where we can do the right thing for our friends and neighbors and invite Judy Prosper from the City Attorney's Office up to make a presentation to get us started. Welcome, Judy. You gave me a promotion. The City Attorney is actually Tracy Reeve. I'm a deputy. No, I know you're a deputy. Thank you, sir. We use that term of art. No, we didn't promote you yet, but Tracy's doing a great job. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. So, again, I'm Deputy City Attorney Judy Prosper. It's always my privilege to be before you, especially today, to discuss a very important policy initiative to eliminate barriers to employment for people with criminal histories. So many Americans have had contact with the law, either by being stopped or arrested by police, prosecuted in courts, and convicted of varying degrees of offenses.
 The purpose of this proposal to amend the Portland City Code that I will outline will be to remove barriers to employment so that people with criminal histories may provide for themselves and their families, to reduce the disparate impacts on people of color that result from the use of criminal history information in hiring and employment decisions, and to assist with the reintroduction of formerly incarcerated persons into community life and to reduce the recidivism rate.
 Even those who do not spend any time in prison or jail can be adversely affected by employment practices that exclude candidates with criminal histories. The policy proposal I will lay out would create a fair employment process to evaluate these candidates. Full-time employment is the best predictor for reducing the chance that a person with a criminal history will reoffend.
 Questions about past criminal history can be a deterrent for applicants and can be used too easily by employers to screen out people before their other qualifications for a given position are fully considered. Blanket exclusions also do not take into account any rehabilitation. The City of Portland, as you mentioned, and Multnomah County have already implemented internal policies for delaying inquiries into a person's criminal history until the conditional offer stage.
 There are exceptions, of course, for law enforcement-related positions, positions that involve vulnerable populations and were otherwise required by state, federal, local laws or policies. 108 cities and counties in over 30 states also have policies that delay a review of a person's criminal history.
 The National Employment Law Project has been at the forefront of advocating for what are colloquially known as Ban the Box initiatives. And as soon as I figure out how to turn the page, here it is. The box refers to the question often asked on employment applications. Have you ever been arrested or convicted of a crime? Over the last few months, I have reviewed ordinances and laws passed by other municipalities and states.
 Portland would be at the forefront of this growing trend to require that inquiries into a person's criminal history be delayed until later in the employment process. Nine cities, including San Francisco and Seattle, have been pioneers in instituting this policy in their private sectors. Two other cities, Newark, New Jersey, and Chicago, Illinois, later had their policies superseded by statewide laws.
 Six states and Washington, D.C. have instituted policies to delay criminal background inquiries. Two counties in Maryland have done the same. Most jurisdictions impose an outright prohibition on having such a question on an employment application, be it in paper form or online.
 Oregon's expansive Free Speech Clause, Article 1, Section 8, would arguably trump any effort to impose such a limitation on an employer's speech here in Portland. Instead, we have outlined a substantive process for delaying the consideration of a person's criminal history until after a conditional offer of employment has been extended."
 Portland has often been the leader in Oregon, extending protection to ban discrimination against vulnerable populations before other Oregon cities or the state legislature in Salem. This council enacted code prohibiting discrimination in employment and public accommodations on the basis of a person's sexual orientation, gender identity, source of income, well before our state leaders.
 We continue to be ahead of the state in prohibiting discrimination based on familial status. We passed and successfully implemented the sick leave ordinance. Portland should be proud of its leadership role in advancing employment rights and continue its track record by considering this proposed policy initiative to remove barriers for people with criminal histories. Let us be clear.
 Employers would never be prohibited from reviewing a person's criminal history, nor would they be required to hire a person with such a history. The proposed policy would merely delay inquiries so an employer and applicant could together flesh out a person's qualifications and experience first.
 So the following slides, there are a few of them so we could fit all the states in, will demonstrate some of the statistics that I just spoke of. I'll just flesh out, obviously the first column are states and cities or counties. The second set of columns, private, vendor, or public, indicate in those respective places whether the delaying of consideration happens in the state or county.
 just on the public level, whether it relates to vendors or whether it relates to public sector employers. So as we go through, we'll see places like San Francisco, as I mentioned, the state of Hawaii, the state of Illinois, Baltimore, Maryland, the two counties in Maryland, the entire state of Massachusetts. Yes.
 Also, I'll go across all of the columns. One of the important ones that I'll speak more to later is the last column, the EEOC criteria. You'll see that that's a very popular criteria. I'll flesh that out more a little bit later. So as I go through, we find places like Kansas, Michigan, it's state law in Minnesota, state law in New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio has extended it for the public sector.
 We here in Oregon, as you mentioned, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Tennessee, places like Texas, Virginia. This slide shows a summary. Since we are a municipality, I decided to compare other municipalities. This chart shows the cities that have passed ordinances that extend to the private sector with their populations, the effective date of these ordinances. If you'll see, Philadelphia, Oregon,
 effective date was in 2011. They are the longest, they hold the longest ordinance for this type of delaying of the review of criminal histories.
 Their process is a little bit different than some of the other processes. They only receive complaints, and there is a fine imposed of $2,000 per violation, and that $2,000 goes into the Philadelphia coffers. So as you can see, these have been implemented as of 2013 and 2014, so there's not a lot of history or case law following those.
 So the next – Can I ask a question off that slide? Absolutely. I hadn't seen this slide before. It's very, very helpful. So we know that in the civil rights arena, and let's use Oregon as an example, there are some statutes that the federal –
 law applies to employers of 50 or more employees. The Oregon counterpart, in some instances, is 25 or more employees. There are other statutes that are tailored to the unique jurisdiction. We have a requirement on earned sick leave at the city that has a magic number of six. So you are proposing that this only apply to employers of six or more employees? Yes, sir. We've
 ticked it to the sick leave ordinance. We don't want employers to have a whole bunch of different requirements that differ from ordinance to ordinance. So we did use that number just to relate it to another ordinance recently passed. So let me dive in right there and say that was a real mistake and we shouldn't have done that. It makes it very difficult to do. So I recommend that we look at everybody. It's
 Our experience with sick time was it's so difficult to figure out when six and five and other disincentives for people to then hire more employees. So my recommendation and what we've been asking at the state level in their sick time ordinance is to not have that difference. Okay. One of the questions that comes up is the profile of the workplace so that we know who's impacted, and I think the data point that,
 will help guide our deliberation on that is, it's just some updated numbers on the profile of our workforce, workplace. So how many companies do we have that are six or fewer? How many are the next size and the like? Do you happen to know, though, in having done your research, that there are,
 why San Francisco settled at 20 or Philadelphia 10. Those are not numbers that are pegged to anything that we're familiar with at the federal level. Were they just compromises worked out by the jurisdictions? I think you've got the word. Okay. All right. Thank you. You'll see on the chart that the fourth criteria, when in the process an employer is allowed to review criminal history, varies from the first interview period
 or a good faith interview, all the way to conditional offer. And that's something I'll talk a little bit about a little later. You'll also notice that all the jurisdictions, except for Rochester and Portland, have an administrative agency that handles the first line of complaints. That's very important for talking about enforcement later on today.
 The penalties range from $50 to 90 days in jail as a misdemeanor. And to clarify, this box says when the process, when the employer is allowed to review. That means not only asking on an employment form, that means they're not allowed to do a background check on everybody? No, they are not allowed to do a background check on everyone. They are required.
 Moving it to the conditional offer stage, which is what we're proposing, is after candidates have been fully evaluated on their merits, their experience, and qualifications,
 A conditional offer would be extended, and the condition would be you need to pass a criminal background check. And again, I'll flesh out some of the other details later. There could be other criteria, like you have to pass a typing test and prove that you can type the 60 words a minute you said you did on, or some other kind of test. But it's at that stage after the employer is satisfied with the candidate and really wants to hire them.
 The jurisdictions are split about half and half, and we're talking about eight, as to whether a private right of action exists. But to be noted is that the jurisdictions without a private right of action have robust administrative procedures. And I put the titles of the ordinances so we could – just to make it interesting, actually. Okay.
 So I'm going to go through and highlight the policy being proposed now by the city. The city attorney's office and the mayor's office have reviewed these statutes and ordinances, and we are proposing today, and I'm sure there will be much discussion on the various pieces of it, a process, and here it is. So, yes.
 When it comes to advertising and applications, employers would be encouraged to remove the box on their employment applications, whether they be in paper form or online.
 While this proposed policy would not impose a ban on the question of whether a person has a criminal history, in assessing whether an employer violated the policy, the presence of the box could be evidence that criminal history was improperly considered. And again, the reason that you're suggesting that we take that approach is that the Oregon Constitution's free speech provision probably does not allow an outright ban as a mandate, right?
 Exactly. And the ban itself does not necessarily lead to more hiring. You can remove it from your application and then ask them when they drop the application off or early in the interview process. So removing the box from the piece of paper or on an online questionnaire may not actually achieve such a great result. Our proposal is that the employer could only consider the criminal history of a person after making a conditional offer of employment. And as
 Commissioner Fritz asked, and I mentioned earlier, the conditional offer means that you have the job, but you'll have to now, as I do an assessment of your criminal history, that it's going to be contingent on that assessment. And there may be other contingencies as well, as I put here, a drug test or some kind of skills test. So could you tell me how criminal backgrounds are checked? Are there companies that like rental checks or...
 Yeah, it's a very good question because I believe it's scattered. It used to be that you could only get someone's criminal background either from the FBI or from a state or local law enforcement agency. But...
 There's a website called Zabasearch.com. I'm not sure. I'm digressing a little bit, if you know. But what it does is it calls public records from all over and puts them online. And so companies have decided that it's profitable to call criminal records, which are public records, and create databases so that if you pay them, you can get a criminal record check. The
 The unfortunate thing, and I'm sure other people who are much more versed in this will tell you after my presentation, is that they tend to be fraught with mistakes. Arrests are on there. Things that were expunged might be on there. Again, this is not something that I'm expert in, but I do know anecdotally that they tend to be fraught with errors. Can I ask you a practical question?
 Someone who has been incarcerated for a period of time may very well have a gap on their resume. So what's the interplay between the resume and the review of a resume by an employer? And secondly, is it typical that an employer checks references before or after a conditional offer is made?
 I'm going to be careful not to say I know what typically happens. I'm not an employer, and I know there will be employers here who can speak maybe a little bit better, and some advocates who will speak more clearly than I can on the interface. I agree that that is an issue, and those are the kinds of things that will need to be fleshed out in the education piece that we're offering as part of the proposal, because there's
 And I think advocates for people who are formerly incarcerated will have to work with crafting resumes and talking about different ways to put your best foot forward without highlighting the gaps in your employment. And I think one of the things we'd be interested in is how other cities have crafted administrative rules to deal with that. So, for example—
 One of the things that we often highlight in job interviews, let's say someone has had 10 jobs in five years and they're in a job every six months. I mean, that might prompt a question about, gosh, you've had a lot of different employment things. Why? Well, I kept taking the wrong job or I forgot to show up for work or whatever. But you'd ask that question. Here, you may very well have on a resume a gap
 that someone would naturally ask and how do you deal with that? That's a big question.
 Again, I think that that's a question that we can sort of flesh out a little bit later and where advocates and employers can talk about ways when we do an education piece and some training on how this is going to go about, go forward. And to answer your second question about when in the process, I think that when there's a box on the application, sometimes that's the point in the process because that application is never considered if the box is checked. Right, right.
 Thank you. I'm not sure I understand about checking references. Does that have to wait until a conditional offer or can that occur at the first step or the second step or whatever? References can be checked. An inquiry into whether or not the candidate has a criminal background would not be allowed. If I don't do a criminal background, check out the references and the references are bad.
 I don't have to. I have no further obligations. You would have no further obligation. The point of putting it at the conditional offer stage is that all of those things are yes. You've had a meeting of the minds with this candidate. They have the qualifications. You like their personality. You think that they're going to fit in well in the office. It's the last step or one of the last steps of the process and not one of the first steps or one of the eliminating factors right off the bat. Does that answer your question?
 So references can be an eliminating factor. References can absolutely be an eliminating factor. If you called my old boss and they said, you know,
 No, she's not a good candidate. There'd be no reason to get to a conditional offer. You would never get to that stage. Here's an example of how it works in the civil rights context. Someone says, I didn't get the job because the employer wouldn't hire me because I was gay, because I was African American, because I was a woman with children, because I was over 40 years old, whatever the category. The employer then has to have a neutral, non-discriminatory reason for the action taken.
 The employer says, you know, I had a requirement that you lift 100 pounds on the job. You couldn't do that. I, you know, required X or Y or checked your references and they weren't so good. But the employer's burden is to show that that impermissible factor was not driving the decision-making. And that's what I understand you're trying to structure here.
 Exactly. The way of making sure that that factor does not automatically disqualify someone. It doesn't preclude someone from saying there's other reasons why you're not a good fit for the job, but we're trying to eliminate the front door being closed on someone to even get to the point about whether they're qualified. Said better than I could have. No, you said it great. I'm just restating. Thank you, sir. So we've reached this individualized assessment criteria.
 What would happen now after the conditional offer was extended, an employer could now inquire into a person's criminal history. They could simply ask them, do you have a criminal history? Or they could obtain a criminal history report.
 An employer would then be required to make an individualized assessment to determine whether a specific offense has a direct relationship to the person's ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of the job they are seeking. So, conviction matched up with what the duties of the job are. This individualized assessment analysis comes from the EEOC's paper.
 that recommends, it's a 2012 guidance relating to the disparate impact of the use of criminal histories on protected classes that an employer can utilize. And these- Tell me what EEOC stands for. Sorry, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Thank you. Thank you. So the EEOC recommended a-
 some guidelines to use when cases of use of employment history came up and there was a disparate impact on a particular protected class. And the factors in the seminal case green are the nature and gravity of the offense, the time that has passed since the offense occurred, the conduct or the completion of the sentence, and the nature of the job held or sought. So that links into the individualized assessment that I spoke of a moment ago.
 So what kinds of things should not be considered by the employer? Again, these are the common factors among the ordinances that have been passed around the country. An arrest not leading to a conviction, except where a crime is unresolved or where charges are pending against someone, if they haven't yet gone to trial for the charge that they were arrested for. Convictions that have been judicially voided or expunged.
 and charges that have been resolved through the completion of a diversion or deferral of judgment program. I just want to say a little bit about the judicially voided or expunged. A lot of statutes talk about juvenile offenses, and the reason we didn't put that in here is because in Oregon, unlike some other jurisdictions, New York, for example, which I'm familiar with,
 Juvenile offenses are sealed. If you committed a crime and it was adjudicated in family court, no one's ever going to see that record. It shouldn't show up on a criminal background check. In Oregon, you have to take active steps to expunge your record. So if you committed an offense as a minor, after five years of a clear record, you apply for expungement.
 So the reason you don't see juvenile offenses on there is because we'd have no way of removing them from the record unless someone actively expunged it. And that may be a question that others later will talk a little bit more about. And what's the reason for allowing in when charges are still pending, given that we have an innocent until proven guilty ethic? Why allow discrimination based on something which may or may not turn out to be true?
 That's a good question, and I think that that is another one of these compromises because most employers, I think, and again, I don't want to speak for employers. They'll speak for themselves shortly, want a quick turnaround, and maybe there's sort of this
 Unknown question as to whether the person will be convicted. Will they be able to continue the job? Are they going to be incarcerated? That kind of iffy question is put in as one of these exceptions to give the employer some confidence that the person that they're hiring is going to be available to do the job long term. Exceptions. Yes.
 So, the proposed policy would not apply where a federal, state, or local law regulation requires or authorizes the consideration of a person's criminal history. Such situations will include employment of law enforcement or people working in the criminal justice system, private security employment where a license is required by the Oregon Department of Safety Standards and Training.
 Employees who would have direct access to or provide services for children, the elderly, persons with disabilities, persons with mental illness, or individuals with alcohol or drug dependence or substance abuse disorders.
 Employees required to be licensed, registered, certified, or otherwise authorized to practice a profession or trade in this state, and individuals applying for licensure, registration, certification, or authorization to practice such a profession or trade in this state. And lastly, for now, positions designated by the employer as part of a federal, state, or local government program designed to encourage the employment of those with criminal histories. Is this an example list or...?
 These are the typical. They come in all shapes and sizes. I pulled these from existing state law that has prohibitions on its funding of such products.
 service providers. So for example, a nursing home that has, that receives state funding would need to be accepted because they have actually a matrix, a list that was compiled by the Department of Human Services with actual offenses. And so a facility could not avail itself of state funding if they didn't follow those guidelines. Pardon me. So this, each of them are individualized to their state. I put this in sort of Oregonese so that it will be,
 We could look to something as guidance and not sort of make up categories. So we're proposing a process if after a conditional offer is extended, an individualized assessment of job relatedness is made, and an employer decides, I'm not going to hire this person, or I'm not going to promote this person, I'm not going to transfer them to a different department, or I'm going to discharge this person after finding out.
 about this criminal history. So if all of that is the case, here's what would have to happen. The person would need to be informed of the adverse employment decision. And the portions of the criminal history would need to be outlined. And outlined is the wrong word, which sort of need to be pointed out. And how I describe that as, if you have a written criminal history, you take a highlighter or you circle or you put a check mark next to the convictions that
 influence the decision, the adverse employment decision. The person would need to get a copy of the criminal history report. As I mentioned earlier, a lot of times they have errors, so it would be good for them to see it and be able to say, yes, this is true or this isn't true. A written notice of rights with a timeline for an opportunity to request reconsideration. I don't want to go back to the other slide because I may not be able to get back here, but...
 There are various deadlines. They go from two days to 14 days. We thought two days was reasonable. Folks talked about too much time between offer, reconsideration, would not be good for either the job seeker or the employer. So we put in two days to request reconsideration. Two days from what? Two days from receiving an adverse employment decision,
 A copy of the criminal history and an indication somehow of what items in the criminal history caused the employer to make the adverse employment decision. And is that two days by certified mail with receipt requested? Yes.
 Good question. That is a very good question. The mail is not necessarily that reliable or somebody might be out of town for the weekend, in which case you're out of luck. Two days seems a lot, a very short time. Normally, I think we'd have to consider actual notice and then figure out the timeline and then different options. I mean, actual notice is handing something to someone, having them acknowledge receipt. That's the best.
 The next is the presumption of delivery of a letter or certified mail and getting a receipt. That's probably the least efficient for a lot of reasons. So I think Commissioner Fritz raised a very good question, and we should be looking at, to the extent possible, actual notice because that's the best. There's a receipt that says I received.
 i got this notice from you and that that avoids all the sort of complexity of figuring out where they actually got notice and running the clock i agree and this is something that we can um flesh out in the rules at the city of the administrative uh regulations that the city attorney would um write up if such an ordinance were to pass those are the kinds of nuanced details that we can work out but the next one on this list has got my attention because i'm trying to think
 what other areas of our civil rights laws in particular an employer is required to give a notice of enforcement options. So where did you find that, and what's the analogous requirement that you can think of? And if you can't think of it now, perhaps at some point we could come back to it. But employers are required to do reasonable accommodation analysis. They're required to do many things.
 I'd be interested in knowing currently when does an employer have to give someone a notice that says, and if you disagree with me, here are all your legal rights. Well, none of you have noticed this for sure. Well, no, there's some of that in employment law, though. I'm talking about the employment law. Yeah, people look like they can answer that question, too. So I'm writing these down. That's a good one. I'm writing them down, too. Okay. So reconsideration. If the person requests reconsideration in whatever we decide is a timely manner based on your comments...
 The employer would then have two business days to reconsider the adverse employment decision. And they would again conduct an individualized assessment of relevant factors that could be offered by the person. And this isn't an exhaustive list, but these are the kinds of things that other jurisdictions have put as rehabilitative or mitigating factors. So the facts and circumstances surrounding the incident,
 The number of offenses, the age of the person at the time of the conviction or release from prison, that the person performed the same type of work post-conviction with the same or different employer with no known incidents of criminal conduct, the length and consistency of employment history before and after the offense or conduct, the person's participation in rehab efforts such as education, training, or substance abuse treatment,
 employment or character references, and any information regarding the person's fitness for a particular position, and whether the person is bonded under federal, state, or local bonding program. And unless the employer reaches a different decision after reconsideration, the adverse employment decision would become final four business days after the initial notice. And again, we'll keep in mind that notice requirement and how many days required.
 between the request for reconsideration and the final decision. Can I raise a little red flag here? Absolutely. I think we have to think about some safe harbor provision so that these cases don't get litigated on the question of the timeline and instead are on the substance. And I think there has to be some safe harbor around reasonable compliance with these rules. Otherwise...
 What you're going to have is a game of gotcha about whether the two days, the three days, the four days, the notice and everything else. So let's and hopefully we'll have someone later lay that out. But I would want to at least consider a safe harbor provision that so we're not just getting hung up on on these deadlines. These deadlines are designed to bring this process to a prompt conclusion, to be respectful of the both parties interests. But I don't think we want to have that be the primary issue in dispute going forward.
 So we'll come back to that. Definitely, and I totally agree. And that sort of brings us to this enforcement. And, again, that timing, remember, we're talking about only after a conditional offer, so we're not talking about the universe of people who applied for the job. We're not talking about the universe of people who were interviewed, but specific people. And, yes, that timing issue does have to be addressed.
 So, on to suggested enforcement, we have two outlined. There could be action by the city attorney who already has the authority to bring code violations. Okay.
 So if the city attorney determined that a violation of the policy occurred, she could initiate a code violation proceeding after giving the employer notice of and an opportunity to explain the allegations. Again, we don't want it to be a gotcha. We're giving you a summons. We envision some kind of back and forth, like a letter outlining the allegations, some time for a response before a code violation proceeding would be initiated. So let me ask you on this one, because this one,
 got my attention because it's not typically what the city attorney does in this arena. And yet we do have an agency that typically does these kinds of things, which is the Bureau of Labor and Industries.
 Was there some consideration to simply contracting administratively with Boley to handle the administrative component of this rather than essentially creating an enforcement unit within the city attorney's office to duplicate what they do routinely? Well, historically, the city attorney has not exercised its general law enforcement authority, unlike other cities of our size and offices that actually prosecute criminal offenses.
 There is currently no law enforcement capacity within the city attorney's office. This is something that would have to be fleshed out. In terms of BOLI, BOLI is a state entity, familiar with the state laws. As the city of Portland passes civil rights laws, having the opportunity to litigate those laws here in the city.
 have an administrative process that could be quick and efficient to adjudicate those is something that could be beneficial. Again, this is a proposal, and in it we outline sort of a possible way to go about adjudicating these. Since the Mayor has invited us to ask the questions, we're having a forum to ask questions, not to debate, but to sort of put them out there and see if they stick.
 Let me just express the concern. I have tremendous confidence in the city attorney and in her ability to administer anything we set up. And I'm sure she would come with a specific request that's a budget request, a staffing request. She would set up the administrative machinery necessary to do this because I'm guessing, you know, in the first couple of years we could see a lot of action. The question I have is,
 Since there are people already highly trained to investigate and hear at the administrative level these kinds of things at the State Bureau of Labor and Industries, why not consider contracting so that they would enforce this particular statute on behalf of the city?
 and then test drive that relationship. I'm just throwing that out as an idea. My understanding is we already contract with BOLI to do the sick leave ordinances, and they are also handling our civil rights ordinances if someone brings a claim under them. And they will be handling in due course some additional action around fair housing. So there is an...
 And I'm guessing some other city, there's some other jurisdiction that has done something similar. I'm just raising it as an issue. And you mentioned the term contracting. It costs the city money to ask Boley to adjudicate those cases. Correct. They don't just do them. So part of it. One of the questions would be is that, is it a better or not as good remedy and process? That's a question. And then two is, is it more cost-effective?
 to have them do it or to create a parallel administrative structure at the city attorney's office. I don't know the answer to that. That's worth fleshing out. Good point. You didn't talk about private right of action. Did I not? I'm sorry. I just skipped right. Thank you, sir.
 So the other enforcement mechanism we envision is a private right of action under Oregon Revised Statute 659A.885, which is a civil rights action in a court of competent jurisdiction. So that one got my attention, too, because I've sued a lot of people in another life under that statute. And so...
 You're just laying this out as a concept, right? Because it's currently a seven-page statute that has carefully tailored remedies and procedures according to the kind of claim. So you get jury trials with some, not others. You get punitive damages with some, not others, compensatory damages. You get caps on damages for some claims, not caps on damages for others, and on and on
 I take it what you're just saying is this would be the statute where we would look to to craft the remedy, but right now we'd have to decide what is this most like in terms of state law, because there's seven pages of tailored remedies depending on the claim. Am I right on that? Absolutely. Okay. Wait a second. I'm a little confused. So are you saying that statute is what becomes the basis for a private right of action?
 Are you saying we would create a private right of action that would be modeled after that statute? We would create a private right of action as happened with the — and tell me if I'm saying the case wrong — the BESOS case, where sexual orientation was the class of person at issue. And that case has been litigated, and the city of Portland passed a statute extending that protection.
 the case was able to be brought under 659A. In a Multnomah County Circuit Court. So describe for me, just in ordinary English, what a private right of action would look like to somebody that receives an adverse determination. What would the attorney writing the demand letter to the employer say? In English, not legalese. You got me on the fly, so...
 Here we go. So they would have received a conditional offer of employment, and the argument would be that the individualized assessment was not reasonable, that their offense was not reasonably related to the job description. So the case I like to use, it's very simple. A former bank robber recently released from prison who applies for a bank teller job.
 the employer, the bank, could reasonably say, I've done an individualized assessment, and I'm not offering you this job. You would never get to the, I'm sorry, the conditional offer would be revoked. So it's what I mentioned earlier, and I'm going to dare, actually. Oops, see, I knew I shouldn't dare to do anything because... Carla can help you. Turn it off. Carla will help you. Now you've done it. I know. Thank you, Carla. That's okay.
 The little thing. See, this is what happens when you give me technology. So just sticking with your example, so if the potential employee responded, well, I robbed that bank when I was 17. Yeah.
 And I'm 40. Is that a basis to file a private action? I think it would be another. I guess prevail on private action. Let me try to create an opposite scenario. So that would be a reasonable decision by that employer not subject to a private right of action because the previous conviction was reasonably related to the likely violation
 risk of that employee being employed there, right? Not quite, Mayor. Okay. Well, stick with me because I'm going to try to paint the opposite picture. I know, but just to be clear, whether you think it's reasonable or not, the private right of action is just the door to the courthouse. Right. Anybody can file a claim. Still have the right of action. They can file a claim saying anything they want. You would not win, but you – You may not win, but you'd have to establish that you're a protected party
 That is, someone covered by the law. Right. You'd have to establish that you were given a conditional offer. You have to prove that. Right. You have to prove, you have to then allege that it was then discovered or disclosed that you had a prior criminal conviction. Right. And that the employer did not exercise a reasonable, was not reasonable in saying that that disqualified me from the job when they withdrew the offer. Right.
 and that that constitutes a violation of the law, and I'm entitled to damages. And what we haven't figured out, if we do have a private right of action, is what kind of damage is, jury trial, attorney fees, what do you get? But that would be the prime facie case. Right. If you were the bank robber and you were only 17, you could sue, but you may not prevail in the courts.
 You bring up a really good point, Commissioner Saltzman, and that is the nature-time-nature test, which is part of that individualized assessment. The nature and gravity of the offense, so the robbery, and I'm sorry if the example is a poor one, but the robbery, but it having occurred 25 years before would bring you to the second criteria, which is the time that has elapsed since the offense took place. Now, remember that after
 the rescinding of the conditional offer, there's that opportunity for mitigating circumstances and evidence of rehabilitation. So that would be a mitigating circumstance. You know, I've lived a law-abiding life at 17, I made this error, and I've lived a law-abiding life now I'm 45 years old.
 so um those would be the kinds of questions that would decide whether the decision was reasonable and currently if if you've received an offer and you request a reasonable accommodation because you have a disability the employer also has to go through a reasonable process to determine whether you get that accommodation and that can be tested in court so this this this this the legal question would be a judge deciding whether
 The time limits have been followed. You qualify as a plaintiff. The law applies to you. And you've alleged that it's not reasonable, and there's some basis for that. And that potentially could then go forward. But that's a lot of burden to get to that point. Which is why the first option was presented. And as I said, in the lot, the option of the city attorney or another administrative process, in a lot of the jurisdictions that have...
 administrative process be the last step or as far as you can go on your claim, they have robust administrative agencies that are adjudicating these cases, investigating and adjudicating them. So if, as you said, a place like Boley could be contracted and that could be the final level of adjudication...
 That's an option. It's going to be a better option for most people because most people have trouble finding an employment lawyer to take a case like this. It's a case that...
 is typically taken on a contingent fee basis because most people don't have the attorney fee. So if you don't have an administrative process that's relatively easy, and by the way, the employer sometimes benefits from an administrative process because you get a quicker outcome. And there's a mediation. They don't have to pay lawyers. Huh? And they don't necessarily have longer. Yeah, and there's an early mediation. There's a chance to kind of get it right before, you know, you're stuck in a two-year piece of litigation. And, you know, that's a good
 I think you're talking about the access to justice piece, where people who are not typical plaintiffs could still bring a case somewhere and have it investigated and adjudicated without having to seek out a lawyer who's going to make this cost-benefit analysis. Again, I'm not saying anything out of line here. Most people with claims like this have trouble finding a lawyer. Right.
 who will take the case. Let's just be clear. There's not a lot of people who do these kinds of cases and they're very careful in their screening. That's why Boley and the EEOC are so important to people seeking to have their claims resolved. MR. Okay. So let's finish your last slide. I'm sorry we got on to a good discussion. MS. That's okay. MR. I'm not sorry, but we got on to a good discussion there. MS. So a public education and outreach piece.
 This will not be successful if there is not a strong public education piece developed by the city implementing outreach to both employers and employers
 people with criminal histories to explain exactly what it is such a policy would do, what rights each party would have. So I'm going to end there and just say that if this is something that the city would pursue, and I hope it is, that piece would be essential to the success of such a policy.
 Thanks for your attention. Thank you. Just going back to the beginning of the presentation where you said that we couldn't ban the box, what's to stop a potential employer putting in their ad, foreigners need not apply or felons need not apply? Is that prohibited in other parts of statutes? In other jurisdictions, it is. Here in Oregon, and I am not an expert on Article 1, Section 8. Others here are. But Oregon...
 Employers, we could not prohibit, we believe, employers from having that question. But in determining whether a violation took place later in the process, the fact of the box or the question could be used later. What I'm concerned about is will employers now go even further upstream and put something in their announcement about,
 don't even apply if you have a conviction? Only if they have an enormous amount of money in reserve for legal fees. Because that would be... Because what they have done is created a blanket class of plaintiffs. Anybody with a criminal background who applies to that employer is going to say, of course I never got a fair shake because they're advertising. That would be the gold standard for a plaintiff's lawyer to have such a thing. If someone chooses to do that,
 It would make the cases a lot easier for the plaintiff. Thank you. You can't prevent them from doing it, I guess, under the First Amendment, but it would be the
 The plaintiff's bar would be delighted if employers did that. If someone exercised their right to be that stupid. They'd hire someone just to collect those kinds of announcements. I figured. So thank you for clarifying that. And that would be part of the public outreach that you got to at the end there. Thank you. And also the EEOC's guidelines are based on disparate impacts. So such a blanket policy by an employer would probably, as Commissioner Fish states,
 invite a disparate impact claims from all kinds of protected classes. Thank you. A couple more questions and then we'll call her back when we complete. Does this apply to full and part-time employment or simply full-time? It would apply to all employment. We would probably fashion something that would apply to sort of all people in all positions. So if you're hiring summer youth and things like that, we'd have to go through this?
 Yes, with the exceptions outlined on that exception slide. And if it's a policy, one of those exceptions was a position designated by the employer as part of a program to encourage employment of those with criminal histories. That is one of the exceptions. So if you had a youth employment program with that bend that was trying to rehabilitate youth, then it would fall under an exception.
 great so and maybe this isn't the question for you to answer but i guess you know i i can see this maybe working in a large company but i have a hard time grasping how this is going to work in a sole proprietorship corner market i mean that's i don't think you need to answer that question i'll just say that i'm having a hard time seeing this working outside of sort of
 typical corporate America. I think some of the people we hear from today are small businesses that already do this. So I think we could hear how they made it work. Well, we also have a chart that says every jurisdiction that's taken this up has debated that very issue. Right, set a threshold somewhere. In San Francisco, which is a pretty liberal place, they've said you have to have 20 employees. So that would be well above the sort of
 small neighborhood, the typical neighborhood small business in Portland has five or fewer employees. So that's just as a way of comparison.
 Judy, thank you. We'll have you back either at the end of this or at our next phase, but thank you for great work. Appreciate it. Thank you for your attention. So we have some panels lined up, starting with some folks that actually place people now into employment that are coming out of the criminal justice system. I'll call a panel of one first because of the number of chairs and then some more people, but let me start with Holly Whittleton from Southeast Works. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and city commissioners, for the opportunity to speak this afternoon. I've been asked to speak to Southeast Works and our workforce development efforts with individuals with backgrounds and second-chance employers, as we call them, and the impact of employment on recidivism. We know that employment matters and that we want to endorse ban-the-box or fair-chance.
 For over 18 years, Southeast Works has delivered workforce development and youth education and career development through our non-profit community-based work.
 Development Organization. In 2013-14, we served over 3,000 individuals with backgrounds including adults and justice-involved youth ages 16 to 24. And our WorkSource Portland Metro Southeast Center serves the highest percentage of those who self-attested in the system to a background, and we have about 17% of our population who are coming through the WorkSource Center self-attesting.
 We have really moved to pre-release work versus post-release work, and that pre-release work is including work on securing identification for employment, working with employers pre-release for an individual, and securing health care to ensure that they have a job, that they have housing, and that they have health care in place.
 We also work around 10 programs for reentry through our integrated work source development model with drug courts and the court diversion programs and a multidisciplinary treatment and justice program for gang-involved youth in Rosewood.
 And these programs really work to empower individuals with backgrounds by teaching them through really relational case management, tailored workshops, and through one-to-one work with their case manager, how to explain their skills and their abilities, not their background. We need to get to that, but we need to start talking about their skill and ability first.
 And so we work with individuals to get them training through the work source centers, and that could be anything from forklift certification through to HVAC training, and then working with those employers who have deemed themselves second-chance employers to get those positions so that they're not constantly stuck in transitional or survival jobs. They're looking at some career track employment, which is really important.
 One of the integrated programs that's really been one of our most successful has been the Prisoner Reentry Employment Program, actually funded by the City of Portland and through WSI, Work Systems, Inc., through a three-year career track model.
 which is highly relational with the case manager, the individual is placed in a job and case managed and worked with the employer on a constant basis to see if there's any issues that are happening with that particular customer who's been placed. In 13-14, we placed 102 participants in that program, and of 102 participants, 76% became employed with an average hourly rate of 13.71%.
 dollars, $13.71, and we have a recidivism rate of 1%. If you look nationwide, recidivism rates are over 67% in some of the states.
 So we believe that it's a highly relational model, the follow-up, the work with the employer, and the front end, which we do a lot of job carving on behalf of the customer to get the proper placement. We're not going to take somebody with a background, you know, as Judy has just explained, maybe that had robbery putting them in a position that the employer is, you know, not interested in hiring them in. So we really try to tailor-make the jobs to the individuals. Okay.
 We've also been very successful with a very large Department of Labor grant over a five-year window that we've tracked. We had 809 participants, 631 or 77 percent of those individuals were placed in employment, and only 69 out of that 631 recidivated, 11 percent. So we're seeing that employment is the answer, along with housing and health care, but employment really does drive recidivism rates.
 We've worked for many, many years, for anyone that knows Southeast Works, in cultivating second-chance employers. We have a huge database of those individuals. And what we know is that it takes a lot of time, and it takes education and context for the business to embrace hiring those with backgrounds. It really does. And there's a lot of mythology with backgrounds, and employers are not well-educated in relation to that. We have...
 Not all employers are keen to hire, and the box is used as a deterrent, really, to hire individuals that we do put forward. But we do have businesses that do give individuals a second chance. And I think we're really honest with our employers, and we sell skill and ability, not character. And that's what we're clear about.
 And that really building that relationship with the employer is absolutely critical from our end so that there is a trust between the employer and Southeast Works that we're going to give them the best candidate possible for the job. I did get the chance to talk to a few employers before I came here today, and some of them are second chance and some of them are quite large employers who do hire individuals, and they felt that you needed to get some of the best champions on this initiative, which were Chambers of Commerce,
 Pharma, the Professional Human Resources Management Association, and get employers to understand what Ban the Box or the Fair Chance Initiative is really all about. There's a lot of misinformation out there already about it. When I was talking to employers about coming today, they were just like, no, don't want to have that discussion about banning the box. So I think there's a lot of work. We did a lot of work on the phone about this. They asked about city and county outcomes.
 If this has been endorsed over a year ago with city and county, what are the outcomes and what were the lessons learned? One of the largest employers wanted to know. And that they felt that an education campaign for employers, that they understand the benefits and that they really reduce the mythology and fear. And one employer asked me, you know, what is the enforcement? I heard Judy talk about that because without enforcement, he called it a toothless tiger. Right.
 And in closing, I just want to say that Southeast Works is a second-chance employer, and 16% of my labor force have backgrounds. I've established base lines for hiring. We have a school on premises, and so contractually I have to look at that. But we want to give people a second chance. And we really believe that a charge and a criminal background is not a life sentence. And this is what happens when you're checking off boxes for either employment or housing.
 Applicants are put in the situation of being screened out before they're able to really describe what they have to give to that employer. They don't have the chance to say how long ago the criminal activity has been or what they were charged or incarcerated with. What they've done since then, we have many that have come in and done a lot of community work. So how do they get to explain that if they're screened out? And most of all, what are their skills and abilities and the ability to sit in front of someone and be able to discuss that?
 We also know that this checkbox, because of our work, really affects communities of color who are overrepresented in the justice system. And we need to think about that as we look at this.
 And we really encourage employers to ban the box, take a thoughtful look at this, establish a baseline for hiring, and assist those who want to work and be crime-free, and overall reduce recidivism and really, you know, make that change in the community. So I thank you today for the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you very much, Holly. Appreciate it. Yeah.
 Okay, we have some more folks that are in the in the business of getting people hired Patrick gearing Andrew McGuff and Pat Daniels from work systems Inc and constructing hope did you come up two out of three any well? Three three Hi, mr. Mayor and Commissioner, my name is Jacqueline wit and I'm here representing constructing hope who's first I
 Well, I guess I'll kick it off because I'm the more generic spokesperson here. My name is Andrew McGough. I'm the Executive Director of Work Systems, Inc. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for the opportunity to speak to you today and council members the same. Part of our responsibility is, as Holly just testified, is to oversee the region's workforce development system. We call that WorkSource Portland Metro locally. Okay.
 And in our five centers last year, we served 101,000 job seekers across the region. Nine percent of those job seekers were more than 9,000 people self-disclosed having a criminal background. Research shows that a good job is one of the best ways to prevent ex-offenders from committing new crimes. Unfortunately, finding a good job is one of the most difficult tasks for former offenders to
 Recent survey results suggest that between 60 and 75 percent of ex-offenders are jobless up to a year after release. Research conducted by the National Institute for Justice has shown that most employers are reluctant to hire applicants with criminal records. In a study conducted in New York City, for example, a criminal record reduced the likelihood of a callback or job offer by nearly 50 percent.
 In the same New York City study, employment prospects for applicants with criminal records improved when applicants had an opportunity to interact with the hiring manager. The study concluded that personal interaction between the applicant and the prospective employer was a key factor in successful hiring. While I know there will be some controversy surrounding the specifics, and I think Commissioner Fish pointed that out quite well today,
 I'm convinced we can find common ground and figure out ways to remove impediments for people with criminal backgrounds to reconnect with the labor market. Basic things we know are effective, like removing the question from the application and ensuring that people have an opportunity to interact face-to-face. These should be front and center with whatever policy or regulations emerge.
 As a local employer, I can speak from personal experience to the benefits of these kinds of practices. We have the option to do a criminal background check as a condition of employment. This does not happen until the offer stage, and it is at our discretion. We made an offer to a person where we discovered an extensive criminal record, including spending time in prison. However, through the interview process, we decided to give her a shot.
 She has turned out to be a great member of our team, and she has proven to be the right person for the job. Thanks for the opportunity to testify. Thank you. Welcome. Is this remaining time cumulative here for all three of us? Yes, please. Go ahead. I'll keep it short. There's no time. Oh, I just said you're fine. You're fine. Okay. Hi. My name is Jacqueline, and I just –
 I wanted to share part of my story because I think it's imperative that we ban the box to help individuals like myself be able to secure employment. So we don't return back to the same behaviors that we had. And I have a lot of skills to present to an employer and I've done a lot of programs in public service and,
 And I have really began to understand the important things in life and how to go about establishing relationships. And I have had wonderful people teaching me in organizations such as Mercy Corps and Constructing Hope and Better People. And I'm currently employed at Red Lodge Transition Service, which is an agency that helped me, you know,
 They helped me. I volunteered for them when I got out of prison, and they actually hired me for a part-time position. But had it not been for them, I wouldn't have an income, and I just want to ask that Ban the Box be instated so individuals like myself can raise ourselves up out of poverty again.
 and secure a decent income to be able to live and thrive instead of just survive. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. I'm Patrick Gearing. I'm also from Work Systems Inc. We manage the Economic Opportunity Program, which is a city program that serves about 700 low-income Portland residents who have barriers to employment.
 Of the people served in this program, about 300 or 40 percent are ex-offenders. Ex-offenders are served across the array of partners within the network, and as you've heard, there are special projects at Southeast Works in constructing hope that are focused on serving these populations with employment services.
 We provide an array of specialized services through the WorkSource system. You've heard a little bit about those earlier from Holly that support the employment goals of people served in the economic opportunity programs. These services include job clubs for ex-offenders, workshops to help people communicate with employers about their backgrounds, internships for people with limited work experience, and training and occupations that offer more opportunities and open doors for ex-offenders.
 58 percent of the people who have criminal backgrounds served in this program enter employment during the course of their participation at an average rate of 13 an hour. We think that's good, but it could be a lot better if there were more open doors for this population. The approach of leading with strengths and giving job seekers a chance to communicate what they have to offer to an employer before they're screened out.
 or need to talk about the checks against them is something that we support. I'd also add, for the many people we serve who have a 10- or more-year gap in their employment history, for them the barrier is bigger than a box. They often need career coaching, job training, and help connecting to employers. That's why I'm also here to support the employment program services that you're hearing about today, and we believe this is also an important part of the solution. Mayor, can I ask Andrew a question? Yes, please. Questions. Andrew, thank you.
 and you may have already sort of touched on this, but you estimate that how many people in Multnomah County might benefit from this change in the law? Well, if it's 9%, 10% of the labor market, 15,000 people. And what are the, from your experience, what are the kinds of jobs that people are competing? I know it's hard to generalize, but what are some of the kinds of jobs, categories of jobs that people compete
 who are coming out of the criminal justice system are competing for? Well, we hope they're middle-skilled jobs that pay livable wages. So we like to focus on careers in manufacturing, construction. There are certain industries that definitely are more favorable for people reentering the labor market with criminal backgrounds. Healthcare, for example, is not an industry that we have a lot of success with yet.
 ex-offenders. You have had some with the trades. Yes. And we also know that there are some programs that the trades are running in facilities where people can get their, do some apprentice work, get their certification and be job- Absolutely. Yes. So there's a lot of that work going on. It's increasing. And the use of certifications, industry-recognized certifications, and other sort of
 competency-based measures are really effective with these kinds of populations. Thank you. Andrew, you said we haven't been particularly successful in the health care sector? With ex-offenders. Yeah, I mean, is there a reason? Well, I think that a lot of the occupations within the health care system require relationships with patients and individuals and access to potentially drugs and just –
 environment is a little bit more challenging, I think. Okay. Thanks. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thanks. Thank you so much for your time. Thanks for coming. So speaking of employers, let's call a panel of four of them. Jim Hauser from Hawthorne Auto, Bill Dickey from Morrell Inc., London Elliott from Family Story, and Judd Wrench from Bulababa House. Come on up, please. Jim, I think you're on first if you'd like to be. Thank you. Just swing that over to you. It will move. There you go.
 Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you. My name is Jim Hauser, and my wife and I own and operate Hawthorne Auto Clinic at 4307 Southeast Hawthorne Boulevard. We have for 32 years. I'm also co-chair of the Main Street Alliance of Oregon, a network of 2,500 Oregon small business owners working together to lift up the real voices of small business on public policy.
 28 years ago, I hired an employee who was upfront about his criminal history. He just recently retired after three decades of one of our best employees. Having a criminal record doesn't mean being a bad employee. In my experience, people with criminal records are often model employees. They are frequently the most dedicated and conscientious. A lot of doors are shut to them, so when someone gives them an opportunity, they make the most of it.
 Postponing a criminal background check or asking candidate questions about arrest or conviction records unrelated to job duties until after a job offer has been made gives an employer the opportunity to appreciate that the best person for the job may, in fact, have a record. In fact, company policies requiring early background investigations may not be in the best interest of either the applicant or the company.
 From my perspective, why would an employer want to short-circuit the hiring process and deny themselves the opportunity to hire the best person for the job? In the end, what's good for my community is good for my business. As a small business owner, I know that when people have opportunities to succeed, the local community and economy thrives, and in turn, my company thrives. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Dickey, why don't you go next? Just swing that over to you there.
 My name is Bill Dickey. I'm the co-owner of Morel Inc. out in northeast Portland. We're a commercial printing company. I apologize. I left my talking points at home, so I'm going to have to do this off the cuff. But I think that this banning the box movement itself is just sort of ending a stereotype.
 I think that for our personal company's experience, we have about 12% of our workforce have criminal backgrounds. One that developed while they were on staff. One that the person came to us and said, I need help getting a job. I've got this problem and whatever.
 We hired them. In all cases, these employees have worked out to be great people and do a wonderful job, and we haven't had a negative result in the case of any of it. I think that listening to the ordinance, it got very confusing for me because, to me, all this does is just eliminates the –
 Out of hand, eliminating an employee out of hand without having a chance to have a conversation with the employee first. If you and the employee, prospective employee, have a chance to get to know one another, and the employee divulges this thing in his past, then you get to make the decision. But if you're just looking at a stack of applications and this box is checked, and you pass that without talking to the person first,
 it eliminates you from the opportunity to maybe develop a great relationship and have a great employee. So I don't think it really changes anybody's hiring practices. It just gives you an opportunity to meet with a person that you might otherwise not get to talk to who could be a great, valuable asset for your business and help.
 I think that pretty much covers my testimony. I've covered my points in my iPad. Thank you very much. Mr. Elliott? My name is Judd Wrench. I own a business called Bula Kava House. We're a cafe in southeast Portland. I have an online store as well. This is our fourth year in business. Pretty quickly we've gone to – we're projecting about a half a million in sales this year from my small business. Okay.
 I'm also a convicted felon, and I have two other misdemeanors as well on my record. I was pretty lucky when I had this idea for my business. Now I had some good support financially and also just some backing otherwise and
 But a lot of people with a background like mine, they don't have that same support. And if I didn't have the support that I did have, I mean, there's no way I would have been able to do what I'm doing now.
 I definitely would have a hard time finding any job because I think, as he was saying, having that box on an application that's on so many is just – I mean, people just automatically look at it like, well, this is no longer a viable employee. And I think my story is so applicable because, obviously, I'm a viable employee. I think if I didn't own my own business –
 I'd be valuable to a lot of different employers. And I think banning the box and it's just really important to get past that and to decide if someone's a viable employee based on something else. Right now I have six employees.
 I haven't done a background check on any of them. I just don't see it very, in my business, and I know it's different from business to business, but in my business, I just don't see it very valuable. To know that, I think it's much more valuable sitting down and talking with someone and then talking to their other references. I think it makes a lot more sense.
 So, yeah, I mean, I support this, and I think that I'm proof that a criminal background check is definitely something that shouldn't exclude you from a job offer in the first place. Thanks very much. Appreciate you being here. Thanks for coming. Welcome. There's a little button on the bottom of that. There you go. Just push that button, and it will turn it on. There you are. Can you hear me? Yes. That's loud.
 Hi. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the Portland City Council. My name is London Elliott, and I am currently a senior at Jefferson High School and also an emerging leader with the Urban League of Portland Social Justice and Civic Leadership Program. I urge you to support the Fair Chance for All Ban the Box ordinance because I believe it could help families like mine. I've seen firsthand the problem that people who have prior arrests or convictions have finding a job when they come back to wider society.
 I've seen my grandma struggle with finding a job that would help her support her family as a single mother. I've seen how stressful it is and how hard she has worked to put food on the table, to keep the water on and the lights running, to keep a roof over her and her five children's heads. Currently, my older brother is in jail, and we have to worry if he will ever be able to get a job because he did something stupid when he was 15 years old.
 Once he gets out, he'll be expected to be a member of our society, which means getting a job. I have a cousin who is now an award-winning author, but wouldn't have this chance if no one gave him that chance. If they looked at his prior jail time instead of his abilities, he wouldn't be where he is today, and everybody reads author. Who knows what my brother could be when he gets out of jail? Without passing the Ban the Box ordinance, he'll be another person in our economy struggling for a job.
 Thank you for your time, and I really hope you pass the ordinance to give a fair chance to all people. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well done. Thank you all. Any questions? Appreciate you being here. Thank you very much. So our next panel are some folks that are also personally involved in this transition, getting people through that transition. Sonia Skvarla, Meg Worden, and Aidan Worden from A Social Ignition.
 Welcome. Thank you. Thank you. Do you want to go first? Yeah, I'll start. Start. Hello. Again, my name is Sonia Scavarla. I'm the founder and CEO of an organization called The Social Ignition. We teach entrepreneurship and business inside of our incarceration, and we coach members of our class through their transition and into the job force. We teach both at Columbia River Correctional Institution up on Columbia Way and in the Multnomah County Jail.
 I'm here today to talk to you about this particular issue because it's close to my heart, but not because I've ever been incarcerated, not because I've known anybody who was incarcerated, although now I know many. But before I started this work, I didn't. For me, it comes from a place of participation and economic accessibility, and the fact that without true economic accessibility for all people, we don't actually have a democracy.
 And in my opinion, the economic accessibility and everybody's ability to participate will actually help us solve all sorts of social problems due to the diverse voices.
 And although I have not been incarcerated, so I can't speak to the experience of someone who has. So it is really important for me to hear their voice in all decision-making arenas, which is why I teach this work.
 Business is a key to any sort of positive change. It is a huge power source in the way that we conduct ourselves in this country. And providing men with an opportunity to speak the language of business will help them move forward in that way.
 So the other piece to our program is not only teaching business, but every time we go into the prison, we bring business leaders with us so that the ban the box is not an issue because they're breaking down the stigmas and stereotypes and building relationships based on the language of business and not on any prior conviction. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Ms. Worden, welcome. Hi, thank you. My name is Meg Worden. Thanks for letting me speak.
 Um, I am the director of strategic partnerships for a social ignition with Sonia. I also have a private health coaching business and speak all over the country and soon, um, internationally to entrepreneurs. I am very open about my criminal history. I have a felony. I was, uh, served time in prison for selling drugs from 2003 to 2005. It has been, um,
 From the beginning of my release, incredibly important to me that I would be able to live in a place free of stigma, which has taken a lot of work because that's not where we're living. It was really important to me that my son didn't have the stigma of my criminal activity that happened before he was born. And so I've worked really, really hard on being able to tell this story.
 in a way that engenders compassion and support rather than judgment and fear. Fortunately for me, I have some privileges financially and culturally and educationally that other people don't have and I've been able to withstand the long process after prison it took to try to find a job
 which never really happened. It was incredibly dehumanizing. It was incredibly discouraging. Every time I had to check that box without a face-to-face meeting, I never got a face-to-face meeting.
 When I did get a face-to-face meeting, I was put in a position after having served my time, after having actually done everything I was supposed to do to pay for this crime, I was still paying for it. I was still being asked to prove myself as a person and as a human. And that's an incredibly hard thing to do.
 With the privileges I had. So I want to say I cannot even imagine what it's like to be in another position. But I've been fortunate enough actually at this point to have worked as a mentor. And as a teacher to many people inside and outside of prison. And this is a population that is in huge part incredibly hungry for opportunity. They are amazing workers. They are talented.
 People who also in large part have done something with their available skill set and tools rather than nothing. And often those available tools were not viable or legal. And I've watched them be, and myself included, be able to take new skill sets and new tools and new support systems and do amazing things with them. I'm absolutely in support of this initiative.
 this ordinance because it effectively eliminates legal discrimination for a group of people that
 When employed, when they're able to have the opportunity to participate in our economy, not only benefits us fiscally, but also gives us the opportunity to live in a society that is richer, more diverse, and more merciful. And this is, frankly, this is a world I want to live in. And so this work is really important to me, and it's a world I really want my son to live in.
 And I think that's about it. Is this poised young man your son? The guy to my right is here to hopefully pull your heartstrings a little. He's done a great job, and it is my absolute...
 No, you don't have to say anything if you don't want to. He looks like a very serious man. Just his presence is here to pull your heartstrings. But it's really important to me that he gets to live in an environment that is free from stigma because there's, you know, I don't have the exact numbers, but it is very common that the children of children
 People who have been incarcerated are incarcerated as well. And also, he doesn't deserve to grow up in a world where he has to live with the stigma of my mistakes. And so... Can I ask you just to get some parental advice, parenting advice? Please. Because I think your son's about the age of my son. He's 12, almost 13. Yeah, so my son is almost 12. And when we go to church or we go to special events, he refuses to wear a tie or a jacket. So do you have any...
 Maybe Aidan has some advice for you. Would you like to answer that question, Aidan? Oh, wait. Yeah, Aidan. We'd love to hear from you, Aidan. I don't really know. I just am fine with wearing a tie. He's got great style. Thank you.
 And a few words, but very powerful words. Did you want to say anything at all about this ordinance? What's this whole experience of your mom being able to finally work been like for you? Is it... I don't know. It's been hard. A lot of stuff's happened. I don't really know how to explain it. I'm bad at speeches. You're doing fine. I'm doing all right. Are you proud of your mom? Mm-hmm. Very. She's worked very hard to get where she is. So I support the...
 What do you call it? Yeah. Yeah, so that. Well, thank you. We appreciate you being here. Aiden, thank you for standing up for your mom and for all people who need help, a little bit of help like her. Thank you for being here. That was really helpful. You're welcome. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay. We have some folks who are now in the process of seeking work that we want to hear from, Trenton Anderson and Mike D'Aprio.
 Trenton and Mike, are you here? Yes, they are. Good afternoon and welcome. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Hales, for letting me come up here and speak to you today and a member of the board. Just give us your name and say your piece. I'm Trenton Anderson. I'm a convicted felon. I've just recently gotten released probably about three days ago.
 You know, there's a lot of thoughts that go through my mind when it comes to going out looking for work. That box is one of them. I've made some pretty poor choices in my life. It took me about three minutes to make choices that cost me three years of my life, which in those three years I made a lot of choices that helped me rechannel my thoughts and my thinking and become a part of groups that helped me make the right choices, which is Phoenix Rising and Social Ignitions.
 With that said, I was able to work with them in there, not only in there, but they were here for me to support me once I got out. I totally am against the whole check-in-the-box thing because the choices that I've made in the past should be left in the past. Now, whether it gives them the right to discriminate against me for the fact that of what I committed in the past, I feel shouldn't be valid at that point whatsoever.
 in my application or even in my resume. Because I've done a lot of work being in prison. I've gotten 23 certificates of completion. I've spent three years correcting something, a choice that I made in a matter of three minutes. With that said, I think that there's a lot of things that need to be done here. Social stigma to me is the same thing as racism. I think they coincide because it helps somebody make a decision upon somebody,
 you know, for, you know, what the appearance of what they look like is. And I don't think that's right. I don't agree with it. So, yeah, I'm pretty much on the equal opportunity rights. You know, we're all Americans. We're all here to try to do the right thing for the right reasons because that's the right thing to do. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you very much. Yeah. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Michael DiPiro. I want to thank you for having me. A lot of the things that Trent here has said, there's a lot of similarities to my story as well. I was just released in December after doing six years in prison. Before I was in prison, I had an extensive employment history with a couple different employers. I had...
 I had a lot of sales jobs that I was involved in, a lot of sensitive customer information that I was used to handling. Now that I've gotten out of prison, it has been absolutely impossible to get back into the field that I was in because of the crime that I committed.
 I have had a dozen or so employers that have denied me immediately once they found out that I had a felony. I'm in a process right now where I actually do have two conditional offers, one from a large company and one from a smaller company, but it's all pending on my background. I've been absolutely upfront about what I've done. Even in the interview, there was a gap in my employment. When I wasn't involved in school while I was in prison,
 where they questioned me about it in the interview, and I humbly spoke to them about it, and they said, well, we really like you. We'd like to offer you the job, but it's depending upon what our corporation says. It makes it very difficult, definitely very, very, very difficult having a felony, and for the, like I said, the dozen or so employers that I have applied with, for them just to deny me just because I have a felony, you know, I do believe that it is a form of discrimination because I'm more than qualified,
 for the positions that I've applied for. I mean, the positions I've applied for, again, I'm more than qualified to do them. But just because I had to check that box, they denied me. I have four children, and they do live with me. And it makes it hard. And luckily, I'm in a position where I have somebody in my family who owns a business that I'm able to work for at this time. Not enough to support my children the way that they need to be supported, though. So I spoke my piece.
 Thank you. Thank you both. I heard some great presentations from people involved in this program, including you, and seeing the skills that these programs impart to people or let them polish and then have them get out in the workforce and not be able to put them to use is wrong. So we wish you well. Thank you for having us. Thank you for being here. Thanks for coming.
 Okay. Our next panel is from a number of organizations in the community that have worked on this issue, from the NAACP, James Posey, from APANO, Joseph Santos-Lyons, from NIA, Carrie Walters, and from Hacienda, Victor Merced. Come on up. There's a fourth chair if you're all here. Mayor and commissioners, thank you.
 Somehow, my name got put on for the NAACP and actually we have Joanne. She's here? She's here and I don't think she can talk about. James, she put you on. It's the only way she can get you to pay the dues, I promise. All right. I would like to come up and talk about my small business. Okay. We'll do that too. Thank you.
 All right. Joanne, would you like to go ahead? Yes, I'd be happy to. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. For the record, I'm Joanne Hardesty, and I am not speaking on behalf of the NAACP because of the time period that's required for a membership organization to take a vote.
 But as a longtime community member who's worked on criminal justice issues, I am here in total support of the measure that you're voting on today.
 I want to remind the audience that we Oregonians went from a rehabilitation to a punitive state in our Constitution as it relates to people being incarcerated. When we passed ballot measure 11, we decided that 15-year-olds should go to adult jails. When we decided that five years and ten months, because Kevin Mannix at his kitchen table decided that was an appropriate mandatory minimum sentence,
 When we voted that into law, we forgot that 97.5 percent of people who go to jail come back to the local communities. We forgot that state law requires them to come back to their home county. Those resources don't follow those people back to their home county.
 If we want people to have dignity and be part of our community, part of dignity is having a job. Part of dignity is being able to feed your family. Part of dignity is being able to say, I paid for my mistakes, but today I'm a better person because of it. If we don't believe in second chances, then we are a community that I do not want to live in.
 I think, but for the grace of God, certainly myself, my family members, many people could be incarcerated. It's the luck of the draw, especially if you're African American, if you're low income, if you're from communities that investments have not been made in, because those are the people that end up in our criminal justice system.
 and if you have mental health issues. Those are the people that end up in our criminal justice system. So when people come back and they're willing to work, because we make them work 40 hours while they're in prison, and they're making slave labor wages while they're in prison. We make them do that 40 hours a week. But when people want to voluntarily work, we create barriers for people to do that. They're from our community, so it's not like these are foreign-born people
 aliens that somebody dropped into our community. They came from this community. They should come back to the community. And we should do all we can to make sure that they can be productive members of our community. And so I appreciate this ordinance coming in front of you. I appreciate your attention today to this.
 And I hope you will set a standard and a model that says that everyone's entitled to a second chance. And if you show that you're willing to work, that we'll show we're willing to work with you. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 let's go next kerry uh what's up est my name is carrie waters thank you so much for this opportunity to speak on behalf of the native american youth and family center here today i'm also a member of the Tlingit tribe and a portlander so um and a former team team member commissioner for it so it's exciting to be here in this capacity um for the past 500 years we indigenous peoples of north america have experienced terrible injustices
 We are disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system at staggering rates, and I know many amazing community leaders and families that have been impacted directly and indirectly by the system, myself included, that have so much to give and should not be unfairly impacted by the stigma associated with this status.
 Through our engagement on this issue, our community has become very excited and encouraged by this step in the right direction to reverse the injustices of our society. So by your action here, you are affirming your commitment to equity and justice.
 So I hope that this is eventually extended to the state and housing as well. But even having this conversation is a victory in and of itself. So thank you for your bravery and leadership on this initiative. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. For the record, Victor Merced, Executive Director of Hacienda CDC. Commissioners, thank you for inviting us to testify on the Ban the Box initiative. I will say that at Hacienda we employ 44 staff.
 We have some ex-offenders on staff. As a matter of fact, I just recently hired someone to my management team that had an extensive criminal history, and one might ask, well, why did you hire that person? And quite frankly, she was the best and continues to be one of the highest performing employees that we have at Hacienda. We have close to 400 units of housing that we have on Killingsworth and Cully, and we have ex-offenders that live in those housing units.
 We also are opening the first Latino Mercado on 72nd and Foster, and there is an ex-offender among some of the micro-Mercantes. So we believe in giving people a second opportunity, a second chance, and not having to repay their debt to society over and over and over again.
 I just want to say one little thing about when I was the housing director for Governor Kulangoski. To get ex-offender housing funded was one of the most difficult projects we ever had to undertake at the state. As a matter of fact, it took me three years before we actually funded an ex-offender housing project, both in Klamath Falls and in Eugene, and it took an extraordinary lift.
 from myself, from my staff, from the governor himself to intervene because of the nimbyism that was associated with relocating those folks to those projects. So I believe that once you've paid your debt to society, you're done and you move forward. So I thank you all for taking this.
 initiative forward. And by the way, there are about half a dozen television cameras outside waiting to talk to you all. And I plan to be one of them because I want to address the issue publicly as well. But I think this is a great opportunity for you all to social leadership. And I'm glad that you're taking this forward. Thank you again. Appreciate the time. Thank you very much. James. Yes. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and the rest of City Council.
 You know, as I listen to the testimony here, I have so many emotions because I come at this at so many levels. You know, I am actually here as a representative for the Coalition of Black Men. I'm also a small business owner. I have a deli on the corner of MLK and Stanton. It's been there for 15 years. I had an open invitation to Commissioner Fish to come by. He says he's never been there.
 But I don't know, 15 years ago, that corner was a cross between prostitution and druggies coming from Dawson Park, that intersection that was really a kind of hole in the wall.
 So, I started this deli restaurant, a place where people can come to the internet and do their laundry. It's really a pretty novel idea. Most of the people that I hire come from that community. I feel pretty proud of trying to hold down that corner because there really is a stigma
 about Northeast Portland and especially African Americans and to be able to overcome that stigma, to be able to provide jobs and give people a productive and insightful look at black people doing something productive. You know, I hasten to say that the stereotypical view of what black men do and how they do it is not a good one.
 And that's another reason why I started my construction business. You know, you all see my crews out there putting down asphalt and doing work. It's a labor of love trying to introduce the idea that black people can do something positive, constructive, positive.
 I don't know if people understand that work defines you. And if you don't have a job, if you're not doing anything productive, then it becomes more than a depressing thing for you. It really colors your whole existence. And I was struck by the lady's comment about being a death sentence.
 I don't know if people understand, when a person can't get a job, it's not only a death sentence for that individual, but it's a death sentence for their entire family. We have grown men living with their mothers who can't feed their children. This is just the minimum.
 that you can do in terms of changing, turning that around. So I implore you to continue to make these situations available for people to work who really want to show what they can do in this community. And your leadership is greatly appreciated. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. We have a few more folks that we asked to come here today. Some other folks looking for work, Joe Heisman, Thibu, and Emmanuel Price. Welcome.
 Good evening. Go ahead. Okay. Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Jill Heimenson. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today. I really appreciate it. I live in southeast Portland. After a series of unfortunate family events, I was married for almost 20 years to a dentist. And when we split, his practice, he decided to stop working his practice. So the practice went under. We went through bankruptcy, a foreclosure. And then he got remarried and decided to go after my kids.
 And that's when I made a huge mistake. We were in a long protracted custody battle, and I made a mistake and landed with two misdemeanor assault charges. That mistake that landed me the three years of probation, which included plenty of taxpayer rehabilitation services, including anger management classes, parenting classes, community services, and so forth.
 My first point I want to make is having to go through these rehabilitative services and then when you're finished with them being basically discarded by society, it makes it so it's kind of pointless to even go through those services to begin with. My second point is that after this incident, well actually during the incident, I was going to college at Portland State getting my economics degree with the goal of being able to earn enough money to take care of myself and my children.
 Unfortunately, I ended up with $70,000 in student loans that I cannot pay off because I've been applying for full-time jobs for the last year and have barely gotten an interview. When I have gotten an interview, it's been, do I bring this topic up or do I not bring it up? If I don't, then if they hire me, it makes it for a very unfortunate, complicated situation.
 So I admit my mistake. I've taken full responsibility for it. Now I just really am looking forward to having a chance to move on. And this ban the box would really make a huge difference for me.
 I just had a few other points I wanted to bring up with the testimony. Commissioner Salzman, you were wondering how this would work with a small business. So the last job I did have, I was working at McCullough Research. When we went through the interview, it's a very small consulting firm. There's only a few people that work there. During the interview process, he didn't ask about any of this kind of stuff because he is an economist and typically I have an unusual background. Are you McCullough? Yes, it is. We're the reason he has a thriving business.
 Well, good. I'll be sure to tell them that next time I see them. But anyway, so the topic never really came up until several months after me working there. And it was just this process would give somebody like me a point in the interview process where I can be – because I am not interested in not telling the truth and not being fully disclosing the things that have happened to me.
 But in the same token, I want to be able to find employment. And so this process gives me a chance to be honest with the employers before they're hired, and so everybody knows we're on the same page. So the second thing, Mr. Fish, you had mentioned about the notices. You have to have employment notices that they post that has – you were saying where employers – I was just – as a former employment lawyer representing plaintiffs, I was just trying to think of an example where –
 When you did not hire someone, you were required to give them a document that set forth all their legal rights. Because what I was looking for was an analogy that we could piggyback off of. Because the forms you're talking about are legally required to be posted, like the minimum wage and sick leave, those kinds of things.
 This would be a separate notice, and I'm just trying to figure out where has that been tried and has it worked. Okay. I don't actually have it. I was just thinking that they have the employment notices up there. That's a good idea. It might be something that is –
 simply post it at the workplace so that takes care of the notice. It might even be better than giving a separate notice. Correct. Okay. That sounds great. The other thing is the two-day notification period, I agree with you that it's too short. I've been in a situation where I've been given notice and then the next day I have to be in court and there's very little time to prepare and it's just –
 I'm thinking at least five business days would be fair. That's just my humble opinion. And then the final thing I wanted to say is about having the administrative process to go through as opposed to having it be a court process because, like you were saying, hiring it, I've called around many lawyers and they all want $5,000 for a contingency fee, which if you're unemployed looking for work, it's not going to happen.
 With that, thank you for allowing me to speak today, and I truly hope you will support this bill. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thanks a lot. Thanks for coming. Thank you. Who would like to be next? Go ahead. Hi. My name is Tivu. So Mayor Hales, council members, you know, my niece and nephew, they say that I'm the greatest uncle in the world. But today what I am is that I'm a student of Portland Community College. I'm a full-time employed member of society today.
 I balance my passion for art and my passion for helping others. It doesn't always work the way I plan, but in the end, most like everyone else, I do my best and I leave the rest up to the power greater than myself. So this wasn't always the case. As in the past, my being able to be gainfully employed was hampered by many things, the most significant one being a past felony record and the box that read, have you ever been convicted of a felony?
 When I would answer truthfully, I was always denied an interview. When I would lie and get the interview, most times I would get the job. Unfortunately, I always worked hard. I would get promotions and eventually would have to do the background check in order to advance further, and my felonies would be found out and I would be terminated.
 My employers always said that they regretted having to do this because of policy, but when I asked them if they would have given me the interview, had I answered truthfully, the answer was always no. So when the campaign came for Ban the Box, I saw this as a solution, and not only for myself, but for many others that will come after me searching for a chance to fit back in and participate in society.
 Banning the Box will allow someone such as myself the opportunity to get into an interview and present myself as how I am today, not how I was. It will allow my potential employers the opportunity to weigh my worthiness based on my present self rather than my past self. So what I'm asking you today is to help support Ban the Box campaign. Vote your approval for it. Please, allow men and women like myself a chance to prove ourselves today
 based on our actions today. Thank you. Emmanuel Price Welcome. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Emmanuel Price. I'm the founder of SCAFE, Second Chances Are for Everyone. It's a nonprofit organization I founded about four years ago to help men and women after they transitioned from prison to society.
 And I also am a human rights commissioner. I also am a metropolitan public board member. I'm also an HIV, AIDS, and awareness prevention person, which all the work they do is inside the prisons. I'm also a convicted felon.
 I spent four and a half years of my life in organ correctional facilities. I'm born and raised from Portland. After completing my sophomore year in college in Virginia, I came back to Portland, made an idiot mistake with some idiot friends, and ended up going from a full-time student to a full-time prisoner in the correctional facilities. A lot of what we do, SCAFE, and just some of the other work I do is about building relationships with businesses and employers
 And for me, it's I suffer the same things everybody else has suffered as far as looking for employment. Most recently, I'll share this little story. I was hired by one agency to work with pretty much kids in the school district. I'm very transparent about my background.
 it's on the back of my cards on my business cards and instead of letting society hold my background over my head continually where it would cost me a job or an apartment i decided to take all that pain and anguish and turn it into scafe so i disclosed my background on every application and with the entity that hired me they had a contract with someone else to work you know in the district
 They hired me. I had three interviews. I was kind of questioning whether I would get the job or not. And I eventually got hired. And one month into working with the kids, I was my background was ran. I never didn't disclose my criminal history and I was fired. Or let me stop. This is how it happened. I was hired, fired, hired, fired and rehired again.
 I am 37 years old like everybody else. I have needs and things of that nature. I have a four-year-old daughter who actually goes to the school where I am working at. And that for me was just another blow to continually trying to debunk the myth that folks who have prior criminal convictions are all those stereotypes that we think of without having to name them. But I know...
 at that it's made me a stronger person and a better advocate for people who face the same background as i have and i really support being in the box because oftentimes people don't even get a chance at all they fill out the applications i've interviewed
 My mouth is a little dry up here. I've interviewed three and four times for positions, and like a gentleman said earlier, sometimes I'm overly qualified. I've even flipped burgers and pumped gas and bartended, and not that I'm above of that, but that is not what I saw my career as being. So being able to remove that question from applications and then housing applications would really help because it gives people,
 hope and oftentimes the people who want to work will work. And not everybody is going to be a perfect outstanding citizen, but the ones who get out and want to work and reclaim their lives and show people that they can make it and that they're not a stereotype and that they won't fall into those cracks, I think it's important to showcase that. And since Oregon is always the number one entity in leading things and doing things, I think it'll be great for you all to support this.
 And I don't think that all the titles that I have, they don't make me who I am. I would have never thought I would be a human rights commissioner. I would never thought I would sit on the board of the Metropolitan Public Defenders. That was the furthest thing from my mind. But they didn't look at they didn't look at my background. In fact, they actually were more welcoming of someone
 like myself, who has continually gone through barriers to get to where I am today. And I'm not even at the pinnacle of my success. I always feel like I'm five or six years behind because of time I lost. So overall, I really know this would be good for Oregon. Instead of us spending $32,000 a year to house an incarcerated individual, it would be great if we could empower them and employ them
 excuse me, to earn their own $32,000 a year, which is about $2,600 a month. Not everybody will have that opportunity, but I guarantee you,
 Once this ordinance is passed, it will boost Oregon's growth. It will build relationships with families. It will make more employees more employable. And it's just something that I believe in because I'm a victim of not being employed or having to go through so many barriers just to gain employment.
 And it's the same thing I tell the kids I work with. Let me be an example. Don't make the same mistakes I made. Even though I knew better and I was in college and all those good things and homegrown, I still fell through the cracks. And as we heard earlier, the school-to-prison pipeline is real. And if we are not able to...
 get a hold of that and really tackle that right now. We don't want to come back 15 years from now and talk about the statistics and percentages by way of the school-to-prison pipeline and then have to do another ordinance to remove an additional box for people who have barriers. So,
 I'm in support of this and I appreciate the time that you guys are taking to hear this. It's something that is important. It not only affects black folks, it affects white folks, the Latinos, it affects everyone. And I support it and I ask that you guys do the same and I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 So let's now bring up some folks that have worked to bring this all together. Tom Chamberlain from AFL-CIO, Doug Cooper from Mercy Corps, and Mike Alexander from the Urban League. Good afternoon. Welcome. We'd like to be first. Tom, just push the button there on the base of your microphone. Right there. There you go. You know, it's pretty much been said. The process screens people out who have served their debt to society for
 I've lived in the city all my life and I've seen Portland grow from a city that had a lot of prejudice in the 60s to a city today where we consider ourselves to be pretty tolerant. My Portland's about giving people fair chance and ban the box. The only thing I would add to the conversation is.
 that don't create a policy that's hollow. I don't think that's a course you're going down, but create a policy that really does something. Create a policy that gives people a chance to get in the workplace and turn their lives around. If you're not going to do that, and I don't think that's your intention, don't go through the exercise. But these people deserve a chance. That's all they're asking for.
 My name is Tom Chamberlain. On behalf of the 300,000 men and women of the Oregon AFL-CIO, we support Fair Chance. Thank you. Thanks very much for your leadership on this. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you for having us this evening. My name is Doug Cooper. I'm with Mercy Corps Northwest. And I'm here because of the work that we do in helping people reenter the community from incarceration.
 We operate the RTC, the Rent-Retransition Center, that sees about 1,000 people a year coming from incarceration back to our neighborhoods. And we also teach classes, have been teaching class for about seven years out at Coffee Creek on entrepreneurship and self-employment to the women there. I would echo what Mr. Chamberlain said, that I can't add very little to the experience that you've already heard. What I'd like to add to the testimony is...
 is our experience at the RTC of the great number of people that we work with who've made real serious mistakes in their past, but who are now making good faith and honest efforts to become productive citizens. You know, and their success is really the best case scenario for everybody. It's the best case for them, for their families, and for the community. Okay.
 This proposal helps create that best-case scenario. We fully support it, and we hope that it's enacted by the city, and we expect to see it having great positive effect on the people that we work with. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the work you do. Michael, welcome. Good afternoon to Mayor and Council. Thank you for having me. I'm Michael Alexander. I'm President and Chief Executive Officer of the Urban League of Portland.
 Yesterday afternoon around 1 p.m., I saw a poll conducted by the Portland Business Journal that asked, should employers be banned from asking job seekers about criminal backgrounds on job applications? It's around 1 o'clock. Seventy-four percent felt that the question shouldn't be asked and that removing the box would broaden the talent pool available to employers and give applicants a chance to explain their past problems. Okay.
 And that gave me tremendous lift and validation because it seemed to be that the general readership of the Business Journal was in agreement with the work that we were doing on this issue. Well, last night before I left the office at 6.30, I thought I'd check the poll again. And the percentage of support had fallen from 74% to 33%.
 And the number of people who felt that employers should be free to decide on their own whether or not they screen for criminal backgrounds at any time had gone up to 50%. This morning it was at 53%. And so it's clear that this is a proposal within our city that does not have universal support. Being able to institute a change of this type has monumental impact to many people in our state and our nation.
 Across America, 65 million people have criminal histories. That's 20% of the population of this country. 33,000 Oregonians are either incarcerated or under the supervision of the Department of Corrections. And although African Americans constitute 2% of the state's population, we constitute 11% of those who are under the supervision of the Department of Corrections.
 The work of the Urban League and numerous other partner organizations is focused on assisting these individuals to reenter communities, families, and workforces successfully because we all know that, as has been stated several times, the best deterrent to recidivism is a job. The bottom line is that all of these individuals,
 who are committed to redirecting their lives deserve a second chance and a fair chance. The challenge that we face today is a daunting one, but we're joined by a number of people in our Portland family in support of banning the box and removing this structural barrier to employment. It is with particular appreciation that I acknowledge that the Portland Business Alliance has publicly stated that they are fundamentally in agreement
 with the goals of banning the box. The League and the Alliance both agree that we have an opportunity to create a more equitable path to employment for many in our city. We agree on the principle of moving the inquiry regarding criminal history and the use of background checks further into the interview process. We do, however, find ourselves in a position of what I would call violent agreement...
 when it comes to the issue of when that inquiry can be made for criminal history or background checks. I know that many of the concerns that have been raised by some of our colleagues within the business community are related to the potential legal exposure we heard about earlier or the belief that this policy will be administratively burdensome.
 But, as has been stated, we have the opportunity of looking at the experience of almost 100 cities, states, and municipalities who have enacted various types of ban-the-box legislation to find out what works and what didn't work, not whether we should do it or not do it.
 Many of our friends and colleagues within the business community prefer a policy that would allow for background checks after an interview has been given, but before a conditional offer has been made. And on its face value, that may sound to be a reasonable approach, but we would ask you to consider the following concerns that we have at the League as to why that is not the best approach.
 One, we know that the EEOC has recognized tying criminal histories and background checks to a conditional offer as a best practice. We also know that many of the corporations within our city currently follow this process. And in looking at creating the recommendations for this ordinance, we look to see what was a best practice within industry, within business, that was currently working.
 and this is one. Allowing the use of background checks after an interview and before a conditional offer creates a high risk that the decision will be made to eliminate a candidate before the determination has been made as to who the best candidate is. Waiting until an offer is made ensures that employers are gathering information for the purpose of determining a hire.
 and not as a process for eliminating consideration of candidates. And I have to say that it also gives some sense of confidence to people who are making applications for jobs that background information collected on a group of individuals under consideration will not be kept
 within the database of an organization so that it comes back to haunt an individual who may apply for a job in the future that they are the best candidate for. But that information is housed within the database of an employer who will use it in future considerations for employment. I know this is a complex situation, and as we work our way through it, I hope that we will keep in mind that honorable people can disagree.
 Let's also keep in mind that all sectors of this community agree on much more around this issue than we don't agree on. And I hope that if we can stay the course, we can then turn around and begin to address that 55 percent of the respondents of the survey yesterday who didn't think this was even worth our taking the time to talk about today. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? I have a question for my friend Tom Chamberlain.
 Tom, you said you were concerned about the possibility of hollowing this out. And you've been working on this issue for a long time. It runs very deep. Is the concern you have primarily focused on the timing of the background check and preserving a private right of action? Are those the two things that you would consider a hollowing out? Enforcement.
 enforcement and when you have that background check i i think you can play around with that background check to really you know negate your policy so um i don't think there's a lot of room to play with it the timing's important and on the enforcement side the proposal that we've this before us has has both an administrative remedy and a private right of action do you have a strong
 based on your experience, as to whether the city did the enforcement mechanism or whether we contracted with the state labor commissioner to do it? I really can't speak to that. What we should do is really – With the NLRB, I think you might have a strong view, but we're talking about whether –
 whether the Bureau of Labor and Industries has the subject matter expertise that people who know how to do it, that we should contract with rather than creating our own. What I think is important, whatever side you come down on, whether it's BOLI or private right of action, that it's real, that it has teeth in it, and it's enforceable. Let me be clear on that because you've been very thoughtful on this.
 I'm thinking my question is really about the administrative side, and it's do we want the city attorney to be handling the administrative mechanism or do we want to contract with Boley? I think it's a big question we have to look at, and it will in part depend on what our distinguished labor commissioner thinks about whether that's an appropriate role for them to play. But I just want to get your sense. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you all very much. Now I want to call up some folks whose help we'll need to make this work, and that is Marion Haynes from the Portland Business Alliance, and if she's still here, Heather Hale from Venture Portland. I think we'll go another 20, 30 minutes. We'll go another 40, 50 minutes with testimony. I have an engagement. All right. We'll see how much longer people can stay. Marion, go ahead, please. Heather left. See, just have a look.
 Marion Haines with the Portland Business Alliance. I want to thank Michael for his comments. I do think that there is a lot of agreement on this issue. The alliance was aware that there were groups interested in pursuing this issue as early as last summer, and so they
 So we took the steps of pulling a group of our members together, large businesses, small businesses, local businesses, multi-state, and some of whom have banned the box voluntarily on their own employment applications. So we had a wide-ranging view. And I want to be really clear that the Alliance does support removing the box from employment applications.
 I think Michael gave a little preview of some of the areas where we do think that the details matter and we hope to have more conversations about the timing of criminal background checks. Flexibility is important for employers. Every employer is different. Their hiring practices are different. Their workplaces are different.
 The requirements of jobs are different. And so having some level of flexibility in the timing of those background checks for different kinds of employers is important. Do we have some that wait until a conditional offer is made? Yes. Do we have others that don't wait until that point? Yes. Do we have some like the alliance itself? We don't have applications. We have no box to check, and we don't do criminal background checks. We've hired a number of people that do have criminal background.
 So every business is different, and that flexibility is something that we want to be mindful of as we're looking to adopt an ordinance to get to this really important goal, because whatever we do, it should work. And so working for perspective.
 employees and for the employers that will be hiring them is important. The private right of action is also something that gives us some concern. We have reviewed ordinances and statutes in other jurisdictions around the country and have found that the private right of action and waiting until the conditional offer is
 while they do exist out there in other ordinances, are kind of the outlier. Not as many jurisdictions go that direction.
 So thank you for the opportunity to comment. This is a really important issue. We support the goal. We support removing the box from the application, and we look forward to some more dialogue about some of the specific details. Thank you. Marion, you've been very clear, your organization has been very clear about your values on this, which is that you support the movement to ban the box and you support the goals.
 This hearing is not to do the sausage making. This hearing is to frame the issue and make sure that we know what people's concerns are, and then we're going to draft something. So let me put the question to you. Do you have a strong feeling one way or another about having either the city attorney do an administrative remedy or contracting with Bowie?
 We have not taken up that issue specifically, Commissioner. I would offer two thoughts, but I could come back to you in more detail. Cost-effectiveness, I think, will be something that we would want to look at and ensure that we're doing something that is most cost-effective. I would also note that there is some...
 familiarity and existing relationships and interactions with businesses and BOLI. So again, I'll come back with more information, but I think that existing relationship provides some value since they're doing a lot of other employment law oversight. Thank you. Great. Thank you.
 Marion, thank you. We will call on you for more feedback as we get further along. So let's take a pause here for a second and let me talk about the process, which is based on this discussion and council's agreement. We're going to ask that the city attorney prepare documents
 an ordinance that addresses the issues that Judy laid out at the front end, and that we also queue up council discussion of the questions that have been raised today. We also have folks who have signed up to testify, and I know we're going to run out of a quorum today, so one option would be to just not take public testimony now and let those folks who are signed up be first on the list when we come back to the ordinance.
 That's probably our best choice, even though some of you have waited a long time, because I know we're going to lose a couple members of the Council here in the next 15 minutes, right? Well, and Mayor, let's be clear. The Council is going to draft an ordinance, and we are going to come back and debate it. So for people that are here who want to testify to do something, the Council is going to do something. The question is the details. And Judy did a wonderful job laying out the framework.
 Might I suggest that in whatever timeline you establish for getting legislation drafted, one thing we do is just arrange for her to visit each office just to get some feedback from this hearing. That's good. And then have a chance for us to do our follow-up questions, also based on what we've heard from the testimony. And then perhaps a draft piece of legislation to be posted for comment, and then we can come back for hearings.
 Could we see a show of hands for who hasn't yet spoken that was hoping to? Okay, we've got a dozen or so, maybe. So...
 So you want to take 15 minutes and take the folks that we can take? And then, uh. Commissioner, what's your comp, when do you have to leave? What's your complex? About 15 minutes. Okay. I have about 15 minutes. All right. So let's take 15 minutes. We'll get people on the one minute rule. Yeah, let me make a couple suggestions. One, if you can wait, we will make sure that we keep your contact information and sign you up first for the next hearing. But if you would really prefer to testify this evening, we're going to try to give you the chance.
 So if we call your name again, if you defer, one, we want to make sure that we have your email address so we can send you a copy of the ordinance when it's drafted, if you'd like that. And two, we'll keep you on the list as someone who can testify first at the next hearing. Can I just offer one other suggestion, Mayor?
 We've all been taking copious notes. We've had a full presentation on the issues. Frankly, just from my point of view, having someone say they support doing this and then an issue that maybe we haven't heard about, if there's something that you don't think has been put before us, that's especially useful right now so we get to have a full record to make the legislation off of.
 Good discussion. And the other piece, Mayor, I know you mentioned in the State of the City address that you were looking at some tax breaks. So there's an addition to the requirement that there would be some incentives. Yes. And that, I'm assuming, will come as part of the budget process? Yes, it'll come as part of the budget process, but we should at least have those conceptually before us when we act on the ordinance itself. Great. Okay. Thank you.
 Good. Okay, so with that understanding, we'll call the list of folks that are signed up again. If you defer, you're not going to just get lost in the system. We'll call you back at the next one. Why don't, Mayor, I think your practice actually is you get called first at the next hearing. That's right. So if you defer, you're first in line for the hearing, which actually is a pretty good deal. Okay. I showed 22 people left. The first are Jamie Partridge, Tanya Dow, and Joanne Harigal. Thank you. That was Joanne.
 Thanks, Joanne. And let's go with Katie Murphy. Yes, I'm here. Okay. Come on up. Jeremy Tichenor. Hey, thank you. Joe Walsh. Are you going to defer, Joe, or are you going to justify today? All right, come on up. Jamie, please. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm here representing Portland Jobs with Justice, which is a coalition of 95 organizations that
 labor unions, community groups, and faith-based organizations for workers' rights. And I'll cut through my remarks and basically say that we're here to support Fair Chance, Ban the Box, and we're particularly concerned that the criminal justice system is a biased system, disproportionately incarcerates people of color, and that this is a race equity system.
 issue banning the box and we should we should it's exciting that you're going forward with this thank you very much thank you welcome hi Katie Murphy and I am an advocate and also concerned citizen and while I appreciate this ordinance and I think it's a start in the right direction I worked with many people helping them expunge their records it's a process
 We have one organization here, Clean Street, I think, and I haven't even seen anyone from here there here, but it's a process that I had to learn how to do working with 26 of my clients. And when people come to me with a criminal complaint
 and they don't even know how to decipher the information. They don't even know where to get their background check. They don't know how. And then, you know, in some of our partners, the nonprofits also do not have the resources to help people to get their records expunged. And so, you know, I'm afraid that when we draft this ordinance and it happens, there's going to be a bottleneck
 Because just like when people request their credit histories and they get 30 days to dispute it, and there's some changes going on now nationally where that's really going to speed up, there's going to be a bottleneck.
 in the process because it's going to take time. It took me time from picking up my client, taking them down to the Metropolitan Public Defender's Office where I partnered with myself and them to help them get their records expunged, to help them get at a low cost, and it costs money. It costs $500, $600 to get an attorney. People are poor. And so this is great. This is a step.
 But unless we can get it expunged before, the unnecessary things that are on there that they don't even know can be expunged, when they go in front of that employer and they have that criminal history, it's really going to create a lot of...
 It's going to take a lot of time. Ma'am, we hear you loud and clear. I think you meant Project Clean Slate. Project Clean Slate, Roy James. You're absolutely right. If we don't expunge those violations and other things on people's record, not only does it prevent them from getting a job, but it prevents them from renting successfully. That's right. So thank you for that comment. Yeah, I appreciate that. If you would, make sure Josh Halpert, who's sitting behind our council clerk there, has your contact info, because we'd like to work with you on that specific issue.
 That's great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Walsh. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We would just echo the AFL-CIOs if I understood Mr. Chamberlain's position, and not to have you create a paper tiger here, that if you just take the box out and then you back up,
 and allow people to do preliminary checks before there's a job offer, and those things. That's how you weaken this, and you make it a paper tiger. So when I first heard about this, I thought it was such a small step. In the everydayness, we incarcerate more people than anybody else in the world.
 So, yes, you have a right to be concerned about this because it's a major issue of people coming out, not being able to get a job, and being excluded by a checkmark, for God's sakes. So I congratulate you for taking it up. Please don't make it a paper tiger. Thank you. Good point. Thank you. Trudy Cooper, Sonia Young. Trudy's going to defer. Come on up, Ms. Young.
 And let's go with Shalonda Menefee. One more. And Laquita Ledford. Welcome. Hi there. Is it okay? You bet. Hi, Mayor Hills and Commissioner Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish. I'm Sohnji Young. Currently, I serve as the former chair of the Human Rights Commission for the City of Portland. I also serve on, excuse me,
 the Governor's Task Force on Elder Abuse, but today I'm not here on behalf of either of those organizations. I'm actually a recruiter by day. I work in human resources, and this conversation has actually sparked a lot of volatile conversation amongst human resources professionals, and I thought that I would bring the perspective as a recruiter, the concern that I have is from not only an enforcement perspective, but
 the education and public outreach perspective. As we've seen with other employment law, there needs to be teeth behind it in order for it to actually work. As an employer, as someone who works for a fairly large employer, I think there's a lot of work to be done.
 Unfortunately, there are instances where we've had to work around these types of initiatives because of the type of work that we do. But I think the public outreach and education piece is paramount in making sure that something like this is actually successful. My suggestion and something that I would ask that you all would consider is perhaps instituting an employer advisory board.
 something that would enable local employers to actually bring forth their concerns about the ordinance before it is actually voted on and passed. I think that's an opportunity to really provide that initial outreach piece that the Portland Business Alliance obviously has really done a great job of providing some level of outreach, but to have
 an even-keeled platform for employers to bring forth their issues and ask those questions to vet them in a very reasonable context. That would be my recommendation, and I appreciate your time. Thank you. Yeah, that was what Commissioner Saltzman and I did with sick time, as you remember, and that was just three meetings. It wasn't like the endless task force, but it was very helpful in crafting an ordinance that we all were able to then support. So I appreciate that suggestion. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and City Council members. Thank you for the opportunity to testify before you on this important issue. My name is Shalonda Menefee and I'm on the steering committee of PFLAG Portland Black Chapter. PFLAG Portland Black Chapter provides support, education, advocacy and resources for black, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allied communities. We represent an important and significant part of the city.
 We support and urge you to pass the ordinance that will remove barriers for countless black LBGTQ people, specifically youth and young adults and thousands more throughout the city. As we live in a culture of homophobia, social stigma, anti-gay violence, transphobia, ignorance and unacceptance, which too often push black and brown, gay and transgendered people into a cycle of homelessness, unemployment and sometimes leads to crimes of survival.
 In our groundbreaking 2012 Lift Every Voice report, created in partnership with the Urban League of Portland, it highlights the experiences and disparities impacting black LGBTQ Oregonians. The report quantifies our concerns and what we have known about our LGBTQ community.
 We are still highly disproportioned. In 2012, there were a startling rate of 18% unemployment in our community and an estimated 42% of homeless LGBT youth of color. In fact, in every highlighted issue area of disparities we face, the numbers are even higher than our straight black or white LGBTQ counterparts.
 As we have heard, there are countless stories of family members and friends who struggle with landing employment or housing due to their criminal background. And nine times out of ten, if they are on parole or probation, it is a requirement that they find stable housing and employment.
 As we have heard, although they have done their time, are rehabilitated, desperate and willing to be a productive citizen and be responsible, they are often discouraged, embarrassed, and or ashamed to have to disclose their criminal history. Knowing that it can hinder their opportunity to be called for an interview or get approved for housing, oftentimes they feel as if they are still being punished for their crime. And for some, this may contribute to the cycle of recidivism.
 This is an opportunity to change that, to give individuals whom have paid their debt to society a chance to start over and thrive without the criminal history being used against them. We know how important removing barriers are to the members of the black LGBTQ community. It is imperative that we create opportunities and policies that will remove barriers for equal opportunities. Banning the box will allow individuals with criminal history a better chance to be considered a viable candidate without being prejudged by the check in the box.
 Now it's time to ban the box. We as PFLAG Portland Black Chapter urge you to pass this ordinance and show that we matter, that we are part of this community, and that the City of Portland is supportive and invested in the success of our black LGBT community. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Thanks very much. Laquita, I think you're going to get the last word for tonight. Oh, thank you so much, Mayor. Mayor and Commissioners, I thank you guys so much for this opportunity. You know, I usually speak when it's of importance to me and the community. And I...
 I became familiar with Banned and Boxed last summer when I mentioned that I moved back to Portland. Prior to that, I was in Houston and I was doing some administrative assistant work at a college where half of the students had been incarcerated. I had students coming to me on a daily basis. It was a small barber college and they were coming to me on a daily basis expressing that they were very much in need of work.
 And I pulled together a small group to have this conversation about what it looks like when you have barriers or when you have a criminal background. So we came up with just a little project called Bob. You know, because of my background, we left out the EMBA because of my background. And Bob can be anyone. And so in that process, I moved back home to Portland. And I saw a flyer last summer that had a conversation about a fair chance.
 and I rushed over to that meeting which was at Highland Church and I learned a little bit about Banner Box.
 I also linked up with some folks from the Urban League at that time and wanted to be involved and be a volunteer for whatever Canvas Center, whatever conversation they were going to have in the community. We did that last summer. It was my first opportunity with jumping on the bus with them and doing it in the New Columbia area. We went door-to-door Canvas Center. It was a very difficult conversation to have had with African Americans in the community that felt like...
 Nobody really heard or cared about what they had been through and that they weren't going to have a second chance, period. And so with this initiative to continue to keep going, I totally support it.
 I support second chances. My mom spent 15 years in prison on two terms. And so that's effective to just not only to myself but my whole entire family. So I really would like for this to be something that we can look forward to as we are unique in Portland. And, you know, we're breaking barriers. So I thank you guys today for this opportunity. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all for being here. Again, we want to apologize. Thank you.
 I want to apologize for anyone that wanted to speak today and can't. We are going to lose a quorum. We will make sure we keep you on the list for the first position for when we resume. I want to direct my able staff member, Josh Alpert, who's trying to hide but not succeeding, to continue to work with the city attorney's office to develop an ordinance. I'd like to have the council members give us feedback. And, again, anyone that wants to stay in touch, make sure we have your e-mail contact as well as having you on the list.
 Other direction suggestions? Mayor, just something for the good of the order. Sure. So I just, scheduling. We are scheduled tomorrow evening to do the rate review hearing. Yes. I understand, I hope we have a quorum, but every member of council has received the PowerPoint. So you got that today. Yep. And any questions or comments before tomorrow night? Mayor?
 Mayor, at the execs meeting, we were told that there would be no vote tomorrow afternoon. That's right, and I misspoke today on the radio. Just so we're clear, also at execs, I submitted a memo to the council asking that this need be put over two weeks with a rationale and laid out some issues. So we'll take that up tomorrow. Okay.
 Partly it's because last week when I was sick, I just wasn't able to do what I intended to do. And I think a little more time gets us a better result. So I'll make that request tomorrow. What we have is the Uber matter, and then we have everything else. There are a handful of the urban renewal amendments that I think are no longer controversial, but it will be your call whether you want those disposed of.
 But we have asked that the matter be set over for two weeks. Okay. Well, we can take up that question tomorrow because, yeah, we're not going to vote on them tomorrow. I just want to be clear that everyone knows we've asked for a two-week set over, and I will not be bringing amendments tomorrow. Okay. Good. Thank you.
 Anything else? Well, then again, I'm going to direct that our ABLE assistant city attorney and my staff continue to work to develop an ordinance based on what we've heard here today. Are you going to convene an employer group? I think we'll take those suggestions under advisement. We certainly want to hear from the employer community one way or another. So, again, thank you all very much. We're recessed until tomorrow at 2 p.m. Good. Good. Thank you all. Well, he gave you a promotion, then he...
 I didn't want to make Tracy nervous. I'm not your lawyer on this, but I think you had it long enough to have a wage claim. So put in a couple hours. I got a conditional offer. You got at least that. I got a conditional offer. I think you got eight hours of pay at the higher rate. So put in for that.