Good afternoon everyone and welcome to the March 24th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everybody. We only have two items on the council calendar this afternoon. They're both a time certain and the first one is 284. Okay.
 accept the report of the Innovation Fund summarizing highlights from projects that were approved for funding in fiscal year 2013-14 fiscal year 2014-15 and fiscal year 2015-16 just yesterday you've gotten all this done in 24 hours that's a lovely introduction
 Jane Brayton, OMF Business Operations Division, Good afternoon, Mayor, members of Council. I'm Jane Brayton with OMF Business Operations Division. And yes, I was going to say we are back again today on innovation, but this time to present you a report on projects that you previously supported earlier in innovation.
 We wanted to give you just a little bit of background, thanks to some of our contributors, and share some news about our future plans. And then we'll get right to the meat of it, which is hearing more about some of our project leads and the good work they've been doing in your bureaus.
 So as you know, the Innovation Fund was created in 2013, and then OMF began managing the fund in 2014. We streamlined the application forms, created a process for microgrants, and communicated that council wanted proposals that promoted equity and opportunity, improved customer service, saved time or money for the city, partners, or community members, and improved city services and made things better.
 We also made a commitment at that time to city council that we would come back to you with some updates from proposals and share them. And that's really the purpose of today's presentation is to do some collective learning. What were the lessons learned? What were the successes? How can we share those throughout the city so that we have that culture of innovation in the city and we can really foster that?
 For background, I wanted to share some highlights of our statistics. We've had 270 proposals submitted since you supported the creation of this fund. Sixty-six projects were recommended and approved by City Council, including 10 from yesterday. And then new innovative work began in 17 bureaus.
 We do want to thank our city employees who brought these good ideas forward because not only have we gained new information, we've gained some new vocabulary in the city. So we have enjoyed as well hearing from our proposals about data scrapers, rubber sidewalks, honeybee bike counters, early adopters, RX Play, MobiMats, one-call translation services, and there's more and more that we keep hearing about.
 And as you can tell from the stats, not all of the projects receive a recommendation for funding from our review panel. They do ask tough questions and provide feedback along the way. And some of our project leads have actually taken that feedback and returned with a winning proposal, and you heard that from Al Weatheroy last week.
 And some of our projects move forward even without innovation funding because the innovation process and communication methodology has actually created an avenue for new ideas to surface and get shared with city leadership across bureaus. So we're actually seeing people pick up some ideas and actually get them going even if they didn't make it in that call for ideas proposal.
 And speaking of the review panel, we just wanted to take a second and thank them. Our review panel members over the years have given a lot of time in evaluating the proposals and giving feedback. And they are Susan Abbey, Amalia Alarcón-Dimoros, Stephanie Cabanero, Warren Chan, Leslie Goodloe, who you'll also meet as a project lead. She did serve on our review panel. Sam Hutchinson, Casey Jama, Benjamin Carratha.
 Gail Mandel, Amy Nagy, Emily Rice, Tom Simpson, Beverly Stein, Robert Walker, Larry Wallach, and Pamela Weatherspoon. So thank you for letting me acknowledge actually all of the people who served on those panels over the last few years. That's an interesting mixture of people in and out of city government. Yeah.
 they brought some tremendous perspectives to and given some great feedback to our our proposers we also want to thank city bureau directors because they support these innovators they promote this program within their own organizations and they also give us feedback on how we can make this process work better
 So just a little bit about what's next for the Innovation Fund. With Council's continued support, we have some plans for next year. We'd like to make our innovation website even more robust so there can be better information sharing. When news comes back about some of these proposals, maybe other bureaus want to take advantage of the lessons learned.
 We also conducted an innovation fair last summer where we brought in people from IT, procurement, HR, and we brought resource people to help our proposers get their proposals ready, help answer some questions so that they would be better received from our review panel. This year we want to do the same thing and actually invite some of our successful proposers,
 so you'll meet some today, back to share their experience and give that new wave of people some insights, much like an alumni network of innovators within the city.
 And we also had some plans last year with training. We had Gail Baird from HR's workforce development, training and workforce development, and she put on two classes at the same time as our fair in strategic creativity. Those classes were full, and we want to work. We've been working with her this year and putting on a course in process improvement. And we opened up that opportunity first to our people in the city who've put in proposals for the innovation fund. Okay.
 So in conclusion, we certainly want to thank the mayor and the council for this innovation fund. We think it's a concept that really has made a difference, and we've enjoyed shepherding it to this point. We are proud of the work our city employees have done to bring forward good ideas. Many of our proposers have said, I really didn't have a way to get my idea to happen if it weren't for this fund.
 And today we have leads from five of our projects here to update you on the status of their projects. Before we do that, I want to introduce Janet Storm. She's from OMF Business Operations. She serves as the primary contact for proposers in our review panel, and she'll be talking about the status report process and the information that we collect from our proposals once they get rolling and get your approval. And then I'll be back up to answer any questions. Janet. Thank you.
 Janet Storm, Management Analyst, OMF Business Operations, Coordinate the Proposal Process
 Tracking the status of projects is an important part of the innovation process. Our innovation project leads are required to report their statuses in two ways. One is to report on the decision package to accept the funding, and this requires reporting in the fall and spring bump. The other is to report on the project status to OMF itself.
 Our deadlines are set just after the fall and spring bump deadlines so that project leads can repurpose the data that they collect for the budget monitoring process.
 In the project status reports, the leads are asked to share the latest project news, updates to timelines, milestones achieved, results achieved so far, and post-implementation requirements. And we also ask them to list their total expenditures to date, next steps, successes and lessons learned, and feedback on the innovation process itself.
 In October, we requested status reports on all of the projects that were approved in fiscal year 1314 and 1415, and the individual updates are available on the Innovation Fund website at innovate.portlandoregon.gov. The next status reports will be requested in early April on projects that were funded through October 7, 2015.
 Innovation by its nature can be risk-taking, involves risk-taking. However, the rewards can be great, and it can lead to solutions that would otherwise fall by the wayside. And today we are joined by five leads working on a diverse group of projects who will share some updates with you. So first, I'd like to introduce Stephen Ray from the Bureau of Environmental Services, and Stephen will talk about the Multicultural Videos for Food Service Best Management Project. Thanks. Thank you.
 Hello, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Steve Ray, and I work in the Extra Strength Sewer Charge Program out at the Water Pollution Control Lab at BES. I'm here today to just give you a brief summary of the multilingual training videos we're doing for food service establishments. As an Extra Strength Sewer Charge inspector, I work with the city's fat soils and grease inspectors visiting food service establishments,
 to classify the kitchens for rate assessments and also to observe grease trap pump outs. And during the visits, we have to present technical subjects such as sewer rate, best management practice, and grease trap cleaning procedures. And we have to communicate those to kitchen managers and owners to facilitate compliance with the city's rules.
 The food service industry is very diverse, and communication regarding our program has been a challenge in some cases. BAS staff needed tools for communicating with food service representatives so that compliance with FOG requirements can be achieved even if the representative doesn't speak English.
 Better restaurant compliance means less enforcement, which is good for restaurants, and it also means less maintenance, fewer backups, and lower maintenance costs, which is a benefit to all city ratepayers. Ensuring that businesses can manage their sewer rates and expenses regardless of language is also essential to promoting equity efforts the city has underway.
 We applied for the innovation grant to fund the production of these training videos that could be translated into the languages encountered most frequently by the extra strength and fats, oils, and grease inspectors. Working with the BES communications division, we prepared scripts for three videos. One is controlling fats, oils, and grease in the kitchen. The other is managing sewer costs. And the third is kitchen best management practices.
 The audio tracks for the videos will be dubbed in up to seven languages. The number of languages will be limited by the funds that we have after the animation and video footage has been captured. The hierarchy of languages that we selected to translate into is one Chinese, Spanish, Vietnamese, Thai, Japanese, Korean, and Russian. Each video will be produced to allow preparation of additional language versions easily.
 So as far as the status of our projects go, we're working on the – we got the scripts done. An estimate for the translation of the scripts has been obtained by BES Communications, and we're in the process of shortening the scripts somewhat to lower the cost. They were stretching into quite a few minutes, so we're trying to shorten those up.
 We provided communications with a list of food service establishments that would be suitable for filming kitchen scenes. Some of these locations we recommended are actually in buildings operated by General Services. Thank you.
 Communications has selected a videographer, an animator. He'll do both. And a contract is being finalized with him right now. Our plan is to begin videotaping in April and to have finished videos available or at least have the finished videos done by June 30, 2016. I think there will be some issues. We'll have to get it.
 onto the website and on to get some tablets to load it into to use in the field.
 And I guess that leads to when we have all of them done, I'll use the videos when I go to ethnic restaurants where there isn't an English speaker, which happens quite a bit. And I'll be able to communicate, rate information easily without and ensure that everybody's on a level platform as far as who understands the program or not.
 So you'll literally take a tablet out to the kitchen of a restaurant, set it up, and show the video? Yes, Mayor. And that way we can communicate what is very difficult to communicate verbally with some language issues. So it's been a great project to work on. As staff people, we don't get to work with communications division very often, and going through the script development process was very interesting. So thank you very much.
 Congratulations. Sounds like a great project. Commissioner Fish, since there are 10 safe harbor languages in the zone, enough general funding for seven, do you think they might be able to find additional resources so that the other three languages could be added while they're currently doing the production? I can do that. Thank you. That's great. Other questions? Thanks. That's a great project. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Next up is Leslie Goodloe, who will talk about the Portland Housing Bureau's Web Data Scraper.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayors. I'm Leslie Goodloe. I'm the Business Operations Manager for the Housing Bureau, and we have been fortunate to have received several innovation fund of our projects funded. The Bureau has greatly appreciated the opportunity to participate in the Mayor's Innovation Fund Program. The program has encouraged the Bureau to take risks and leverage modern data gathering and analysis techniques to better understand the housing needs of our community.
 The Housing Data Web Scraper, or Housing Bot, is used by the Bureau to collect information from the web and transform it into structured data that is stored, analyzed, and trended over time. Using this tool is amazingly fast and efficient compared to browsing through many housing websites such as Airbnb, Zillow, and Redfin and manually entering the data into spreadsheets.
 Everyone has been surprised at how easy the data mining tool is to use and how much time we can save through a small piece of innovative technology. A second innovation fund project, the XML Data Sharing Pilot Program, converted PHB partner data into a machine-readable language that could be easily downloaded from partner systems and uploaded into PHB systems.
 This project eliminated hundreds of hours of duplicated data entry and was expanded into Phase II, which involved reaching out to faith-based community partners and build relationships to share data on community need. While these projects are primarily focused on data gathering and analysis…
 They serve the larger purpose of helping the Bureau and Council to better understand the baseline of affordable housing that is currently available and assist in measuring progress as the Bureau works to meet the affordable housing and equity needs of our community. Thank you. Leslie, I just have one question. Does any of your data mining...
 information from my iPhone? Can you assure us that my iPhone is secure and safe? That's not our job. Thank you. I have a more serious question. You mentioned using the robot to access Airbnb data. Might it be helpful to the Revenue Bureau as they're looking to tighten oversight of Airbnb?
 Just let me ask Antoinette since she's in charge of that. I wasn't really expecting an answer. I would imagine that it would. And maybe you could offer that since we funded the software. It looks like she's nodding back there. Yes, Antoinette says absolutely. Great, thank you very much. Thank you, Leslie. Thanks very much. Our next project lead is Michelle Kunick-North from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And Michelle is going to talk about the Making Great Decisions tool.
 Good afternoon, Council. Thank you for having me.
 As Janet mentioned, I'm Michelle Kinnick-North with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm here to provide a quick update on the Making Great Decisions tool. This project is really about making better planning decisions. As you all know, the Portland Plan, the Comprehensive Plan update, the Joint Climate Action Plan all set these broad goals, equity, economic prosperity, human and environmental health, resiliency, and sustainability.
 To shape the framework of what the city is trying to provide. But how do we as planners make day-to-day decisions that are going to advance those broad goals? That's really what this project is trying to support. Thank you.
 So after receiving the innovation micro-grant, we set off to think first about how do we even have this conversation internally and how do we do that in a more innovative way rather than convening a weekly meeting for a few months. And we settled on something called user-centered design. It's more common in product design, web design.
 And the idea there is to go and talk to the end users. Don't build a better vacuum if what people want is a broom. And so we started by talking with planners, project managers, and leadership across the Bureau to find out what the need really is. What are the desired outcomes? What kind of staff support is necessary? And what sort of challenges should we expect along the way? Okay.
 And we really started to hear that staff want to be advancing these broad goals, but they need some assistance in understanding how general planning work ties to those larger goals and how we might make better decisions throughout a planning process to either maximize co-benefits or reduce negative impacts. Okay.
 The second thing that we heard loud and clear was to use a lot of the city's existing resources, our GIS data, the equity toolkit, the public involvement principles, all of these things that we can derive ideas from and kind of synthesize something that works better for staff.
 The other piece about user-centered design that I wanted to mention today is it really focuses on rapid iterations or prototyping of ideas. And I think this is really in keeping with the innovation theme. The idea is that...
 Multiple approaches are expected. They're encouraged. It's okay to fail. It's okay if something doesn't work right out of the chute. And that really helped us not get stuck in a preconceived notion of what the solution might be. And we ended up deciding that we actually need three different types of solutions, a piece or a module that works with staff when they're scoping a project so they can think about those
 the initial project design, a piece that looks at concepts or alternative analysis, and then a piece that's really about those final findings or justification for a project. So this is definitely still a work in progress. We're refining the tool and filling in pieces, but I'm hopeful that it can support decision-making in the future.
 If you don't mind, I'm going to steal your best line about don't build a better vacuum if the user needs a broom. And where that impacts me regularly is when I get automatic upgrades to my software at work and at home. And what I find is that periodically someone has offered me this plethora of new functionality that
 that I can't figure out and don't need. Whereas I really just need to do my email and occasionally do a Word document. And I think that's one of the challenges of technology. It keeps advancing and offering all these upgrades and new bells and whistles, but it sometimes overwhelms the user. And I don't ever remember getting an email from Microsoft saying, you know, what would you know?
 What's good for you? So I love that statement, and I love the idea of user-centered design. I think it is a good reminder for all of us across the board in what we do, that we think about the end user, not just about technology.
 the advance of technology so I think the Planning Bureau's map app was a great example that we really thought about how do we get citizens to access the planning process so using technology with that purpose rather than letting him kind of run them up yeah good point other questions Michelle thanks very much thank you now I'd like to ask Eileen Argentina of parks to come up and talk about the Peninsula Park rose garden project good afternoon
 Oh, you got slides? Okay. You have slides. There we go. Thank you, Jane and Janet. And good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Eileen Argentino from Fulton Parks and Recreation. I'm joined today by Pat Frodes, one of the founders of the Friends of Peninsula Park Rose Garden. Pat also happens to be on our parks board. Hi.
 We are delighted to have this opportunity to showcase how innovation funds contributed to our collaborative partnership and benefited Portlanders. The vehicle for this improvement has been the development of what we now call a preservation strategy for the Peninsula Park Rose Garden. The micro grant provided funds for us to conduct a community survey as part of the project.
 And first thing I want to acknowledge is the journey which led us to this piece of work which we want to share with the Council today. And we use the term work loosely because it's really been a joy and a partnership. We've been mutually inspired with our partners to invest in a collaboration to produce results both in the garden and behind the scenes to ensure the preservation of the city's first rose garden. I'm going to be skipping through a few slides here, so don't be put off if it looks like you're missing some. Oh, okay.
 Sorry, this was done for another audience, and we want to make the best use of your time today. As I then said, I'm Pat Frobes, one of the three co-founders of the Friends of Peninsula Park Rose Garden. We were created in 2012 by two other OSU Master Gardeners.
 And we immediately partnered with Parks. And I would say that the Parks Bureau has been a fabulous partner. We could not have accomplished what we have in three years without them. In the three years, we've replaced over 6,000 roses with new disease-resistant varieties, all of which have been donated.
 We started in 2012 with 10 to 15 volunteers, about half of whom were regulars. Last year we had 129, over 60 of whom were regular volunteers, came regularly. As we'll show in some charts later on, 2010 there were 500 volunteer hours. In 2015 there were 2,000. We've also planted 15,000 crocus as a part of Parkadeum.
 and sponsored and supported a number of community events in the garden. What we really want to do now, and starting last year, started to focus on was creating something sustainable that will sustain city and citizen investment in this garden for the next 100 years. The garden is 103, and we want to preserve it for the next 100 years.
 As a part of that effort, we decided we needed to create some kind of strategic plan that would serve as a roadmap for that investment and the implementation of which would not be dependent on any particular group or any particular individual, but could have some kind of life of its own as well as groups, people come and go, could connect to this plan and continue to make it happen.
 In order to do that, we needed to better understand the priorities and characteristics of some of our key stakeholders, including, most importantly, our visitors and neighbors. With the micro-grant, we were lucky enough to be able to hire two wonderful interns, Kira Leslie from Portland State and Luz Maria Vega, graduate of Rosemary Anderson High School, who has been accepted in the Portland Teachers Program,
 neighborhood resident, bilingual, and could and did conduct the survey in both Spanish and English. They spent 82 hours surveying 357 respondents over six weeks, different times, different days of the week, different times of the day. And we found and we got a lot of wonderful information. I think that would be the next slide. And we'll go through this quickly. Okay.
 We found that over 94% of our residents come from the east side, east of the Willamette River. One of, as you'll see, this will tie to one of our objectives. We need to raise the profile and introduce the rest of the city to this. 94%? 94% east of the river, yeah.
 66% from the zip codes covering St. John's, Overlook, Arbor Lodge, Kenton, Piedmont, Humboldt, Woodlawn, and King neighborhoods. So we have work to do to get the word out about this truly hidden gem. It's a very diverse group of visitors. 30% are people of color and the...
 Ethnic makeup of the visitors is quite close to the ethnic makeup of the half-mile service area from the Peninsula Community Center. All full range of incomes, half making under $50,000 a year, half making over $50,000 a year.
 Most people found out about the garden because they lived in the neighborhood, and this ties to another more limited survey we did at National Night Out where we interviewed about 30 neighbors. But because we have so much overlap between the visitors and people who live in the neighborhood, I think the views reflected here give us a lot of clues about what the neighbors think as well.
 everybody agrees, it's kind of self-evident, it's about the roses. That's what people come for. That's what they enjoy. This is just a word cloud that shows how often by size of letters those words were mentioned in the survey. That's just a bar chart of the same results. People come to smell the roses, relieve stress, socialize.
 certainly echoes of the 2020 vision about public places that connect people to self and others, which you'll see reflected in some of the objectives. One of the things we didn't know is how many people just come to Peninsula Park and then, oh, by the way, there's a rose garden, where we found half of them come for the garden alone and about half come for both the garden and the park.
 and over half of the guests visit at least once a week, sometimes more than once a day. When we asked folks what they would most like to see
 make their visit more enjoyable. They'd like more places to sit, some relief from the sun, and closer bathrooms. Unfortunately, some of these are incompatible with roses, like shade, and others, like benches, are probably not compatible with a historical design. But we have tried to take other priorities into account as we develop the plan. This is just some of the wonderful quotes we have.
 people we talked to one of the things we found is that there a significant number of the visitors are people who either were longtime residents of Piedmont and and over some of the other neighborhoods or who grew up there who have moved and come back to celebrate family events to share the garden and their experiences with their own kids
 and this group of what we call historic neighbors we want to reach out to as we move forward with the implementation of the plan. We heard a lot of really wonderful stories in the conversations that the outreach workers had about the role that this park has played in family history and family traditions. It was really wonderful. It's just an overview of the...
 And this slide, actually the next one, pretty vividly illustrates the impact that the Friends have had on the park over the last several years.
 several years the group didn't even exist until three years ago and you can see the growth in volunteer hours and this is one of the reasons it was so important for us as a parks bureau to really step up and support the work that this group is doing and really leverage it and I think this strategy has been a great product of that you just go back to that slide I want to just make the point though that it's not that the volunteers are taking the place of staff or doing um
 it's that we haven't had as many staff to do it, and the volunteers have picked up some of the slack. And so I really want to appreciate that, that as the regular staff have been cut, I think you'd probably say that we could use more of both. You would say we would like more of both, yes. That's right. Thank you. That is so true. I think the recognition of the role each group has to play has become really strong, and I think that shows up in the strategic objectives. Thank you, Commissioner. Well, the preservation strategy,
 itself resulted in a vision, a mission statement, and then four major strategic objectives. And as it's written here, the vision is a world-class public garden of great beauty and rich historical legacy that generations of Portland residents and visitors seek out for quiet reflection, social connection, education, and celebration. We really wanted to respect the role this park has played in the neighborhood and for people who live there today and generations who've been there in the past.
 The vision is consistent with what visitors told us and what volunteers and park staff said was their ideal picture of the garden in five years. Thriving roses in a garden full of a diverse group of people of all ages sharing the experiences and memories that build community. It's worth noting that the survey results caused us to reconsider how we frame this project. Visitors were initially put off by the notion of a strategic plan. They thought it was going to create something new and different at the park.
 when their priority was to preserve and enhance the park as designed. As a result, the effort was renamed the Peninsula Park Rose Garden Preservation Strategy. It was one of those small but significant changes that did a much better job of capturing the values of all concern, and I really believe it wouldn't have happened without the grant supporting our outreach. I'm going to turn it back to Pat now for four slides on the objectives. And that probably...
 Yes, we want more of both. We want, our first objective is to maintain the stunning roses. That's what people come for. We'd like to increase the amount of horticultural staff time devoted to the garden. We want to increase the volunteer time as well. We want to mulch the garden to keep the roses healthy, and we'd like to eventually be able to replace and expand the irrigation system.
 The hardscape, most of the original elements of the garden are still there. The original brick pavers, balustrades, et cetera, they really are now kind of in disrepair. They need to be fixed or they're not going to last.
 We have parks as funded an initial assessment of the hardscape. We think we have a phased plan to do those repairs. We've gone through the capital improvement process and hope to be able to start that with some volunteer help, just scraping moss and the like in 2017.
 we want to promote the town square, the role it's played in the neighborhood, and we want to raise the profile. And to that end, we are going to do three neighborhood events annually starting in 2017. We're already doing an ice cream social and supporting Sunday Parkways and the Portland Symphony Festival.
 Uh, we also are going to do two citywide, uh, events annually, one of which we've started an art in the Rose Garden, which we'll do again in, um, August. And we will, uh, work to install certain garden amenities like bike racks and improve signage. We hope to be able to fund that this year. Um, overall, we've got to finance the vision. Uh, we'll spend a lot of this year doing a comprehensive plan for trying, for raising, um,
 Accessing private funds for both garden maintenance and funding a portion of the hardscape repair, and then developing a plan to access private funds to fund a portion of completing the original MESHA plan, which involves constructing a pergola on Ainsworth.
 We just have a few more slides, just visuals for you. It's been a wonderful journey and we really feel like the partnership is set up for success with this, especially with this additional community input. Thank you so much for the opportunity to share that story.
 A couple of questions. You've had some great donations in recent years, like the Neal Kelly Company, among others. The preservation strategy includes a philanthropic portion, I assume. Yes, that will be part of our financing division, yeah. And the other just notion that occurs to me that I'm not sure if there's a
 public art opportunity or something there, but there's an unsung hero of the park system who I think is only mentioned in one plaque in the city, and that's Emmanuel Miesch. And someday we ought to figure out a way to name something for this guy or otherwise give him a little more recognition because this iconic space along with Laurelhurst Park and Mount Tabor and
 A lot of Selwood Park, a lot of the other parks of the city that everybody treasures were designed by him. He's the first corporate refugee. He got moved to Portland by the Olmstead Company and then refused to go back to New York and got a job here as the first park superintendent. So someday we ought to figure out a way to give that a little more visibility at this park and some of the others that he designed.
 Well, if we're lucky enough to be able to build out his original design and build the pergola on Ainsworth, where you could have an arbor, et cetera, it's perfect. That would be perfect. Okay, that's a good idea. Other questions? Thank you all. Thank you both very much. Our final presenter today is Jody Yates from the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and Jody will talk about the Rubber Sidewalk Project. Pilot, excuse me. I think so.
 I was gonna queue it up for you. Yeah speaking of technology that no one understands. I just don't want to screw Thank you My name is Jody Yates. I'm with the Bureau of Transportation And one of the managers over in maintenance operations group one of the programs that I administer is the sidewalk repair program and This is a program that identifies sidewalk that requires repair and we follow up with property owners to make sure
 sure that that repair occurs. We estimate that about 80-90% of the sidewalks that are posted for repair are caused by tree roots and it's basically mature tree roots are pushing up on the rigid concrete sidewalks.
 We kind of know this. We have some properties that we post basically every five to seven years for the same problem. And then the average repair cost is $1,200 per property. So the goal is to explore materials that could alleviate that ongoing cost to the property owners and to make a safe, accessible environment for our pedestrians to use.
 Here's an example you can see in the photo of a repair that has occurred and already is ready for repair again. That's about an inch and a half lift on the right-hand side of that photo, which could cause a pretty significant trip hazard to a pedestrian. Let's see.
 So what is rubberized sidewalk? It is a flexible porous pavement product. It's basically recycled rubber and they use tires and a patented binder versus concrete, which is made of gravel, sand, cement and water and it's very rigid.
 Here was our pilot project. On the left-hand photo is the rubberized sidewalk, and we had three patches of that done around three trees. And on the right-hand side is rigid concrete sidewalk.
 And we put these in the same place on city-owned or city-maintained sidewalk. So it is one of the locations that gets repair approximately every five years. So it's our responsibility to maintain. And we put three with rubberized sidewalks for the trees and three with concrete. So we'll have a direct comparison to monitor. Okay.
 And if you get the close-up view, you can see the difference. The left-hand side is that rubber sidewalk. When you walk on it, it's like walking on a rubber track, kind of like the track around Dunaway Park, that kind of material, which I think is actually a different material, but it feels very similar. And then, obviously, concrete sidewalk on the right. Some of the things that you lose with the rubberized sidewalk are the functionality of having the aesthetics of having the broom marks and the...
 aesthetics associated with all the cut marks and things like that. So there is something to be seen there. I was aware that the broom marks were considered aesthetically pleasing. I thought that was just how it turned out. No, those are actually put in with a broom. To know. Yeah. And they actually provide for a little bit of friction for you to walk on. Right, I thought that was functionality rather than the aesthetics. Yes, it's both. So you refer to it as the same thing. If you're a concrete finisher, you think it's
 I think, yes, I think the concrete finishers would say it's cool. And that they're aware. I will cherish them. So we did the installation last July.
 The grant we've received was six thousand our cost to install was around fourteen thousand part of that was we trained all of our concrete finishers sent them through some video and then they all got to participate with the finishing Of the product so if we move forward with this doing any other applications, they're all adequately trained we did our first inspection in January and I
 One success is there is no postable trip hazard, but that's in both groups. One thing that was noted, and these are more subjective, might be a little bit more on the slippery side. And so I get to pretend I'm an engineer and use words like coefficient of friction. So we wanted to evaluate that a little further. And then we have concerns with how other users, those on the two- and four-wheeled varieties, might, how they would experience this. So we're going to do some more evaluation on that.
 On that point, what's the basis for the concern? Have we seen any problems? One of the persons we had inspect has some mobility issues himself, and he noted that it was a little bit, he felt like he was wanting to slip on it. But it was in the wet, and so it's just something we want to look at and see what we can do to alleviate that concern.
 This is also on a pretty good slope. It's in the 5% to 8% range.
 So what's our next steps? We're going to continue to evaluate. Unfortunately, in the world of engineering and civil engineering-type products, sometimes that can be a longer time to find out if we get to, quote, success. In this area, it was a five- to seven-year of reposting, so it might take us a few years, but we're going to continue to monitor. Every six months, go out and check out the sidewalks.
 From the engineering standpoint, if we did find success and it was a product that we can put into that our citizens can use, we would modify the standard drawings and our specifications and add it to the CPL list. But ultimately, the goal would be is that we would save time, money, and have a safe pedestrian environment. That would be the ultimate success. We will continue to explore other products and put those out in the city as well to evaluate.
 I just wanted to say that I really appreciate this experiment. Obviously, it is a big imposition. We tell people to fix their sidewalks, and if there's a way that we can have people do that more seldom and save some trees to boot, that would be great. So I think it's worth a lengthy and careful experiment, and thank you very much for bringing it forward. Thank you very much. Thanks, everybody, for sharing your updates, and Jane and I would now like to answer any questions you might have.
 I have a couple. It's very clear from this report that two of the goals have been met, to improve customer service to the community and or city customers and to improve city services and make things better. And the report has anecdotal evidence that that is the case. The two that I'm not seeing any data on are promote equity and opportunity in city governments and the community and saving time or money for city partners or community members to,
 So I don't need an answer now, but before the end of the calendar year, I'd like a follow-up report on how much time or money have we saved and what are the demographics of people who have been reached and assisted by these grants. Okay. Thank you. Other suggestions or guidance, that will be helpful. I think we're trying to measure what we're getting for this, and that would be really an important thing to see. So thank you. Great work. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Anyone want to comment on this report other than those who already have? If not, then we will take a roll call vote to do that. Thank you. Thank you. So I would appreciate a follow-up within six months or so with that information because I appreciate the amount of interest that we've had from city employees and the willingness to do things differently, to do things better. I want to make sure that we are meeting all of the goals that the project set out to do, and I very much appreciate your diligence on that. Aye. Aye.
 Thank you for outstanding presentation. I'm guessing, by the way, that the BES presentation on the fats, oil, grease program and the videos in different languages, which was specifically targeted mid- and east county, where we were increasingly finding ethnic restaurants where there were language barriers, this does meet very directly that equity component. I'm sure there are others in the room.
 It's been fun to hear all the thoughtful and creative ideas and then to see them moving forward and get feedback on what we're learning.
 And we actually are the only area of society where we're not allowed to fail in aid of getting a better product. So for those of you who read Steve Jobs' book, which is like a 500-page tome to failure, and he finally got it right, we actually are in a sector where failure is not tolerated. But the truth is experimentation fails.
 and innovation and all these things require us to take chances and risks. And then sometimes we get it right, sometimes we don't, but then we fine-tune it and we keep moving forward. And that's the spirit of what we're doing. And I think these were a terrific group of projects you highlighted for us today. So thank you. Bye.
 Yes, these were great projects, and I appreciate the spirit of innovation, and I thank the Office of Management and Finance for providing the evaluation and the opportunity to share these exciting innovations, and thank the mayor for spiriting the innovation fund. Aye. No, thank you.
 This is always really inspiring to hear about the old projects and the new projects. And I second what Commissioner Salzman just said. I think that the Innovation Fund is going to be a major part of the legacy of both Mayor Hales and Fred Miller. I really appreciate their leadership in this. Hi. Hales.
 well this is great work thank you um i think i may have had a chance to relate to at least one or two of my colleagues my one of my favorite conversations about city management which was when i went to my first u.s conference of mayors meeting back in january of 2013. you know i just got elected i just sworn in and get to work and try and decide like we all do how much how much time should i spend on extracurricular stuff versus always keeping my nose to the grindstone here in the city
 And I was actually walking down the hall at this first meeting with Greg Fisher, who's the mayor of Louisville.
 And he, if not completely complying with Mike Bloomberg's advice to make your first billion before you run for mayor, Greg had at least been successful. He is a very successful business person who then decided to give back to his city by running for mayor. And I'm walking down the hall with him, and I'm saying, well, I'm trying to decide how much time to spend on this. You've been mayor for a couple years in Louisville. What's your advice? Yes.
 And he has this very straight ahead sort of CEO style. And he said, well, how many people do you have working for the city? I said, well, about 5,600. Why? He said, well, how many of them are charged with big picture thinking and research and development?
 And I said, well, actually, not very many. I see your point. Okay, I'll show up and learn something. But that spirit of all of us should be spending at least some of our time and effort on big-picture thinking and research and development, and that's part of the impetus behind this. And there are a lot of creative people, as we've seen, with what was the total again? How many hundreds of proposals? Two hundred.
 270 proposals and not all only 20% or so of them have actually been able to be funded but We've got a real fountain of really good ideas started with our own smart people And so it's really fun for me and I think fun for the council to see the results Important to measure them as Commissioner Fritz once again reiterated here, but this is a good idea And I appreciate the big picture thinking in the R&D. Hi Thank you very much
 Okay, let's move on to our second item of the afternoon, which is 285. 286 as well. And 286 together, yes, please. 285, authorized $48,503 total in grant agreements for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement East Portland Action Plan 2016 Civic Engagement Grant Agreements and 286. Transmit the East Portland Action Plan 2016 Annual Presentation.
 Thank you. The East Portland Action Plan was adopted early in my time in office in 2009, and I've often heard Commissioner Fish say how very much proud of it he is. I know Commissioner Saltzman shares that, and the two newer members of the council have funded it and funded it ongoing ever since. So since 2009, the East Portland Action Plan and its members have served as a shining example of community-led policymaking.
 Part of the East Portland Action Plan, or EPAP's charge, is to increase community involvement by and for underrepresented communities by supporting culturally and language-appropriate communication. The Civic Engraving Grant Program addresses these community-specific needs as part of a larger effort to improve livability in and prevent displacement from East Portland.
 We're taking these two items together, starting with the grant agreements for the first 30 minutes and then moving to EPAF's annual report after council's discussion and a vote. So we'll take testimony together on both the first and the second part. And handing it off now to Roger Anthony, who's going to start the presentation. Thank you. Since 2012, East Portland Action Plan has operated a grant program for
 focused on funding organizations that are working to weave our diverse communities together. We used to describe our civic engagement program as one that targeted racial and ethnically specific communities. Many of those groups and organizations were using a language other than English. By helping these groups expand their work, we sought to create further community involvement among people not usually included in community events or decision making.
 This year, we have refined our mission even further. The goal of our 2016 Civic Engagement Grant Program has been to target under-supported racial, ethnically cultural, and community-specific groups. These are organizations and groups that contribute to East Portland in ways that encourage greater diversity.
 For 2016, we offered a total of $48,000 in grant funding. We received 16 applications asking for just under $110,000 in requests. Of these, we selected eight projects to go forward. These are $4,487 to the David Douglas School District for a Parent Engagement Workshop Series.
 130 people are expected to participate in six workshops using five languages. $6,563 to One Life Portland. Their project is Raising the Level. It's a series of eight weekly workshops designed to build pride in black culture and knowledge of the heritage of students aged 14 to 21. 15 to 20 are expected to take part.
 $13,538 to the Oregon Bhutanese community. Their project is English as a Second Language and Citizenship Guidance. They will involve 15 people attending 35 workshops. $5,000 to Ecumenical Ministries for their New Americans Initiative. Eight Russian-speaking immigrants will participate in 10 classes. A voter education class will be offered as well.
 $5,000 to the Russian Speaking Network for their Crime Prevention Begins at Home program. 20 Russian speakers will take part in three half-day workshops. $1,500 to the Parkrose Heights Association of Neighbors for construction of a Native American Elder Council Ring to be built in the Hazelwood Hydropark. $5,880 to Noreste Enterprises for the Latina Empowerment Project.
 Eight Latinas will attend 12 monthly workshops focused on empowering women escaping domestic violence. Finally, $6,535 to the Slavic Community Center for Slavic Community Education and Involvement Workshops. Six events will discuss the rights and duties of a citizen, and the project will close with an election night party.
 To give you more information about some of the projects, four of the organizations we recommend for funding are represented here this afternoon. We will begin with Timur Holov and Nick Pchenik, who will tell you more about the Slavic Community Center project.
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, it's nice to see you guys. My name is Tim Moore, as Mr. Anthony said, and I'm here representing the Slavic Community Center of Northwest. Our center has been around for many years and we built many relationships with local and government organizations. This project that we're planning for the year of 2016 will involve the Slavic community.
 which, as many of you know, is pretty tremendous here in the state of Oregon. And what we are planning is to hold six workshops that will educate the Slavic community about importance of participating in the election process of this city. Those workshops will include presentations.
 the rights and duties of citizens. I show them that it's important to participate in elections and will also guide them through the process of becoming a citizen, what steps they need to take in order to start the process as well.
 Also, we will include open nights where we will invite leaders of the government where they can come and meet you guys and talk to you and express their needs and express their concerns and concerns.
 As many of you guys know, the Slavic community is very underserved, and it's hard to reach out to them because they're so closed in their daily lives. Many of them belong to big church organizations that it's hard to get into. Over the years, we were able to build those bridges with local pastors and other nonprofits organizations.
 we have pretty good relationship with the community.
 with us, they will be more open to come and listen and participate and learn. And many, many Ukrainian and Russian speakers are already eligible to vote. It's just that the problem is that they don't understand why it's important to vote, why they have to go out there and fill out different forms, join different parties, and hopefully with our help they will be able to,
 make the right decisions and are able to participate, which is very important, I think.
 Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hello, Mayor and Commissioner. My name is Nick Pachyniuk, and I'm part of Slavic Community Center of Northwest. And like Timur said, I just want to mention that many of, or majority of Russian-speaking community here in Northwest, they're already citizens, but they don't know the actual process, how to do it. So we're here to...
 ask you to give us a grant so we can help them. And that's pretty much it. If you guys have any questions, we would love to answer. If not, we would like to introduce the next speakers. Questions before we move on? Okay, let's go then. Okay, and I would like to introduce the next three speakers, Diana Gomez, Christopher Williams, and LeFoster Williams as well. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. I really appreciate it. Thank you. Keep it up. Good afternoon and welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Diana Gomez. I'm the owner of Noroeste Enterprises, a Latino newspaper in the community. As a Latina woman who suffers domestic violence firsthand, I want to help and I want to propose my plan as a survivor.
 It wasn't easy because I start from the bottom. I pick berries and I know how difficult it is for the women due to the lack of English to find resources in the community. My plan is provide workshops to these women and help them, lead them to the right resources to grow. I believe I can do it because I did it.
 I have wonderful partners who can help me to develop this. I work with the Rosewood Initiative Center in southeastern Portland. I was in business inside of that community center. I learned so many resources and I want to teach them to grow. Also, I want to
 I believe that women have the power to lead and we can create jobs in our community. We can help them escape domestic violence situations. When we create successful women, we reduce the violence because they don't want to be under the management of the men who punish them.
 And I guess that's one of my plans. And I have the resources. I have a newspaper who's going to spread the word. And I'm a leader in the community, in the Latina community. And I know they see me as a model. And I know I can do it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to come speak. My name is LaFoster Williams. Our organization is called One Life Portland. Thank you.
 Our program is called Raising the Level, which means like raising the level of consciousness, raising the level of awareness. And our target audience is the black youth of East Portland. So our program teaches them awareness.
 programs and lessons on character, personality, entrepreneurship, self-reliance, purpose. And we talk about civic engagement, how to participate in lobbying, voting, and things of that nature. So, for example, with the entrepreneurship portion of it, we teach them ways to create opportunities, to have a better economic life, as in creating small businesses,
 My brother and I, we have a small business where we sell like t-shirts, snapbacks, and things like that. So we teach the youth how they can make side money by creating small businesses. We also teach them about self-reliance and, like I said, personality and character, so we can teach them how they should represent themselves in the community. We also offer examples of role model businesses.
 being role models and also being leaders within our community because we feel the youth of East Portland, especially the black youth, don't have leaders on a local level or on a national level that can speak for them and represent how they feel. And we talk to them about racism. We talk to them about ways that they can maneuver around racism and still achieve the opportunities they would like to achieve.
 We also would like to invite police officers and people with power in our community to come speak to the youth so we can bridge the gap and create relationships and we can build reciprocal relationships where we can teach the officers things and they can teach us things so we can stop some of the, you know, ills of our communities. Hello, I'm Chime In. My name is Christopher Williams. Hi.
 And so last year we reached about 80 youth out in East Portland and the locations we dealt with were at Rosewood Initiative, David Douglas High School, Randall's High School with their Sun program, Southeast Works. And we also partner with EPAP, East Portland Action Plan.
 And our goals were to develop connections between youth and adults, like my brother mentioned, so police officers, workforce, higher education. And then we're developing future leaders and community activists that can be active and do what we do in the community as well, help each other out. And then this year our goal is to reach about 120 youth with our eight-week program for youth ages 14 to 21.
 and anything else? And we also take a youth on a trip to like the EPAP office and we show them like
 different things like maps on the wall, different activities and programs they can participate in. We show them different ways they can be involved in different communities, as in they can volunteer and participate with other communities. So, like the Rosewood Initiative, for example, is a great location that's very diverse, where a lot of different populations of East Portland residents can come together.
 For instance, we did a summer kickoff, so we had a bunch of youth doing hip hop music, and then there also was Aztec Mexican dancers who came. Then we had different people that did a fashion show. So we were able to get the whole community together at those events and let everybody participate.
 But like I said, our main focus is the black youth of East Portland because we want to like give them some leadership, make them feel like they have a future, make them feel like they're represented in Portland, make them feel like people with power care about them and also want to see them succeed. So that's our objective and our goals. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you very much. Good work. Thanks a lot. Okay. So the next three people is the East Portland Neighbors. Dio. Oh, Dio. And then after Dio is going to be Roger Anthony and then Lori Wintergreen. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. So Dio, you go first.
 Hi, my name is Deobastola. I'm from Bhutanese Community Organization. Actually, I applied for the grant for the ESL class and for the citizenship. And ESL is really important for the Bhutanese Community Organization. It's a second language for everybody else, those who have been like American in the United States.
 With the help of the ESL, it's really easy. It's very hard to enroll in the ESL in the beginning because everybody, usually for the Bhutanese community, they've never been to school in their whole life.
 And so when they get in the humanitarian state, it's very hard for them. They feel like a lonely, just stay-at-home, and they are facing a problem like depression. And because they didn't try to engage in the other activities but lack of English, it's very hard for them to go out for shopping or doing anything else. Without English, English is very important for the people, for the Bhutanese community organization. And so if we have English, I'm sorry. Yeah.
 If we have English and they have a better opportunity for the jobs, if we have lacking the English, then it's very hard to find a better job. They have to put their time in the entry-level job.
 And so it is very important for the Buddhist community to have their ESL class. And so we started doing since from 2008, but in the beginning it's very hard. We didn't find the right location where we have to take the people and which people do have to enroll in the ESL class. So sometimes we are taking in our own house, just getting a couple of people, and we call them and we start teaching starting from uppercase and the lowercase.
 And so, let me change my topic and back to further citizenship. Citizenship is really important for any of the immigrants, those who have been in the United States, not only for the Bhutanese community, but all over the world immigrants. So, because of ESL, they are able to get their citizenship. And citizenship.
 Hello. Okay, citizenship is, you know, right for the speech, right for the votes, right for the praise, right for the freedoms. And so these people are lagging behind without the citizenship. They didn't have opportunity to find a better job.
 I want to take an example of my own mom. She get married when she was 10 years old, and she be a refugee when she was 42 years old. And she stay in the refugee camp for a long time, and she get in the US in since 2008.
 But we try, we encourage her to go back for the ESL class. And she attends several ESL classes in different locations. And finally, she applied for the citizenship last year. And she got the citizenship because ESL helps to find her the citizenship.
 And so she's really proud to have a citizenship. Now she has a right for the speech, right for vote, right for praise, right for assembly. And so I think that it's really important for the Putin's community to have the citizenship. And without the citizenship, we can do nothing else. Just we have to stock in the entry-level job. If we have a citizenship, then we have a better opportunity than like a Native Americans.
 We are lagging behind being an immigrant. We are not over yet for like a second class labor. We want our rights to have because we have, almost half of the life of the Buddhist community, they serve for the refugee camps and even they didn't get the opportunity, you know, right kind of job. They have a...
 skilled trade, educated, you know, but they didn't have a right job. They didn't find the right job. But when they get in the U.S., still they have the same problem. And so, you know, without citizenship, we didn't find the right job.
 still we have to work like an inter-level job. And so it's really important to have a citizen class for the Bhutanese Community Organization as well as to have the citizenship for any other immigrants usually for the Bhutanese Community Organization. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much. So, Dio, would you like to speak of how the children in child care, what they will be doing? Oh, absolutely.
 Oh, actually, yes. I'm going to talk about the child care program, too. And so we have a children, you know, the moms, she's attending the ESL class, and they do not have anything else to take care of their children when they are going to attend the ESL class. And so side by side, we try to figure out, you know, some of the people from our own community, usually we focus on the, like, a human side because these people...
 people are really lacking behind for the education process. So we try to figure out some of the humans from our society to take care of the children during the ESL class. At least we are trying to give two hours for the ESL class for citizenship. So at least for the two hours, if we select any of the humans from our community to take care of the children, at least we
 he or she can arrange a time for the children and try to teach, you know, like a kindergarten system of education. And so it's helped them to build their future too. And what I think is special is they're going to be teaching the children Nepali while the parents are learning English. Yeah, that is our second importance. That's great. That's great. Good work. Thank you very much.
 i just have a couple of summarizing points here the eight grants we've chosen to seek funding for this year reflect the use of 11 languages and will serve at least 220 participants the east portland action plans grant review committee is recommending that the following
 that the eight projects presented to you in their request be funded for a total of $48,503. Of that money, I should note we have $5,000 in money returned from a previously funded program that was incompleted. With that, I will turn you over for the summation of my good colleague, Laura Wintergreen.
 Hi. I'm here to speak about the 2015 general grant program. This year in 2016, we're still in the process of finalizing our recommendations on that program. Actually held the meeting on Monday. But we've never reported to you what we did in 2015. And with that, we had 21 applicant projects for a total ask of $83,871.00.
 EPAP funded 17 of those projects for a total cost of $72,624 and leveraging $391,268.
 Those projects represent seven youth projects, four community gardens, two festivals, six community spaces, language and cultural specific projects for four communities, and economic workforce development for three. There's crossover, obviously, in some of the grants.
 We have Chess for Success, increasing student participation and parent involvement in chess in East Portland schools. David Douglas Community Benches, so that at Earl Boyles, the parents can watch their children and sit down. We also have Division Midway Mural Project with Division Midway Alliance.
 East Portland Neighbors Association of Slavic Immigrants, the Slavic Festival. I know some of you have been to that, and it's a wonderfully attended event. The Iraqi Society of Oregon, Economic Empowerment for Iraqi Women in East Portland. We have the Lentz Street Fair event,
 Free Arts Northwest with East Portland Community Engaged Public Art, working with youth leadership to develop that. Green Lens, the Malden Court Community Orchard Gathering Space. Grow Portland, Floyd Light Community Garden.
 Morpheus Youth Hip Hop Project, Lentz School Amphitheater and Outdoor Classroom, Lentz Youth Initiative, Green Ring Implementation. I'm working again with youth and the surrounding leadership and building skills with OPAL.
 And then Outgrowing Hunger, New Portlanders, civic engagement through garden advocacy. So while Outgrowing Hunger is building community gardens, they're also doing education and having those community members who are predominantly from other cultures working on how do you get involved in our larger community. Hazelwood Hydropark Kiosk, community fruit tree initiatives for improved food security, and that's with the Portland Fruit Tree Project.
 We have the Portland Youth Builders Outreach and Equity in East Portland, and then Wisdom of the Elders Workforce Development Planning Phase 1. In addition, I'll be introducing the next speaker. I want to tell you about our municipal partnership projects, which are different than our grant program. The municipal partnership projects are
 are projects that can be initiated, much like your innovation funding, by EPAP members, people who attend a general EPAP meeting twice and agree to attend regularly and honor each other. They partner with the municipality to build the capacity of our community members to work with and influence how municipalities do projects.
 So we've spoken about some of their projects before, but in 2014-15, we had $86,000 total.
 And one of those projects was with the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiatives. The monies that we gave to that, the $36,000, were matched by PDC, but they also give the freedom of those projects, the Jade District, the Rosewood Initiative, Division Midway Alliance, and Historic Park Rose. They let them set the agenda for what's needed in their community in support with PDC.
 we have the mobile playgrounds again. You've heard of that before. This was every year we give them a little less. They are weaning away from us. We gave them $7,000 last year, and the Parks Department is stepping up and not only getting those mobile playgrounds institutionalized within their ongoing funding, and we thank the Parks Department and Commissioner Fritz for that, but also bringing free lunches.
 to those new sites. So that's very exciting in seeing that we've worked on that. And then David Douglas School District needed, like the City of Portland, to translate essential documents.
 What we said is we would work with them to do that in a different way. Instead of them deciding what the essential documents are, they're convening in five languages groups of parents and students to work with their staff to determine what is essential to those language-specific communities. So they got $7,000. Next, I'll be introducing...
 Police Sergeant Robert Vaupel, and he's going to give you more background of the municipal partnership project that they started in 2014-15. It's really exciting, and we're bringing him here today to speak to that in the hopes that hearing about the project will inspire you and the city to seek ongoing funding for this shining example of community engagement and community policing. Thank you.
 It's really an excellent project, and we're hoping that they can go to the next stage. We think it should have federal recognition for what they're doing. So our next two speakers, let's see, we will have Sergeant Vopal and then Jeremy O'Leary, who will introduce the annual report. Great. Thank you. Come on up, Sergeant. Yes, yeah, sure. I just made some copies. Oh, good. Thank you very much. Great. All right, great.
 Thank you. Great. Thank you. Morning, Mr. Mayor, City Council. My name is Robert Volpel. I'm a police sergeant.
 at the traffic division city of Portland I'm here today representing sergeant Abrahamson who designed and helped help create this program and and get it off the ground but I just have to recognize Laura wintergreen and the East Portland action plan for their efforts in this and what they've done has allowed us to take this plan move it forward and present it to the community
 This program is based on new immigrants, refugees, New Portlanders who don't have access to driver's training in Portland. The ODOT currently subsidies do not apply to ages under 18 years for driver education. The crashes from the immigrants, refugees, New Portlanders, he's got a –
 acronym of IRNP. They're on the rise because the folks are not properly equipped to drive in the cities of Portland because they're coming from communities that don't have the same kind of legal requirements and the same kind of roadways and infrastructure we have here. Currently, we've obtained nearly $50,000 in funding for safety courses that were conducted to be conducted to educate, train, and empower college ESL students in IRNP.
 NPs in the East County, thus improving the awareness of traffic safety in our community. And the program itself, it deals with folks that are in the ESL program that are like four-stage work. There's A through D, or A through E, and they're in D and E stages of the program, so they do speak enough English to communicate with police officers in a traffic stop and whatnot. Each course gives the training to 48 students. It'll be conducted at our Portland Police Bureau Training Center.
 training facility. A combination of classroom and hands-on. They use the back paddock area for the hands-on training. The training is low-key. It talks about rudimentary corn courses, backing, parking, braking speeds less than 25 miles an hour. We have our next course slated. We've already presented the first course. We have our next one slated for May of this year.
 The curriculums and specifics are being vetted through the subcommittees, ODOT, Oregon Impact, PBOT, PBB, the trainers, and the traffic division. And ODOT driver education curriculum has been made available to us from ODOT.
 The program is, we hope, to be the ominous presence of the police uniform when we've broken down and predispositions removed between police and the IRNPs. Currently, there are 19 different languages spoken by members of the Portland Police Bureau. That's within our bureau. We have 19 different languages, and we work with all those. It would be beneficial to have the officers present during the training in order to represent our diverse bureau,
 to place students at a greater ease and a further depth of relationship with these communities. So it's a great outreach opportunity for the communities. We go out and we're able to speak to them in their language and in English both when we have some of our 19 different languages represented there.
 Community leaders from the following groups, Russian Speaking Network, Latino Learning Community, African Youth and Community Organizations, Bhutanese Organizations of USA, Palau Community Foundations, ZOMI, USA, IRCO, and will be invited to represent, to be present during the training and the graduation ceremonies in order to build solidarity and solidify lasting partnerships.
 So I hope that students who complete the course will actually take the course back to their communities and actually provide information about the course so folks that are interested in taking the course can then take the course, but also just through osmosis and through their own interaction with their family members and friends that they'll provide them with a further education. Just the contact with the police and how the cultural differences can be –
 overcome by just reaching out to one another in the common languages. The DVD I gave you, it actually has the overview of the course. It's got some folks in there from ODOT and PBOT and Christy Gladhill, Sharon White, David Abrahamson, and one of the partners we're working with on the outside. It's ODEC, which is Oregon Driver's Education Course.
 They help with the curriculum and teach the curriculum there. And then the last part in that DVD I think is pretty empowering is Fear of the Police is the label of it, and it talks to different people from different communities on some of these obstacles that we have to overcome to have to reach out to these communities. And I think Sergeant Abrahamson has done a fantastic job. Laura has done a great job of getting everything together and making a great partnership.
 Wow. Excellent. Thank you. Very much. So Jeremy's next. Cool. Hello. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. I am Jeremy O'Leary. I'm one of the co-chairs of EPAP, and also EPAP's representative to the National Hazard Mitigation Plan. And our other co-chair, Erling Kamir, will be offering our closing statements.
 The East Portland Action Plan was developed by the community for the community, 286 action items. And we really acknowledge that all 286 action items you can't quite work on at the same time. It's a bit unwieldy. So each year our subcommittees who do the lion's share of the work come up with their top priorities for the year. And at a designated general meeting, we come to a consensus on what are the strategic priorities are going to be for the year.
 This year, we're focusing on 20 logical groupings of actions, which the speakers after me will be going into much greater detail on those. One of the major projects that we also worked on this year, well, I worked on quite a bit, the EPAP's comments, Exhibit A, EPAP's comments to the Climate Action Plan. In Exhibit A, the goal was to illustrate the impacts of global weirding and how responding to it requires a multifaceted approach.
 I also wanted to thank the city and county staff who have been working on this effort over the years to have dramatically improved it and made it a much more integrated approach. The overly short summary of EPAP's comments is to equitably implement the Climate Action Plan. You need efforts like the East Portland Action Plan, right?
 And when the public comment period begins for the effort of the National Hazard Mitigation Plan, I'll be offering up a similar list of comments. More broadly speaking, we as a city and a society are facing challenges on the near, mid, and long term and needing to address all of them at the same time.
 E-PAP offers a perspective on how to support a region of the city that has been historically underfunded and has density beyond what we're really capable of handling. And E-PAP is the lens to be addressing these issues on the near, mid, and long term. I mean, of course we need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. And how do we do that without causing a displacement wave in the process or further concentrating poverty in low service, particularly in low service areas? Okay.
 And of course, you need to be figuring out financing mechanisms to be funding seismically upgrading community buildings, bridges, sewer infrastructure and such. And one of the major near-term challenges that EPAP has been focusing on this past year was the creation of our East Portland involuntary displacement prevention recommendations.
 And this set of tools focuses on civic engagement, economic development, and housing. Examples such are continuing the civic engagement grant program, which you just heard about, rent stabilization, local hiring, minority contracting, the neighborhood prosperity initiatives, and, of course, inclusionary zoning, which, thankfully, that's now legal at the state of Oregon level.
 And so the next three groups of speakers who will be discussing the bulk of our civic apologies, discussing the bulk of our strategic priorities and the involuntary displacement recommendations. And so next up is Andrea Goveen and Emily Lagaraga for civic engagement.
 thank you thank you both thank you thanks very much i i did want to add that um the part of this program too working with epap is a great way to we we're on the um vision zero program with with city portland this is a great partnership that is getting us to that goal as well it's just one more yeah clearly thank you that's really creative work on the bureau's part so thank you thank you thank you and others in the bureau that have been making this work thank you great thank you good afternoon
 hi good afternoon my name is adriana gobert and i would like to come thank you for the opportunity to come and speak to you um and move the microphone over a little bit there we go thank you um i come to speak for uh displacement in portland it's not only happening in portland i think for me it says uh displacement has happened in all portland and for me it's too hard
 And I don't understand why, because everybody has started working to more success Portland. And right now, see the displacement. It's not only happening at one other part of the community. It's happening in everybody. And I would like to show the pictures when people are doing in the past.
 But I don't have the picture. I have in my mind and my heart when everybody has come together and working together for displacement. For me, it's very hard and it's very emotional when I see a different language coming and it's coming to see what happened in this place. I think in the past it's only happened in the past.
 to the people says no understand English or no, it's for everybody. And it's very important to doing EPUB, a lot of doing, because it's working very hard. And it's not only for the Latin peoples. It's working for all the communities. It's no matter if you speak English or a second language or in Spanish. I come and...
 speaking to you to say, please help, because the community is not working by yourself, and it's working together way. As I produce to the municipal, it's more easy and more success, because everybody likes Portland to live. I live in here in Portland 22 years, and I don't want to move. My dad and my son is born here,
 And I go another place, and Portland is the best. And I have a beautiful furniture, it's E-Path, and it's XX. Thank you, and I introduce my data. Thank you. Hello, I'm Emily Larraga, and I'm going to put this thing down, sorry. So our priorities are letter E and F. I think you guys have the handout.
 and it's one is for interpreting all for all ethnic communities to engage in community activities and I've seen that happen a lot and it's been really successful like officer Google said with the grant that we did it was really successful a lot of people went if you see the video it's really heart-touching and that's one way that we use
 It's a successful thing that we do. We also do the workshops for the displacement things, like my mom said. We did that and it was interpreted in eight different languages. It was really beautiful.
 Letter F is to advocate for increased funding and technical assistance for organizations that desire to establish or strengthen their community health workers programs. And one way that it's been helping is the health brochures given out in schools are now in people's native languages. So in every two or three years, there's going to be more languages put on. So it's been really helpful.
 it's broken a lot of barriers and i've seen more diversity in activities that they're that i've seen and next is todd strubel thank you welcome uh mr mayor commissioners thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today my name is todd strubel and i work in east portland as the j district mpi manager and i serve on the east portland action plan economic development subcommittee
 During the past year, the EPAP Economic Development Committee has made progress on many important issues and tasks that help support the residents of East Portland by resisting displacement pressures and connecting to resources available to our community. Today I'm going to speak about the goal of the Economic Development Subcommittee, the progress we've made on the East Portland Action Plan strategic priorities, and anti-displacement tools that you've heard a little bit about.
 And then finally, I'll close just briefly with how East Portland Action Plan supports me as an NPI manager and why that continuing support is necessary. So first, the goal of the Economic Development Subcommittee is to develop a strong business environment that strengthens existing businesses, promotes new businesses, and expands family wage jobs in East Portland.
 Over the last year, we've made progress in the following areas. And unfortunately, I don't have the precise letters. But in cooperation with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, EPAP worked on addressing zoning and design standard recommendations with respect to the 122nd Avenue zoning project with application throughout East Portland. Okay.
 Through that, we've developed an active partnership with Corky Collier and the Columbia Corridor Association to advocate for the increased frequency of transit service on the 122nd so East Portland residents can access living wage jobs in the Columbia Corridor. And manufacturing jobs are particularly well-suited for New Portlanders, immigrants, and refugee community members.
 We've also advocated that the firms in the corridor hire bilingual supervisors and take advantage of Mount Hood Community College's offer of English as a second language classes on-site during lunch. Working with PDC, TriMet, and Metro, we are connecting East Portland residents to family wage employment outside of the area by identifying and removing barriers such as limited transportation options.
 We're continuing to assess the needs for residents in East Portland, and in particular, we have identified needs for increasing service and better connections along 122nd to provide safe conditions for transit riders in the evening hours and more service for north-south routes on public transit in East Portland.
 We've also worked to maximize East Portland's economic benefits from public projects. For example, the Jade District and Division Midway NPIs. We leveraged the Powell Division Transit and Development Project into investments from national foundations and organizations, such as the Kresge Foundation and Transportation for America.
 These investments are leading to community-led placemaking work that will benefit businesses in East Portland while rooting the residents and communities in place. And that's sort of doing art projects that really lift the businesses and really connect them to the residents in those areas. Thank you.
 East Portland Action Plan also advocated for 25% local hire on suppliers on the work being done to develop the East Portland parks that Commissioner Fritz and the Parks and Recreation are funding. With the support of Commissioner Fritz, a local hire stipulation was included in this process. Thank you.
 um east portland action plan also works with pdc bps and metro to promote catalyst workforce workforce development projects in east portland through partnering with npis and other urban renewal and economic development efforts to market east portland as a place to do business with epap funding the rosewood initiative is working on several small business incubator projects providing space for new businesses and is partnering with mount hood community college to provide technical assistance and advice to these businesses
 Historic Park Rose is working on a job fair for local residents and students in March. And the three MPIs, I mean, through the work that EPAP does, were able to partner together, not just kind of do our own work on our own little spheres, but also work together to get the second annual East County Jobs Fair in May held at the Rosewood Initiative.
 And then I think some of our most visible projects are some of our events, things like the Division Midways Festival of Nations, the Jade District's International Night Market, Taste of Park Rose, and the Holiday Market and National Night Out at the Rosewood Initiative.
 And so next I'll talk a little bit about the tools, the anti-displacement tools that we've worked on. The Economic Development Subcommittee proposed these tools and then we got consensus from some of the other subcommittees as well. We worked for nine months to develop these recommendations and then they were cross-reviewed by the Civic Engagement and Housing Subcommittees and brought to the broader community, 200 people with 90% speaking a first language other than English.
 and then it was approved by the full East Portland Action Plan. And then the following is just a brief synopsis of each of the economic development subcommittee-initiated recommendations. We'd like to see living wage provisions as additional income will position people to be able to afford rent and housing increases. We'd like to see local hiring. This requires developers and contractors to prioritize hiring locally, defined as from East Portland, as well as hiring women and minorities locally.
 This is a component of a community benefits agreement, which EPAP has already considered and endorsed as benefiting East Portland residents in their ability to make family wages. For example, David Douglas School District had 26% minority hiring on the Earl Boyles Project.
 Minority contracting. East Portland has the city's highest percentage of the population identified as a minority. So minority contracting should help employ the East Portland minority population in family wage jobs and thus prevent displacement.
 We'd also like to see commercial stabilization and commercial rent stabilization. This includes many of the tools that the MPIs and Main Street projects are using for economic development, including storefront improvements, targeted business assistance, capital improvements, business attraction, and community-controlled commercial development.
 You know, it's really talking about displacement as a holistic sense. If you lose the businesses, your residents are going to follow right after that, too. So really thinking about that anti-displacement idea. The Community Reinvestment Act. Banks and hospitals have to reinvest in communities within three to five miles of each facility. This program was federally developed to guide banks to make loans to other community investments available to everyone, especially locally. Okay.
 We'd like to see commercial transit-oriented development. So TOD incentives for business retention and growth near current and planned transit centers can promote development employment. However, we do want to be clear that transit-oriented development was not recommended for housing purposes that receive tax abatement and have a limited time period.
 A time-limited affordability commitment, unless funding is for nonprofits like, you know, really develop that housing as affordable on a permanent basis. And then finally, we'd like to see broad support for community benefits agreements. This is a contract with a governmental agency, real estate developer, or other jurisdiction to provide specific benefits to the local community or neighborhood in exchange for certain provisions from that community or neighborhood.
 On public projects, CBAs can be negotiated with the initiating government agency and can be included in requests for proposals with contractors. With private developers, benefits can be negotiated in a contract. And, you know, in the past, CBAs have funded workforce training, local hiring, child care access, affordable housing units, relocation stipends, and reforced access to family wage jobs and other public benefits. Okay.
 And finally, I'd like to close just with how EPAP serves me personally in my role as an NPI manager. It really amplifies and leverages the work that the City of Portland has already invested in our programs. For example, through the municipal partnership and civic engagement grants that you've already heard a little bit about, it allows us to do work that otherwise would just not be possible with the limited resources that we have.
 It includes events like the Night Market and community forums that really get to the heart of economic development from the ground level.
 EPAP serves as a great facilitator. Often I'm working in my neighborhood and I'm talking with business owners there and I don't really know what's going on in my broader community. When I come to the EPAP meetings and the subcommittees, I really get a sense of what's going on as a whole in East Portland. Without that, it would be really difficult to know exactly how a lot of different projects are interacting.
 And also the fact that EPAP shares the values of development without displacement is crucial to, I think, the J district's success and the NPI program's success. So without EPAP, I feel our work would be really hampered, and many of those conversations would just not happen, and we really would lose some of the great programs that you've seen out in East Portland. So I ask that you continue to support EPAP, and we look forward to working with you as partners.
 And I'd like to introduce the next two speakers. Before you do that, can I just make one comment? Sure. Thank you all for your excellent testimony. And by the way, are you in school locally? Yes, I'm in David Douglas High School, a senior. Well, Mom, congratulations. I'm sure you're very proud of your daughter. Thank you. I'm proud with my daughter, and I'm proud more in HIPAA for giving the opportunity not only to me,
 Thank you for continuing to support EPAP because I'm Latin. My second language is English, and I don't speak correct English, but I feel part of the community. I feel part. When I come to EPAP, I feel part.
 Live in Oregon. Live in Portland. And thank you for all you doing for EPAP and for my community, because my community is not only the Latin peoples. My community is all peoples live when I live.
 Nepali, English, everybody is my community. Thank you so much. Just want to follow up. And my mother-in-law, Carmen, came to this country with no English and a sixth grade education. And she's the Scrabble champion of our family. So your English is terrific. I want to go back to something our other friend said. And Mayor, it reminds me that the potential for confusion because of language.
 So we have two different things called the Community Benefits Agreement. And we also, separate from the Community Benefits Agreement, we have a committee charged at the city with promoting and boosting MWESB participation in all of our work.
 And I think we've now sort of reached a critical point where these terms are so confusing when you put them side by side because they all have a different meaning, a different purpose. And I think...
 I think it reminds me that we need to go back and at least find a way to distinguish between a community benefits agreement and a community benefits agreement because they have separate meanings. Because we have two of them that we use, but they're different.
 And they have similar goals but different mechanisms to achieve those goals. And then separate and apart from that, we have this broader commitment to MWESB. And then you alluded to the fact that Commissioner Fritz has in fact pioneered a fourth category, which is kind of a community benefits agreement that's a hybrid of what we require above a certain dollar threshold that she's tailored to projects that otherwise don't qualify.
 Let's spend some time maybe rebranding a little bit because I think some of the confusion that I sense in the community is we're not sure which does which and yet we may want to do all of them. But I think there is some language confusion. MS. Well, but we're going to have that discussion, I think, as part of the comprehensive plan. But the essential elements are community and benefits and agreements. And that's what we're going to have to get into that.
 Now I'm even more confused. Each of the words means something, and they're important words. It's important. I think we all understand the shared goal, and so that's what we need to help define. I want to also thank two of our testifiers for participating in the Parks Budget Advisory Committee process and your extremely well-behaved young relative who, once again, is putting my younger children to shame.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. And I think I'll just introduce the next two speakers are Frida Christopher and Nick Salvi. Okay, great. Thank you. Welcome. Frida's been a lot of time in this room lately. Some more time next week. Anyway, Mayor, Commissioners, thank you for having us here. And for the record, my name is Frida Christopher, and I co-chair the EPAP Housing Subcommittee with Nick Salvi, Executive Director of ROSE.
 During the past year, the Housing Subcommittee has been the focus of much of EPAP's work. We appreciate the City Council's work on affordable housing and homelessness, and EPAP wants to continue to work with the City and other partners so the progress continues. Approximately five years ago, we formed the Housing Subcommittee, and myself and Jean DeMasters were asked to co-chair it.
 And we were a unique group because we had developers of affordable housing such as Nick, as well as people like myself who only knew education and knew very little about housing and its complexity, and felt affordable housing was the cause of many of the problems in David Douglas. But that evening when we met, we came up with a common goal within two hours.
 It is to find common ground in supporting a range of housing types in East Portland as a means to strengthening livable communities, encouraging healthy, complete, and stable neighborhoods, and promoting family wage jobs. A range of housing types is meant to include rental housing and home ownership, as well as housing for people of various income levels.
 Mayor Hales declared a state of housing emergency in Portland, and this is what housing emergency looks like in East Portland. Recently, Human Solutions reports a 60% increase in homeless families in East County in one year. Their new family shelter was overflowing as soon as it opened on February 1st.
 As of March 13th, David Douglas Schools counted 420 homeless students during the 2015 school year, identified under Title X, which is where you identify homeless because they get special services. This exceeds the number of all of last year with three months left to go in the school year.
 In fact, between January 29 and February 11, a mere two weeks, 79 new students were newly identified as homeless. The numbers keep climbing as rents increase. Stable housing is a key factor in student success in school, and the ability for schools to close the achievement gap for students of low income and of color.
 Additionally, East Portland experienced some of the largest rent increases in the city. According to Willamette Week, Park Rows, Argy, had a 16.9% increase. Lentz Foster was 14%. Pleasant Valley 10.6% and the 122nd Division Area 10.1%. All experienced higher rent inflation than the city average of 8.4%.
 In addition, according to the Housing Bureau's State of Housing in Portland report, during the five years from 2010 to 2014, there were only 613 multifamily units permitted in all of East Portland. In 2011 and 2013, there were zero multifamily units permitted anywhere in East Portland. During that same period, the rest of Portland experienced a building boom of more than 10,000 apartments.
 In 2013, a study commissioned by Planning and Sustainability indicated East Portland was not in danger of gentrification, and thus displacement was not a risk at the time. Though gentrification is just beginning in East Portland, our residents are experiencing involuntary displacement now.
 EPAP saw two years ago that our residents might be facing involuntary displacement and wanted to see if there was something as an advocacy group we could do to mitigate the impact on our residents. Now Nick Sobey will share with you some of the work we have done in the Housing Subcommittee.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Nick Sovey with Rose Community Development. And I think you're going to hear some recurring themes of the work that we've been doing in housing, economic development, and civic engagement subcommittees. And we think these issues are connected here.
 Each subcommittee has worked over the last two years on various displacement prevention tools and their applicability to East Portland conditions. We drafted a list of tools, and we prepared and distributed the list for comments. We had an anti-displacement workshop on August 15th that was attended by more than 200 people.
 They came and provided input, and those recommendations were incorporated into our proposal. EPAP continues to advocate for change and participate in coalitions such as Anti-Displacement PDX and Welcome Home. A January legislative town hall on housing was held in East Portland and had more than 500 attendees.
 EPAP needs the support of city council, city bureaus, and other partners to achieve our goal of revitalized neighborhoods without displacement. Here is the summary of our top priorities. Establish policy and practices that balances regional affordable housing supply and promotes fair share across Portland.
 The legislature just removed the statewide ban on inclusionary zoning. We need the city to move quickly to implement IZ and capture as many affordable units as we can before the end of the current building boom. Increase opportunities for minority homeownership.
 East Portland is relatively affordable and has the most diverse population in the city. More resources are necessary to make homeownership possible for moderate-income Portlanders.
 Community benefits agreement. We were pleased that the community benefits plan for the two new East Portland parks included a 25% local hiring goal for East Portland. We are concerned that other recent city investments, such as $40 million for mixed use projects and lengths, do not have strong community benefits requirements.
 Renter protections. EPEP believes that strong renter protections are necessary to prevent wholesale dislocation of disadvantaged groups that has been a recurring nightmare in Portland. These include rent stabilization, just cause eviction, code enforcement, and renter education.
 Anti-displacement impact analysis. This should be a requirement for all significant public investments. The planned division Pall transit corridor would be a good place to start. The transit project delay provides time to develop resources and acquire property before speculation hits full force.
 Acquisition Rehab. East Portland has a large quantity of rundown private market apartment buildings that could be acquired and preserved for affordable housing. E-PAP is pleased that PHB and the Mayor's budget recommends $1.5 million for Acquisition Rehab in East Portland this year. And then finally, homeowner retention. E-PAP supports PHB's recommendation of $500,000 for home repairs for low-income homeowners.
 In regard to the last two points, EPPAP especially appreciates that PHB intends to offer resources in East Portland outside of the urban renewal areas and serve areas that we haven't been able to serve before. We also appreciate PHB's increased engagement with EPPAP over the last year. Michelle DePass has been a great addition to the Housing Subcommittee, has worked closely with us on research, outreach, and programming.
 So, finally, thank you so much for the attention that the city is paying to East Portland housing issues. We look forward to working with you over the coming years to increase housing opportunities, improve housing stock, and revitalize our neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. Rita, did I hear that number right about the number of homeless students at David Douglas? 422, is that right? 420, and that was as of March 11th.
 Basically, with Title X, that's some funding we get for federal for homeless that they can get if they live outside the district because a homeless child can go to any school.
 And is transportation, et cetera, that they can receive besides a special assistant? So that's how we kind of count them when they are identified and registered that way. And by that definition of homeless, they could be sleeping in a car, couch surfing, all kinds of different ways of getting by. Yeah, that's homeless and kind of has a broad definition. But they are showing up to school.
 So they're identified through the school? Right. They're identified through the school. Are they showing up every day? I can't tell you, but they are. Probably not, but at least they made contact with the school. They wanted to be in school. And what we're finding, as you know with a lot of the information, there's a lot more newly homeless families, and they want to stay in school. Actually, Douglas is quite a popular place to stay because we work so hard with the low-income and middle-income
 children of color and have had such great success in closing the achievement gap. I think it's just fantastic that the school and the community is aware of and wanting to provide services to those students and it's fantastic that they showed up at school and obviously want to continue their education so
 So thank you for the work that you do on the school board. Well, that's how I kind of got into it because I thought there was too much exempt property, and now I've learned so much more. And we've always felt stable housing is very important to our students. If we can keep them in the same school and not have the huge turnover rate we used to have, we can close that achievement gap. Frida, you're one of the people that I –
 I'd like to cite, because you cited yourself, that you came into this challenge clear about what the problem was and what the solution would be. And the more you learned, the more you realized it's really not that simple and that it takes all of us to engage. And there's a range of solutions to a range of problems rather than the one that you thought to start off with. Yes, I take a lot of time at our school board explaining how complex it is and how important it is to our school board and our school district to help stabilize it.
 Thank you very much. Thank you both. Sorry. So next speakers are Linda Bauer, Teresa Casey Soto, and Arlene Kamira. Hi. Linda Bauer. Teresa and I are on the East Portland Land, East and Transportation Committee, and one of the objectives for transportation is fully fund the East Portland In Motion Strategies, and
 Commissioner Novick personally came out and helped us come up with this East Portland in motion. And now we have sidewalks on 136th and sidewalks on 162nd and 17 signalized crossings. And we're expecting a lot more and we're really excited. Can hardly wait for more flashing beacon signs. Teresa? Hello. Buenas tardes.
 Hello, Mr. Salzman, Mr. Hales, Ms. Fritz, and Steve Novick. May you all be well. East Portland Action Plan and the East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee continue to work with Metro, the City of Portland Bureau of Transportation, and the Oregon Department of Transportation to secure funding for the Outer POW Conceptual Plan.
 As a member of the Outer Powell Safety Project, I am delighted that thanks to Ms. Fagan and Ms. Vega-Peterson and others, $20 million have been secured for renovation of the streets from Southeast 116th to Southeast 136th. $3 million of this came from the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you.
 EPAP advocated for this in the MIT-PEEGE grant and continues to look for every opportunity to highlight the importance of the Outer Powell Conceptual Plan and to secure additional funding.
 EPAP thanks ODOT for applying for TIGER funds in coordination with the City. The intent is to leverage funding that has already been secured for renovation on SE 120th to SE 136th so that renovation may be done all the way from SE 116th to SE 162nd.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council, for maintaining the Outer Powell Safety Project as a regional priority.
 Every day the traffic on outer southeast Powell increases. I am now taking the number 9 bus at the corner of southeast 122nd and southeast Powell Boulevard to avoid walking east on Powell to southeast 125th place where I live. This is a safety measure since there is less of a chance that I will get hit by a car by riding the bus those last three blocks. And I would like to be around when that project, the outer Powell safety project,
 It's finished. So would we all. East Portland Action Plan and the East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee have advocated for and continue to advocate for the addition of cycle track or protected bike lanes to the Outer Powell Safety Project. The dialogue regarding the safety of those riding bicycles along the
 Outer Southeast Powell Boulevard is an ongoing one with the Bicycle Transportation Alliance, EPAP, and the East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee. Some members of the Outer Powell Safety Project rode their bicycles from Ed Benedict Park to Southeast 174th and back at the beginning of 2015. They reported that it was a very scary experience and that they felt very vulnerable and unprotected.
 EPAP and East Portland Land Use and Transportation will continue to insist on protected bike lanes in the outer powell safety project design. And we look forward to your support.
 EPAP wants pedestrian projects prioritized in East Portland to increase crossing safety on major arterial roadways and to connect to transit and to schools. These need to be concurrent with new developments. Southeast 136 from Division to Holgate, close to where I live, now has sidewalks thanks to Shemaiah Fagan.
 Seventeen crossings with rapid flashing beacons have already been installed in southeast Portland, as Linda said. I crossed from the east side of southeast 122nd to the west side at a rapid flashing beacon pedestrian crossing to get to the Midland Library. Thanks to the installation of that crossing, I don't have to dodge cars while attempting to cross southeast 122nd.
 EPAP wants 15 additional rapid flashing beacon pedestrian crossings and 15 intersection signal changes with red light cameras annually.
 epap will continue to advocate on behalf of residents and pedestrians in east portland the safety of pedestrians and their ability to get around southeast portland depends on the addition of more pedestrian crossings with the rapid flashing beacons and the intersection signal changes muchisimas gracias and ccp and arlene kimura is next thank you no i need to finish up
 Another of our priorities is fostering equity in transportation decisions and services. And I have some bad news for you. According to your Portland profile, East Portland is one quarter of the city. Yet in 2015, we were not even in the top 10.
 I'm not even in the top five for individual funding on transportation issues. So that's something that we need to work on together. Thank you.
 Now, Arlene. Thank you. First of all, I want to talk about parks and I want to tell everybody thank you for the two new parks we are getting and they will be online in 2017 and I hope to see construction starting at both Lewitt View and Gateway Discovery Park. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz and thank you, rest of the council because for our children and for our people who have no gathering spaces, these are really important resources.
 The strategic priorities for the East Portland Action to Land Poor Parks has pretty much stayed the same because we also know that some of these implementations, like transportation projects, takes a few years. So we're still asking that the master plan process implementation for both Clatsop Butte and Park Lane move forward.
 And we are looking at maybe doing some of the things sectionally, rather than doing everything at one time. And we are working on that. Metro has a Lava Dome East project, which they are doing in Gresham. There is absolutely no reason why, and we are working on it, we cannot conduct. The city lava domes that we have, starting at Mount Tabor and Rocky Butte,
 And we are working with PBOT folks and park folks on trying to get that as a project that connects to and is part of the Gresham project. We don't have to reinvent the wheel on that. I think all of us are talking to each other. But it is kind of a slow process. And it is for bike and pedestrian connections within the city. Part of our issue is in case of the big earthquake or the big natural disaster,
 It may be our only way of getting around because we won't have streets. And the other final piece that I want to talk about is that we are working very diligently on getting Gateway Green implemented. And they're working on their funding raising. And we're very excited that after all these years, we are really going to have events in the summer that are dedicated to bikes and maybe a few other things such as maybe disc golf so that the –
 parcel of land becomes used and people get used to seeing that there will be activity on there. With the implementation of the T-Hop and the 205 undercrossing, we will actually get better access from the west side to Gateway Green. As it currently exists, you have to go through the transit center or Maywood Park to even find it. So we want to thank you very much for your efforts.
 And I hope to be able to report more progress next year. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, who's next? I'm sorry.
 Well, that's it. I've gotten my direction. And of course, I never follow directions very well either. Like not each other. Clatsa Butte, Kelly Butte, Powell Butte. There's also, you know, what is it, Scouter Mountain. And all of those are buttes that we want to connect. We want people to be able to bike and ride to that.
 Our closing comment is that we want to thank you very much for all of the support you've given this past year for the action plan, and we look for your continued support. I think one of the exciting things is that the municipal partnerships have expanded to include a bureau that we have not worked in past with, but PPB and their driver education has been very exciting.
 When you look at the video, you look at all the ladies in their burkas, and you think, wow, they're actually learning how to dry. And they're not seeing that this is a foreign concept. They can do this themselves.
 And some of our young men drive because they know how to get into a car and they really don't know how to drive according to the rules of the world. But these are kind of important issues that brings the community to feel that they're empowered. And I think that that's one of the things the Action Plan has done and done really well. I will say that I'm going to ask you again, as I always ask you, please remember that all city outreach, and I talked to the county about the same thing,
 We have people who don't speak English, and it is critical that they get some of this information. Please work with your Bureau staff to push outreach in not just English. Thank you. Good point. Okay. Thank you all very much. Is there anyone else that wants to speak on either of these two items? Great presentation. So if not, then the first of these is an ordinance, and the second is a report. So let's take action on the ordinance first, which is the grants themselves.
 Ritz? Thank you, Mayor, and I'm going to make my comments on both right now. Thanks to the community as
 As a little aside, the three and a half pages of the community impacts and community involvement statement that Laura Wintergreen wrote was one of the best I've ever seen. And I really appreciate, yes, of course it's about community engagement, so you could have put, yes, it's about community engagement, but you went into the details of how people were engaged and how the different communities were engaged. And it's a model. I'm not suggesting to my colleagues that three and a half pages is necessary on every item,
 But a little more than three sentences would be nice on many of the things that we consider here. And it's an example of what did the community say and how did we react to it, which used to be in the community impact statement and isn't anymore, and we're going to work on that. So thank you very much for the way this presentation was done and for the organization and everybody who's here to support and didn't necessarily need to speak. And thank you to the speakers as well.
 I'm continuing to be impressed and thrilled to be part of this process with the East Portland Action Plan, your ability to accomplish a huge amount with very few dollars. I'll remind the Council this is a phenomenal return on investment of $300,000 a year. And this Council put the funding into ongoing funding. The Office of Neighborhood Budget Advisory Committee didn't even talk about potentially giving a 5 percent cut to the East Portland Action Plan or to the Division of Housing
 the diverse we did discuss the diverse civic leadership program which throughout the recession was held harmless and once again the entire office of neighborhood involvement Budget Committee said no both the Portland action plan and the diversity leadership program needs to be held harmless and indeed we're going to try to find more funding for you so it's a recognition by the entire community of the importance of the work that you're doing and I really very much appreciate that
 Looking at these grants, which is the first of these votes, over the last three years, you've received a little over $200,000. And that is impressive, the amount of work that you've done and the amount that you're going to be doing with $48,503 that we're allocating today.
 I can't help but draw the comparison with the $2,315,274 that have gone into the innovation funding. And, yes, there are things that the city government needs to do better, and we also need to learn lessons from what you have done in the community to make sure that there are the benefits and that there is the equity. Thank you.
 As we move forward with budget discussions, I would like us, Council, to continue to think carefully about distributing resources equitably to community partners. We're getting a lot of input right now on the Parks for New Portlanders program and resources.
 that make a difference to people in the neighbourhoods are what we heard about today and I very much appreciate you bringing those to our attention. Thank you, Laura Wintergreen, for your amazing leadership of the East Portland Action Plan Team. You are a city employee and you are also very much an employee of the East Portland Action Plan Team and our beloved and well
 we very much appreciated that you have been such an integral part of this and are glad that you're going to continue to be working with us. Thanks to the council also for agreeing in,
 partnership with these pull-and-action plan folks who came to see us several months ago asking about a strategy for making sure that we continue to implement and their suggestion was to hire an extra staff person who would work within city bureaus my alternative which the council has now agreed to is that every council office will dedicate a staff member and that we will be responsible for the bureaus that we oversee so the Claire Adams like in my office will not only be looking at how our
 We're implementing the East Portland Action Plan within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, also within Portland Parks and Recreation. And each of my colleagues on the council has agreed to dedicate a person to do that. So we'll have a coordinating committee within City Hall that will work in partnership with you to let you know what we've done and sometimes what we can't do. I agree.
 agree with everything that's on your priority list and you know, as Frida came to recognize the tension between housing and education,
 There isn't enough money to do everything, and so we do need to prioritize. Sometimes we need to do things in phases, and sometimes we all have to say, we are so mad that we can't do this just yet. And maybe at that point we need to think about how do we raise the resources in order to be able to pay for the services that every community needs, every community wants, and every community in Portland deserves. Thank you so much for the work that you do. Aye. Salt Smith.
 Well, thank you for a great report, both on the grants as well as the state of East Portland. So I guess that's what we call it. It looks very good, and I appreciate all the hard work that all of you do in serving on the committees and the tireless amount of energy and time that you devote to your passion, which is making East Portland better. I'm pleased to associate myself with that effort. Aye. No, thanks.
 Just three quick things I wanted to mention. One, Commissioner Fritz already kind of mentioned this, but Arlene was talking about the importance of outreach to all communities and Andrea Valderrama on my staff, who is my East Portland outreach person, has also been working with PBOT and other bureaus to improve the level of outreach to all communities in all languages. So that's an important reminder for all of us.
 Teresa was talking about the funds that Shamia Fagan and Jessica Baker-Peterson have gotten for important safety improvements in East Portland. I'm very sad that neither of them is running for re-election. We need to make sure that whoever takes their place gets – at least one of them gets appointed to a transportation committee and that they continue – we need to hope they continue to be strong advocates for East Portland transportation projects in the legislature.
 And finally, I think Linda was talking about having the sidewalks in 136th. And I decided to take this opportunity to tell a story I tell a lot, which is I went to walk along a stretch of new sidewalk. And I encountered a woman who was sort of hanging out at her back fence.
 and we're talking to her about the new sidewalk and she said you know um since the sidewalk went in there's people who i hadn't seen for years and i thought they were dead and then i find them walking by my house on the sidewalk and that to me is kind of a dramatic example of what a difference a sidewalk can make um so i'm doing what commissioner fritz did and making my comments on both items the first item but i just wanted to say thank you all for your work i also final one final thing um
 I'm so grateful that everybody worked so long and hard on East Portland in motion before I got here, because it means, for example, that when we go out to the voters and ask for investments in transportation in East Portland, as we're doing in May, we can present them with a list of things that we want to do that have been thoroughly vetted through the community that we can say these really are committee priorities. Hi. Thanks.
 Commissioner Fritz, did you, in your comments, mention Commissioner Leonard's role, as you often do? I didn't, no. It's one of the few things I missed from my long comments. Because you've often mentioned that he had a role, and Senator Merkley, then I guess Representative Merkley, had a role in this. So we acknowledge both of them. I saw Commissioner Leonard the other day.
 And he's finally finished renovating his new home. So my sense is he's getting ready to transition back into the normal world. Is this the seventh year that we've had a report like this? I'm losing track of time. Arlene, is this our sixth? Sixth.
 So this is the sixth year, and I, as Amanda and I have often reflected, when we both came on the council, the conversation we often had when we visited friends in East Portland was still very much we're forgotten. We don't have a voice. No one cares what's going on out here. And that was pervasive in neighborhood associations, business districts, and in talking to folks.
 And what I've observed in my time on the council is that this process of the East Portland Action Plan created a framework for us to have these discussions and then to go beyond good intentions but get very specific about what we were committing to. And I really appreciate that under Mayor Hales we shifted the funding to ongoing, because this is one that always felt like a Perils of Pauline trying to get the money, and now it's established.
 But I also appreciate that it has focused like a laser beam our work together on what we should be accomplishing in East Portland. And when I had housing and parks, I always felt like about two-thirds of what was in this report were focused at my two bureaus. Now they're in the able hands of two of my colleagues. And I just want to address one item that's in the plan, and that is the work that we're going to do to acquire, restore, and develop brownfield sites.
 And as the mayor knows, brownfield remediation is a central part of our economic development plan going forward. And if we're going to hit our industrial land quota and our comp plan goals, we're going to have to do a lot of work with brownfields. Brownfields are incredibly complicated.
 and difficult. And because I lead the Bureau of Environmental Services, we have, you know, projects here and there. Well, the one that we've just almost completed is actually now in East Portland. It's the old Schultz property. We're in Gateway. The Schultz family actually used to store the porta-potties there. And...
 It's quite a challenging project, and we're not out of the woods yet. And thanks to my friend Steve Novick, we're now actually talking about potentially making some additional tweaks so that we can maximize the development of this site.
 but this work on brownfields is our future. We don't have a lot of land, and so we need to get brownfields into productive use. And it's a critical part of our equity agenda because there's so many brownfields in places that have not received the level of services they've deserved in the past. So it's a twofer. And I know it's going to be difficult. The legislature gave us an extra tool, I think, this session, and they're continuing to look for innovative ways to help us do financing. But-
 I'm very excited about taking the community desire to do that work and the city expertise. We're going to have to blow it up and do it on a much bigger scale, but it is our future. And let's be the city that leads the nation in brownfield remediation. I mean, that'd be nice, another green credential. Thanks to everybody who came out today and testified, particularly young people, and thank you, Dr.
 to the whole leadership team for the work you're doing. And you have focused our attention once again, and here we are at the head of the stretch on the budget. So you'll hold us accountable, as you always do. Thank you very much. Hi. Nils? Every time I interact with the East Portland Action Plan effort, and I thought this again today just listening to your presentation, I keep returning to the word leverage. Yes.
 Because, for example, with these grants, you leverage an awful lot of public outreach, public service, public understanding for a really shockingly small amount of money.
 but you leverage more than that. You leverage the active engagement of the bureaus, as we heard about today from Sergeant Volpel and from Todd, and we should have that kind of leverage with all the bureaus. Obviously, it makes them do a better job at what they're trying to do. It allows them to do a better job. It also makes sure that they're thinking about and being accountable to the needs of the very diverse communities of East Portland.
 So that's another example of leverage. Another one that, two more that really I want to mention. One is politics. You're engaging people as political actors to have influence. And that's important.
 And it's important for East Portland. It's important for everybody. It's important for all the various communities of our city that wonder if it's really true that if you get involved that you can have a say and that you can have any power and you're helping people learn that they actually do. And that's really important as we welcome a lot of new Portlanders to Portland from all kinds of cultures and all kinds of places, some of which don't have functioning politics where people can make a difference. So that's really important.
 And then another one is that you're leveraging civic entrepreneurship. You're teaching folks, some of whom we heard from today, by experience, how to get some help from the Bureau here and from the county there and from some business people there to advance good ideas. And that's sort of a school for civic activism that EPAP has been from the beginning. And that's really important so that the leverage principle works.
 to me to run through everything that you're doing. And it also, you know, it also puts pressure on us, you
 You know, Archimedes said, give me a lever and I can move the world. So that's what you're doing. You're moving the world with that leverage. And I just so appreciate how that's working on all those different levels. And that's why it is important that we as a council have now institutionalized the city's support for EPAP in our budget, but not just in the budget, but in the fact that you've got a sergeant from the traffic division here who's a
 believer in working with you to reach people to be better citizens and how they exercise the privilege of driving on our streets. You've got an economic development effort that is now committed to working with you, and that's taught the Portland Development Commission how to get things done, not just in East Portland, but especially in East Portland.
 So it's a tremendously valuable effort. I've learned a lot from you in this work together. We'll continue to because I think it's extremely valuable to us as a city. So thank you for, once again, a great presentation. Again, I think for each of us and for the staff in our offices, like Andrea and like Diana Nunez in my office, they learn a lot. They teach the rest of our team in my office, hey, this is what's happening, and this is how EPAP's making it happen.
 So you've got five fans here, five allies. And, again, what happens with leverage, if someone invests in your business or your political campaign, who do you go back to? You go back to those same people and say, okay. Okay.
 You're my partner. I need you to help me do the next thing. So I know you will. That's the other thing about EPAP is you're never shy about asking for our support and engagement. So please keep that up as well. And well done, very well done. This is a thrill to see the work that you're doing and the progress that you're making and the people that you're engaging in this work. And now a motion, please, to accept the report. Second.
 Roll call, please. I really love it when we have two things to vote on, especially when I'm the first to make my speech because when everybody says other things, I think, oh, yes, I need to add on to that, so now I get to. It's delightful to me, and I hope you can hear the sincerity in our voices that you now have five new best friends, and we're all, except we're not new best friends, we're your friends that you and your colleagues and your elected representatives who are working in partnership with you, and we have been since 2009.
 and
 And so I get kind of angry when people say, you know, nobody's listening to East Portland or East Portland is still getting short shrift. When you look at the investments, particularly in parks, and it's actually before 2009, in the last 10 years, the majority of system development charge investments have been in East Portland. We're starting to see those facilities actually come online. And we will continue directing, I will continue directing resources to East Portland as long as I'm the parks commissioner because we have a lot of,
 catching up to do. We need to close the gaps and we need to maintain what we have and it's not one or the other, it's both and we need to do both. And so I appreciate having the opportunity to work for you and with you. I appreciate working with my colleagues and for those who are concerned that without district representation we don't have leaders who care about different parts of the city and
 I disagree with that emphatically, and I hope that with the civic engagement with the citizenship program that the Bhutanese community is engaging in such that we start seeing greater numbers of East Portlanders participating, voting, and becoming the go-to community for candidates to make.
 who haven't had the privilege of working with you to get to this point. So that's important. The other, it's your success. It's not our success or the city's success. It's yours. And so when people say East Portland isn't getting what it needs, my answer is you should go to visit the East Portland Action Plan and ask them, do they feel that they are making a big difference? And the answer is absolutely yes. Thank you.
 So thank you for that. I also need to say thank you to Claire Adamsick on my staff and Brian Hoop, Amy Archer, and Amalia Aliconda-Morris in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. It
 It's now election year again, and I recall back in 2012, I was concerned that I might not be here at this time. And so that was the reason that I worked with you to put the special appropriation of East Portland Action Plan into the Office of Neighborhood Involvement so it would be kind of sheltered and looked after. And then Mayor Hales decided he wanted to be in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and that was...
 privilege to be with the mayor and the mayor had felt it a privilege to work with you I'm now so grateful that I've been given the honor by Mayor Harrelson being back in charge of the office of neighborhood involvement working with all of our colleagues on the council as well as with you I think we're in a really good place and it's to your credit I know
 I, too, am glad we get to vote twice because you'll see an opportunity to make an utterly silly and irrelevant comment, which is that the Division Midway Alliance remains one of my favorite organizational names in Portland because it sounds like the people who won the Second World War. Here.
 I'm sure they did. Thank you all very much. Aye. And we're adjourned. We have a mayor. Mayor, will you? No, we're not. No, we're not. We're not adjourned. Sorry. We have to take a motion. We're not adjourned. We're back in order because we have to take a motion that per City Code 3.02010 for an evening council meeting to occur, the City Council will be holding a 6 p.m. meeting for the comprehensive plan on April 14th in the auditorium of the Portland building. Do I have a second? Second. Second. Second. It's a roll call, please.
 This gives everybody notice that we are holding an evening meeting. Colleagues, in the future, I really appreciate everybody took time off work and their daily business to come in today, and somebody came out of school. Thank you. In the future, maybe I should think about scheduling an East Portland Action Plan report in the evening as well. But thank you for doing the comprehensive plan at that point. Thank you.
 Mayor, point of order. Does this need a majority or a unanimous vote? Well, I think it needs a majority. I have an orphan budget ask. I was going to try to work right on it. Hi. Saltzman? So, yeah, I believe we already have the meeting scheduled. We're just moving it to the auditorium in Portland. Well, it's just a formality in order for it to be a city forum meeting. Anyway, happy to vote aye. Novick? Aye. All right.
 so we did it very swiftly just for anyone that's listening or is wondering what on earth is going on we're going to have our meeting on april 14th in the evening it's going to be at six o'clock don't show up here at two o'clock for that meeting and it's not going to be in this building it's going to be next door in the portland building in the auditorium because there's a group having a party in this building and they're going to be noisier than we are so 6 p.m on the 14th thank you very much and now we're adjourned
 Rachel, of course.