um get started um good morning everyone welcome to the march 25th meeting of the fortland city council would you please call the roll fritz fish saltzman here novik here hales here uh commissioner fish is away i expect that commissioner fritz will be joining us
 So we have some time certain items and fairly shortly, but first we'll do communications and then we'll talk about the rest of the agenda. So item 289, please. Request of Carl Wickman to address council regarding Portland Bureau of Transportation maintenance of Cedar Crossings Bridge. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, commissioners. We need to switch to the PowerPoint. You had some slides.
 This is Oregon's equivalent to the National Historic Register. Since opening, Cedar Crossings has been a gathering place. I met a woman who'd often go to the bridge with her grandpa. For a science fair project, they created a popsicle bridge model. Now that woman is a highway engineer. Tourists make it a must-stop on covered bridge tours. Last week, Portland police advised me to be careful as the bridge has become a battle turf for gangs.
 Drive-by shootings are common. Bullet holes are now claim markers for gang turf areas. This is what the view looks like through a bullet hole. Just two years ago, graffiti was chalk and Sharpies. Today, you'll find a Nazi swastika and a target range. But the historic marker remains respected.
 Under the bridge is a no-gang area, or a no-go area by the Portland police. And here's some of the tools that the graffiti artists are using. Almost the entire 1930s WPA stonework is now covered with graffiti many layers deep. A lack of regular street cleaning creates dangers. Worse the shoulder. Traffic goes into oncoming lanes to avoid it. Clogged basins create flooding. Even Portland's finest take evasive action.
 Potholes reveal the wood deck below. On the lower left is what the understructure of the bridge looks like. On top of that is the asphalt covering. Sidewalk flooding causes severe wood rot and mold. Interior walls are disappearing. You can see that in the middle left. Railing disintegrating. Oops. Failing abutment patches and shattered guardrails. The footings in the water are now scour critical and failing.
 Since Mayor Clark's whoop-whoop days and Mayor Hale's term as a commissioner, many plans and promises have been kept. Goal 5 states programs shall be provided that will protect historic areas for future generations. I have not been able to find a plan for this area. Located in Site 20, Cedar Crossings is a Goal 5 designated resource. A citywide scenic plan includes Cedar Crossing.
 Mr. Mayor, with Cedar Crossings proximity to three parks and metro open spaces, please consider making Cedar Crossings a park area. Our 2015 plans include former Sheriff Don Clark suggesting becoming a part of the problem-oriented policing conference. Today's presentation will be part of the video documentary. Awaiting word from Commissioner Novak on how to replace the wood rail. Thank you.
 Chet Orloff suggests an interpretive display at Leach Gardens, and our 18th annual cleanup is the first week in May.
 Thank you for your time. Thanks for the update. There's obviously some pretty serious problems to be addressed, so thanks for calling into our attention. You're welcome. Mr. Wickman, Laura Hanson, my constituent services coordinator, has been talking to PBOT about the issues you've raised, so feel free to drop in and talk to her about it as you go. Is that the lady I talked with last year? I don't know. She was the lady who went to Hawaii to get married, right? No, that was Erica. Thank you. Yeah, thank you, Carl. Thank you very much.
 Okay item number 290 request of Hector Laura Cervantes to address counsel Regarding illegal operation and charges of treason in the state. Okay Cervantes not here. Okay. Let's move on the next one, please 291 request of Neil Walker to address counsel regarding interactions with Portland police. Good morning. Welcome morning mayor Hales and Commissioner Saltzman
 My name is Neil Walker and I appreciate you giving me a chance to share my experience. And I've been struggling to come in somewhat formal and Maya said I could show up authentically. So I wanted to share my story with emotional balance and housing and you had discussed a need to also hear affirmations for my interactions with the police force. So I wanted to comment on where I am or where I was, where I am and where I'm going.
 So where I was on February 9th had had an emotional dam break and through a fairly unregulated emotional experience, Project Respond and Portland Police had discussed with me how I had been out in the Northwest 23rd and Burnside area for four hours and had shown concern that I was not fully present. So...
 I wanted to share that experience that Project Respond again and Portland Police have been very supportive in my sometimes emotional and regular. So with that I Wanted to mention that Wendy Hamm, Officer Wendy Hamm last spring had done an outstanding job with sensitivity professionalism and support as well as Project Respond and the Portland Police as I discussed where I was. Where I am today is
 with very humbly saying that I'm houseless. And as far as emotional regulation goes, I'm in counseling for complex PTSD with EMDR therapy in mind and trauma recovery exercises. And where I'm going is I'm hoping to reduce my hypervigilance and my inner critic to increase my self-compassion. And housing, I'm anticipating getting some...
 acute employment in the food and beverage industry, and then Cascadia is sponsoring me to, or sponsoring a housing opportunity in an apartment for one month's paid rent, to the best of my knowledge. And then I want to say that the town of Stevenson, Washington, and specifically a cashier named Charlie, had been very supportive in my journey throughout the years, and so I want to say thank you for the opportunity again, Commissioner Fritz.
 I apologize for being late. I was talking with Senator Betsy Johnson at the state level. Dana had made a great quote about keeping your mouth quiet when you need it. Thank you. Appreciate it. Well, we're glad to hear you're doing well. And I'm glad to hear that folks like Project Respond and Cascadia and Officer Hamm have been reaching out and giving you a hand when you need one. So we appreciate both you sharing that.
 and the folks that have been doing their jobs. I think sometimes that the police and Project Respond, I think, give me a lot more lead way sometimes than is necessary. However, because of that support, I've been able to take an inventory of my growth. Sure.
 Good to hear. Well, yeah, you take care, and we appreciate hearing from you. And whenever you do need help from those folks, you know how to reach help now, and that's good. I'm coming back in May and wanting to share a possible link between PTSD and housing. I see some progression on my part, community concerning housing, which I hear is an aspiration for us.
 all right thank you as it happens uh right now commissioner salston's staff and my staff are meeting upstairs with folks from project respond and and central city concern and um looking at ways to provide more housing options for folks that have had mental health crises and need to get stabilized so your experience is is informative to that good work appreciate it and then also i uh had a really grounding uh conversation with mr mubarak from r2d2
 And I think he struggles with that issue also. Thank you. Well, thank you. You take care. Good to see you. Thanks for not asking any questions. Thank you. Okay, item 282. Request of Benjamin Barber to address council regarding gender discrimination, segregation, and the change to Oregon Constitution. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for giving me a little bit of your time. Sure. Thanks for coming.
 So I'm not sure if you guys know there was like an amendment to the Oregon Constitution that passed in November and it basically says that there's not supposed to be any sort of discrimination even for benevolent reasons. It's basically strict, right? Well, the tech community and Portland in general seems to have a lot of this sort of extreme feminism and it's even to the extent where they have fights against each other in public
 and on the internet, and it's really quite embarrassing. But I've noticed that it's gone to absurd extremes where people have been, including myself, retaliated against for simply questioning the scientific basis of their beliefs. And they've actually started having segregated women-only events in the tech community. And, you know, I see things like Chick Tech and Girls Incorporated, and I say to some of the members in our community, you know, this is really sort of
 not fair to exclude maybe extremely poor black children because they're not girls, but they need access to the services. And ultimately it's about poverty and alleviating poverty, not targeting people because of their race, sex, gender, or whatever. And I generally find this whole identity politics to be toxic.
 in its entirety for both parties, both sides involved. And I've seen this kind of boil over in Portland, this town that I've grown up in. And I'm not gonna waste a whole bunch of your time. I have basically some papers I'm just gonna collate and turn into your office. I know that there's some laws in the city. I hope that this is awakening to people that we shouldn't be discriminating.
 and we should just be providing equal opportunities to people regardless of their background. Incidentally, I also talked to some people from the PDC who were doing some five year plan, like these plan meetings to talk to them and stuff. And nowhere in the list of metrics was the actual core performance statistics, like how many dollars are spent per job created, what's the average revenue of these businesses afterwards, like all of their metrics seem to,
 touch on the emotional keel and the emotional levels and not so much on the core problem of, like, for instance, I would say, providing the ability for people to produce value in work even if they don't have a job. So, like, that, for instance, would help members of... people of color and women who don't necessarily have years of experience to get apprenticeships or to get the skills in an agnostic way, but PDC seems to think that...
 being more politically correct than scientifically correct is more important or something. I don't get it. Thanks for your time. I'll call it. This is in front of the clerk. Good. Thank you. Thank you. Take care. 293. Request of Annie Neal to address council regarding Multnomah County Family Violence Coordination Council. Request for continued support for Portland Police Family Services Division support.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for making the time for us today. My name is Annie Neal, and I'm here on behalf of the Multnomah County Family Violence Coordinating Council. I am joined by Haley Purcell. She's the program manager for Portland Women's Crisis Line, one of the victim service agencies that's a member of the council. Thank you.
 One of the council's key roles is to identify issues and provide input on policy and resource needs. Today, I want to talk to you about the need for the ongoing support of Portland Police Bureau's Family Services Division. This past fall, you approved the mayor's supplemental budget that included funding for two officers and a sergeant to focus on enforcing domestic violence restraining orders, including some gun dispossession orders.
 Thank you for that support, and especially thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing that need forward. On behalf of the council, we're asking you to make this a permanent, ongoing investment in Family Services Division. Domestic violence is the most prevalent form of violent crime in the City of Portland. It makes up more than 40% of all reported violent crime and more than one-third of all aggravated assaults. It's also, unfortunately, the...
 cause of more than one in four homicides in Portland. National data also tells us that domestic violence is the most common type of repeat victimization and that there are specific risk factors that we can recognize and address to reduce these incidents of repeat violence. Two of the biggest risk factors for further violence and for potentially lethal domestic violence are violations of restraining orders and access to guns.
 In fact, when domestic violence perpetrators have access to guns, the risk of domestic violence homicides goes up 600%. In communities where enforcement of restraining orders and gun dispossession laws are in place, domestic violence homicides decrease 12 to 13%.
 This specific funding has allowed Family Service Division officers to provide additional intervention and follow-up investigation in the cases with these risk factors, in addition to the great work that they're already doing in other cases involving serious domestic violence crimes.
 Since this project started this fall and through early March, the Sergeant has reviewed 560 additional police reports for violations of restraining orders and 112 restraining orders for noncompliance with gun dispossession requirements. At least 136 cases have been referred specifically for the gun dispossession noncompliance.
 The officers were able to identify and work with other public safety partners. There were 24 cases where offenders were already under supervision with the probation department and 29 other cases where charges were already pending in the district attorney's office. They've made at least 12 arrests and seized a handful of weapons. So the work is really doing great stuff.
 This funding supports a strategy to identify the cases that we really need to pay attention to. By identifying these specific cases and providing the resources needed to intervene as soon as possible, we are reducing repeat violence and hopefully can prevent serious violence and death. In fact, the Sheriff's Office has been really interested in this model and is making a program request to also fund a sheriff's deputy to do this same work
 The Family Services Division is a unit you should be really proud of. Over the past 20 years, they've learned a lot about high-risk domestic violence, and they've been on the leading edge of developing expertise to recognize and respond to high-risk cases.
 A couple weeks ago, the U.S. Department of Justice Office on Violence Against Women was in town to celebrate our community's successes in reducing domestic violence, and they were especially interested in the work that Family Services has done and have requested some follow-up information. So please continue to support them. Please expand their capacity so they can continue to do this meaningful work, and thank you for your time.
 It's timely to have you and Ms. Purcell here because, obviously, we did make that investment last year. I appreciate hearing the numbers. Obviously, Captain Rodriguez and others from the police bureau will be letting us know how it's working from their standpoint. But...
 Appreciate the kudos from the USDOJ, but actually you know these numbers in terms of part one crimes were down in almost every category except for sexual assault and domestic violence. And lately gang violence incidents are way up as well, and those three tend to have some correlation with each other. Yes, they do. So if you look at where the problems are in public safety in the city, we've had 30 gang violence call outs over 250 times.
 Shots fired. We've had an unfortunate again all the other part one climbs crimes are declining but not rape and then Domestic violence is still pretty serious So I think the focusing on this as you urged us to do Commissioner Salsman turned out to be Exactly where we ought to be putting extra effort
 yeah i just want to thank you for being here and i also want to thank captain rodriguez for his tenure at family services division he's done some great things and he's moving on to be a head of the professional standards office so we appreciate all your service and thank you both for being here today i appreciate it thank you other questions while we've got these two thank you both very much
 Okay, we're going to move on to the regular calendar. We have a pretty crowded council agenda today, both morning and afternoon. We have a series of time-certain items this morning and a relatively brief consent calendar in which one item has already been pulled to regular, which is number 304.
 uh anything if there's only one left so anyone want to pull 305 if not then let's vote on the remainder of the consent calendar uh what which is oh no actually it's longer than that it's five items so the remainder of the consent calendar unless there are any other withdrawals let's take a roll call on that please fritz aye saltzman hi novick hi hales hi okay now let's move to item 294.
 accept the City of Portland Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. Mr. Rust. Morning. Morning, Mayor Hills and members of the City Council. For the record, I'm Ken Rust. I'm the City's Chief Financial Officer, and I'm the Director of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 Today we're presenting to you for your acceptance the city's Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, or CAFR, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. We've distributed copies of the printed CAFR to you, which looks like this, and it's also available to citizens on our website for their review. Thank you.
 Before I get started with the presentation of the document, I'd like to acknowledge the fact that we now have a new city controller and accounting division manager who has joined me this morning, Michelle Kirby. Michelle is a certified public accountant and has more than 25 years of governmental accounting, auditing, and financial management experience.
 Prior to coming to the City of Portland, Michelle worked for the City of Phoenix, Arizona, in different capacities, but the most recent being Deputy Finance Director and City Controller. So we're really happy to have Michelle here to lead the accounting division team. We have lots of work for her, and she's very happy to be out of the sun, she tells us. Thank you.
 In terms of other acknowledgments, as you can imagine, putting together the city's CAFR is a pretty big undertaking each and every year, and it involves many different individuals. And I want to recognize the hard work that goes into the publication and preparation of this document. Certainly, we have city bureaus that are involved bringing accounting information into the document.
 The city auditor's office is responsible for managing a lot of the work in the contract with Moss Adams, our independent auditor, and the work that they do. And that's a critical part of the preparation process. And, of course, the accounting division staff within my bureau plays an integral role in putting the document together.
 This most recent CAFR preparation was more challenging for a couple different reasons. First, this year we actually implemented some new software called CaseWare, which will help in the publication of the document. And any time you implement new software, it takes a little bit more of an effort.
 And we also had some turnover in the leadership positions of the accounting division that made it further challenging. So this was a difficult year, but we got the CAFR done sooner than we had expected and with great results. And I want to give some special accolades to the folks that really helped make that happen. First, Satish Nath, the director of the city's enterprise business solution team, really helped in the management of this caseware project into the production of the CAFR itself. We had a lot of support from OMF's business operations group.
 Certainly the accounting division's technical accounting team played an integral role in this. And I'd ask the council to acknowledge the hard work of those individuals. And we have some folks here today that I'd like to have stand and be recognized. Thank you very much. Good work. Thank you.
 So what is the CAFR? The CAFR represents one of the two key financial reports that the council either adopts or accepts. Right now you're working on the budget process leading up to the adopted budget. And the budget tells the council where we plan to go in terms of the expenditure of public funds. And the financial information in the budget document is primarily produced on a cash basis, or how much money we have available in the bank to fund the different programs each and every year.
 The CAFR, to contrast, tells the citizens and the council where we have been in terms of the expenditures that we've made and how those expenditures and funds affect the city's financial condition. The CAFR presents financial statements for the city's various funds using generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.
 that are promulgated by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, or GASB. So the information is often prepared either on a modified accrual or full accrual basis, which is a little different view than the cash basis of the budget document.
 Included in the CAFR document itself is a discussion by management, the management's discussion and analysis of the city's financial condition, which if there's one section of the CAFR to read, that probably gives you the best summary of all the financial information, the changes year over year, and the key things that are going on with respect to the city's financial operations that help you understand really what the document's telling you.
 It also includes statistical information and trends that are helpful for readers of the document to get a sense of where the city has been in the recent past. So let's talk about good news first. The city's external auditors, Moss Adams, have offered an unqualified opinion as to the fairness and accuracy of the city's financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. And that unqualified opinion is integral to the city's AAA bond rating and, in fact, for all the bond ratings of the city.
 The city's CAFR complies with state law. City fund balances continue to grow. In fact, for governmental funds, we have increased fund balances by almost $69 million, and the general fund itself year over year has increased about $18 million. The city's CAFR has received the GFOA's Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting, and we have received this award from the GFOA continuously for more than 30 years.
 And the CAFR continues to feature beautiful photographic scenes of Portland as seen through the camera lens of the accounting division's Lois Summers. And if you haven't looked at the CAFR, the pictures are beautiful. The not-so-good news. Through the audit process, Moss Adams has identified several weaknesses and deficiencies in the city's accounting processes and practices that we will need to address going forward. There have been some compliance findings and there have been some best practice observations that we will be addressing.
 But none of these audit findings were significant enough to affect their ability to offer the unqualified opinion as to the fairness and accuracy of the financial information presented in our CAFR. I'd like to turn a little bit my attention in time to the more perplexing news. And I know that there was a discussion about this last year when the CAFR was presented. And it really deals around the city's net position and what's going on with that particular measurement.
 When you look at the city's net position, which includes citywide view, governmental activities, and business-type activities like water and sewer and things like that, our net position totals about $2.3 billion or so. However, the city's net position for governmental activities, which includes the general fund, the transportation operating fund, and the grants fund, continues to decline, and it's been declining for a number of years.
 In fiscal year ending 2014, the net position for governmental activities declined by $142 million. And right now, the net position of the governmental activity view has decreased to $212 million total. Next year at this time, I fully expect to tell you that the net position for the governmental-wide view has turned negative.
 In simple terms, net position declines when expenses exceed revenues on a GAAP basis. We mentioned how we measure and report our financial information. And this can be caused by several different factors, including increases in pension and other similar liabilities as measured under GAAP, increases in bonds payable with no offsetting increase in assets.
 and then recognition of non-cash expenses such as depreciation that contribute to expenses exceeding revenues on a GAAP basis. So I want to talk a little bit of those three areas to give you some information about what's really driving that and to help you understand what you need to worry about versus what you just need to be watching. Thank you.
 Let's first talk about the pension piece. And I know that you understand and have heard quite a bit about the city's unique Fire and Police Disability Retirement Fund program, which is funded on a cash basis. This was a program created by voters in 1948 and reformed under the leadership of Dan Saltzman in 2006. It's always been an interesting anomaly in terms of pension funding and pension plans in the United States.
 Currently, the unfunded liability for FPD&R, which is reported in the CAFR document, is $2.7 billion. The amount that we are actually placing on our balance sheet today is about $1.4 billion. So not all of it has been recognized on our financial statements as of yet, but that will change. The value of the city's dedicated property tax levy that funds the liability, because we have a voter-approved property tax levy that pays pension and disability costs each year,
 The value of that on our financial statements is shown as zero. So we get zero credit for the receivable that we have to pay the liability of the pension fund under a GAAP GASB view. Why? Excuse me? Why? Why?
 They don't recognize the future receivable and tax collection as an asset. And so from an accounting point of view under GAAP GASB, that simply is not – the revenues are recognized when we receive them, but the value of that over a period of time into the future is not recognized as an asset. That's something that maybe we would have a conversation with the GASB folks about because this is clearly an outlier, and I'll talk a little bit more about how that's going to affect us going forward.
 I mentioned that we reformed the pension, the fire and police pension system in 2006. All new hires are now in the Oregon PERS system and the OPSR program. We're funding their benefits when earned as opposed to when they need to be paid. So over a period of time, a long period of time, the system will convert to a fully funded system, but it's going to take a long time until that happens. And it's – I'd like – I'm happy to report that the plan and the reforms are performing exactly as we expected they would.
 In fact, the most recent levy capacity study, which I think you've received, shows that there's a near 100% probability over the period of time that they looked at that the FP&R levy will always be sufficient to pay pension and disability benefits when due. Okay.
 So we've made some huge strides in reforming that system and making sure that the cost of the FPNR system does not bleed over into the general fund itself. Yes, Sam's here, and we were in this room a month ago getting that report as the pension board. And you and I have both been around this issue a while, and it was the first time that we've heard that forecast, that we're going to have sufficient resources under the levy.
 almost with no risk that that scenario is the likely one to pay the responsibilities of the pension system. And what other city can say that? But it was one of those technical reports that flow through here, but pretty significant given the risks in the past and the reason why UDAN mounted that effort to change some of the fundamentals of this pension system, but it's now really starting to pay dividends. Thank you.
 So I'm really, you know, at this point in time, even though we don't get value for that receivable, because if we were to measure the present value of that revenue stream going forward, we have a $2.7 billion liability.
 We probably have a $3.5 billion asset in terms of that receivable, but we just don't get to book that. But that's why when people ask me, what do you lose sleep at night over, Ken? I don't lose sleep over FPDR right now. In fact, I'm much more concerned about the PERS program than I am about FPDR because I believe it to be much more volatile in terms of its reliance on investment earnings to stay funded and also for some of the reforms that have been passed by the legislature, whether in fact they will sustain a legal challenge.
 But there are issues that we have to continue to monitor about FPR, but right now it's in about the best position it's been in my lifetime here working at the city, and I'm very proud to be able to say that. I think we're in a position now where we're in a monitor mode and we're not in a worrying mode. So that's one piece of the puzzle about our declining net position, and it's a very significant piece. The other piece is dealing with when we issue bonds that are backed by the general fund and placed on our balance sheet,
 where we don't have an offsetting asset that we receive with those bond proceeds. So a really good example, we have several of them, but a really good example of that is how we fund the urban renewal program. For urban renewal in all the various tax increment districts, all we can do is incur debt. That's what we're required to do under state law in the Constitution is incur indebtedness. The indebtedness could be as short as a day or it could be as long as 20 years.
 But when we create indebtedness, it sits on the city's balance sheet. The bond proceeds that we receive are given to PDC.
 And PDC then runs the programs that are part of the adopted or renewal district. So what do they do with the money? They spend it and invest on business development, in housing programs, in public infrastructure like parks and transportation and other public facilities, property redevelopment, and then administrative costs. And I've talked with PDC about, well, when we give you that money, how much of it might turn back to the city in the form of an asset on our books and records?
 And they estimate that looking over the last 10 years or so, that maybe 25% might come back to us in the form of an asset. So we incur 100% of the liability. We get 25% of the value back on our books and records.
 it affects our net position in a negative way. However, the creation of the urban renewal district also gives us access to tax increment revenues based on the value of incremental assessed value in those districts. So we're creating a revenue stream that fully pays the debt service on those bonds
 that does not impair our ability to have the general fund pay all the other activities associated with it. So, again, kind of an unusual situation. Not all urban renewal programs work the same way, but that's the way ours works, and it affects our net position. The last piece of the puzzle is depreciation of capital assets. Depreciation is a non-cash expense that affects the calculation of the city's net position.
 For fiscal year ending 2014, on the governmental-wide view or governmental activities piece of our CAFRA presentation, depreciation totaled $192 million, and transportation was about $159 million of that. During that same time period, in terms of new capital assets put onto the books and records of the city, it totaled about $110 million. Okay.
 So we invested $82 million less than what was depreciated off of our books and records. And if that was the only thing that happened, our net position would have declined by that $82 million. So those are the three major things that are affecting this net position and this net position trend. So what should we do about it? I think that's the most important thing that we can now start thinking about. Is this a problem? How concerned should we be and what should we be doing?
 Well, I think we need to continue to monitor the city's financial condition and health and provide you more information about what this all means. Part of my bureau's mission, in fact, one of the reasons why council, I think, reestablished the CFO position was to do exactly that, was to bring you financial information and to advise you about long-term fiscal health and sustainability.
 And I plan on bringing back future presentations to you to help you better understand and sort of dissect this net position conversation and what's in and out and what the view really looks like if we were to take it and account for some of the things that we don't get credit for. Mr. S.?
 It sounds to me, from what you said in the last five minutes, that the thing that should really keep all of us up at night is that the transportation system is falling apart. Is that right? You beat me to the punchline. But, yes, I think our biggest challenge when you take apart these other things, and that's really what's important, is what's really the thing we have to worry about? The thing we have to worry about is infrastructure funding.
 You know, we've done – we've had success in the past with our geo bond measures, both for public safety and for parks. And, you know, we have kind of an episodic approach to funding those capital needs. We kind of wait for a few years, and then we do a bond measure. And maybe we need to think about that strategy and how we perpetuate that so that we have a more reliable access to that funding tool with the right kinds of projects. Okay.
 We've had council action recently that I think has really been positive. This dedication of 50% of one-time money to capital infrastructure, very important. The budget office during their presentation with the capital asset program mentioned that they would like to see a reinstitution of the capital set-aside, which we had, and I know Mayor Hales was aware of that, as a way to help dedicate more funds to infrastructure.
 But obviously, we need to develop and implement a new funding model for PBOT. That's where we're really significantly underinvesting, and that's where, if we don't solve that problem, we're really not going to get a handle on our ability to help address the declining opposition that's associated with the underinvestment in infrastructure.
 And the last part that I think we need to pay attention to is how can we develop some sustainability metrics that will help you understand how well we're doing or not? And how do we make sure that as we develop these programs and plans that we pay attention to equity impacts? How we pay for capital, you know, does create impacts on current customers and users and citizens and those in the future.
 And the one thing we don't want to do is further exacerbate that if we can avoid it. So I think it's that kind of information and thinking that I'd like to share with you and spend more time with in the future to help us figure out what our plans and strategies and policies should be around this particular issue.
 Setting that aside, there are some other challenges I just want to make you aware of. One of the things that I have mentioned to Michelle and her team and also working with Moss Adams is that I believe we need to shorten the time it takes to publish our CAFR. Right now, for the City of Portland, we typically publish the CAFR in mid-December or so. Sometimes it's even been later than that.
 There's an increasing drum beating going on with the Securities and Exchange Commission and with investors that buy municipal securities like what the city of Portland issues, that that's way too long of a time period. The information is stale. We need more timely information. The private sector turns out a CAF for 30 days or so. They put out quarterly financial reports. We don't look that way at all.
 And we know that at some point in time we're going to be under an increased burden to bring back that publication date. So I've told our team for this next year, the CAFR that we'll present to you next year, I want to have a publication date of December 1, and in 2016 I want to see that publication date as November 1.
 That's still longer than what we see in the private sector, but I know we have to move that direction. We have to rethink how we get there because I know that that's where we're going to be headed, and it's very important for us in our borrowing programs to make sure that we're going to be in compliance before we have to get there. So I like to do things on our terms, not on someone else's terms, and that's a goal and objective that's going to take an effort for us to get there that will involve all of the city accounting folks in the different bureaus as well.
 We will also be implementing this year GASB 68, it's their latest pronouncement, affecting pensions. Now, I mentioned earlier that, for example, on FPD&R, we have a $2.7 billion liability, 1.4 of which is on our balance sheet now. Under GASB 68, all of the liability will be placed on our balance sheet. So what does that mean? Well, you can do the math. We have a $212 million surplus right now in the government-wide view. You add another $1.3 billion on top of it, we're going to be negative.
 So we're going to have this interesting situation where we're a AAA-rated city and have been since 1974 with a negative net position on a governmental-wide view of over a billion dollars, and it's all being driven by our implementation of GASB standards that don't really take into account very well the unique positive associated with this anomalous pension system. And that's a challenge for us to talk to about investors and make sure that they fully understand.
 Well, yeah, that's not just the $64,000 question, a lot more than that. But do you believe and does our financial team believe that the bond market will continue to recognize our fiscal integrity despite that peculiar effect of following the GASB standards? Because we're fiscally sound.
 We're paying our bills. We have enough money coming in from the tax levy for the pension program to pay its obligations. You know, we operate on a cash basis. Our funds are in surplus. You know, there are reasons for that AAA bond rating, and you've recounted them in this report. So the question is, well, once that top-line view goes negative in an accounting sense, do you believe the bond market will continue to recognize that Portland is a sound financial organization?
 Yes, I do. And the reason why I do is because we've had this discussion with them for many years. The FPD&R liability is not new. We knew exactly what it was. We've explained it to them for years. They fully understand that we have a unique system. We also have a unique way to pay for it that does not impair our ability to fund governmental services. We have strong financial management policies and practices.
 We have decades of experience managing those liabilities. They know how we approach these kinds of problems. And when we implement GASB 68, nothing has changed other than what we present in the financial report about those things that underpin the credit rating. So I think it's an education process, but those who rate our bonds fully understand that. Good to know.
 With that, that concludes my remarks. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to try to answer them. Mr. Salzman. So I was interested in your discussion about the urban renewal and assets. So if urban renewal pays for a park or a paved road in East Portland,
 Does that get booked as an asset? If it's ultimately transferred back to the city, it's a city asset. Yes, that portion does come back to us. And that's the approximate 25% of the estimated bond proceeds that we send to PDC. That's what we get back. But it doesn't match one-to-one. That's correct. But...
 If PDC invests in a commercial project, it's privately owned, and that goes off our books and onto a private property owner's. And if the 30% set-aside goes out into a housing project, that's privately owned and doesn't show up on our books either. Now, we collect tax revenue for the rest of time from that property, but it isn't booked as an asset to the city of Portland, right? It's owned by PDC.
 housing provider or that employer or developer but it's not out by the city if I got that right that's correct mayor hills and I think when we stand back which this from the calf review it sounds kind of odd and maybe we shouldn't be doing that but why do we create our renewal districts we create urban real districts to deal with blight and issues associated with parts of the city that we'd like to see change with the promise being that by making those investment in changes that
 that growth in value in terms of property values, jobs, and other indicators of wealth are going to be greater than they would have otherwise been. And, in fact, I believe the auditor's office has done that kind of analysis and has shown that to be precisely the case. And that's the reason why we do that. And it's an example of where we're going to use our balance sheet to do right things.
 smart things, even if it doesn't necessarily give us the best view from a financial reporting point of view, because those are the things that create value for us today and tomorrow and grow this community and make Portland a better place to live. All right. Other questions? I'm interested in...
 Which assets are considered saleable and which ones are not? So I noticed that Forest Park is not considered a saleable asset because we're not going to sell it. So that seems appropriate. How does the CAFR decide which things are assets that have value because they could potentially be sold and which ones are not? I don't know if I know that can answer the question specifically. I'll talk in general. I don't know whether Michelle has a specific response, but if we can't, we'll get back to you on that. Okay.
 We typically assume that we're not going to be selling and monetizing our assets because they provide particular service to us now and going forward.
 If we decide that an asset is no longer needed, then we have a council practice and policy of how we dispose of what we call surplus property. And it first has to be concluded that, in fact, the property is surplus and can be sold. And that takes a council action to be able to do that. And then we go through the process of selling the property. So generally speaking, we're under the operating assumption that the assets on our books and records –
 aren't going to be sold unless we determine that they are no longer needed and it follows a council decision that it is, in fact, surplus property.
 What about some of the assets like police cars, for example, that we know we're going to be selling it in a few years and we get a certain amount of money for that? Does that go into the books to factor against the cost of a new police car? Well, on the fleet side, for example, and we've been doing this probably for 25 years, we take the cost of fleet vehicles.
 vehicles like police cars, and bureaus like the police bureau are charged for the replacement of those vehicles each and every year. And a fund is established to make sure that when the police car is worn out, as we have determined it to be based on how much maintenance it takes or the useful life of the vehicle, that vehicle is surplused out, it's sold for whatever value we can, that money comes back into the fund. But during that time period, the police bureau is receiving an interagency agreement with OMF,
 to pay into a fund to replenish and buy new police vehicles when needed. So we've been doing that for a long period of time. It's a very routine kind of our business operation with respect to fleet vehicles. So why don't we do that for all of our capital assets, for example, roofs on community centers? We don't have a fund that we pay into that then can replace it.
 That's a very good question. It's one of those things. What more can we do to address the timely replacement of our capital infrastructure? We do have reserves on certain buildings. They're probably not where they need to be. And having more money in reserves would be a benefit. It would help us make sure that when needed we have the ability to do that.
 It gets more complicated when you start taking larger projects and go, wouldn't it be nice if we say we just spent $1.4 billion on the big pipe, and we borrowed a lot of money to pay for that, and we're going to pay those bonds off over a period of time. That helped us lower the cost of the project and make sure that the people who use the project are actually paying for it through our rates and charges.
 Well, wouldn't it be nice, you know, you could argue that let's take that billion four and divide it into 20-year segments and every year put $70 million aside so that coming into the 20th year we have money to replace it.
 That would have a very significant increase in sewer rates to do that. It may avoid our ability or need to borrow, but it would have a tremendous equity impact at the same time for those people who are currently using the water and sewer system, particularly the lowest income people, to be asked to pay twice for the same system. So there's a balancing act between how much money we should put away, the prudence of putting it away, the equity impacts associated with that,
 There's not an easy answer in reaching a conclusion. I do know one thing. We need to do more. MS. You said that some facilities have reserves and some don't. What's the rule for which ones do and which ones don't?
 I don't know that it's a rule. I think we have some financial management policies that lay out what we would like to do, and it's always kind of aspirational. I think on a lot of the facilities that are managed by OMF, we've tried to establish reserves, and we do have reserves to some degree. Some bureaus have chosen that that's not where they have the resource to be able to do that, so we have inconsistent practice in terms of setting monies aside for that. And it really becomes a resource question, Commissioner, for folks.
 Well, I think we had that discussion with OMF in a work session last year that maybe the answer is to Transfer all facilities to OMF and then they would all have reserves, but it seems like we should have a consistent policy It's in parks. For example, it's not that we don't want to have a reserve to replace the roofs on the community center we just don't have the money we can't provide the same level of service and
 with the people that takes up the majority of the parks budget and put aside money, whereas OMF has the authority to charge overhead that then can be put into a reserve. Is there any discussion of having a committee or something to continue the work of those discussions and look at how could we –
 it doesn't really matter to the public whether the Portland building is owned by OMF or managed by OMF versus the Charles Jordan Community Center being owned and managed by Portland Parks. They're all city assets to the public. Is there work being done to propose a more consistent policy? I don't know.
 I'm not sure what the status of those discussions are, Commissioner, but I can certainly find that out. I know that we continue to do a lot of work with the Capital Assets Management Group, and if this is part of that discussion about how we might make some headway, I think it dovetails nicely into the need to do more on infrastructure funding, taking care of our civic assets and these other kinds of things. And that's part of the discussion I think is worth having as we move forward about what more should we be doing, what might that look like, and what are the consequences of doing that. Thank you.
 Other questions for Mr. Rust or Ms. Kirby? Great report. Thank you very much. So let's see if there's anyone signed up to speak on this item. Mr. Walsh requested to speak. Come on up. On this item? Okay. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 Commissioner Fritz took a lot of steam out of my sails on questioning, and I appreciate that. I really do. I like commissioners that question reports. I want to give you an evaluation from a citizen's position. Listening to this report, I don't think that your staff understands that
 that there are people watching this on TV that do not have the report in front of them, that cannot flip through and try to figure out exactly what they're talking about. And that's unfortunate. And I'll give you an example. When I left this morning, my wife borrowed $7 from me. When I go home tonight, she will return that $7. That's a financial transaction. It's very simple, right?
 I know where we are. My wife, Patty, knows where she is. Everybody understands what's involved. Listening to that report, I asked a few people in the audience if they understood what was going on, and they agreed with me. They didn't understand it because there is so much that the report is putting out.
 And I'm always suspicious. If you want to hide stuff, you just send out all kinds of information, and people just glass over, and then it's over, and you guys vote on it, and then it's finished. You need to figure out a way that that person watching it on TV that doesn't have access to what you have, the briefings, the book, the report, all of that, you have that. They don't.
 We're sitting here listening to this verbatim, and we're trying to figure out where a couple of billion dollars is going. And that report did not fulfill that from a citizen's point of view. Because if I walked out this door right now, I could not explain what that man just said. And that's a problem, because I'm an activist. I've been here for a while. I'm
 A little bit more knowledgeable than most people watching this on TV. And if I can't do it, that means they can't do it either. And that's the way I evaluate this stuff. If I don't understand it, and that's a little arrogant, I know. If I don't understand it, I assume that a lot of other people don't.
 And you need to have reports that are simple, that say, this is what we're doing. This is our credit rating. This is where we are. This is how we fund this. This is how we fund that. And it's got to be very easy and easy to understand because we're not accounting. Thank you very much for your time and patience. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. Thank you.
 As I've stated in the past, I've had concerns on the retirement funds. And I understand, Commissioner Saltzman, you did a reform, I guess, in 2006. But there was still a large outstanding debt, my understanding, over a billion dollars. And that was always my concern on how that was being looked at.
 It appears, though, that debt will come back and maybe have an effect on the bond rating, but it's been stated it won't. I do question that at this time. One of the issues I have is also on the surplus properties. I would like to have a moratorium on any surplus properties pertaining to any real estate until we begin to buy down the debt and have ample funding for transportation, which has been neglected over the last 10 years.
 In my opinion, when people were doing special allotments of that funding and neglecting the transportation maintenance, there are certain laws in place that they should have not been doing that, and I think that needs to be looked at very close. You need to maintain the current assets in the infrastructure. That should be a top priority, and that was neglected in transportation, and Commissioner Novick said,
 Unfortunately, he has this on top of his shoulders on trying to create a way to solve that and also Mayor Hales. So that is a big concern to me. Again, on the real estate being sold, I do not want to see any real estate assets of the city donated to any non-profits.
 I want to have a moratorium set on that, that we have full appraisal values on these properties, and we get the full appraisal value for these properties. And if the nonprofit wants to acquire these properties, they go to a foundation and submit applications and try to receive a grant, not from the City of Portland.
 We have too much debt on the books at this time. We cannot be giving these assets away at low values under the current market appraisals, not estimate of values and not appraisals that are seven years old and not certain people thinking they understand the values without having an independent, qualified appraiser doing that, which a bank will look at that appraisal and say, yes, we would even loan money on that based upon that value."
 We're giving too much money away, and we need to stop that on the surplus properties, and the surplus properties needs to be reformed. It needs to be reformed and have an understanding and have the right information on where this money is going to, especially on the fleets.
 We want to know how these cars are being sold after the fact, and we want to know how much money is being brought in and where that money is going. And I want to follow this very close and plan on doing that in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Anyone else? Yes, right here. Come on up. Okay.
 Thank you very much, sir. Just put your name on the record. Barry Sutton, and I'm almost myself. I guess that doesn't matter. I guess there are people, a couple looking at me, a couple looking down. But I know that I brought up the area in back of Washington High School. That's not what we're here about today. Yes, but it's possibly...
 It's a possibility then that that is being sold to someone to build houses on. Not at the moment. Not at the moment. Well, this was my understanding. Possibly it's wrong, and if you want to tell me, that's fine. We can give you some information about that. Yes, but here is the place to talk about this. It's...
 should be used, it should be, could be used as an encampment for homeless people and take care of all the people that are living on the sidewalks and stuff like that.
 And when it isn't and there's that much land available, that makes me feel bad about my city, the city I live in. We appreciate you bringing that point. We'll make sure you get some information about that property. Yes, this has happened before with Dignity Village. But the people that owned that land were not the city of Portland. It was a transportation department, and they had the people moved off of it. Here is a place three.
 blocks for all of the homeless people in Portland, and please don't turn that down. That's a wonderful opportunity. Josh Alpert was a part of an article last week about homelessness. He said he looked all over Portland, and he couldn't find a place to move the homeless people into. Well, that is right in our face.
 You see, it's right in front of us. It's right in the city of Portland that all of these homeless people can be moved to. And I'm very sorry. I can't do anything myself, jump up and down or something. But the last time I spoke before city council, nobody, nobody, Commissioner Fish isn't here, including Commissioner Fish, asked me questions about this or said, oh, no, we cannot do that because...
 Please, will you talk with me, converse in this moment? We will get you information about that property. No, no, in this moment right now. We've got to adopt this report, Barry, so we can get you information about that property at another time, but not today. Yes, if I could talk with Josh Albert. You call my office. That is a valid place for...
 We hear you. Almost all of the homeless. We hear your point. And I'll understand that that is until I'm explained different. Okay. We appreciate your point. Thank you. About this. But please don't overlook that. You mustn't. We won't. All right. Thank you very much, Barry. Okay. I hope so. You take care. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anyone else on this item? Then I believe a motion. No, Barry, we've got to move on. We've got to move on. In the back of the line. We understand. We know what you're talking about. Okay. Okay.
 Any further council discussion before we take a motion? A motion to approve the report, please. So I move. Roll call. Fritz? Well, welcome to Ms. Kirby and welcome back to Mr. Rust. It's good to know that you both are here. And I certainly appreciate all the work of the staff, because this is tremendously complex.
 I remember making a speech very much like Mr. Walsh's when I was a citizen activist. And now that I'm a part of the council, I especially appreciate all of the diligence and look at all of the people who worked so hard to work with to get the CAFR out. And I also appreciate former Comptroller Jane Kingston for her work on this. Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Well, thank you for this report. It certainly is it is dense stuff But it's important and it certainly has a lot of ramifications on how we continue to operate as a city And on a sound basis despite some of the numbers, so thank you. I I
 Novic. I really appreciate the clarity of the report and your spelling out, you know, what numbers look bad and what we should really be worried about and what we shouldn't. And I say that not only because you confirm my view that all we should really be worrying about is the state of our transportation system. Aye. Hales. Well, thank you all for an important piece of work and we have more to discuss on this subject this morning, but the fact that we have this kind of bill of health
 in terms of our financial condition as a city is amazing and wonderful and sometimes we take it for granted. I think it's also great that the council engages as we have here today and otherwise with our financial staff, not just about
 important details like what is our asset management approach to police vehicles or parks. Those are important details. But also in the big picture of how are we dealing with these big trends of assessed value growth or the change in the accounting procedures that affects how our pension system is treated and
 and on the effect of council policy changes that have then turned out to have pretty significant improvements in our financial position. So, again, Commissioner Saltzman, the work that you did on the pension system is paying dividends, not just at the pension board itself, but now to the city's overall financial position. So I appreciate both the quality of the work and the quality of the discussion that it engenders here today.
 It's always difficult to translate government accounting into English, and I think Mr. Russ and his team do well given the difficulty of the subject and the rules that we operate under. But I think if you look at this report and if you hear the summary that we've heard this morning, I think it does give our citizens a good picture of how the city is being managed and what our opportunities, assets, and threats actually are. Thank you for good work.
 Okay, let's move on to 295. Accept the audit of the City Comprehensive Annual Financial Report for fiscal year 2013-2014 and the related communications with those charged with governance and adopt the management response to correct the deficiency in financial reporting controls disclosed in the audit. Auditor Caviero, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero. It is my pleasure today to introduce Jim Lanzarota, a partner in the accounting firm of Moss Adams, which conducted the audit of the city's fiscal year 2014 financial statements. The city's financial statements are important resources for community members, taxpayers, investors, and decision makers to understand what fiscal shape the city represents.
 is in at a moment in time. Once management has prepared the statements, Oregon law and city charter require an independent audit be conducted to determine if the public can reasonably be assured that they fairly represent the financial position of the city. The city entered into a contract with Moss Adams, a licensed municipal firm, to conduct this assessment, and my office oversees that contract.
 This arrangement ensures that the outside auditors have an extra measure of independence from the managers whose work is being audited. I'd like to acknowledge Director of Audit Services, Drummond Kahn, and Principal Auditor, Fiona Earle, for administering the contract and acting as liaisons between the bureaus and Moss Adams. And I will now turn it over to Mr. Lanzarota to walk you through the results.
 Morning. Morning, Mayor Hales, fellow commissioners. Thanks for the opportunity to come before you. This kind of completes the audit process, so it allows us to follow through with the applicable audit standards that were to apply, which is, hey, we better report to those that are required to govern this fine city. So this enables me to do that. I'll talk about what it was that you hired Moss Adams to do, and then obviously what were the results.
 And so when we think of an audit, I like to put it in about five phases to it. In the first phase, I think you really have a great understanding of. So we're required to come in and kind of verify whether these numbers are accurate and the disclosures are accurate. So you look at source documents. We, you know, talk to third parties, the bank that holds your funds, verify. So that's pretty commonly understood.
 A second phase is to look at the internal controls or those checks and balances that management uses to make sure that they can put this document together accurately. So we have an obligation to look at those controls and tell you if there are significant deficiencies in those.
 Mary mentioned that since you're an Oregon municipal corporation, you're also required to follow quite a few state laws that are unique to cities and governmental entities. And as your auditor, I'm required by state law to then test your compliance with about seven or eight specific areas, like legal and budget, your whole budget process and how you do that, public purchasing, the types of...
 accounts that you put cash and investments in, those kinds of things. And I have an obligation to report to you if there were any findings of noncompliance. So that's a third phase.
 Fourth phase, since you get federal grants, you do very well at obtaining federal dollars to help you provide services here at the city. So that's a big part of your operating budget. Well, when you get federal grants, you also are saying that you have to comply. You agree to comply with certain requirements here.
 And as your auditor, I have to test whether, in fact, you're meeting some of those additional compliance requirements that are unique to those grants and report that to you.
 And then the last area, as Ken mentioned, you're able to produce this document. It's pretty surprising. There's probably between 80,000 and 90,000 entities that are required to follow these standards and put this document together, and a majority of them are unable to produce this document with the expertise that they have in-house. So you're very fortunate that you've got quite a cadre of individuals and people
 accounting and finance that have the skills and knowledge to do this. So our job can really be focused on the audit work behind it, verifying that it's accurate and not in the preparation or production of it. So that technical review and assistance to your staff in meeting those requirements.
 Ken also mentioned the Certificate of Excellence that you submit under the Government Finance Officers Association. There's additional bells and whistles that are pretty significant that you have to incorporate in your financials to achieve that award. So it's a great honor to now be 30-plus years, I think Ken mentioned, in –
 achieving that award. And our review, in addition to the gap requirements, looks to make sure that you're meeting those additional GFOA requirements. But your staff does a phenomenal job in meeting the basics plus those additional requirements. So that's what we do, kind of in a way of looking at it. So what were the results?
 And Ken already took the punchline out. I mean, the best news is on page 21 of this document is our opinion on the financial statements. And Ken mentioned it's an unmodified opinion. We didn't have to modify it for any exceptions. Okay.
 to generally accepted accounting principles so that's a great achievement you probably take it for granted here now because you've achieved that milestone for many years in a row now but that's that's not an easy milestone to maintain and so very appreciative of the
 expertise that you have in-house and the policies you've set and the controls you have in place that enable you to put together this document accurately year in and year out. So that's that piece.
 I mentioned that we have to look at your internal controls, and were there any deficiencies? And you might remember that we've had a number of deficiencies that we've brought to your attention in prior years. Most of the time it seems to be centered around capital assets. That's a very tricky area with our governmental clients. And, again, this year we had just one significant deficiency.
 regarding the Bureau of Transportation and it really has to do with a timing issue of when they recognize a project in process a project that takes some time to complete
 So they start a project. They're incurring costs. When the project is done, it needs to be transferred to a final capital asset position. In the meantime, it's in a special account where costs get accumulated. And we identified that there are times when there's a lack of communication between the folks that manage these projects and those that have to do the accounting for your financial reporting to know when a project is done
 and all the costs need to come out of this holding account and into a final capital asset account. So, it's a matter of just getting it recognized, and then it's placed in service, you begin recording the depreciation or the wear and tear through depreciation deduction. So it's important to know when an asset is in fact placed in service so you can begin recognizing the cost of its use in your operations.
 And then there were a few projects where you get started, but for whatever reason, they don't get completed. And those costs need to come out of this construction in progress account. And there were a few instances where, for whatever reason, projects were not completed, but the costs remained in there as if they were still ongoing projects. Okay.
 So there's just some communication and some work that might be done in that area. So that was this year's control finding. All issues we brought to your attention in the past have been resolved, and so that's the only one. So again, I think that shows improvement, and so that's good news.
 I mentioned these state laws that were required to test your compliance with. And this year we had no findings. This may be the first year, excuse me, one of the most common types of findings we have with budgets specifically is over expenditures.
 It's very hard with all the funds that you manage. Invariably, there's somewhere where you overspend the appropriated budget for a particular line item within one of your funds. And this year we didn't, or I should say you didn't have any of those.
 It's also common to trip up in certain other areas of budget law amongst our governmental clients here in Oregon, and there were none there for you. So really good news on a number of fronts. The deposit of public money, you've met all the requirements there. Public purchasing, we didn't find any noncompliance there. The budget, as I mentioned. Insurance elements.
 And then finally, the grants area was the other. And this year, again, probably maybe the first time in many years, we had absolutely no findings with your compliance with grant programs.
 So great news there. So the administration of the federal grants is done very well. As you know, you're decentralized. You have many bureaus. There's many individuals involved in the administration of your federal grants. And to have compliance throughout the city for the various programs we tested is a great milestone for you to achieve, especially after prior years where we have had a few findings relative to your compliance requirements.
 And then finally, we did issue a letter to you, which I think is in your packet. We call it a communication to those charged with governance. And I'm not going to go over all of it. Most of that has the elements in it, and hopefully you've had a chance to read it. There's just a couple areas that I might highlight in there.
 Most of our governing boards want to know maybe a couple things. One is, geez, did we have any audit adjustments? Were there any particular issues? And we did not propose any audit adjustments. So any corrections that were determined to be necessary in closing the books and preparing this document, your staff identified already through their fiscal year-end processes. So we had no audit adjustments. Okay.
 There were a few errors that were immaterial or minor to your financial statements which were not corrected, and those are listed in that letter to you. And again, they relate primarily to capital assets. You might remember that in prior years we noted that
 a deficiency in controls over certain capital assets the city owns that were not recognized in your books. And in the past, that generally stemmed from
 properties that were donated to you and they just didn't get picked up. So Parks, for example, has a number of properties that they've received over the years that sometimes don't get picked up and reflected in your financial statements. So they still have a few properties that they're working on getting recorded, but that's what's noted in there. There's a few more properties that they know that they own
 and they're not yet booked, and I believe hopefully the rest of that will get on the books in this fiscal year that you're in right now. And we don't note that as a control deficiency we have in the past because they've changed their processes now, and the process over that is working. So that will correct itself.
 Another area that governing boards like to know is, geez, do we have any difficulties in working with management or others in the performance of our work? And we're very pleased to tell you we didn't have any of that. I mean, for example, if we're asking questions and we're not getting responses or if it feels like we're being directed or misdirected, you'd want to know that. And we've never experienced that. Your accounting staff and...
 To me, they're very anxious to kind of learn best practices or to work well with us. It's a nice team environment to get through the audit process and very much appreciate the dedication and effort that they put into that. We've never had difficulties there.
 We also like to tell you if we had any disagreements. I mean, are there disagreements over the application of accounting standards or any of that? And again, we're happy to tell you that we had no such disagreements working with your staff.
 the last item i'd mention is again over this you know ken did a phenomenal job i think of talking with you about the declining net position and you'll remember that we brought that issue up and included it in this letter last year and this year it's in there but primarily for the purpose to tell you what actions management has taken
 And Ken probably did a pretty good job of that. I think with the pension issue, your biggest weapon is to go out and look at the sufficiency of that property tax on a periodic basis. So it's really good news that the latest round of evaluating that shows a very slim chance that your property tax revenue would be insufficient to cover the benefit payments in the future.
 So that's phenomenal. And doing that monitoring work is exactly the kind of thing that seems like would address that risk. So appreciative of management's effort to monitor that and look for that.
 The capital assets is the other piece, as Ken mentioned. And it looks like you're well on your way. I know you've been working on a dedicated revenue stream for some of this infrastructure. And just being aware of the issue and being supportive of management as they work with you to continue to address that issue is a great start on that problem.
 So the particular issues there, I think you've got some good direction, and it looks like you're well on your way to trying to address that problem. So really, those are my remarks. I guess the one last piece I would say, again, it talks to Ken's comment about the timeliness of getting the financial statement prepared
 For various reasons, when we were out in September talking to management, I think at that time they were probably about four weeks behind where they wanted to be to be able to issue the financials by mid-December, which was the plan.
 And they implemented that new caseware software that Ken mentioned, and they made up those four weeks, and we were still able to issue by December 19 or somewhere around there. And so your crew did a phenomenal job of kind of reengineering the financial close process and producing this document and making up all that time. It's a testament to the level of dedication of your accounting staff
 to get there. And so we certainly acknowledge their efforts. Just wanted to report that to you. With that, I guess I'd be open to whatever questions you might have. Questions. Dan, please. You talk about risk to the financial position of the city, and you talk about the provision of discounts and of the city's accounts receivable. What?
 i'm sorry what document are you looking at on page three of the letter of the letter yeah talks about the most sensitive estimates affecting the financial statements uh the provision for discounts and allowances on the city's accounts and loans receivable so i guess
 I'm just curious what you're talking about there. Sure. So you're commenting on this letter, the communication of those charged with governance, and the various topics here that we're required to cover with you. One of them is financial statement disclosures. And so we're telling you here these are some of the more sensitive financial statement disclosures that you might want to look at. And one of those is just to remind you, you do have estimates. There are estimates in the financial statements.
 And in the area of your accounts receivable, one of the estimates is what is the portion you won't collect. The appropriate accounting principles are that you may be owed a certain amount, but history tells you not everyone's going to pay their bill. And so the amount you reflect in the financials needs to be net of that estimate of the amount you won't collect.
 And this is just telling you, hey, there are estimates in there that receivable and the uncollectible portion is an estimate. And so we're just pointing out that. And then there are other things in here we're pointing out, like the long-term debt. That's an area that's sometimes a problem.
 a very significant disclosure in your financials. The pension and OPEB programs are significant disclosures. There's nothing positive or negative about this other than telling you where there might be some significant disclosures that you might want to look at in the financials. OK, thank you. OK, other questions? Just wondered if you thought District Caviar or Drummond Caron has further comments. You know, I do not have further comments. Drummond, do you have any?
 and is the um the final be it resolved where the city adopts and endorses the city's management response that's referencing exhibit d so it's that singular issue with transportation and that's
 Yeah, I should have mentioned that. I think that that is the intent for you to look at PBOT's response. So anytime we have a finding, generally, and it might be actually in the city's code, that you put together a management response to that. What's the plan? So PBOT has done that. And I think the city staff's looking for your approval of the plan that they've put in place. Okay.
 And I think my reaction to that would be the PBOT director has done what's required, the rest is up to us. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you all. Anyone want to testify on this report? Okay. Thanks very much. Thank you. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. That's the kind of report that I was speaking about when I was talking about item 294.
 That report was a conversation. It's very difficult to have a one-way conversation, but when they gave the report, it was a conversation that we all, at least I, understood. I could explain that to you when I was outside this door.
 So that's what I was trying to point out in 294. And although we criticize, we also have to acknowledge that was an excellent report. And I think the people watching it at home, without the benefit of all the stuff that you have in front of you, could sit there and say, you know what? The auditor's report seems to indicate, whether you believe the report or not, it's another question. Okay.
 But it seems to indicate that we're doing pretty good. We've got some minor issues that we have to tweak. That's the kind of report I think the citizens would like to have instead of all that other stuff that 294 gave you that just confused the issue. Thank you.
 So it's a conversation. It's very difficult to have it one way when you're given a report, but that's the way it should be. And people should be able to understand it, Mayor. You have a lot more stuff in front of you than somebody sitting home having coffee trying to figure out what everybody is saying. And I indicate a lot of times I quote Patty, but when I go home, I ask her, did you understand 294? Did you understand what they were saying?
 And I'll bet you a mocha that she would say, no, I don't have a clue what they were talking about. And that your transparency record is not good. That's one of the reasons because you sit there and you say, this is a good report, but I have all of this information in front of me, so I understand it. Who cares about the other people? If that's your attitude, Mayor, you're in trouble. Thank you.
 But again, that's the kind of report that we would like to see, and I congratulate that order. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. One of the concerns I have on these reports and on the auditing process is that when we're talking the assets of the city and we're allowing certain assets to accrual deferred maintenance, that's an interesting concern.
 area to look at on just how much do we have to come up with to cover those costs, because that's an area that can have this happen, and then all of a sudden we have to come up with this large dollar amount. Talking about, say, the Portland building and coming up with, say, $1,500 million to maybe do some what I would consider deferred maintenance or maintenance that needs to be done. And I've always questioned that on these type of assets that we have within the city is that
 Have the auditors or the accountants ever looked at, is there an advantage to take such projects like this and maybe do a sale-leaseback to where we receive a tremendous amount of money up front from, say, large private investors...
 With also a buyback clause, if we buy it back in, say, 20 years at, say, fair market value, is there any advantage on looking at that on a lot of the assets that we have within the city, where we have no debt, obviously, on a lot of the assets? And is there any advantage to do a sale lease back to private investors? As we know, the real estate market right now is very good.
 There tends to be a lot of money out there looking for investments. So I do question that when we, and this is past administration, I want to make this very clear, is that when we run up deferred maintenance on a lot of these assets, is there a way that we can try to correct the problems that were created in the past through a sale lease back on some of these properties and have the potential new private investors covering a lot of this deferred maintenance issue?
 within the purchase or sale leaseback agreement. So I'd like to maybe have that looked at a little bit closer and have your opinions on that, and maybe that might be an opportunity. Again, my concern always is to cut the debt down. Do not give away things when you have a tremendous amount of debt in front of you.
 and let outside foundations pick up the slack with individuals that want to come back to the city and pay fair market value for these properties. The city has too much debt to give anything away. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak? And so we'll need a motion to accept the auditor's report. So moved. Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please.
 Fritz? Well, thank you. It's very nice to have both of these together and appreciate the outside audit as well as our own city auditors' oversight of this whole process. Bye. Saltzman? Thank you very much. Aye. Novick? Thank you very much. Aye. Hales? Well, I want to...
 appreciate the good work the auditor and her team and our outside reviewers have done. Again, for me, seeing three reports in a row, first the outside audit of our pension system, then the CAFR, Comprehensive Annual Financial Review, and now this audit by an independent firm hired by our independent auditor, all saying essentially the same thing, which is that the City of Portland is on a sound financial basis and that without exception, we're
 our managers are managing and accounting for public funds correctly. There are not very many places in the United States of America where you can say all those things. So we should celebrate this good work. And, in fact, I was thinking, as Jim was talking, that a lot of the credit for the fact that there were no overexpenditures and that there were no compliance issues really does need to be –
 as chief executives of our portfolios of bureaus, that our bureau managers and their staffs have been doing an excellent job of following complex procedures. You know, I wish we could make state law and GASB simpler, but we can't. We have to follow these arcane requirements, but it proves that we're doing that.
 And then finally, I just want to appreciate especially that the letter from Moss Adams noted the change that you led, Commissioner Fritz, to dedicate a larger percentage of our one-time available ending fund balance revenues to capital investments.
 expenditure and that that was called out as an improvement in our position from just last year to this. So some progress that I think we should celebrate as good council policy as well. So bravo all around. Thank you for great work and we look forward to having three similarly tame reports in the future. Aye. Thank you all.
 Let's move on to 296. Approve innovation funding for 17 micro-grant proposals for fiscal year 2014-15. So this is our innovation fund at work trying to find new ways to do things, trying out experiments that might or might not work. Again, rubber sidewalks are not the normal way to deal with the provision of sidewalks, but we're going to try it and see if it works.
 trying to make our summer free-for-all program more culturally responsive. We know we want to do it. We're not sure if the ways that we're selecting here will actually work, but the whole point of the innovation fund is for public managers to be able to try things and to prototype things and to understand that there's risk and to accept the probability that some of them will fail.
 and that no one will be punished for innovating and failing. So we've sequestered a little bit of money in the city's budget to do just that, and our team is here to report on some of those projects that are now before us. Good morning.
 Thank you, Mayor and members of council. Jane Brayton, I manage the OMF Business Operations Division and I'm here this morning on behalf of Fred Miller. We're here to ask you to approve this ordinance authorizing funding for 17 microgrants through the City Innovation Fund. I'm sorry that Fred is on a rare day off out of the office because I think that the microgrant process was actually one of his favorites, both because we heard when we met with small bureaus.
 streamlined processes to make them easier for us and more accessible and because he really liked the idea of building a culture of innovation he said often we don't have to wait a year to come up with a good idea let's let's figure out a way we can have a rolling process so I'm pleased to represent him today we're now in the second year and so the City Innovation Fund continues to support innovative ideas with an emphasis on equity opportunity and again promoting that culture of innovation
 So on behalf of our proposers and the review panel, we want to thank the Mayor and the Council for supporting this effort. Even in tough economic times and budget crunch, you supported this concept that people could make things better and we could do this through small investments to make those improvements. And many of our proposers have commented that they could not have moved their project forward if it hadn't been for this support. So please let us convey our thanks to you.
 We also want to thank our proposers in our review panel, and I'm just going to ask them to wave from the audience so that you know who they are. Our proposers are the people out in the bureaus who have worked with community members, other bureaus to make things happen.
 And our review panel, we had community members, Warren Chan and Emily Rice, and City Representative Sam Hutchinson, and I know he's here today as well, and Robert Walker. They volunteered their time to help make this process a good one and meaningful in providing feedback. I want to give a brief introduction and then really turn this over to the main focus, which is the people who brought these projects forward and are making things happen. And I'll come up at the end to answer any questions. Thank you.
 So just to let you know, a little background, the innovation micro grants, as we're calling them, are for those projects under $10,000 was the general guideline, although we said they could go up to $20,000 to be considered. We started in February with a call for ideas, and we got 46 proposals from 13 bureaus.
 You may recall when we were back here in January, when we did the big fall call for ideas for both large and micro grants, we got 45 proposals from 16 bureaus. So all in all, we've generated almost 100 interesting ideas on how to improve city services, make them work better, and we've received these ideas from almost every bureau. So that's part of our marketing and outreach challenge in the future.
 Our review panel had a tough job because they had to look at all of these good ideas and really look at those that promoted equity and opportunity, improved customer service, made our processes more efficient or more effective. So then we invited all of our proposers into a facilitated meeting with our review panel where they could answer questions and receive feedback firsthand. The review panel narrowed down that list to 17 microgrant proposals they're recommending to you today.
 I'd now like to introduce Janet Storm from OMF Business Operations. She has served as the primary contact for proposers and the review panel, and she'll be bringing up, we have a sampling of five of them to share with you today, and we're really pleased that this gives them an avenue to get recognized for taking that risk to bring forward a new idea and asking for your support. And then I'll be back around for any questions. So, Janet. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Janet Storm. I'm a management analyst with OMF Business Operations, and I coordinate the grant proposal process. We wanted to share a little bit with you about that process. On February 11th, OMF Business Operations put out a call for microgrant ideas citywide.
 All city employees were notified that the city was looking for creative micro-grant proposals that accomplish one or more of the following. Promote equity and opportunity in city government and our community. Improve customer service to the community and or city customers.
 create more effective and efficient city processes, and make things better in general. Interested employees submitted one-page micro-grant proposals, and the one-page proposals were then sent to all bureau directors so that they could provide input on proposals from their own bureaus, as well as possibly identify cross-bureau partnership opportunities. We then forwarded 46 micro-grant proposals submitted by 13 bureaus to the Innovation Review Panel.
 The panel was asked to evaluate the proposals based on their ability to pass the following five filters. Number one, do you think that the proposal is innovative? Is it original, and does it show strategic creativity? Number two, taking other funding sources into consideration, such as the Sponsor Bureau's operating budget, is the Innovation Fund the most logical funding source for this particular proposal?
 Number three, can this project actually be carried out? Do you believe that the proposed project can be achieved within the estimated budget provided? Four, are all of the key partners confirmed to be on board with this effort? And five, are there benefits to the proposed project? Does it advance equity? Does it provide opportunity? And is there a potential for greater benefits with broader applications?
 On March 9th, our panel met, and through an interactive, facilitative discussion with the project proposers, they agreed upon the funding recommendations for the 17 project proposals that you have before you. And now we've invited six proposers to share a minute or two with you today about five of the recommended proposals in a little bit more detail. First, I'd like to introduce Laura Nimi, who is from Portland Parks and Recreation. Laura? Hey, come on up, Laura. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Lauren Neamy. I am the program manager for Portland Parks and Recreation's Community Gardens program. And we operate 50 gardens covering 21 acres throughout the city, provide land to people who want to grow their own food. And over the past few years, we've seen an increased demand from people who are living in poverty and people who are immigrant and refugee from immigrant and refugee communities. We currently have 16 languages represented in our program.
 And we've discovered that some of our policies unfortunately inadvertently prohibit practices that are widely used by different cultures. We've also realized that there are certain policies that don't really take into account the resources available to people that are living with limited incomes. So with this micro grant, we propose to conduct a culturally inclusive policy review process.
 This will involve the Office of Equity and Human Rights Senior Policy Analyst and Parks' Equity and Inclusion Manager to assist me and community garden staff with designing an inclusive process. Then community garden and parks public involvement staff will implement this over a series of community meetings with representatives from our diverse gardeners.
 The grant we're seeking is $14,000, which will be used for interpretation and translation, child care, and food for these community meetings.
 And we hope that the end result is that we'll have culturally inclusive policies and procedures and that will reduce the barriers and increase participation to people that are historically underserved by our program. We're also hoping to, through this process, cultivate cultural leaders who can help be managers at their gardens and advocate for gardeners in their community and help us to further understand the needs of our community and be responsive to that.
 And lastly, further parks' equity and inclusion goals. So thank you for your time and consideration. Thank you. Next up, we have Antoinette Pietka and Uma Krishnan from the Portland Housing Bureau. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 It's a tag team today. Honorable Commissioners, good morning. I'm Uma Krishnan, Analyst and Demographer with the City's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And in this valuable minute that I have, I just want to provide the context for the web scraper project that was funded. $5,000, our gratitude for the same.
 As you may know, we, as in the Planning Bureau and the Housing Bureau, we are constantly looking at public real estate websites like the Zillow or the Redfin or Trulia just to understand what's going on currently in the market.
 And this is partly to understand what's going on in the market and also to be able to evaluate our planning programs, our housing programs, how well are they working? Do we need to do anything more? Can we see an impact? This is a really time-intensive process. And during one of our meetings –
 colleagues at the Housing Bureau, I was simply lamenting. I said, you know, I'm constantly looking at these free websites to be able to understand what's going on in the market. And Antoinette picks up the story from there.
 Good morning. I'm Antoinette Fiatka from the Portland Housing Bureau. And our innovation fund proposal would fund the development of a housing data web scraper, or basically a software robot that would be used by both bureaus to collect information from the web, to download it and transform it into structured data that we could then analyze over time.
 The scraper would be automated to visit sites and collect information such as real estate listings, vacancies, unit types, and just all of the data that's out there right now. And it would save staff in both bureaus a considerable amount of time.
 A question about that. Would it ultimately, like Port 1 maps, be able to be turned around and revealed to the public, folks that wanted to see that collected data? We could. That's one of the intent. Yeah, good. Next year's proposal. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have John Holtrop from the Bureau of Environmental Services. Hello. I'm John Holtrop. I'm with the BES. I'm the manager of the Extra Strength Sewer Charge Program.
 And my proposal is, or our proposal, I should say, is essentially to do multilingual video, educational videos for food service facilities. Our Cut Through the Fog program impacts about 3,000 or more food service facilities, restaurants. And there is a financial impact to those businesses, both through potential compliance issues and for the sewer rates. And...
 We want to make sure that they're cleaning their grease traps and maintaining grease traps in the adequate fashion. And the rates themselves also have best management components to them, so there are rate discounts depending on what things they do. So we want to get that information out to those customers. A pretty big percentage of the food service facilities have English as a second language, and so we want to make sure that they are getting all that information so that they can get the –
 the full rate discounts that they are entitled to and that they are in compliance at all times so if this works then the customers will avoid extra charges right it potentially could lower their sewer charges yeah um and and hopefully avoid compliance issues um and we have clusters you know of of restaurants and some of them are are demographically related so we want to make sure that we're not getting grease blockages in those areas and if
 we're not getting information out to people about what's desired, required, and beneficial, then that could be a negative effect to the sewer system. Great. Thank you. Next we have Julia Thompson from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name's Julia Thompson, and I'm from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I want to tell you about the Neighborhood Anti-Litter Campaign Toolkit that we've applied for a micro-grant for. So as we've all experienced, Portland is experiencing a growth spurt with thousands of new residents moving here every month.
 Lots of new construction is filling in our neighborhoods and business districts and making them even more walkable and vibrant. And this pace of change and growth is exciting, but it also adds wear and tear in our neighborhoods and business districts. Increased litter like cigarette butts and fast food containers pollute the urban environment and affect livability. BPS is looking at ways to improve access to garbage and recycling containers.
 in our business districts. However, we believe that garbage cans alone are not enough to create the behavior change to keep our districts clean. The Neighborhood Pride Anti-Litter Campaign Toolkit will provide a practical and efficient way to reduce litter throughout the city. Through a collaboration with Venture Portland, we aim to make the Anti-Litter Campaign Toolkit available to the approximate 50 business districts.
 and this low-cost customizable resource for them will be developed with input from business district and neighborhood association leaders and participants and will include templates for outdoor ads and storefront signage as well as a social media component that district participants could promote. We believe this free customizable resource will empower neighborhood businesses and leaders to do something about the litter in front of their businesses and their neighborhoods.
 It will benefit long-time residents and newcomers, shoppers and diners and districts throughout the city by building neighborhood pride and drawing attention to garbage cans that make it easier to keep walkable districts litter-free. And it will provide an equitable resource, allowing all business districts to implement the campaign toolkit easily with minimal costs. So thank you for considering this innovation micro-grant. Thank you. And our final presenter today is Jody Yates from the Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 speaking of rubber sidewalks yeah good morning commissioners I'm here my name is judy Yates I here representing the Bureau of Transportation I work in the maintenance operations group one of my programs administers the sidewalk repair program as a reminder city charter requires that property owners maintain their sidewalks in the city and my program is the one that tells them when their sidewalk needs repair
 To put it in context, in 2014, the program required 1,900 property repairs, and the average cost per repair is about $1,200, so that equates to $2 million annually. We estimate that 90% of those repairs are a result of mature tree roots pushing on the sidewalk, creating a tripping hazard.
 PBOT engineers have researched materials for several years and are recommending a product for testing. The product is called Rubberway. It is a pervious flexible surface system made from recycled tire rubber. The literature is suggesting that this will allow tree roots to expand into the sidewalk without creating a tripping hazard.
 We, the micro grant request is to install a pilot project and to monitor it for several years. The pilot project is a property or a sidewalk that is currently maintained by PBOT and it has mature tree roots requiring the sidewalk repair. This sidewalk was last repaired seven years ago for the same reason.
 If the product is successful, PBOT will either install other test sites and or write specifications allowing the product to be used throughout the city. This could result in a savings to citizens of the city of Portland of $2 million annually. And thank you for considering the project. Jody, I have to say, this is a very exciting project. The idea that we could use a new product and innovation to save people money, many people each year would just be terrific. Yeah. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any thanks to all of our presenters today, and I'd like to invite Jane Brayton back up for questions. Okay. Questions for Jane or Janet? I have a couple of questions. You read the criteria that they were evaluated for, and by the way, thank you to all the committee members, and thanks to all the staff who have proposed great projects. It's good to be able to encourage innovation amongst our staff. Thank you.
 criteria for evaluation didn't include saving money. And I'm wondering about that because initially it was set up with the view of investing now to make savings later. Yeah.
 Our criteria, I believe from the 1314 ordinance, had a series of criteria that they wanted them all met. This time around, after some discussions, we sort of broadened that to include efficiencies, because when the Bureau customers heard saving money, I think they were equating that with protecting
 potentially a budget cut that would come later and it was a little bit harder to assess where those savings might occur so last time around in january you heard from leslie goodloe about a sharing information with the faith-based community and the housing bureau and the tool that they wanted to implement would save a lot of time in data entry but it would save it
 Some on the city side and also some on the nonprofit side. So the city is getting a better investment in helping their housing programs meet the homeless community needs. But there isn't necessarily, we could do an estimate of that efficiency, but it wouldn't necessarily relate to a cost savings program.
 that would be as great just within the housing bureau just to the city but happy to explore that with you further so that we can make sure that that meets your needs about how do we best express that overall
 we think this idea from the Housing Bureau would make a really good investment, saves a lot of time in working on the problem, and maybe broaden that to say it could reflect something that's not just city savings. Well, I agree. I mean, the rubber sidewalk is a great example of that. That could save property owners a lot of money, too, as well as there's not all that much sidewalk that we maintain but some. So I'm...
 I'd like to see a return to that in future iterations. The way many of these projects are now, I appreciate seeing the emphasis on equity, and it's fitting that the mayor is leading the Office of Equity and Human Rights and that they've been involved in many of these grants as partners and such. I understand there's going to be another funding round in May. Is that correct?
 We will be asking to take some of the funds that were not spent this year. So you will see a spring bump request to move funds into the innovation fund for next year, and that would help fund a May call for ideas in terms of our small grants. And that would come with the spring bump? Mm-hmm. Because there is still money left from this year, right?
 There is about $10,000 that's left from this year's allocation. In addition, OMF is asking to return some funds that we did not use for program management and ask the council, we just briefed the mayor's office on this this week, and so we're asking if that could be applied towards the innovation fund that would help do a May call for ideas. Yes.
 okay so there's an issue mayor that i just want to flag for you that the i think the top rated um suggestion is not part of this package it and it was partly because of a glitch in email communication um with parks um it's a great project it's just that um and so i have a suggestion that in the future you ask for an affirmative response on from bureaus to is this project you know fine with you because
 We all get so many hundreds of emails a week that even the most diligent director, who I would say that Mike Abate is one of the most diligent directors, sometimes things just get missed.
 So that, I think, would be a process improvement. But I would hate for the project that didn't get funded, which is the kiosks and community centers to help people apply for employment. There's some issues that we need to work out between parks and HR, human resources, that I know Michael Batte and Anna Kamert are working on. I just want to make sure that we don't miss out on the opportunity of funding that project in this fiscal year. Thank you. Thank you very much. Other questions for our team?
 thank you both thanks very much and to all the presenters thank you does anyone want to speak on this item we have joe walsh and lightning okay come on up for the record my name is joe walsh i represent individuals for justice we love this thank you thank you good morning good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog x of a lot of things that i've seen in the council chambers on different ordinances this is to me the most impressive
 in my opinion. And I highly recommend and applaud the bureaus for coming up with these great innovative ideas. One of the things I like about this is that a lot of these ideas will be built upon and used in other areas, in even other states possibly. So this is kind of being at the forefront of some really great things to happen. And that's what I look at this as, is that
 You cannot teach or be taught what is yet to be created, and that's what I like about this whole micro-grant proposal. And we're seeing a lot of this innovation coming in from, say, Silicon Valley at a much higher level on some of the thinking. But what's interesting is a lot of these things can grow into some great areas, and other people are going to notice this. And this is really positive because...
 to show this type of creativity and come forward with these ideas and be presented these grants I think is really, really a great thing to build upon. Now getting back to my watchdog issue on having a few concerns, and it's nothing against Commissioner Fritz, but when you look at this on the grants that have been received, nine grants went to Parks and Recreation, and then a few of these other ones got either two or one,
 So out of the total grants received, you received 59.27%. Now, that's a concern to me is that I'd almost like to have maybe a cap put on the different bureaus, like maybe two grants to each bureau, and make sure that we don't have one bureau receiving a tremendous amount of grants. And if we're going to talk equity and being equitable, we have to also look at that, too, on this type of grant funding process.
 that there's a lot of other bureaus that need to have these type of grants in such as transportation and to have that innovation and the opportunity to step forward with these ideas and present that to the public thank you thank you okay come on up please hello this is benjamin barber and i think that a small grant to build uh these smart bike locks uh from the open bike initiative
 We'd do a lot to kind of bring Uber-like services to bicycles and could be done with the remaining amount of budget that's left over. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this item? We'll have to wait for a moment for Commissioner Saltzman to come back because it's an emergency ordinance. So we might need to set this over for a little while. I could talk for a while. One of us could make a speech, or Rachel could see if he's available. So give us a moment. Okay.
 And then we'll decide whether we need to move on and come back to this and act. Well, we can certainly make some comments, and I want to make some. And we don't have to wait until we vote. First of all...
 I just think the work that's being done, Fred, Jane, Janet, those that are leading this effort, is right on track with encouraging a pretty broad variety. Granted, maybe a bunch of them came from one bureau, but the variety of these projects is even more impressive than I expected, frankly. The creativity seems to me to be bubbling up in the way that one would hope would happen.
 In my private sector career, very early in that chapter of my life, I went to my boss and I had an idea and I said, we should try this. And he said, OK, Charlie's got a good idea. Let's go for it.
 And I'll tell you, that was so empowering. And I hope that that's what's – it seems to me that's what's happening in our bureaus, that people are coming up with good ideas. The leadership in the bureaus is encouraging that. OMF managing this fund is supplying the resources to make it happen.
 We're getting exactly what I think all of us had hoped for in terms of not just creativity and not just the opportunity to save money or be more effective as an organization, but to empower people in the bureaus that know what they're doing to come forward with things that will work or not, and that we all understand that some of them will not work and we'll try something else. So, again, I want to keep repeating that, that –
 Failure is an option in this case. And it's not the one that anyone seeks, but it's okay for some of these experiments not to work. That's why we've measured the amount of funds that we're setting aside for this and keep reiterating the expectation that people should be creative
 and that that creativity is going to be supported by us as a council and by the bureau managers and by our finance and administration team that oversee this effort. So I'm really happy with the way this is going and appreciate particularly hearing some of the project leadership come forward today with both the ideas and the enthusiasm. So with that, maybe I'll move to a roll call vote and allow my colleagues to comment as well. Fritz?
 Well, I was going to celebrate the fact that nine of the 17 are from parks, and I don't apologize for having the most innovative staff in the city. For a small fee, I will allow them to come and teach your staff. Really, there's such a broad range of services that Portland Parks and Recreation provides, and such dismal funding for a lot of them that it's not surprising that many of these are from parks. And as I said, there's one more coming forward, hopefully in May.
 So thank you for all of the staff and all the citizen volunteers who evaluated these grants and who are going to be working diligently on them. I know from my own first start was getting a $3,500 grant.
 Bureau of Environmental Services education grant as a mom at Markham Elementary School. And I thought it was so cool that the city of Portland was investing in my concepts, and it ended up being a boatload of work. So I would caution all of the staff to make sure that things are vetted thoroughly through the system as you're developing the concepts, because we want to make sure that as many projects as possible are successful, because then that does empower and you keep going.
 Thank you all for doing all this great work. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate the mayor creating this innovation fund a couple years ago, and it looks like there's been a lot of good creative thinking going on here, and hopefully a lot of these projects will prove to be successful. Although, as the mayor said, failure is an option, too. But that's what innovation is all about. Aye. Novick? No.
 I think Commissioner Fritz has an unfair advantage because there are folks who are out there commuting with nature, and we all know that's conducive to creativity. So I think they should have a handicap. I think this is a tremendous initiative. I really appreciate Fred and Jane and Janet's work and all of the Bureau's work.
 And one thing I think people should be aware of is that people might be asking, why do we need to set aside specific pots of money for this stuff? Why can't bureaus just do innovative things whenever they see an innovative thing to do? And the truth is the government budgets tend to be pretty prescriptive, and the bureaus don't generally have big pots of money set aside for just doing cool stuff.
 So that's one of the reasons that it was important to create a pot of money that specifically designated for cool stuff. And gosh darn it, we're seeing some cool stuff. Thank you all so much. Hi. Hales. One more anecdote. Early in my term as mayor, I went to my first U.S. conference of mayors meeting. And one of the people that I met who I value as a mentor is Greg Fisher, who's the mayor of Louisville. And he's...
 He had a very successful private sector career, then came back into government, and I was sort of
 agonizing out loud, I'm not sure how much time to spend in extracurricular activities as a mayor. You know, I have to be in council and present and helping to lead the city, but I also value this kind of learning, and I'm just trying to strike that balance for how much time do I get involved in the C40 organization, do I get involved in U.S. Conference of Mayors or National League of Cities, and each of us that do some of that kind of work outside of the formal boundaries of our responsibilities here have to kind of weigh that allocation of our time, and
 Again, remember this is a private sector person, and he looked at me and said, well, how many people are working for the city of Portland? Well, about 55, 5,600. And he said, well, how many of them are charged with cross-pollinating ideas and research and development? I said, oh, I guess not that many of us. Thank you. I understand that I should be here now. But actually I would be happy to report back to Greg or any other mayor that now there are a lot of people
 involved in research and development and cross-pollinating ideas, and that that was the hope of this program, and I'm very happy to see that hope being realized. Keep up the good work. Keep producing wild new ideas, some of which will work, and keep competing against each other for creativity. Very well done. Thank you. Aye. Okay. Good work. Let's hear it for our bureau. Good job. Thank you.
 All right. Item 297 is the adoption of findings. Appeal of Northwest District Association against Design Commission's decision to approve with conditions the Tess O'Brien Apartments at 1953 Northwest Overton and 1950 Northwest Petty Grove Streets, LU14-220-722DZAD. Okay. The findings are before us. Any...
 Any reason to have any concerns about adopting them today? And if not, I'd like to hear a motion for the adoption of findings. Move to adopt the findings. Second. Further discussion? Anyone want to speak on that? We don't take testimony on the adoption of findings, right? Never mind. Blame the cold for that. Roll call, please. Fritz? Yes.
 Thanks very much to BDS staff and to the citizens and the developers on this project once again It was a very constructive and illuminating hearing. Hi, so it's been I know Vic. Hi tails. All right Okay time certain items 298 through 303 and
 298, approve the 11th amendment to the Central Eastside Urban Renewal Plan to add plan area and projects, extend the duration of the plan, and increase the maximum indebtedness. 299, approve the termination of the Education Urban Renewal Area Plan. 300, adopt the fourth amendment to the North McAdam Urban Renewal Plan to add to the plan area, add projects, and extend the time frame of the plan. 300.
 301. Approve the 11th Amendment to the Airport Way Urban Renewal Plan to reduce plan area by approximately 970.5 acres. 302. Approve the 2nd Amendment to the Willamette Industrial Urban Renewal Plan to cease collections of tax increment. 303.
 and 303, approve the fourth amendment to the amended and restated River District Urban Renewal Plan to reduce plan area by approximately 36.4 acres. Okay. Let me make some opening comments in terms of how we're going to proceed and then I'll turn it over to Patrick. So two weeks ago we had two proposed amendments. Commissioner Novick requested that we collapse the infrastructure open space and target an industry line items
 In the estimated expenditure for the North McAdam urban renewal area, Commissioner Fritz's suggestion to Commissioner Saltzman that he memorialize his intent requiring housing on the property owned by the Fire Bureau through an amendment should it be offered for redevelopment.
 So now, today, PDC will present how they've incorporated those amendments into the respective URA reports that are in front of us, and we will take testimony, because we're required to do so, on the amendments, only on the amendments, because we closed the hearing on the remainder of these reports. In the last two weeks, PDC, Housing Bureau, Commissioner Saltzman's office, Commissioner Frist's office, and my office have discussed
 continued to prepare a development solicitation for Parcel 3, PDC is preparing a resolution that reflects that work, and I think Commissioner Fitch would like to be here and has filed that resolution for consideration next week. So for all those reasons, because we're going to take testimony on the amendments today, because Commissioner Fitch wants to be here and he has a resolution to back up the Council's discussion and intent
 on affordable housing in that district. I want to continue all these items for final adoption, second reading, roll call next week. But, again, we'll hear from Patrick and we'll take testimony on the amendments today. Patrick. Thank you.
 thank you mayor hales uh good morning commissioners i uh as mayor hales mentioned i just wanted to quickly uh do it do a overview of the two amendments um and then i can move on and then you can take testimony on those amendments but just want to make sure we're all on the same page those two amendments one was as as the mayor mentioned was to update the table that that appears there's two tables actually tables
 10 and 10B in the report to the North McAdam URA plan. And then the second update is actually, once again, a change to language in the report to the Central East Side Urban Renewal Area Plan that refers to the desire for affordable housing in the Clinton Triangle. So I'll just quickly run through those so everybody has the same information, and then we can take testimony. Thank you.
 So the first one, as we talked about last week, we wanted to update this table. Table 10A is the summary. Table 10B has the detail behind it. And basically this was collapsing three different categories of expenditures into one line. So it adds the commercial redevelopment loans and grants and target industry work and moves that into one line.
 kind of super category of infrastructure, open space and redevelopment. The number ends up being about 13 and a half million dollars ends up in that in that line. And you can see on the on the slide the lines that have been impacted by that. So we've eliminated the commercial redevelopment loans and grants line that was up in the top section that was four and a half million dollars.
 We've removed the target industry line that was $2 million and added those sums to what used to be just the infrastructure and open space line, and that's now infrastructure, open space, and redevelopment.
 This just, once again, this table refers to the current resource projections for the expansion of their renewal area. It does not assume any development agreements or whatnot. It's simply the current projections as we have them, you know, with a ZRZ development agreement. We could revisit the projections at a later date, but these are the projections that we are
 using for the purpose of the EORI amendments. I'm just, Commissioner Fritz, as studying it, just want to make sure. Yeah, I don't know that I have paper copies of this. Of the updated report? Right, of the new table. I think it's, are we handed? It's in here. These are pages 32 and 33? Yeah, I've got, okay, 10A, yes, thank you. Okay.
 And then the next one, this is the paragraph that appears in the page 26 of the report that relates to the update to the Central East Side, your renewal plan, and it relates specifically to bringing affordable housing to the Clinton Triangle. And so the language in red is the language that we've added here.
 And I mean, I can read it aloud and then I'll just give a little context. Should the Fire Bureau dispose of its property in the area, it shall include a requirement for affordable housing or shall be included in a larger development site that will be developed as affordable housing. This requirement may be implemented through a covenant to the deed requiring affordable housing upon the sale or transfer of the city property.
 And this simply just allows for two different scenarios. One is that the development will occur on the fire bureau site, and therefore we meet the requirement there. But it also accounts for what I think is a more likely scenario, which is that when the parcels, because it's not just the fire bureau parcel, there's a water bureau parcel, there's other parcels, when they –
 are sold to private or other maybe not-for-profit development interests, depending on the scenario. It may be that projects cut across existing property lines, and we want to account for affordable housing being built in that triangle as opposed to making it required just within a kind of somewhat arbitrary boundary of the fire bureau property. And we shared this with the commissioner in advance, and he was fine with that.
 So that's what I have. If you have questions, I can take them now or I'll step away and we can allow for testimony. Questions at the moment? Okay. Stand by for more and we'll see who wants to speak on the amendments. I have five people signed up. The first three, please, coming up, are Neil Walker, Joe Walsh, and Kathy Orton. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning.
 Go ahead, please. Okay, so we'll go reverse order. I'm Kathy Orton of Brooklyn Neighborhood, thanking you for allowing some additional testimony today on the amendments. Brooklyn obviously has a range of affordable housing currently and encourages that concept.
 but clinton triangle should not be the only place affordable housing is specified council should be enforcing its affordable housing close quotas in the pearl district and in all the uras
 I'm also asking the council consider an additional amendment, which would be adding portions to Central Eastside, Brooklyn portions, Southeast 17th and McLaughlin. If you're serious about development against the PMLR line, because there are many vacant lots there already, or adding south of Powell, if you desire continuity of development on both sides of Powell,
 And if you look at some of the acreages in question, southeast 17th is roughly 36 acres, public and private, and has two of the light rail stations. And south of Powell is a very small area with some private industry. It wouldn't allow a continuity in planned development and the light rail line.
 We still have a problem in Brooklyn with the Clinton Triangle, feeling that there is some sort of, quote, insider trading in knowledge and ownership of that lot beyond the Fire Bureau. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Walsh? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We would request that we would send in written submissions to you on this.
 We would like to study the amendment a little bit longer on this. And are you going to vote on this today? No. I didn't think so. So it's an unusual request. Usually we run our mouths and tell you what our opinions are. But we would like some more time to look at this amendment. We're a little confused on this. Okay.
 We would just request that, and I'll send you something in writing within two or three days. Okay, great. Is that reasonable? You bet. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? You got some others signed up? Debbie Iona, Mary Ann Schwab, and Susan Pierce. Okay. Good morning. You want to go first? You want to let Debbie go first? Okay. Go ahead, Debbie. Good morning. Good. Okay. Okay.
 I'm Debbie Iona representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. The League supports the amendment that relates to South Waterfront open space. Parks are critical to the district's livability. The West Quadrant Plan anticipates close to 6,000 residential units in South Waterfront. Families living in those homes will not have backyards where they can recreate. OHSU students will want someplace to shoot baskets or kick around a soccer ball.
 Children living there will need playgrounds. They should not have to leave the neighborhood to find these facilities. Recreation standards for a community of this size recommend facilities such as tennis and basketball courts, playgrounds, and picnic areas. In addition to the existing Carruthers Park, which does not accommodate these types of activities, the council-adopted South Waterfront plan calls for a 4.5-acre Ross Island Bridge Park.
 This park is planned as the district's largest with space for active recreational facilities. The city should stay firm on its requirements as IDEL must commit to making land available for the bridge park and to greenway improvements in exchange for urban renewal dollars. Recently, a more complete summary of the Block 33 transactions between PDC and OHSU became available.
 The $6 million committed to the now-abandoned Block 33 affordable housing development came from City Housing Resources. OHSU still owes the city $2 million. It appears that if they do not sell the land by 2017, the housing funds will never be paid back. This simply is not acceptable.
 Should a sale not take place, OHSU should transfer ownership of at least half of the site to the city in lieu of the $2 million repayment. This would provide OHSU the opportunity to contribute to the vision of the district by making land available for housing affordable to OHSU nurses, aides, and janitors, not to mention returning the $2 million of city housing money that OHSU owes. Thank you.
 The River District has been held up as a textbook example of urban renewal done right. In that case, the Development Agreement and Urban Renewal Plan were approved simultaneously. All of the planned parks and most of the affordable housing have been successfully developed. This Council should take a page from that experience and make adoption of the North McAdam Amendment contingent upon agreements with Zydel and OHSU for parks and affordable housing sites.
 Short of that, will you commit to the public that, as the city negotiates development agreements, these items will be required in exchange for the millions of dollars that will be invested in the district to the benefit of these property owners? Thank you. Thank you. I just have a question for you, Debbie. Yeah. I know, and it's evident, that this process has been a little complicated.
 iterative. So the amendment that's on the table from Commissioner Novick actually could reduce the amount of money for parks. There was previously that money in the line item and it was specified for parks and now it's specified for parks and generally for infrastructure including transportation.
 So does that alter your comments? Well, then it does alter. I'll change my first sentence, and we do not support. And you understand all the reasons are still the same about the parks being important to this district, and we need the money. And I guess I took away from when this discussion came up at the – I guess it was the last one –
 that this would sort of allow parks and infrastructure to tap into some of the resources that were in the commercial redevelopment line. That's part of it, too. Okay. So I sort of thought it might open more resources possibly for parks. But it's a gamble, I also realize. We want to make sure there's parks. How about that?
 My turn? I'm Susan Pierce. I'm chair of Hossford Abernathy Neighborhood Association, which houses the Clinton Triangle. We haven't really discussed this amendment among the board members. I can't speak for the board as a whole, but I can say that I've had multiple conversations recently with board members and with other residents within the neighborhood who express concern about the land use.
 The loss of affordable housing in our neighborhood, it seems to be really popular, and we're seeing $700,000 homes. So we would very much support an opportunity to regain some of that affordable housing. Obviously, there are many advantages to affordable housing in a place that is at the nexus of multiple modes of transit and transportation.
 One of the often stated at one time disadvantages is the presence of heavy rail right along the district, but some of the noise has been recently resolved with a quiet zone. Our neighbors are happy about that. There is a concern about, I've heard recently about, what does affordable housing mean? Does it really mean those people with 0 to 60 percent of MFI as opposed to young people living
 needing to find housing on their way up within their careers and I would hope that this intent is intended for the latter from my experience on the urban renewal area advisory committees that's my understanding
 We actually have the option for a park or an open space in that area that I mentioned during my last meeting with you from the money that came to PDC from the sale of property back to OMSI. I would say that we, many of us within hand, we want to see something that is mixed income housing, not just...
 low affordable or low income housing because we think it's a better, it's better for everybody concerned. Thank you. And I think that's everything I wanted to say. Could I just clarify from Commissioner Saltzman, I know that Commissioner Fish has also been working on this, but the intent is affordable housing at 60 percent and less. Is that correct? Yes.
 But that wouldn't prescribe having a mixed income project. It wouldn't preclude by any means mixed income. But it doesn't mean that we're providing affordable housing necessarily for someone who's a recent college graduate and then going to be moving up. It might very well be 60%. It may at that time. We can't select certain types of people that otherwise meet income guidelines and say they can't be eligible.
 And is the intent of the amendment to say that it will just be affordable housing on that site? And if not, how much of any potential housing on that site would have to be affordable in order to comply with the proposed amendment?
 I mean, that's a very good question. I don't think we have fully assessed what the opportunities are with this site, but we do think that there is a substantial opportunity with the property itself. We also think with the pending height bonuses for affordable housing, that will further incent development of affordable housing, but
 We don't have a specific project in front of us that we're scoping out at this point. I appreciate Ms. Peirce bringing this issue up and perhaps between now and next week there could be a little more specificity added to the amendment because the way it reads now is just affordable housing and it doesn't specify is that all of it, half of it, a mixed � does that mean there's two units that are affordable and the rest of it is market-rate?
 I don't think we're going to know. Patrick may want to comment on that, too. Again, remember, this is an urban renewal plan and a projected –
 projected revenues and expenditures not a budget not a project plan and we have so many milestones to pass i mean right now this is a fire bureau maintenance facility right that's what it is if you go you can go there today that's what it is we have a long way to go from that being a fire bureau maintenance facility to having it be a housing project of any character and what has happened here is the commissioner in charge of the housing bureau has laid down a marker and said there's going to be affordable housing there
 And we cannot, we can guess at a number, but that's all we can do today. So could we amend the, it's a policy statement, so we're not going to say there's going to be 200 units of 0 to 60 or whatever, but could we amend it to say there'd be a substantial component of affordable housing? Well, let's let Patrick come back up and comment on that in a bit. He looks like he has a thought or two on that question. Okay, great. Thank you. All right, Ms. Schwab, good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Mary Ann Schwab, a community advocate. I've come to bury the number 29811th Amendment to the Central Eastside Urban Renewal Plan to add a plan area and projects and extend the duration of the plan, increase the maximum indebtedness
 I'm not here to honor the proposed extension. Granted, urban renewal under the leadership of the Portland Development Commission has been Portland's principal redevelopment and revitalization tool since 1958. There rests the controversy today with the continued use of tax increment financing as basic funding mechanism for urban renewal. For this property owner, TIF has come to mean an open ATM for turnkey developers who are here today and gone tomorrow.
 I believe the time has come to pull the ATM plug financing on the proposed Clinton Triangle. I believe the broadest range of government activities must first contribute to the stability of six Portland school districts, Portland parks and recreation programs and maintenance, police, fire, Multnomah County human services within cities' 95 neighborhoods. I trust you are all aware of the pending Multnomah County Home for Everyone's initiative.
 For us to sit here and plan to put housing that close to an interstate railroad with toxic coal, crude oil, the Amtrak, is not a safe environment for kids. Need I remind you that roughly six, seven years ago, a little nine-year-old with Parker Rose School got too close to a railroad and lost nine toes, four toes. That's four toes too many.
 It's not a safe environment. We talk about CO2s. We talk about the clean environment, clean water. Therefore, I'm asking each of you to vote no to the PDC-Clinton Triangle 16-acre expansion, thereby increasing long-term indebtedness payable by the next generations until 2052. Where are we going to be in 2052? We can't keep putting these debts on the next kids. And with tax compression, we've learned a lot about what happens to our dollars. Yours is not an easy job.
 You win a few, you lose a few, and I don't know where we stand on this, but kids come first, parks come first, and safe living for them. That's my feeling on this, and I thank you and appreciate for listening. We are all in tatters. We don't need any more oops from poor planning. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else that we have signed up? Carla? That's all I'm signed up. Come on up, please.
 hey there um so i was at the zedel urban hackathon and i actually got an award from them for having an innovative concept of just reducing the cost by having integrated living schooling and startup space but i digress i really would like to see some affordable housing and right now in salem today they're having a work session on the inclusionary
 zoning bill, so it's great that you guys aren't going to vote on that today. And I also noticed that PSU wants the University Place Hotel renovated, but I feel like the market could probably solve that a lot better and have seen PSU just not really handle their finances very well. They've recently just fired a bunch of their bookkeepers and gone through a bunch of financial auditing. And in the past with the University Place, there's kind of some
 eminent domain taking stuff that's happened. And at this point in time, much of that burden is actually going to fall on the students to pay for that debt service over time. And they're spending more money in real estate than instructional hours.
 And ultimately, I do agree that we kind of have to pull the plug on the urban renewal. When it makes sense, by all means, use it, you know. And I would love to even have it be used for inclusionary housing or low-income housing or for making community makerspaces, hackerspaces, training facilities, that sort of things. But anyways, thanks for your time. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 All right, Patrick, could we get you to come back up and address a couple of questions? So one, just because it came up again in testimony, could you perhaps reiterate why there's not a recommendation to increase the area of the Central East Side District to encompass more of Brooklyn?
 So the issue comes down to really the pool of resources. So you can draw the lines any way you want. The dollar amount is the same. And so it's a matter of where the priorities for the district are and what this council believes should be the priorities for the remaining districts.
 Life is essentially side and and so I think we've we've kind of clearly laid out what we've heard in terms of those priorities So you can pull in other blocks, but then you're you're simply drawing on on resources that That I think have you know, we have other priorities identified. So that's why we kept the boundaries as You know, it's kind of tightly drawn as they are just to not create expectations and and you can you can and
 You could pull in those additional blocks and say maybe five years from now we'll have a better understanding of priorities and we might make investments, but then those blocks, those are blocks that are actually taken off the tax rolls as well. So you're expanding the scope of urban renewal without a specific promise of resources and creating additional competition for resources. And that was the view of the urban renewal proposal.
 area amendment advisory committee when they came back as well. Is it also possible or permissible that the council and the PDC board could choose to amend that district later? I mean, after we get done with the comp plan? I think this is the one shot we have to amend the district. We're going to add area and this will be that one time? No.
 I guess we can come back. But we're out of acreage. Should we use all the maximum expansion of acreage? What about Kimberly? Yeah, that was the question. Ask Kimberly Brandon to come up. Is there any more wiggle room ever if we wanted to use it? I guess that's the question. Good morning. Good morning.
 So the cap is both 20% on acreage and maximum indebtedness. So with this amendment, we are increasing it up to the maximum indebtedness cap. So we cannot add any additional maximum indebtedness. But if we wanted to add any additional acreage up to that 20% cap, we still have a few acres. So we do have a little flexibility with that. Not necessarily the whole area that we saw on the map from the Brooklyn action. No, that would exceed the 20% cap. All right.
 So we could at some future point say, oh, yeah, this is a station area. It's going to change, and we ought to include this too? Yes. But it's contiguous, so you only get to move a little bit around existing. But you can't leapfrog down to the next station area. Right. We don't have the acreage to do that. Okay. So it would be this station area only, just a question of what other parcels? Yes.
 Yeah, just drawing from the boundary we have now. Right, right. Okay. Are you talking about the citywide acreage cap or the centrally side? Central east side has a 20% cap. Now with these changes, we're well under the citywide cap. Yes. Each specific urban renewal area, you have a limited amount of expansion you can do. Okay. Through the life of the district. We're taking, what, 1,800 acres. I think if I remember the number right, we're taking 1,800 acres out of
 cap with this package. So we've created some headroom overall, but not in this district. The other question I had before I let others chime in, and that is the Block 33 OHSU chronology. Can you walk us through that again, please? Yeah. We won't go through the details again, but there was $6 million was paid. It was actually –
 Three million was a down payment on paying for parking, and we got that money back. Three million was we paid OHSU for the air rights to develop on the site. We got a million back in transportation, SDC credits, which we're in the process of selling and realizing 100% of the value of that. And then there is two million that remains in.
 in the property that we would get back from OHSU if they were to sell the property. There's a 2017 date on it. We're actually in conversation with OHSU right now about extending that. It wasn't the idea to create a narrow window for us to get our money back. At the time, it seemed like the right window. Okay.
 But the bigger point I want to make is that that is completely out of the set-aside calculation as we speak. So the $6 million is not counted against the set-aside. So if the $2 million comes back to us, then that's $2 million that can be used for another purpose. But the numbers that we're using to calculate the set-aside and to get to 42% of the overall resources does not include that $6 million. Okay.
 Thank you. Other questions? The other thing I want to just, because Ben was explaining this to me, if there's a desire to amend the language that we propose on this for the centrally subreddit report, and in order to avoid reopening it next week and delaying the vote, we would need to amend it right now. Okay. So if there's more specificity we want in the language, then I think that should happen today.
 And we did, you know, I do think these are legitimate questions. And it's just, as Commissioner Saltzman said, we don't really know. It's actually less predictable than what we know in South Waterfront. South Waterfront, we know we're talking about new projects. And so you can, you know, there's a lot of experience around doing new construction, affordable housing projects, what you could get for your dollars. In the Clinton Triangle, I think it's more likely that it will be a –
 customized mixed-use development, and so how affordable housing appears in the triangle, I think, will be different than what we're talking about in North McAdam. That being said, there's probably ways we could craft some minimum. We have to keep in mind that dollars are a lot smaller in Central East Side, so the simple math on that would suggest that,
 under the city's current formula of subsidizing units, you know, I don't, I mean, we can do the math quickly, but you're talking about something on the order of
 you know, 25, 30, 35 units. It's it's so so I we've talked about as Commissioner Saltzman highlighted that this is a place where we might be able to get more affordable housing based on different bonuses. And and and that might be the most that might be might be the formula that gets us to a bigger number. But we don't know any of that right now. And and an affordable housing alone is not going to.
 maximize the development potential of the Clinton Triangle. So I do think we should anticipate that we're going to want to attract other forms of development in the triangle in addition to affordable housing. There just isn't enough, I think, money to make affordable housing happen there without some corresponding market development, whether it's commercial or residential or some other institutional use. Could you point me to where I have the language written down as to what the amendment is? So that's page 26 of the report.
 Well, I'm, yeah, well, Commissioner Salzman, let us know. Put it back on the screen. I put it back up on the screen. Yeah, put it back up on the screen. I don't have it on page 26. There it is, right there. 26 of the report, right? Of the report. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
 Not of the ordinance document. So we can hear from you, Commissioner Saltzman, if you want to further amend your amendment. But frankly, I'm content with it. Again, I'll once more try to soldier back to the big picture here. I believe this area ought to come into the urban renewal area because it's a light rail station area. It's zoned industrial. We were building a billion-dollar light rail line.
 And we were behind the curve when I arrived here on both the urban renewal question there, but even more on the planning process. And we've changed the order of work in the Planning and Sustainability Bureau to get the planning and zoning work done around these station areas, not just the one that now might be in an urban renewal area. But this is all still futuristic thinking. I take Ms. Schwab's point and Ms. Peer's point about
 I believe a modicum of affordable housing on this site is appropriate, but how you do that will matter because it's a difficult site. It is next to a freight rail line and a light rail line and a truck corridor and a big...
 what's now a state highway. So it's not an easy site to figure out, oh, and by the way, we have a fire bureau maintenance facility that is still there. So there's a lot of work to do to figure out exactly how this station area turns into a station area where people live and work rather than, you know, only a few of them doing essentially industrial work today. Okay.
 I'm comfortable with making a commitment that there's going to be affordable housing there, but not trying to quantify that because that's trying to see around about three or four corners at once, and I don't think we can do that.
 And can I just clarify from a process standpoint, there will be, in addition to annual budgets, the fact that these properties are city-owned and so the disposition will go through city council. The disposition of the fire bureau property, of the disposition of the water bureau property, and you have multiple IGAs that are going to come before council with regard to any infrastructure investments. And then if there happens to be a development agreement, that will come through council. So there is going to be probably another half a dozen agreements.
 different actions that this body will take with regard to the Clinton Triangle. Yeah, I'm comfortable with this language. I think that it is – I'm leery of trying to quantify the unknown at this point. And I think, as you just pointed out, there's going to be several bites at this apple that council is going to have as this site, the Clinton Triangle, redevelops. I think this is a pretty substantial commitment to say affordable housing is going to be part of this deal.
 I'm probably not going to vote for the expansion. I just would like to point out that the language that you have in one instance directs that it will all be affordable housing. The second half of the first second says shall be included in a larger development site that will be developed as affordable housing. Boom, that's it. The first half says there will be a requirement for affordable housing. So if that's okay with you, I just want to make that clear.
 I'm fine. Okay, with that for now. Okay. Any other questions, requests of Patrick and Kimberly while we have them? Okay. So I'll close the hearing on the amendments, and then we'll set all these for second reading and council vote next week. Thank you. Regular calendar. Thank you. All right. Let's move to the consent item that we polled, which is 304.
 authorize the acquisition of 2.92 acres of real property on North Crawford for $880,000 to be used for park purposes. Commissioner Gritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales, and I apologize, colleagues. It was my error that we put this on consent because obviously it's a splendid something that I want to celebrate. Before we get started, I have a minor amendment which I'm handing out, and it's a
 Language amendment directed by the city budget office and I certainly appreciate their point that we are the intent is to say that we're going to request operations and maintenance costs for the property rather than that we are doing so at this time, and that's a very proper request from the city budget office.
 So in the directives in the ordinance, we would be striking and accepting responsibility for the property. The council acknowledges the need to fund the ongoing operations and maintenance cost of this property and directs the budget office to add $43,400 to the parks financial year 2015-16 budget and instead inserting Portland Parks and Recreation has identified $430,000
 43,400 in ongoing operations and maintenance costs for the property, which will be requested as part of the financial year 2015-16 budget process. Okay. So Commissioner Fritz moves that amendment. Second. Further discussion? Roll call to include the amendment. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you, colleagues. And there's also a Scribner's error, which we are asking to be corrected, that the system development funds is $14,600, not $4,600 on closing. And that doesn't need an amendment. So noted. Thank you. All right. So with that out of the way, we'll...
 Yay, this is really a wonderful acquisition in North Portland in a very parks deficient area. And it's going to provide new service to 477 households in an area of the city that is not particularly affluent and very diverse. And this is an absolutely spectacular property. So thanks to Zelaine Nunn and your team for all of your work on this. And please tell my colleagues and the public about it. Okay. I'm Zelaine Nunn with Parks.
 And we're here today to seek your authorization to buy a 2.92-acre parcel that's on the bluff in North Portland, just south of the St. John's Bridge. It's got really amazing views of the city. There's a nice, large, flat area that will be great for passive recreation use until some future planning is done. There's also some steep banks that will be managed by City Nature. Okay.
 There's also a couple of very large old heritage oak trees that are beautiful. But really our biggest reason for buying this beautiful property is that it fills this service gap. We knew that we had a gap in this area, and like Commissioner Fritz said, this will meet our goal of having everyone in Portland live within a half-mile walk of a park.
 And like she said, 477 new households will be served, and a total of 798 households are within a half mile. So that's a pretty big fill, actually. It's hard to get that with one property. Anyway, we're excited about this property. It should close in a month or so, and we appreciate your support. I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
 I'm trying to remember this property. I think I've seen it. It's the one where Depave was doing their work last summer. No, that's a different property. This is currently the Open Meadow High School. So they're selling it. So it also helps with the public purpose of providing alternative education. Just to note, it has the historic Amos Benson House, but that's located on its own tax lot and we're not purchasing that. In fact, I think that's currently up for sale. That's another wonderful asset, but
 We feel we have enough historic houses in the Portland Parks inventory, and so we are not purchasing that. MR. Correct. MS. We did a lot of line adjustments to get the park area. MR. Okay. Great. Thank you. Other questions for staff? Thank you. Public testimony, which is why I assume why you're here. MR. Yes, sir. Good morning or, yeah, afternoon. Good afternoon, council and mayor. My name is Steven Entwistle.
 I am a member of Individuals for Justice, Healing Man Sanctuary, and a whistleblower for the less fortunate. My concern here is the future of the parks. But before I get to that, I just want to mention...
 Mayor, that I would recommend diglyceride licorice for your cough. Okay, thank you. It's a natural remedy you can get at the health food store, but it works really well. Anyway, I don't know if you're familiar with KB Radio. You're familiar with Dennis Bernstein's Flashpoints program. He did an article on the radio here last week on Monday.
 about homeless folks that were in the park smoking and how the latitude of the law in San Francisco and areas of California, which we are about to adopt, the latitude that the security and the police have for going after people that are smoking is absolutely atrocious and horrible.
 Okay, we got a gal that had really bad fibromyalgia and the officers there took her down to the ground and tore her up really bad. Okay, it's on the radio, it's all, you can hear it all, it's on the video and such. Anyway, my caution is, is, future is, is that that's coming here. Okay, we don't have a lot of shootings in the parks right now. We don't have a lot of really bad situations.
 But I'll tell you what, after this July 1st issue comes out, we will. The only shootings I want in the parks are photographs. So based on this, what's coming down the pike, very concerning, very concerning, especially to the folks that you, you, you, and you utterly despise. You talk about despise? Okay.
 That's what this is about. This is about getting people out of the park. What I want to do is I want to give the parks back to the Native American Indians. Let them manage. Let them control the parks. This is a revolutionary idea, and this will be the first in the United States.
 But I think that this is long overdue, and this is a good faith move, okay, because what's coming down is not good right now. The way it sits right now, uh-uh, no way. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? All right. It's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote, please.
 The money for this purchase is from the system development charges, which is fees paid by developers for new construction. We're not allowed to use that money for maintenance of existing parks. We're only allowed to use it for expanding the system. And this does indeed provide...
 A new park for there's a lot of housing construction going on in the st. John's area and so this is an excellent acquisition and I commend my team at parks for continually being on the lookout for properties like this and Also the taxpayers of Portland who are then willing to provide operations and maintenance for them So I thank you very much the lane and your team. I Schultzman yes, excellent addition to our park system. I know Vic I I
 Great addition. Yeah, that's a really nice piece of work. Well done. Aye. Just before you gavel, I forgot to say thank you to the citizens and the neighbors around there who actually were instrumental in bringing it to our attention. Great work. Thank you. Aye. All right. Let's move on to the remaining regular agenda, starting with item 309.
 Extend contract with Xerox State and Local Solutions, Inc. for the red light camera system and increase the not-to-exceed amount by $1 million. And 310 while you're at it, I think. Extend contract with Xerox State and Local Solutions, Inc. for the photo radar system and increase the not-to-exceed amount by $3,500,000. Captain Schaeffer's here along with others from the Bureau to tell us what we're about here.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor, Council. Kelly Sheffer, Captain with the Portland Police Pair Traffic Division. Bob Delgazee, Portland Police Fiscal Services. Sergeant David Abrahamson, Traffic Division. And I'm going to let, I'm going to defer to Sergeant Abrahamson. So Mayor and Council, we're here actually to renew our contract with Xerox State and Local Solutions, who has managed for years our photo enforcement here in Portland. Currently, we're
 This is not to exceed amount is $1 million, which the ordinance amends the contract. And additionally, photo and radar system increased not to exceed the amount by $3.5 million. There's absolutely no change in our contract in this increase. This is actually covering the cost which were in place to the previous contract.
 which our business manager, Bob Delgizzi, can address better than I can. This has been an effective program. We have addressed community issues from neighborhood associations, from school zones, and from areas where we're receiving calls, both at the traffic division and Department of Transportation, to meet and provide a service which has been beneficial to the public.
 And it's important to note this is continuing what we do now. It's unrelated to the legislature's discussion about potentially changing the rules about photo radar, but this is to continue our current program under current law. This is correct. Yes. Was there a new request for proposal issued for both of these programs?
 And Xerox scored well and won it? Or what's the basis under which we're renewing it? Good question. This contract is being extended in the amount increased within the parameters that Procurement Services has to set up on contracts. So it has an extension. There's a capacity to do an extension and to increase the dollar amount. And it is, at this point...
 necessary to increase the dollar amount in order to maintain the operations to the future. When we get to the end of the contract, it would normally be part of a competitive process, but that's a few years out. Thank you. I have some questions. On the first ordinance, what kinds of infractions are indicated and fined with the red light camera? Is it just running the red light, or is it turning right on red, being too far into the crosswalk?
 This is actually red light. So somebody's blowing a red light, and it's set for time, and it's captured over a 12-second video. So it's in still format. The vehicle's approaching. You see the violation at the intersection, and then you see a final still after they complete and are proceeding through the intersection. So this is specifically for red lights. It's not for speed. It's not for other infractions.
 Thank you. What's the difference between the wet film camera and the digital technology, and why do we need to change? Yeah, and that's just, you know, as things have developed, no pun intended, as they progress with our technology, they've gone from the old wet film, which is traditionally how film was processed and developed, in hard form, and now it's in digital format, so it can be viewed online, it can be viewed, you know, via computers, instead of having to actually look at a photo in hand. So are these public records?
 Could somebody request to get the photographs? They could, yeah. I mean, they're public records. And sure, these are available to any violator. That's actually mailed out with pamphlet and a copy of the violation. So they can actually go online and actually observe this and view it for themselves too. How long do the records get kept for? I believe at least five years. And can they be used for other purposes other than the red light?
 At this time, we don't. I mean, we really have established good parameters. Even my predecessor before me and currently what we have in place where we don't use these for any other, not even investigations. If an officer wants to call and say, hey, I think we had a crime at this location, even hit runs, which I oversee too, we still go through a subpoena process in order to get those. So we aren't using those for other issues at this time. So even your own staff are not allowed to use them for investigations? At this point, we haven't, no. Okay.
 And I've been told that this is cost neutral. Does this mean that we collect a million dollars from these tickets? Yes. Over time, the cost of the program is roughly reimbursed by the revenue that we receive. One of the things that I think is important to understand is how the revenue actually flows. Under Oregon state law, the first $60 of revenue that comes in from a citation that's paid is kept by the state.
 If there's any funds past that $60, it's split 50-50 between the jurisdiction where the officer has issued the citation and the state. So if there's a $100 citation paid, the state takes the first 60. The remaining 40 is split 50-50. The city would get 20. Wow. But we still are going to make a million dollars over five years to repay us for this? If it was a $100...
 ticket and we receive $20 for every one of them, we would not break even. It would cost money to issue the citations. So then where does the money come from? What happens is the citations are written for higher dollar amounts. They can be bargained down, so to speak, in traffic court, and that can happen. And the fines occur on
 across the spectrum from a presumptive fine, which is what you would see when you receive a ticket, there's a maximum that it can be raised to, and then there's a minimum below which it cannot be dropped. So since this is a renewal, could you get me the information about how, did we make money on this, did we lose money on this over the previous contract? Sure, I have a summary I can provide you.
 Thank you. And then on the second ordinance, 310, again, what does the record identifying information do? Is there a standard report for what goes into this record collection? Maybe you could rephrase that so I understand properly. Are you asking as far as video or as far as if it's a photo that's... So this is, again, to detect speeding violations, right? This is correct. So this is a machine that's
 driving around and somebody whips past the machine and it takes the pictures again, right? Or how does that – in a speeding violation, what's the record that is kept? So it's actually – again, you have video and you actually have photos on this. And so the photos are kept. And, again, these records are kept for many years. And I don't know if –
 Vince, are you here? Or actually, Vendor's here, too, if you want to ask him questions. He could actually probably. Is there a standard report that's given to Portland Police or to OMF or somebody about? Yes, and we meet weekly with the vendor. Okay. And so we look at citations. There's a process that is lengthy. We could go into greater detail, but it's every single week we meet. If people have, if they have.
 issue with a ticket, then that goes through a process where it's viewed and reviewed. And so I can't – I don't know how many years they actually keep the records. I can't tell you how many years they keep the records. They keep the records. Okay. So do we get –
 Again, I'm... We have access to all these actually to go online to observe offenses. And is it the same regulation for this camera that they're sealed off from other investigations? That is correct. Thank you. So what...
 You review all the violations, right? Officers, yeah, or myself, yes. Correct. So what percentage of the violations that are issued are people texting or talking on the cell phone in the pictures? You know, I see a handful that come through every single week, but I wouldn't say it's a large amount. And we can't cite for that? Not currently, no. Oh, really? It's just speed, just speed. Now, if an officer sees them doing it,
 As opposed to a camera seeing them doing it, we can cite for both violations, right? This is correct. So if a traffic officer sees somebody going through a red light, talking on their cell phone or texting, they can cite them for both violations. But if it's caught on a red light camera, we can only cite for the red light violation. Is that a matter of state law or bureau policy? You would actually have to inject new legislation law for that, I believe. That is state law. Currently, yeah. Currently, we aren't able to do that. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. Good point. One might think that it would be reasonable to cite for both. Right. So maybe the legislature can look at that issue too. Definitely not to say distracted driving is an issue because it is. Okay. Other questions for the Bureau? So some follow-up needed later. Great. Thank you all very much. Thank you. See if there's anyone else who wants to speak on these items. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 We hate these red light cameras. We just hate them because they're revenue-based. So the cost to run this operation costs about, what, a million dollars, apparently, because it's a neutral level of taking in monies. So if that's true, then it's very expensive to operate.
 You create this system where when you look at this, if you're losing money, you're more apt to say, OK, then maybe we should be a little more strict in doing this because we need to generate money. Every time we have a protest in this city, we have 10 times the number of police that you should have, 10 times at least.
 We have them all lined up. Why not use the police for what the police are supposed to do, and that's to do traffic control. That's what police can do. They do that really well. Instead of having these cameras, there's something very wrong with a civilization that does this, and every city does it. I know that. It doesn't make it right. Somewhere along the line, you have to say, look, if this is –
 revenue neutral, then why are we doing it? If we're not even making a profit on this thing, then why are we doing it? We're doing it to save lives, Mr. Walsh. Pardon, sir? We're doing it to save lives, making people a baby. Save lives. No, you're not. Yes, we are. Then you could put a policeman on those areas that have people running red lights. Now, you know where they're running. We can't afford to put a policeman in every signalized intersection. Wait, wait. Let me finish. You know where they're running red lights.
 You could put a policeman there, and I'm telling you right now, if a policeman's standing there, nobody's going to run a red light, or very few, or really stupid people. So that's what police officers do. They do traffic control. To do cameras is to spy in the sky, and there's no way to get around it there, Commissioner Novick.
 Thank you. Thank you. All right. Anyone else? Roll call vote on 309, please. Fritz? I appreciate the answers to my question. I look forward to seeing the financial reports. To me, the fact that it is revenue neutral means that we're not just trying to get money, especially now that I learned that we're getting money for the state. That's very nice of us.
 I do think that these are helped to promote safety and saving lives in a more cost-effective way than having police officers in every corner. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? This is a very important investment in safety. Aye. Hales? Oh, we've had entirely too much agreement in this chamber lately, Joe, so I have to tell you I completely disagree with you. I love these cameras because they do save lives, and we have killed thousands.
 Twice as many people every year for the last couple of years with cars as we have through homicides in this city. That's a typical year for us. So what the Traffic Division does is really important. And something that I think we have to always remind people, which is that driving a motor vehicle is a privilege. It is not a right.
 supervising people in the operation of a privilege, driving a motor vehicle on a public street, it's completely reasonable that we use cameras and radars and other means besides the most expensive and difficult one, which is a police officer trying to supervise traffic operations. It's completely reasonable. So this is a privilege that needs to be regulated. This is a good way to do it. Thank you for good work in continuing this program. Aye. 310, roll call. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 311. Thanks. Establish the authority of the Director of the Bureau of Internal Business Services regarding the Portland, Oregon Trademark Sign and correctly reflect the organizational structure of the Office of Management and Finance.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Here we are again. Celia Heron with the Office of Management and Finance. This item was heard last week and was delayed, so if there are questions, we're available to answer.
 Further questions about this? I know there were some last week. The question I raised last week was about the proposed lease transactions being reviewed by the – no longer being reviewed and approved by the city's debt manager. So could you just tell the public why? Okay. It's not correct to say that they will not be reviewed by the city debt manager. They will. There are – the city's debt management policies, FIN 212, which was adopted by council last August –
 includes a lot of provisions, including the requirement that bureau directors confer and get the approval of the city debt manager on things, including the lease.
 The proposed recommendation I made to delete it here is it didn't really belong here, and it's incomplete. This section talks about the directors of BIB's authorities, and so I was just trying to clean up some incomplete code. But, yes, the requirements are there, in fact, much more detail in the city's investment policy. Perfect. Thank you. Okay. Other questions? Yes.
 I just wanted to note that the feral cat coalition uses a mock-up of the sign with a play in the old language of the sign. It says spade in Oregon on the website. I hope you will continue to allow them to do that because that was very cute. All right. Throw the book at him. To quote somebody. All right. Roll call, please. Fritz. Thank you for your good work on this. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Thank you. Aye. Hales. Aye. Thank you. Okay. 312. Aye.
 Authorize third issuance of general obligation bonds for fire vehicles and emergency response infrastructure and general obligation refunding bonds. Roll call, please. Fritz? I continue to be really pleased that we made these 15-year bonds, which saved the taxpayers $2 million. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? $2 million here, $2 million there. Eventually you got real money. Aye. 313? Aye.
 Approve findings and authorize exemptions to competitive bidding requirements, waive performance and payment bonds, authorize an agreement with Rose City Baseball LLC, and authorize Portland Parks and Recreation funding, all in connection with the Walker Stadium at Lentz Park project. Another Great Parks project. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 Well, again, we are very excited with this, and this brings some private investment as well as public money in Lentz Park. And so I will turn it over to Zelaine Nunn and also our honoured guest, Ken Wilson of Rose City Baseball. Okay. Well, again, I'm Zelaine Nunn from Parks. Thanks.
 And we are excited that we are bringing baseball back to Portland with the help of Ken Wilson here from Rose City Baseball. And he will be the president of the new team. And he has a brief presentation for you. So I'll let him take over. Welcome. Welcome.
 Thank you very much. Nice to see you all again. Commissioner Novick and Commissioner Saltzman, first time around. What we're doing is, as was pointed out, bringing baseball back to Portland, professional-style baseball, real baseball, seats, fans, families, yelling, cheering.
 Coca-Cola, Pepsi-Cola, maybe a cold beer, some hot dogs, some brats, smoke, barbecue, games, fun. And it's great baseball, and it's going to be in the middle of East Portland.
 in Lentz Park at Walker Stadium. We're really happy after a number of years of working on this that we've been able to put a lot of things together, working with the Neighborhood Association, working with the Parks Department, and working with our organization. You know, it's a terrific plus for everybody, and we're really happy that it's coming together, and we look forward to playing ball in June of 2016.
 Thank you. I'll just add that this also does make improvements to Walker Stadium. They will be putting about $400,000 worth of improvements in, plus there will be some additional assistance to redo the field through Parks and PDC. And also the field and those improvements will be used by other users when they're not using them.
 And this is an urban renewal area, and PDC is going to make an investment in this project? Absolutely. To make a better neighborhood. We're happy to partner, Mayor. We're writing a record, Kevin. Yes, sorry about that. Kevin Cronin, PDC staff, tardied to a city council meeting, trying to time my max ride up to the city council. Okay.
 Yes, so PDC is very excited about this opportunity. Obviously, there's an investment in a park, but even more importantly, as you know, Mayor, we're working diligently and trying to establish some partnerships with four development partners in the town center. It's another reason to come to the town center and spend a few hours and spend a few bucks, and so it makes mixed-use development that much easier to do in the town center. So with that, I'll give it back to you, Mayor. Thank you. Yeah, this is going to be catalytic, I think, for everything that you've been working on for quite a while.
 Other questions for our team here? Mr. Wilson, I don't eat pork because I saw the movie Babe too many times 20 years ago. Can you promise me there will be all beef hot dogs? Whatever promise you need, I'm happy to make. If you cook it, he will buy.
 All right. Any other questions for our team? Thank you very much. This is a very exciting project. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? No one signed up. All right. Then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call.
 So this is an exemption to competitive bidding because the Morse City Baseball is investing and we don't think anybody else has offered to come and make these kinds of improvements, including concession stands, chair back seating behind home plate, a new scoreboard, a new press box, new concession services, new dugouts, team offices, a new aerogated grass playing field and a playground and group events area.
 It's going to be wood bat baseball with college athletes, 30 home games over the summer. And then the rest of the time, little leagues and adult recreational leagues and everybody else will be able to use the new facilities. So it's absolutely the right thing.
 baseball development for Lentz. It's been very much welcomed when the Mayor and I presented this idea along with our partners for City Baseball at the Rotary Club a couple of weeks ago. Lentz neighbors were there also. Nick Christensen has been huge on this. Coropada has also been a great community partner. Todd Lofgren on our park staff has also done a lot of the work in the back and forward, so I appreciate his work as well as Zelaine and the team's.
 It's really exciting, and it's happening in a wonderful area of the city that deserves really nice facilities. So thank you for your partnership, Mr. Wilson. Aye. Saltzman? Yes, it's very exciting. Thank you, Mr. Wilson, for bringing Rose City Baseball to Portland, to Lentz, and look forward to taking them a game or two. Aye. Novate? Blayball? Aye. Hales? Can't wait. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay, good work. Thank you. Thank you. Move some dirt out there this summer, right?
 Okay, Item 314.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Bulge Consolidated Conduit Support Project, number E09017, for $1,800,000. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tammy Cleaves with the Bureau of Environmental Services. I'm here with Kurt Robinson. He's our engineer and project manager on this project.
 and we are here asking for authorization to approve the ordinance to advertise the $1.8 million Bulge Consolidated Conduit Support Contract. This project is part of the BES Maintenance and Reliability Program, which is approved in our current CIP program. And Kurt has some information to share with you on the project. Great. Thank you.
 Yes, good morning, Council. I'll show you a few slides illustrating the major elements of the project and then we'll field questions. This map shown before you is the location map for the project. As shown, it's in northwest Portland, located entirely within the Giles Lake industrial area between Nikolai Street and Eon Boulevard.
 The extent of the project between Nikolai and Eon is along Northwest 30th Avenue, a portion of the industrial street extending to Northwest 29th Avenue and ending at the Eon pump station.
 The principal purpose of the project is to abandon a large diameter outfall sewer in very poor condition and to construct new pipelines to collect and convey combined sewage to the bulge-consolidated conduit completed just a few years ago. This image shown before you is the top of the project looking east along Northwest 30th Avenue. The outfall sewer lying under this industrial area was constructed in 1920.
 under Balch Creek or along the Balch Creek bed in an area known as Giles Lake. This lake was filled in 1906 with clay gravel conglomerate overlaid with silt.
 After sewer construction, additional fills placed over the sewer, which resulted in significant settlement. This illustration is of the inside of the Gulch sewer, and as you see, the floor of the sewer has given away, and the piles supporting the original sewer construction have poked through this structure.
 Entire area has seen extensive settlement, but we feel we've we have a solution for it One is to abandon the sewer in place and construct a new sewer. The work also includes crossing under a BNSF Switch actually three switches located in Northwest 30th and industrial two of the switches are obsolete one switch remains in service providing service to customers along industrial Street and
 At this location, two methods were considered. One is tunneling, which is typical near railroads to protect the railroad. In this case, the sewer is shallow, so tunneling proved to be very risky. So a second alternative of open cut was explored. This lower risk option required a restoration agreement with BMSF and was deemed the better solution. The open cut method was selected. Thank you.
 The benefits of the open cut include lower sewer construction risk and cost, a railroad grade crossing update, including full restoration of the pavement, removal of two substandard railroad switches, and
 improved pedestrian access across the railroad with sidewalks, and in general, fewer impacts to local businesses. That is a shorter duration of construction and no work along easements in front of existing buildings. The BNSF is covering approximately 20% of the cost of this restoration work, and that equates to between $37,000 and $50,000. BES is covering the balance of the crossing restoration work
 That agreement between BNSF and the city was approved under Ordinance 186418 of January of last year for $185,000.
 Another element of this project was very important is to protect the CSO tunnel system from flooding in the event of a high stage in the Willamette River. What's happened near the Eon pump station is that this duckbill-style flap gate has failed in its relaxed position shown on the right.
 And the proposal is to replace that with a steel flap gate. Just to illustrate the severity of the problem, shown before you is the wear elevation for the GLI. That's a drop shaft into the bulge conduit. At the top of the GLI, there's a drop shaft into the bulge conduit.
 at the weir elevation of 24 the tunnel system is exposed to the willamette river that is if the willamette reaches a stage above 24 feet the tunnel will begin to to flood with the existing flap gate or duct bill excuse me duck bill style gate so the flap gate shown will protect the tunnel system from flood events um the um
 The business impacts would be minimal in this project, although they will be felt in the form of minor traffic delays. We are requesting and specifying the contractor work during normal business hours, so we don't foresee a noise ordinance or night work to complete this project.
 the improvements that the local businesses will realize will be improved stormwater collection improvements of a substandard rail crossing which is in very poor condition and improved pedestrian access through the area
 Project summary, this project abandons that failing outfall sewer, which speaks for itself. It is a risk and a liability for the city. The construction rehabilitates approximately 1,300 feet of sewer along 30th and 29th Avenue. It works as a partner with BNSF to reduce risk while providing value-added pavement restoration and improved pedestrian access.
 And finally, it protects the tunnel system from river flooding. As an overview, my estimate of construction is $1.8 million. My level of confidence is optimal. We've done quite a bit of research on the cost. We have good empirical data on what this type of work typically costs.
 Our contract, if awarded this next month, would be – sorry, if the contract is advertised and successfully bid this month, it would be awarded in July of this year with construction commencing in August. The duration of construction is specified at eight months. So with that, I'll open to questions. A very necessary project. Yes, sir. Wow. Other questions, comments for the team?
 Ms. Cleese, I'd just like you to tell the folks at home, what's your job? My job is a supervising engineer for the Bureau of Environmental Services. That is awesome, and I hope there's lots of little girls who are in STEM education at home watching and thinking, I want to be Tammy Cleese in the future. Thank you. And it is interesting projects like this when you see entire pilings. Yeah, that's weird.
 there's a lot of challenges out there and a lot of room for a lot of little girls and little boys to take our places so you can abandon that old sewer even in that obviously deteriorated condition and not have to worry about the street later having
 collapse problems? That's exactly the point, sir. The point is to drain the sewer of the standing water and then fill with the concrete material. You will fill the old sewer? Yes, we will. Okay. The abandonment process through our standard construction practices is to fill the sewer with a controlled low-strength material such as concrete. Yeah. So it's basically a sandy concrete that can be pumped out. That's right. CLSM is what we use for this. Yeah, I was worried about that. Is it
 Look like that. There's not much. There's no much structure left there So that's correct if unaddressed it would eventually reach the surface and could result in a collapse. Yeah, okay good I'll be the strongest Street in that part of town. That's right. Thank you very much Anyone want to speak on this item if not it moves to second reading and option next week. Thank you very much Okay, 315
 Authorized sale of land at 815 Northwest Nato Parkway to Union Station B, LLC for approximately $8.8 million to be credited to the affordable housing set-aside budget in the downtown waterfront urban renewal area. Mr. Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. This item...
 completes a transaction on an agreement made in the 1990s between the Portland Development Commission and GSL Investors, the developers of the yards at Union Station. With this action, the affordable housing set-aside budget for the downtown waterfront urban renewal area will receive almost $9 million from the pre-agreed land sale and an associated loan payoff. And we have Barbara Shaw from PHB to answer any questions if Council Members have them. Questions for Barbara? Yeah.
 How many units are currently in this project that are currently affordable?
 Well, the entire yards at Union Station is a seven-acre parcel, and there's actually four projects on that parcel. In total, there's 621 units with 370 affordable in the overall. The action today is on one of those four projects, Yards B, and Yards B has 321 units with 61 percent of the units affordable at 60 percent MFI. And my understanding is that
 with this. This is part of the agreement, so we pretty much have to do it. I understand that. That's correct. Then those units will no longer be affordable. Is that correct? No, that's not correct. The city's affordable regulatory agreement survives this transaction. It actually expires in 2027. So they'll continue to be affordable for that? Yes. Until then. Okay. Great. That's good to know. All right. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 Not. It's an emergency ordinance. Roll call, please. Fritz. Thank you for being here to explain that. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you. And this is $9 million more for the downtown waterfront that can be spent on affordable housing. Aye. Novick. Thank you very much. Aye. Hales. Thank you. We can use that money. Aye. Okay. 316. Aye.
 Authorize grant application to the Oregon Department of Transportation All Roads Transportation Safety Program for $2.8 million for the transportation safety projects. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, the purpose of this ordinance is to authorize submitting a grant application, grant applications to ODOT's All Roads Transportation Safety Program, totaling $2.8 million for competitive transportation safety infrastructure projects.
 ODOT is receiving increased federal funding, imagine that, for the Highway Safety Improvements Program, H-SIP, which funds safety infrastructure projects, and has created a new all-roads transportation safety program for FY 2016 through 21 to focus these additional resources on reducing fatal and serious crashes across the state, regardless of whether they are on local roads or state highways. And this is seriously an emergency ordinance because the application deadline is March 27th.
 I'm not trying to tell you to have a long council.
 Hi, my name is Margie Bradway, and I'm the Safety and Active Transportation Division Manager, and with me is Wendy Cawley, our lead engineer, another talented female engineer with me at the table today. And, yes, it was a very compressed timeline. We had just a little over a month in the way that ODOT set the process up to apply for these funds, and I think Commissioner Novick covered it, but I'll just give you a little bit more background. When MAP 21, the federal bill, passed,
 They created a new program, Highway Safety Improvement Program, which we call H-SIP funds. Those H-SIP funds are federal funding that flows through the state. And the state DOT, in our case ODOT, has the authority to allocate those funds as they see fit. And so the ARTS program is the program that was set up by ODOT, and they then allocated
 sub-allocate to the region. So Region 1 has $10 million available. And just as a reminder, at ODOT Region 1, it includes Multnomah County, Washington County, parts of Clackamas County and Hood River.
 And then within the ARTS program, I know there's a lot of acronyms here, but there's an opportunity for systemic funding. And systemic is really what ODOT is describing, opportunity to do low-cost safety improvements on systemic roadways where we know there's fatalities and serious injuries. Five million of that is available, and we're asking for your permission to apply for 2.8 million.
 And I just want to draw in a couple things to note here. Also, this funding has spread out over a five-year period, so they've bundled it 2016 to 2021. So if we were to get the amount that we're asking for, we're really only getting about $560,000 a year. That's assuming we're successful. Okay.
 And I just want to make the distinction between these types of improvements that we're applying for, which are low-cost operational improvements, things like rubble strips, striping, signal timing. It's very different than capital projects that really would improve the entire street. This is probably the most constrained funding pot that we have.
 So I just want to give you some good examples of the types of things we're applying for because we do believe that even though they're low cost, there's going to be good safety benefits.
 Marine Drive, in the past five years, we've seen nine fatals and serious injuries. That's between 33rd and 185th. We're asking for only $80,000 to do rumble strips for roadway departure, both on the center line and the fog line, and we see quite a bit of road departure on Marine Drive. This is a low-cost improvement that could save lives.
 Again, another example I'd like to use is Southeast Division between 119th and 136th. We've seen seven fatalities and serious injuries in the past five years. We're asking for $250,000 to improve street lighting at pedestrian crossings to make those more visible. I've got Wendy here who knows the ins and outs of our actual applications if you have any more specific questions.
 I just want to clarify, because of the acronym, this is not money for the arts. It's money for transportation. Yeah, absolutely. All roads safety transportation program. Even though it spells that. Yes.
 No, it's great. And you look at the list of projects here, and boy, they're much-needed safety improvements. Absolutely. There's a lot of overlap between what we call our high-crash corridor program and our 10 top high-crash corridors and the projects that we're applying for here today. And on that roadway departure issue,
 I think that is an innovative approach that ODOT itself is looking at as well. You probably have already talked to the staff there, but they have experienced some challenges with retrofitting the centerline rumble strips. So you've already, because you already know about that. We're well aware. So that's good. So you'll address that and make sure that they know you know about that in the grant application. Yeah, we've spent a fair amount of time talking about centerline rumble strips with ODOTs.
 And just for my colleagues, I learned this past week that where you retrofit the rumble strips, there's a danger that it could allow seepage into the street and thereby make it less safe. And so it's really great that you are obviously right on top of that, and I will address that in your grant. Thank you. Good work. Okay, further questions for staff? Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, roll call, please.
 It's great to see a wide variety of projects including many in East Portland and in Northwest and Southwest, just all over the city. It's nice that you're sharing the opportunities. Aye. Saltzman? Good work. I hope we're successful. Aye. Novick? Thank you, Marty and Wendy.
 hails yeah because i get the police reports unfortunately on my phone i know some of these streets uh i see them often and i look forward to seeing them less often after we get these safety improvements done thank you hi okay 317 last item from this morning's agenda increased contract with tice electric inc in the amount of eighty five thousand two hundred and fifty one dollars
 To execute change order number one for construction of a left turn signal from North Fremont Street westbound to North Vancouver Avenue southbound.
 Mr. Novick. Colleagues, I've always found it unfortunate that we normally wait until after political leaders have passed away to name public structures after them. It is with great pleasure that this morning, or actually this afternoon, I recommend to you what will be forever known as the Nick Fish left turn signal. And I turn it over to Andrew Robbie to elaborate. Andrew Robbie, Jr.: Not dead yet. He's just away.
 Thank you very much, Commissioner. And while we're talking about women engineers, I might add that Wendy Colley was instrumental in working on this project. This is yet one more of her accomplishments. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Andrew Abbey, project manager for the Vancouver and Cook Project. Just to give you kind of an overview of what you're looking at today, the need for a left turn signal at Fremont Street westbound to Vancouver Avenue southbound is something that's been on PBOT's radar screen for quite a few years, at least as far back as April 2011.
 Where even then looking back at 2006 traffic counts, we knew that we had a signal warrant to justify a left turn signal. In 2011, our measurements showed that 85% of the over 20,000 vehicles per day entering the Vancouver and Fremont intersection were making a left turn. So that's a pretty dramatic proportion of only 15% of the trips continuing through the intersection.
 As you know, last year Commissioner Fish expressed interest in a left turn signal being added and we checked out all of his concerns regarding traffic safety and they definitely all checked out. One of the things that we were grappling with is that we didn't have the funding at the time for PBOT to partner to fund the left turn signal, so what has changed is two things.
 Number one, we had very favorable pricing from the contractor that we brought on board not only to put in a new signal at Vancouver and Cook, but also to retrofit the signal at Vancouver and Fremont, upgrade it from span wire to mast dime. They gave us a very favorable pricing proposal to upgrade that.
 to add a left turn signal. And then we also found some savings in our citywide traffic signal rebuild program. And we didn't identify those savings until last month. And so we've actually been able to identify a funding source for us to pay for this. The Tuesday memo that went out to you actually dated March 23rd had testimony in favor of this from the Boise Neighborhood Association and a small business owner and also TriMet, which has an interest in improving
 operations on frequent service line number four and number 24 Fremont. And I won't read those to you, but you were given those earlier this week. What Carla just passed out is an additional written testimony. We wanted to be very inclusive on this project, and we reached out to traditionally underserved residents of the area, and we got a letter of support from a minority business owner who feels that the left-turn signal will improve access to her business.
 So with that said, I'm hoping council can adopt the amendment dated March 23rd with three minor amendments, approve the ordinances amended, and then approve the ordinance. So anyone want to speak on this item? Then Commissioner Novick moves the amendments. Is there a second? Roll call on the amendments. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And roll call vote on the emergency ordinance as amended. Fritz? Thank you as always for your great work, Andrew. Aye. Seltzman? Aye.
 on behalf of commissioner fish thank you and me no big thank you andrew hi hills andrew you get to yes with people on these projects one after another keeps making the city better thank you thank you mayor aye and we're adjourned or recessed for 55 minutes that's it
 Good afternoon, everyone. Council will come back to order. Would you call the roll, please, Carla? Fritz? Here. Fish? Saltzman? Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. I think Commissioner Saltzman will be back momentarily. Commissioner Fish is out of town. And would you read item 318, please? Thank you.
 prohibit the use and purchase of neonicotinoid pesticides by the City of Portland, amend integrated pest management strategies, and urge retailers operating within the City to label plants, seeds,
 and products containing neonicotinoid pesticides. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Very pleased to introduce this ordinance. It continues my goal of having healthy parks and healthy Portland because the city of Portland mostly uses these neonicotinoids in our city parks. And so I've been working with our staff and have come up with this proposal. Greatly appreciate everybody being here, all of the email input that we've had, and invite Tom Bezot, my chief of staff, to come forward to explain the proposal.
 I'm just going to go over the ordinance and the exhibit just to give you a rundown on exactly what's in it. And hopefully it won't take a whole lot of time here. So the purpose is to eliminate from the city government use the purchase and use of neonicotinoid insecticides.
 The reason why this is, is that there's mounting evidence that indicates that the neonicotinoids have been found to be harmful to beneficial insects, such as pollinators, and consequently to other animals in the food chain. Pollinators represent the canary in the coal mine effect with our ecosystems, and the mounting evidence points to problems with continued use of these chemicals. The general prohibition in this ordinance is to
 basically direct that the use of any neonicotinoid or nicotinoid-like systemic persistent pesticide is prohibited on land owned or operated by the City of Portland, including public right-of-ways. This prohibition applies to seed dressings, soil treatments, foliar sprays, and other types of applications. Exceptions to and the policy directives regarding this are found in Exhibit A. So I'm going to go through the exceptions now.
 which there's three exceptions. And the first one is related to the rose midge, which is an insect which causes damage to roses in our parks. And so we're developing a program, a pilot project in the actual exhibit, which I'll cover a little bit in a second here, to try and help with this problem here.
 So right now there is limited use of imidaclorprid. I don't know if I said that correctly, but that's one of the neonicotinoids, and that's been used to control this pest. And we're looking to see if we can find alternative ways. So the pilot project basically will have test beds in one of the rose gardens that has the rose midge, and Parks will utilize a team of,
 a balanced team of consultants to agree on the types of protocols to use in the test, and then alternatives to the neonicotinides will include IPM practices, physical, biological, and other environmental methods. There will also be signage posted that will educate people about what that testing is all about, and then there will be a reporting mechanism through which we can get that information back to the commissioner in charge.
 Exception number two deals with buying of plants and products that basically have neonicotinoids in them. And oftentimes we have our plants that we buy and the seeds that we buy by the city basically are already coated with this type of insecticide. And we're trying to basically phase this out.
 And so that would require that we actually come up with a plan on how we want to phase that out. And that time period for phasing it out is set to be December 1st of 2017. It'll take some time for retailers and nurseries to actually jump on board and figure out, go back to a time when they did not have plants that were coated in neonicotinoids.
 The other aspect is that we will, of course, try and eliminate that as soon as we possibly can. Exception number three is that any use of neonicotinoid class pesticide under the contract could only occur with strict adherence to the city's integrated pest management program protocols.
 And some of those protocols that would be amended and rewritten are to address this impact from the neonicotinoid pesticides, or insecticides as they're called. And other parts of that would be that if you wanted to use the pesticides, they could only be considered for destructive pests and pests.
 you would have to get a decision by the commissioner in charge to basically use the neonicotinoid, and you would have to have had reviewed all alternative approaches. There is also a notification procedure that's been put in place for site-specific types of use of the insecticide. Here are the rest of the council...
 basically be it resolves or directions that are in the ordinance. Um, and this is pointing out the four primary neonicotinides that are being prohibited and also to continue to point out that there are other insecticides out there that are neonicotinide like in the, in their behavior and have the same sort of persistent systemic, uh, qualities. Um,
 Within four months of the enactment of this ordinance, the city shall notify the public of this prohibition, and it will be done on the City and Parks Bureau website, and then it will have information about what this is all about in terms of trying to protect the pollinators. And Parks and Recreation shall provide a plan to the commissioner to phase out all purchase of commercial nursery stock, trees, and other plants, which I described earlier.
 and the city shall transition with current neonicotinoid use to alternative practices and materials and the reduction of these harmful insecticides in the IPM program. This transitioning will be to basically begin developing alternatives to their use and also to address pests, which will include the development of test plots, which I described earlier. Also, organic approaches will be included in those alternatives.
 Additional directives related to that transition is the management plan for the Rose Midge and then the purchasing plan for plants on a citywide basis in the future. And then seeking out alternative methods on all city property to use of these insecticides. And that is the end of the presentation. And do you have any questions of me?
 Sort of a threshold question for me, and that is, this may sound like a strange comparison, but we heard some discussion not long ago about e-cigarettes, and it used to be that we could count on the Food and Drug Administration to sort of screen out harmful products that doesn't seem to be working as well anymore on the food and drug side of things. Is it also fair to say that we can't really count on the federal regulators in this arena as well, like we did?
 at least like I thought we could. Well, of course, that's the subject of the debate. The European Union banned these products in 2013, so there are governments elsewhere who recognize the danger of them, and it seems to me to be more prudent or on the side of caution than to wait for somebody in the Federal Drug Administration or elsewhere to say, no, it's a bad thing. Right, right.
 But they used to be – it seems to me they used to be more aggressive at the federal level. Yeah, I think you'll hear some testimony from Audubon and others comparing this to DDT and other products that were thought to be safe to start off with, and then we found out later that they're not. Yeah, okay. Good, thank you. Other questions? Steve, did you have one? Yeah.
 Yeah, I received a question from some advocates of earlier phase-out asking why Parks and Rec couldn't have a complete phase-out by December of 2016 as opposed to December 2017. So I just wanted to hear a response to that. I think that we looked at that. We looked at all different kinds of time frames. I think that what we came to the conclusion that
 in cycles of planting and actually working with the plants themselves, planting them and observing any sort of real impacts, that it would take a longer time frame to really get any results.
 Another question is, I mean, there apparently is some debate in the scientific community about whether these pesticides are uniquely damaging to bees. And some people argue that in Europe, people have reverted to using older pesticides that are even worse. And I mean, I don't have an informed opinion on that. But my impression is that what Parks is planning to do is not replace this with,
 other pesticides but try to use more sort of organic managing practices is that correct
 Well, we have a panel that will be able to probably dig a little deeper on that issue, but in terms of our IPM program, we already are in a phase where we try not to use herbicides and insecticides as best we can. So we already come from that approach, and Parks, I think, does a pretty good job in that degree. Other questions? Yes.
 Does Portland Parks and Recreation support this? Yes. Okay. Thanks, John. Do you have a panel to call, Commissioner? Yes. Could our panel come on up, please? We have Lisa Arkin from Beyond Toxics, Amy Code from the Zooksy Society, Laurie Ann Bird from the Center for Biological Diversity, and Micah Meskel from Audubon. I'm not sure who's going first, so have at it. Thank you.
 I'll state your name for the record each time. Thank you. Thank you so much. My name is Lisa Arkin. I'm Executive Director of Beyond Toxics. And first of all, I want to thank all of you for holding this public hearing today, and thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for bringing this issue forward. We appreciate it. Just for the record, Beyond Toxics is a statewide environmental health organization dedicated to protecting communities, people's health, and our environment from toxic exposures.
 We strongly support the passage of the proposed ordinance to ban the use of neonicotinoid pesticides and plants that are treated with neonicotinoid pesticides. And by adopting an ordinance to ban them on your public lands,
 the commissioners will be displaying leadership to protect bees and other pollinators who have undergone undergone long-term declines these losses in our bee and pollinator populations are not sustainable given the vital role that bees play in our agricultural system and economies this ordinance is especially commendable
 because it encourages retailers operating within the city of Portland to accurately label plants, seeds, and other products that have been treated with neonicotinoid pesticides and to phase away from their usage. Notably, Portland would join other large cities that have passed strong ordinances to ban neonicotinoid pesticides. To date, the cities of Seattle, Spokane,
 Olympia, Eugene, even Cannon Beach have banned these products on public property, and there are other cities as well. They are being hailed as bee-friendly cities, and I can see Portland taking its place among them. Germany, France, and Italy have banned neonics outright. And neonics is a short way of saying neonicotinoid pesticides. Right.
 Scientists specializing in pollinator health at Oregon State University are urging extreme caution and, whenever possible, reducing or ending any use of neonicotinoids. These actions are in alignment with a recent presidential memorandum establishing a federal task force to address the crisis of diminishing pollinator populations, as well as new scientific evidence finding conclusive solutions
 proof that neonicotinoids are a large part of the problem of bee colony decline. So why is it important for Portland to take this action now? Bees and other pollinators are essential for two-thirds of the food crops humans eat every day. Last year, U.S. beekeepers reported losing 30 to 40 percent of their hives, and according to a study by the United Nations,
 Of the 100 crops that provide 90% of the world's food, 70 of those 100 are pollinated by bees and require bee pollination or another pollinator. And those just aren't any type of crop. They're fruits and vegetables and nuts that we all put on our table to feed our family and provide the basis of a healthy, diverse diet. So I'm wondering...
 Probably almost everyone in this room and perhaps you as leaders of the city grow food or support community gardens or are interested in a local food economy. And that will be dependent upon our pollinators. And I want to take just one moment to say we're not talking only about honeybees in a hive, and I do have a hive in my backyard. We're also talking about solitary native bees and bumblebees.
 These solitary bees have one queen who's also the mother of an entire brood. And if that one queen mother dies because of an exposure to a neonicotinoid, the entire brood, generations to come, are decimated from the loss of that one queen bee. So while a commercial beekeeper may take a hive and divide it to get multiple hives...
 to support a commercial operation or where, in the case of my backyard hive, if I lose a queen, I could probably get another one from a beekeeper. This is not true with our native bees, the Oregon-born and raised bee. And I know that when I personally observed an egregious poisoning in Eugene, where tens of thousands of bumblebees died, I had to see these corneas.
 gorgeous creatures and ladybugs too, on the ground in convulsions and quivering because these are neurotoxins. So all those bumblebees will never make it back to their hive to support their family. You might hear also from representatives today from nursery associations or chemical lobby groups that farmers need every tool in the toolbox to battle pests. And that sounds reasonable enough on the face of it,
 But a government's entity, a government's responsibility, first and foremost, is the protection of public safety and health and the sustainability of future generations. Your concerns are quite different. You don't have to go with the cheapest and the most risky of practices.
 That's why we see in the true crux of the matter that Portland can join those other cities that have adopted bans, as well as the United States Fish and Wildlife Service that has banned the use of all neonicotinoids on wildlife refuge lands to protect our waterways, our soil, and beneficial insects. And I think about smoking cigarettes.
 Who would have imagined today, or who would have imagined maybe 15 years ago, the kinds of knowledge we now have about the impacts secondhand smoke has on children? First we started with battles over whether or not to label cigarette boxes.
 Then we banned it in federal buildings. Then we banned it in state buildings. And then in city buildings. And now you probably have heard on the radio, Oregon has smoke-free parks. You're in Portland, too. Yes. And now we have bans on smoking near buildings because of the knowledge we have about secondhand smoke. And I know that neonicotinoids are going to follow this path. They're systemic. They're long-lived in the environment. They're dangerous. They're risky. Okay.
 I want to close by talking a little bit about human health. So this is a new research area that has been taken on by a number of scientists. A 2013 study titled, Qualitative Profiling Quantification of Neonicotinoid Metabolites in Human Urine, reported troubling evidence that neonicotinoids are showing up at high levels in common foods.
 and that their presence may result in symptoms of neurotoxicity in children. I want to quote very briefly so you don't have to take my word for it. The results of this study suggest that universal use of neonicotinoids would cause unintended exposure to neonicotinoids in children who are more sensitive to neurotoxicants because of their neural development. So because these are systemic, you can't wash them off. They're being found in the very fruit
 the fleshy parts of fruits and vegetables, and they don't go away. So you can't cook them out, you can't wash them out. They are there. So in closing, I'd like to again commend you for considering this issue and say that bee poisoning incidents and the human health risks
 point to the grave threat that neonicotinoids pose. It is critical that governments, homeowners, and pesticide suppliers act now to prevent ecosystem decline through the use of these products in our environment and to prevent specifically pollinator die-off. The City of Portland has the opportunity to be responsive rather than reactive and to create public spaces that are safe for bees, butterflies, birds, and children
 Thank you for taking action that will align with the city's values of sustainability, local food production, healthy families, and environmental stewardship. I'd like to turn it over to Amei Code from Xerces Society. Hi, my name is Amei Code. I'm the Pest Side Program Coordinator at the Xerces Society. And just to reiterate, thank you for taking up this conversation. It's something that Portland needed to bring up. We have an amazing environmental...
 credibility in this city. We've done so much for our communities, for our children, and our IPM program really shows our leadership. So this feels like a really natural step within that IPM effort to reduce the use of these pesticides.
 I'm going to focus in on some of the risks that we're seeing and why it is that maybe some of the battery of tests that our federal government undergoes and the process that we undergo at the federal level actually did miss many of the concerns and how we can, as a city, be more nimble, move through this, and be more protective. I have greater detail in my written comments, and I won't even be able to scratch the service, but we'll see what we get to today.
 You know, clearly here in Oregon, we know the risks of neonicotinoids. We've had seven incidents, six of them in the Portland area. And what's not known about those incidents is the vast majority of them
 they followed the federal regulations, yet we still had bee die-offs. There were record-keeping errors. There were other minor violations, but they were following those labels in most instances. Some of these applications happened weeks to months prior to the bees coming on the tree and being in bloom and causing the die-offs. So these, again, they're systemic. They're long-lived. It's not just an application when a bee is present that's going to cause this harm. It's pretty significant.
 And the state of Oregon took great strides and actually created new rules that really do address those acute bee die-offs. And we're really thrilled. Hopefully in 2016, we won't see that. But unfortunately, those die-offs really are the tip of the iceberg. When we look at neonicotinoids at such low levels, they're causing very subtle but very devastating effects to our native bees and to our managed bees. I'm not going to be here to say that they are the only...
 issue that our bees are facing. Xerces Society is working on the ground all the time trying to increase forage, trying to improve their nutrition, and do so much more for our native bees. But this is one of the factors that we need to be considering, and Portland has the ability to address it. So just to give a couple of examples of some of these subtle yet devastating effects, and they're often termed sublethal. So one of the things we've seen both in honeybees and
 bumble bees multiple times in many different studies, many different scenarios, that application rates that would lead to contamination levels that we would expect to find from legal application rates are causing bees to, it's hindering their ability to forage. They're bringing back less food. A lot of these are showing about a 30% reduction in forage. If you can imagine bringing back 30% less food to your colony, it's going to have a devastating effect on that colony. Okay.
 Another really key subtle effect that isn't currently evaluated by our federal government that we need to be looking at is the production of queens. What we're seeing, both again in our bumblebees, we're seeing they're producing fewer queens from low-level exposures to neonicotinoids, levels that we would expect to find in plants after treatments from legal applications.
 So your queen bee is your colony for the next year. And if we're seeing up to 80% reduction in queen bees, it's going to be devastating for our populations. Portland absolutely has the ability to be more nimble. Our federal government is evaluating this, but they have to take their time. They're dealing with pesticide uses across the country on hundreds of different crops. Portland can take this and really be leaders. And I think the reality is we are developing
 grounded in integrated pest management. I spent a number of my years working on integrated pest management in our school systems. And having that background will allow the city to make the right choice when we move away from neonicotinoids and not just move to something else that could be of risk. We really have the ability to look at all the things in the toolbox and not just the chemical tools that we have. Very quickly, I think this is an excellent ordinance. I definitely, Xerces Society supports it.
 We are interested potentially in exhibit A. There might be ways to tighten and strengthen. We have a pilot project now in place, which I think is excellent, but I wonder if it isn't just a part of the larger issue where we really want a full transition plan. So we bring in technical experts,
 And we help the city move away because a pilot project can be very discreet and it might not solve the problem. So it's something to think about. Also really having a strong measurement of our success and having benchmarks. Let's find out what our contractors have done and our city has done over the last three to five years using neonicotinoids. And use that to tell the story into the future of the success we've had. So those are some of the ideas. And again, thank you so much. I'm really thrilled to be here and to have you discussing this. Welcome. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales and members of the Portland City Council, thank you for being here again today. My name is Micah Meskel, and I'm the Conservation Assistant at the Audubon Society of Portland. We want to first express our appreciation to Commissioner Fritz and her chief of staff, Tom Bizeau, for their leadership on this effort. The Audubon Society of Portland, with over 15,000 local members, works to promote the enjoyment and understanding and protection of birds and the wildlife
 and wildlife in Oregon and across the Pacific Northwest. We strongly support passage of the ordinance to ban the use of neonicotinoid pesticides or plants treated with neonicotinoid pesticides on lands owned by the City of Portland and to encourage retailers operating within the City of Portland to accurately label seeds and other products that have been treated with neonicotinoid pesticides. Neonicotinoids are persistent and widely used pesticides that are causing well-documented harm to wildlife and in particular
 pollinators. This ordinance represents a significant step forward in protecting the native biodiversity of Portland as well as the people who use our city's public lands. In enacting this ban, Portland joins Seattle, Spokane, and Eugene in banning neonicotinoids. It also joins the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, which in 2015 announced a ban of use of neonicotinoids on over 150 million acres of public land.
 So Micah, since we have the written testimony which Bob Salinger also emailed to us all this morning, perhaps you could just summarize rather than reading it all into the record, because it is now part of the record.
 Okay. So as you mentioned before with DDT, neonicotinoids are very similar in that they are persistent in the environment. And this is an especially big problem for pollinators, but also for birds, as the neonicotinoids are bioaccumulated as they both prey on plants.
 infected insects, but they also accumulated it through the ingestion of seeds that have been treated with neonicotinoids. And some of the dramatic impacts with neonicotinoids are chronic exposure to neonicotinoids can have significant sub-lethal effects, including decreased phedunctity and partial paralysis. They also destroy the insects, as mentioned earlier.
 which they depend on for survival. While we strongly support the adoption of this ordinance, we do have some concerns that the attached exhibit potentially leaves the door open to continued use. And we'd like to flag a few sections which we believe could be strengthened. Specifically, we recognize the problem that the Rosemitch represents
 a special challenge in terms of eliminating all use of neonicotinoids in city property and understand why the city feels compelled to institute a transition program specifically for public rose gardens. We also believe that it is important to recognize that the idealized
 image of a perfect rose may be one that is dependent upon use of toxic chemicals. We believe the public has become much more understanding and supportive of the concept that the vegetation in healthy and pesticide-free parks may be a bit browner than once considered acceptable. Their priority should be placed on human ecological health, not aesthetics.
 The advisory committee that was convened by Portland Parks and Rec in transitioning Rose Gardens away from the ONIC should be a technical advisory team, as opposed to a balanced stakeholder group, as they are specialized and are less experts on the issue. And then we also recommend that the city put a cap of a two-year cap on the pilot project, as opposed to two to four, to really set a proactive time frame to really find a solution. Thank you.
 So in closing, we urge the City Council to approve this new ordinance to protect pollinators, other wildlife, and other communities, and look forward to working with the city on successful implementation. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. My name is Lorianne Bird, and I'm the Environmental Health Director at the Center for Biological Diversity. I'm here today to express my strong support for this ordinance. Thank you.
 This common sense approach is needed to protect the very web of life that makes this place so special. I especially want to express my appreciation to Commissioner Fritz and Tom Buzow for their leadership on this important issue. I'm here on behalf of the Center for Biological Diversity, a non-profit organization with offices in Portland and elsewhere. At the Center, we believe that the welfare of human beings is deeply tied to nature, to the existence of a world of a vast diversity of wild animals and plants.
 Because diversity has intrinsic value and because its loss impoverishes society, we work to secure a future for all species, great and small, hovering on the brink of extinction. We want those who come after us to inherit a world where the wild is still alive. So the very purpose of pesticides and insecticides is to kill things, living things. And there's no question that the targeted use of neonicotinoids is effective at killing things. Similarly, the
 There is no question that DDT was effective at killing things. However, we as a society decided that its impacts were unacceptable. As a result of that decision, bald eagles, our nation's symbol, have recovered from the brink of extinction and are now thriving. Now we as a society must take similar action on neonicotinoids, recognizing that their impacts are unacceptable, and bring our pollinators back from the brink of extinction.
 There is no question that neonicotinoids are causing serious harm to wildlife. Nearly every day a new study is published showing how they are harming various species. We are all familiar with the acute impacts of neonicotinoids from the 7B die-offs that I mentioned. Incidents where up to 50,000 bumblebees have dropped dead in one parking lot. We know that one neonicotinoid-treated seed can kill a songbird.
 While this is horrifying, even more horrifying are the subacute impacts on entire species and their entire populations. Subacute impacts, like others on this panel have mentioned, can affect memory, foraging capacity, and communication, causing population-level impacts such that species often cannot find their way home. Portland has put a tremendous amount of energy into restoring aquatic environments. These efforts have yielded historic successes.
 But neonicotinoids threaten all of that. Aquatic wildlife such as frogs, fish, and insects at the base of the food web are all harmed by neonicotinoids. Considering Portland's tremendous efforts at restoring these aquatic environments for salmon and trout, these impacts are extremely disturbing.
 The persistence of neonicotinoids, their propensity for runoff and groundwater infiltration, their cumulative and largely irreversible mode of action on invertebrates raises significant concerns. Neonicotinoid contamination levels in both surface and groundwater in the U.S. and around the world are already beyond the threshold found to kill many aquatic invertebrates.
 Data on surface water contaminations from surveys to date indicate that concentrations of several of the neonicotinoids on the market are high enough to be causing impacts on entire aquatic food chains. The harmful effects on insects can be found even at extremely low concentrations.
 Mayflies and stoneflies, important food sources for trout species, are especially sensitive to neonicotinoids. Even at very low doses, they'll experience feeding inhibition and adults will emerge at smaller sizes. Recognizing that these impacts cannot be denied, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has banned neonicotinoids in its entire National Wildlife Refuge system, and many other cities have taken similar action. Now, it is Portland's turn.
 There are places in Exhibit A where I would like to see the ordinance strengthened, and we can discuss those in greater detail. But this ordinance is a significant step forward, and I urge you to approve it. Thank you. Do you all have questions for any of these resources?
 Mr. Bird, you told me the other day, if I recall correctly, that rose midges, as Pescoe, are actually kind of cute. Is that correct? Well, I find bugs to be sort of cute, yes. Some of us on this panel might be guilty of that indeed. And we do recognize that they are harmful to roses, but yeah, they are, in my opinion, sort of cute. That's sort of a lacy wing pattern, which is actually lovely.
 Thank you all very much. Thank you. Are there some other invited folks to call? Okay. Then let's turn to the sign-up sheet of those who signed up to testify as well. We have 26 people. The first three, please come on up, are Sharon Janassi, Janet Levinson, and Jean Camp, and they'll be followed by Scott Dolman, Jeff Stone, and Lori Vollmer. As the number of people signed up, I want to ask you to try to keep your testimony to two minutes, please. Thanks. Okay.
 Sharon, go ahead, please. My name is Sharon Genassi. Just push the button on the base of that microphone there. There you go. My name is Sharon Genassi, and I've worked for over 20 years here in Portland on air quality issues, mostly in the Northwest neighborhood. Today I'm testifying on behalf of Beyond Toxics and Eugene in favor of your ban.
 The subject of the threat seen around the country to our pollinators, honeybees and bumblebees, is dear to my heart because my husband and I have a small organic vineyard in southern Oregon. We face regularly the kinds of problems that a gardener in Portland would have with a rose midge. Industrial agriculture has led to disastrous problems in the U.S. with chemical applications that kill not only pests,
 but are associated with a variety of serious health problems in humans as well. Organic agriculture has taught us how to use OMRI-approved products for our pests so that we can hear the frogs and birds singing in our vineyard.
 Portland's Rose Garden is very important to our city's image and it's also a destination for children and adults visiting the city and living nearby. All the more reason for the City of Portland to adopt OMRI, Organic Materials Review Institute, approved products on the soil beneath the roses.
 In a short look around the OMRI website, I found a good list of insecticidal soaps and other products that should be used to deal with the rose midge and provide safety for the birds and helpful insects in the rose garden.
 It's important to pass the ordinance before you, but unfortunately it's been weakened to allow the continued use of neonics and contains language that will allow current practices. Please tighten the ordinance to stop the use of neonics, given the serious threat to bees, and adopt instead a policy of using only armory-approved insecticides in our parks. Our children's health and all the animals in the parks will benefit. Thanks.
 Thank you. Welcome. I'm Janet Levinson, and I live in northeast Portland, and I'm also a wetland biologist. I work for Land and Water Environmental Services in Douglas County, and I urge the mayor and the commissioners to ban neonicotinoid insecticides on city property, and we all know about the seven confirmed bee kills in the last two years. Thank you.
 And just from my point of view, pollinators are important because they pollinate agricultural crops and they play a vital role in the reproduction of plants. I am familiar with bumblebees and solitary bees and solitary wasps. I see them on my daily walks through my neighborhood. Um,
 Urban habitat is a significant habitat that's for these pollinators. When you get outside of the city, there's a lot of non-urban habitat that's been lost to development and agriculture. It is important to me to prevent further pesticide contamination in our environmental surface waters. When we use dangerous pesticides in our environment, we're not just harming bees and other pollinators, but we're fouling our own nest and...
 That's all. Thank you very much. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Jean Camp. I'm the owner and operator of Paramount Pest Control. I am the first vice president of the Oregon Pest Control Association. Paramount Pest Control holds many of the city accounts. I am a vendor for your hospitals, your libraries, your fire department, your schools, your DHS offices,
 your correction facilities, and many other owned city properties. We serve some of the city's most sensitive accounts. I take great pride, and so does the rest of my company, in offering the finest services that we can offer the state. The banning of neoniconoids is a huge step backwards.
 There is no scientific data that can solely call out neoniconoids as the only cause in the colony collapse of our bees. There's no scientific data showing that the products containing neoniconoids, when used according to the label, pose no unreasonable risk to humans, environment, including our pollinators.
 To ban neoniconoids in the Portland area is a huge mistake. You will be taking away one of the strongest, most effective tools in the use of bedbug work, as well as other pests like ants, fleas, ticks, roaches, and termites. The interior of your public-owned buildings where bedbugs, roaches, fleas, and other pests are commonly found should not even be considered in this ban.
 If you ban these products on the exterior use, I believe Oregon will see issues that Europe is dealing with today, which is elevated pest levels. If a ban is put in place, I would urge that it only be temporary to allow time to evaluate the findings and base it on pesticide regulatory decisions on the entire body of the scientific literature that
 including studies submitted by the regent, journal articles, and other peer-reviewed data, and not solely based on groups that have a single issue of banning all pesticides. All pesticides are not bad, and we need them. Fleas are brought into public buildings regularly. Neoniconoids are used with integrated pest management programs with great success when other chemicals have not been working.
 Bed bugs are one of the most common, difficult parasites to control. And without the use of neoniconoids on city-owned properties, your control programs will be less and will not be as effective as what my privately-owned properties receive. A person can suffer up to 200 bites in a single night from a bed bug. Our children, our elderly will suffer.
 They will be bitten more because control will not happen as quickly. Neoniconoids, keep in mind, are low risk. Low risk to humans and animals. Other choices like organophosphates are at more risk to humans and animals. This is what Europe is seeing. Neoniconoids are an important part of classification of chemicals that we need. We also need our pollinators.
 There is no scientific data showing that banning neoniconoid is going to improve bee health. Thank you very much for your time. I do appreciate it. Questions? So I guess I have one, which is in these areas that have already banned neoniconoids, what other pesticides are being used for bed bugs and those kinds of things?
 Is it the organophosphates? Is that what people have done in your business? Have they substituted? No, we really, in Paramount's experience, we stay away from organophosphates. Okay? We want to use the lowest risk organophosphates.
 to human health and to animals. And the neoniconoids – We're not the first to this. So if those other areas, they have in effect carried out the pilot project that you've asked for because they've already done this. So what pesticides or what approaches have pest control firms taken in the cities, Eugene, Seattle, etc., that have already banned this particular type of product?
 For Eugene, for example, seeing a rise in bedbugs in your interior, in your buildings, in your libraries. We're seeing populations grow in these public buildings. Bedbugs are off the chart, and they used to be a Portland problem. And they're in Astoria, and they're in Seaside, and they're in Eugene, and they're in Bend. It's spreading. It's not getting better. It's not getting better.
 And you will not control bedbugs without the assistance of chemicals. We realize that the exterior and out in the environment, there is some reason for concern to protect our pollinators. And we join you in that effort. That's what this policy applies to. The city doesn't own any beds. We don't own buildings. We don't own the libraries or the...
 But your city workers will not be able, and your vendors will not be able to go into these city buildings and use these buildings. That's the point. The housing is not owned by the city of Portland. So this policy applies to just city of Portland properties. Okay. The city government, not the entire city. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. There's a difference between the city government and the entire geographical city, and this policy applies to the city government. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you all. Okay. Next three are Scott Dahlman, Jeff Stone, and Lori Vollmer, and they'll be followed by Taggart Siegel, Christine Winson, and Rich Hatfield. Good afternoon. I'm third. Oh. Okay. Thank you. Why don't you go ahead, Mr. Stone.
 I was going to have Mr. Dahlman go first. Are you first? Go ahead, please. I'm the lucky winner. All right. Excuse me. Mayor Hales, commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. My name is Scott Dahlman. I'm the policy director for a group called Oregonians for Food and Shelter. We are a grassroots coalition. We're made up of farmers, foresters, and other pesticide users and focus on issues of pesticides, fertilizer, and biotechnology, all of whom have an interest in the issue of neonicotinoids.
 So I want to start by saying the issue of bee health is important to all Oregonians, particularly for growers. So my farmer members have a lot at stake in this conversation because we need to have pollinators for our crops, but we also need to have the tools available to be able to protect those crops. And there has to be a balance there, and we believe those two things are not mutually exclusive.
 Nobody wants to see adverse incidents involving pesticides and bees. The incidents we've seen over the last couple of years where pesticides were misused and there were large adverse incidents are terrible situations. They were dealt with accordingly by the Department of Agriculture and fined.
 for the mistakes that they did make. We supported that and think that's appropriate. You need to use these tools appropriately. But we have to recognize that when something is used inappropriately, that that is not a reason to ban the entire product. So why are neonicotinoids important?
 Neonics have been used for more than 15 years and have been widely adopted by growers and urban applicators because of their performance, their lower toxicity of mammals, including humans. And that is a very, very big point because one of the reasons these are used and used in urban environments is because of their low toxicity to people. And it's also why they're effective.
 so preferred in agriculture because the workers are at a lot less risk than they will be from alternative methods. And we have to remember that there will be alternative methods. The pests are not going to go away because we stop using neonicotinoids. They're still going to exist and they're going to have to be dealt with one way or another.
 Neonicotinoids offer some unique environmental, economic, and public health benefits, including effective protection against invasive species such as the emerald ash borer, which can devastate an urban forest, systemic insect control that's not provided by other classes of chemicals. They are lower impact on many of the non-target organisms than the older products that they replaced, protecting natural enemies, which helps in IPM strategies.
 They are effective control of disease-carrying vectors, and as you just heard, some of the most effective tools for controlling bed bugs. Extended control, which limits the need for the number of applications, meaning you don't have to apply as often. And it controls pests which are resistant to other chemical classes, making them unique.
 I think you have to remember that pesticides go through rigorous evaluation before they are sold in the market, before you're allowed to use them. You have the EPA who evaluates the products. They also go through a registration process in Oregon. At the federal level, they're evaluated under FIFRA, the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
 Initial and ongoing re-registration of these products, which they're going through re-registration right now, is subject to a substantial review process and they must meet the high standard of having no unreasonable adverse effect on health or the environment.
 This means that all of the products we are talking about today have had extensive safety testing for honeybee acute contact toxicity, honeybee toxicity of residues on foliage, and field testing for pollinators. These have been tested. So we talked a little bit about colony collapse disorder. I'm going to let Mr. Stone talk about that a little bit more. But let's look at what the science says. EPA has been petitioned several times to ban neonicotinoids.
 In response to a petition in 2012, EPA concluded that the EPA is not aware, and this is a direct quote, of any data indicating that honeybee declines or the incidence of colony collapse disorder in the U.S. is correlated with the use of pesticides in general or with the use of neonicotinoids in particular.
 Before that, in 2011, another direct quote, are not aware of any data that reasonably demonstrates that bee colonies are subject to elevated losses due to chronic exposure to pesticides. The UK Department for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs, which it should be noted that the UK was opposed to the moratorium on the two neonicotinoids that is in place in the European Union right now.
 They have said, while this assessment cannot exclude rare effects of neonicotinoids on bees in the field, it suggests that effects on bees do not occur under normal circumstances. This assessment also suggests that laboratory-based studies demonstrating sublethal effects on bees from neonicotinoids did not replicate realistic conditions, but extreme scenarios. Consequently, it supports the view that the risk to bee populations from neonicotinoids as they are currently used is low.
 The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicine Authority, and the reason I bring up Australia is because Australia uses a lot of neonicotinoid products. They are not seeing the colony collapse disorder that we're seeing here. The difference in Australia, the varroa mite is not present.
 According to the Australian government, the introduction of neonicotinoids has led to an overall reduction in the risk to the ag environment from the application of insecticides, and that Australian honeybee populations are not in decline despite the increased use of the group of insecticides in agriculture and horticulture since the mid-1990s.
 And just this month, results from a three-year bee study conducted by scientists from the University of Maryland, the US EPA, and USDA confirmed what other research has already shown, that field-relevant exposures of neonicotinoids have negligible effects on honeybee colony health.
 So in conclusion, I know I'm running out of time here. As you can see, the interaction of bees and pesticide is an issue that's being taken very seriously. We both sat on a pollinator health task force, which met throughout the last year through the state legislature. The EPA is working hard to ensure that these tools are used in an appropriate and scientifically sound manner.
 manner. Pesticides are just one part of the bigger picture. I'm hopeful as you look at pollinator health, you look at other ways the city may be able to help support pollinator health going forward. But a ban by the city of Portland will result in less option to contain destructive pests with little, if any, benefit to bee populations. Neonicotinoids are a safe and effective tool for managing unwanted pests. And in light of the current science, we urge you to reconsider your proposed ban on neonics and vote no on the resolution.
 Thank you. So, again, to clarify, this is about city government policy. This is about what Portland Parks uses on its property. You're aware of that, right? Yes, ma'am. Go ahead. Mayor Hales, members of the City Council, I'm Jeff Stone. I'm the Executive Director for the Oregon Association of Nurseries. We are number one sector of agriculture. We have one of our big counties that produce quality plant materials here in Multnomah County. So I appreciate the opportunity to talk to you this morning, this afternoon. Thank you.
 As Scott indicated, we were members of the Task Force for Pollinator Health. And out of those recommendations, there were several. Banning neonicotinoids was not one of them. And so I raised this issue because when the bee die-off happened, it was on National Pollinator Day, which was not super awesome. And it was one of my members, landscapers. They did not follow the label.
 And that caused me to do a crash course on really what is happening with the bee population. So I was able to testify before Congress. I learned a lot, actually, from USDA. And I want to share just a little bit about what contributes to the pollinator decline. First of all is nutrition. Just like anything else, bees need to have forage and a variety of things to eat. They have to travel farther in order to get the proper food that they need.
 The second is biodiversity within the bees themselves. We are working with the beekeepers to try to get more biodiversity within those hives. The last is the Varroa mite. It has a really cool – well, it's not really cool, but it's awful – Varroa the destructor. The Varroa mite is the biggest threat to the bee colony.
 This is the size of a varroa mite to the human body. So make it equivalent to a bee. So it's very small, but this would be our size. Picture 12 of these like little vampires all over your body. And then when you go home, I have two daughters, then it spreads all over there and it spreads and it spreads. It is devastating to the bee population. So what we have urged is greater research,
 alternatives for neonicotinoids long term, but the fact is they are a very effective way for the nursery and greenhouse industry to control pests. So I thank you for your time. I know I'm a little over. So again, I want to kind of follow up on Commissioner Fritz's question. This ordinance, if we pass it, will affect what we do. It won't affect what
 nurseries or farms or even commercial nurseries within the city do. Not to mention the ones that are outside our city limits. So I guess I'm a little puzzled at the scale of your reaction to what we would do ourselves here. Please. The reaction is natural about
 having fear about the health of the pollinator community. But the chief of staff to Commissioner Fritz mentioned that nursery stock and everything that you buy from have to be neonic-free. I don't know exactly if you know what you're getting into when you ask nurseries to produce nursery stock. I don't recall anybody coming to the association or any of my members asking our opinion about this.
 So while the economic impact on the very big nursery industry, on the city of Portland, is relatively small, the fact of the matter is that we want you to make the best informed decision based on the science that is present. There's a lot of science on the extremes on both sides, and we're trying not to feed the narrative on the extremes on this. So that's...
 That's the level. That's why I'm here. Do you think it will be impractical for nurseries to supply product to us after this ordinance goes into effect? My nursery members are very adaptable to market conditions. But I would say, Mayor, in all honesty, I think that when you have production, it's just not one little patch. It's a production method.
 for an entire nursery. I understand. I'm following that. We buy a lot of trees and plants. And that's why the phasing plan is the goal at the end of 2017 for the purchasing of the plants, recognizing it takes a while to grow them. And in fact, exhibit A is the pilot project that you talked about in your testimony. We're going to be doing a test just to help the industry find out what else might work.
 I have a technical question to file away. Maybe Park's staff can answer it, or maybe you can because you represent. I have conflicting personal...
 threads pulling on me on this issue. My father kept bees, but he also loved elm trees. And we're using a systemic pesticide to keep our elms alive. Do we know whether that particular treatment is using neonicotinoids? Or if it is, is there a substitute? Because my wife and other volunteers in my neighborhood go out and inoculate the elm trees every year. So want to save the bees, also want to save the elm trees are both possible.
 I don't know if you have an answer to that question. Boy, I don't want your father to be in trouble. Well, he's not. Perhaps there's a way that I can illustrate it that is what we're faced with. So there's a garden center that there was a temporary ban on neonics, and it was inside in a greenhouse, but they couldn't use it. So they had to use an alternative, which is far more toxic. They have to use it more often. It's less effective.
 And it actually is harsher on human health. So there are tradeoffs, Mayor, in terms of what type of pesticides you use. Someone mentioned that pesticides kill things. Absolutely, they do. They do. We need to make sure, though, that the pesticide that is being used is being used for the purpose it was designed to do, for the purpose of creating pest- and disease-free plants.
 And I believe the further answer to your question, Mayor, is the elm illoculant is not a neonicotinoid. I believe there is another kind of tree disease that is best treated by neonicotinoids. We don't currently have that. So that's another reason why we have the limited exception in the ordinance in specific cases where it's an emergency to allow the use continued. But we have a – that's aside for that elm borer that's not a –
 I believe I'm correct in saying that. I think your dad's okay. Okay, thank you. But you know what we could also do is get the experts back up at the end. We have other technical questions. Appreciate knowing that factoid. Thank you for your question. Thank you. Actually, one more question which is about the Varroa mite. Is the Varroa mite sort of a recent evolutionary creation or has it existed for thousands of years alongside of bees? They have existed. It came over actually from China. And like most pests tend to be migratory. They come over in a box.
 That's why we're very careful about importation. So the Varroa mite's been around. I think there's been more sufficient tracking of bee populations since back when we were throwing stones at the moon trying to see if gravity worked. So you're saying that Varroa mites were more recently introduced to the United States and our bees haven't learned to coexist with them like Chinese bees have or something?
 I don't think it's a co-existent model, Commissioner. I think that they are a parasite that will affix themselves to pollinators and to bees in particular. Right. I mean, I think that I've read in terms of bat population collapses that there's a fungus that does not affect Asian bats, but does affect American bats because bats over centuries and centuries,
 in Asia evolved to resist them? And I was wondering if there's an argument that there's something similar with varroa mites. That's quite an excellent question, and I would actually leave that to a beekeeper instead of an association exec to answer. Thank you. You're welcome. Hi, my name is Lori Vollmer. I own and operate a northeast Portland plant nursery and garden store called Garden Fever, and I've been in business for 12 years, and I'm also a member of the Oregon Association of Nurseries.
 My hope is the information I present will assist the council in a decision to prohibit the use of neonicotinoid plant care products on city property and to only use plant material that has not been treated with neonics at any stage of growth. I feel there is clear scientific evidence that neonicotinoids have a detrimental, if not lethal, effect on pollinators. I'd like to address the concerns regarding the sourcing of neonic-free plant material.
 At Garden Fever, we began working towards eliminating products containing neonicotinoids in the spring of 2013 by removing all plant care items that contain them from our retail shelves.
 We also polled our growers and were surprised to learn that 10 of them were not using neonicotinoids. And a number of others were working towards eliminating them, many focusing on biocontrol alternatives. At the beginning of 2015, the number of growers at our nursery has increased to 19. Two additional ones, Monrovia Nursery and Isley Nursery, used neonicotinoids only on one genus of tree, spruce.
 The majority of our growers are now growing with methods other than the use of neonicotinoids. They're all Oregon and Washington growers, and a chart of the kinds of plants we purchase from them is attached to my statement. My hope is that this information will demonstrate the trend toward growing neonicotinoid plants and eliminate concerns about sourcing plant material for Portland City property. It can be done.
 I was also told that the council is also concerned about controlling a pest called rosemidge. After all, we are the City of Roses. We don't have issues with that at our nursery, so I've asked another local nursery owner, Ed Blatter of Cornell Farms. They have a much larger selling yard and sell a full complement of roses.
 Ed's response is that they, and I quote, haven't experienced this problem, but this may be because we start with bare root plants every year in fresh soil. We haven't even found it necessary to spray for aphids or disease for quite a few years, but we do feed a lot and water a lot and choose disease-resistant varieties and release beneficial insects. Thanks.
 Sounds like a fall raking, a way with replacing mulch might work well, as well as beneficial insects, which are not only cheaper, but the ultimate systemic control, end quote. Ed is also a beekeeper at their nursery.
 On the OSU Pacific Northwest Nursery IPM website, this same cultural control is mentioned. Removing the mulch at the end of the growing season in the late fall and replacing with fresh mulch may remove the overwintering stage of the midge, which generally is quite shallow in the top one to two inches of soil.
 With any biological control, the goal is not to rid the garden of all pests, but better control the ones that are not to our liking. In order for biological controls to work in the Portland Rose Garden, we would need to be willing to let some pests remain to feed the beneficials so they can survive and, in turn, keep the unwanted bugs at check. There will be a few roses in the garden that may not be perfect specimens. However, they will be beautiful and enjoyed for years to come. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you all. The next three are Taggart Siegel, Christine Winson, and Rich Hatfield. And they'll be followed by Larry Treleaven, Brian Lacey, and Jen Dawes.
 I've learned a lot about this topic in the past several months, and with respect to the last three testifiers, we only have rose midge in two of our rose gardens, in International Test Gardens and in the Peninsula Park, and they think it was because it was brought into those places. Apparently this midge can't fly very far, so we don't have it elsewhere. So it's fascinating, and thank you each for contributing your expertise. Welcome. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and members of the City Council. The last time I was in this room was in 2011 when we were proud to create September 17th as Honey Bee Awareness Day. Oh, and just put your name into the record, sorry. Taggart Siegel. Yes. I am the creator of Queen of the Sun, What Are the Bees Telling Us?,
 The film looks at the catastrophic disappearance of honeybees around the world and the mysterious world of the beehive. I have interviewed experts, scientists, entomologists, and beekeepers, and there is conclusive evidence that the pesticides that are extremely harmful for pollinators and ultimately to ourselves.
 And I could say this has also affected me personally. I'm a beekeeper, and I live in Selwood, and my bees just died. They disappeared. They were healthy three weeks ago, and they're now gone. And this was a classic case of colony collapse disorder where the bees disappear, and the honey is there. I had two boxes of honey just full of beautiful honey, and the bees disappeared. Okay.
 So this, because bees could fly up to three miles, I don't know if it was my neighbor next door or a block away or up to three miles away. Whatever they were bringing back to our hive at some point was affecting them. And in fact, they might not have made it back to the hive. Man has created a deadly cocktail for bees. And if we don't protect them, we're not protecting ourselves. Mm-hmm.
 Colony collapse disorder has reached life-threatening dimensions. 30 to 40% of beehives disappear every year. And when you look at entomologist Mae Berenbaum, she says these neonicotinoids...
 which are neurotoxic. They target the nervous system, affect the ability of the bees to learn and to remember and to navigate, all of which would contribute to an inability to return to the hive after foraging. I think that's possibly what happened to my bees.
 And the head of the UN environmental program warns that the decline of bees means the writing is on the wall. We have to do something to ensure pollination for future generations. They're absolutely essential in what they give us. They're putting the future, these pesticides are putting the future of creation at stake, not just for the future of bees, but the future of humanity and the future of life.
 We have an opportunity to set an example for the rest of the nation and the world here in Portland. In a city like Portland that prides itself on environmental stewardship, we can set an example to help save pollinators. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you. Dear City Council members, thank you for the opportunity to speak on this very important topic.
 My name is Christine Winson. I work for UNIVAR in the Environmental Sciences Division. I've been a state-licensed pesticide consultant for 13 years. I came in with a certain premise, and Commissioner Fritz, if you would clarify for me, because I wasn't quite sure the way this ordinance was written. You said that this ban does not include city buildings.
 It includes city-owned property, but the City of Portland doesn't own housing buildings, for example. Okay. Does the city own buildings? We own this building and others. Building and others. Yeah. So does the ban include those properties? Yes. Yes.
 Okay. So this is not just strictly an outdoor only? Correct. Okay. So as Gene Camp had said before, we do have issues in buildings with bed bugs, with other pests. And as Section 1, Subset 1 indicates, the EPA has noted that neonicotinoids are reduced-risk pesticides for public health pests.
 So here it states it right there. So
 Within the interior of buildings, we have bedbugs. We have fleas. There are stinging insects. Taking this tool away where we have reduced risk to mammals, to people, to children, to pets, will be giving us the alternative of using other pesticides that are more toxic, again, to mammals, and in applications that will never harm a pollinator.
 So I would urge this commission to look at perhaps rewriting and opening up the opportunity to consider an indoor exemption for neonicotinoids.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you. City Commissioners and Mayor Hales and citizens of Portland, good afternoon and thanks for the opportunity to speak. My name is Rich Hatfield. I'm a resident of southwest Portland. I'm a father of two young children. And I'm also a conservation biologist with the Sarasota Society for Invertebrate Conservation.
 Neonicotinoids are the most widely used group of insecticides in the world. They've been billed as low-risk, high-efficacy chemicals with low toxicity to non-target organisms.
 However, evidence is quickly mounting in the form of hundreds of peer-reviewed scientific articles that these chemicals are not low risk, that the efficacy is quite limited in agricultural settings, and that because of their systemic nature, their longevity, they're having profound effects on beneficial insect communities and the animals and processes that depend on them. In short, these chemicals are contributing to the destruction of functioning ecosystems,
 While the bulk of attention has been paid to bees, less well understood is the effect that these chemicals are having on our less charismatic, yet equally important invertebrates, earthworms, ground beetles, and predatory insects, which all contribute profoundly to a healthy ecosystem. The fact of the matter is that less toxic, more targeted, and equally, if not more effective alternatives like water and soap exist. Okay.
 In addition to reading much of the scientific literature surrounding this issue, I've also seen devastating effects that these chemicals can have firsthand. I was the biologist that responded to the bumblebee kill in Wilsonville in 2013. When I was on the scene that June, dead bumblebees were literally raining out of the trees, their bodies hitting the pavement. The thought that these beautiful animals were dying for cosmetic reasons to prevent cars from getting a sticky residue was maddening.
 Clean cars are optional. Bees are not optional. As someone that has worked on a bumblebee conservation for the bulk of my adult life, this was a disturbing and revolting experience.
 I'm also a member of the IUCN, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Bumblebee Specialist Group. I've just finished an analysis of the 46 North American bumblebee species, and our results suggest that as many as a quarter or more than a quarter of them are facing some degree of extinction risk. One of the ODA's conclusions from the bumblebee Wilsonville kill was that our bumblebee populations were healthy because there were so many in that parking lot.
 There should have been as many as 15 or 16 species of bumblebees on the ground that day, but there was really only one species. The Willamette Valley is home to over 400 species of native bees, and there was really just one species in that parking lot. To me, that does not suggest that we have a healthy community of bumblebees. It suggests that the biodiversity in the Willamette Valley is reduced, and I suspect that neonicotinoids are culpable, at least partially, in that decline.
 I'm just one more comment here sorry when it comes to open city spaces including our rose gardens
 Beauty is not enough anymore, or at least we need to change the definition of beauty. Accepting blemishes, brown spots, imperfect blooms needs to become part of our ethos. We need more from our landscapes than aesthetics. We need them to feed our wildlife, sequester carbon, and function as working ecosystems. Despite what industry would like us to believe, neonicotinoid chemicals are not part of this equation. I also...
 Our children learn in our parks, and we don't know what the long-term effects of these chemicals are on developing minds and bodies. And I don't want my children or our city's children to be part of the experiment. Thank you for listening. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Larry Treleaven, Brian Lacey, and Jen Dawes. And they'll be followed by Molly Fitzpatrick, Carrie Weisenbeck-Foles, and Bob Bernstein. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. Hello.
 Well, my name is Jen Davis. Thank you very much for putting this ordinance forward. I am the founder of Bee Friendly Portland, a coalition of beekeepers, farmers, educators, and environmentalists that work at a neighborhood level to protect our bees. I'm also a beekeeper. I raise native bees and teach classes for the Portland Fruit Tree Project and other venues. Thank you.
 I can go to most any nursery today in Portland and buy some flowers to plant in my yard for bee forage. Sadly, I'll have no idea if these plants have been pretreated with neonicotinoid pesticides. This class of neonicotinoid pesticides are water-soluble and therefore systemic, taken up by plants and expressed in all cells, including nectar and pollen.
 Over 800 peer-reviewed studies have found these systemic pesticides can affect bees' foraging abilities, learning abilities, immunities, including to the varroa mite, and reproduction cycles. In addition, these systemic pesticides can remain in plants for long periods. Studies have found in some woody plants persistence as long as 10 years or more. So my flowers I plant for my bees may actually harm them.
 We need to change our ideas of what healthy parks and gardens look like. Not all pest damage is bad. If aphids predate a tree in a healthy ecosystem, ladybugs and green lacewings will gladly feast on them. Ladybugs, as well as our bees and butterflies, are disappearing at an alarming rate. We don't need Roundup, which the World Health Organization has just determined probably causes cancer, saturating our playground fields.
 We don't need trees and flowers exuding pesticides in every cell. Our children should not have to play in these toxic arenas, and we should not be poisoning our public and private gardens when we have the knowledge and the tools to successfully grow healthy and beautiful gardens without these toxins. California's severe drought should alert us now to protect our bees.
 As California landscapes dry up and die, so do their bees. We could soon see a massive food and bee crisis in this nation. We will need healthy soils and healthy bees for local agriculture. So please act now to protect our bees. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Mr. Mayor, I'm... Oops. Sorry. Nothing you did. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I'm Larry Treleaven, and for the last 89 years,
 Our family is owned Sprague Pest Solutions, and we operate in several states here in the West. And I have been with the company 44 years full-time after graduating from the University of Washington. And so I think my testimony is already submitted. I just gave it to your administrative assistant here. But I'm going to answer some of the questions that you asked of previous testimonies.
 First of all, what are some of the alternatives for treating for bed bugs, I think was one of your questions. And so one of those alternatives, a couple of them, one of them is fumigants, gas, but...
 They're toxic to humans, and we have to keep people away from there. They're more costly. And the health risk, we have to consider very carefully prior to using that, number one. Number two is heat, where there's no pesticides used.
 And here in Portland, as well as like in our Seattle office, we have three crews that use heat treatments all day long. That's all they do, just to combat the influx of that bed bug population in multiplex units, apartment complexes, condos, and in hotels.
 And the same situation is here. All right. Other things that I wanted to discuss with you is that last week, I'm not a hired gun. I work for our family operation, but I do testify in Congress a lot. And I met last week with Jack Ariega, who is a legislative aide to Susan Bonamici in D.C.,
 I also met with Thomas Griffin, who works for Greg Walden, and also Zach Stokes. And he is with Kurt Schrader, and we're working on a national level to try to address this very issue right now. And we're making headway on that. President Obama sent an executive order on protecting pollinator health and has asked each of the states to come up with their own.
 Pollinator Health Protection Program. And that letter was just issued not long ago. And next of all, we also are using trained canines to look for different various insects, including bed bugs, so we can pinpoint areas of infestation and treat them with heat and other things that minimize the use of pesticides. But I'm open to any questions from any of you on the panel about
 Because I didn't get the... That's helpful. Thank you. So, in fact, the federal government is saying states and localities...
 Go innovate on your own? No, they're saying states go on your own. States, not municipalities. States go on your own, not municipalities. Okay. And that was the directive from President Obama. And so EPA is working on that in conjunction with others as well. And there's been a couple of House bills that have died en route, but the issue is coming up on a regular basis back there. I was just there last week. Okay. Thank you.
 Other questions? Thanks very much. You're welcome. Brian Lacey. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for discussing this issue. What I'm about to read, I'm guilty of not addressing it just as a city property issue, but as a broader one, so maybe my comments will be more appropriate for a future date. Also, I'm a long-term beekeeper, so if you have any technical questions about varroa mites, I'm happy to address them.
 As the owner of Live Honeybees, a Portland-based pollinator education company, thanks for hearing my views on pollinators, the canary in the coal mine of food security. They are suffering and they need your help. As a resident of Portland since 1976, I appreciate the nearly four decades of leadership Portland and Oregon has shown regarding health and sustainability. Traditionally, we're the city of roses, so befriending pollinators would seem like a natural step. Portland also stands out nationally for supporting farmers' markets, community-supported agriculture, backyard chickens, even backyard beehives.
 Our local pride was tested by the massive bee deaths in Wilsonville and Hillsboro. One of the silver linings was Congressman Blumenauer's Save America's Pollinator Act,
 We need that concern and leadership not to fade, because out of the limelight, the biggest threat marches on, death by thousands of cuts every season by neonics, toxin banned in the European Union, as was mentioned in 2013, banned also by Vancouver, B.C. garden retailers, who today refuse to purchase neonicotinoid-laced plants from their wholesalers.
 Looking into the future challenges to health and sustainability, such as population pressure and density, climate change, declines in available gardenable soil, and continued lobbying by chemical companies, I urge you to join the EU, Vancouver, B.C., and the National Wildlife Federation to continue leadership to ban the neonics. Ban them in bottles, plants, seeds, laced...
 and coated with neonics, ban the sales from local retailer shelves. If there's a way and a will to do so, ban online purchases being shipped to Portland. As a public campaign, I see a public campaign and incentives for citizens to bring these toxins to Metro's recycling station.
 Leadership of this caliber would improve Portland's food security, reduce our toxin load, remove one significant cause of insect declines, both of pollinators and the invertebrate fish that feed on them, as they are both very stable and water-soluble.
 The work Live Honeybees does, removing swarms and hives from trees and buildings throughout the city of Portland, working often with the city of Portland, teaching the difference between honeybees and other insects, universally people feel a relief and a sense of community with pollinators, replacing those fears. In the end, we are a community not just of people, but of a broader, more inclusive community that relies on millions of small pollinators and other insects. Please support and defend them.
 So thank you for your service, and to show you in the sweetest terms possible, here's a gift of honey from some of our hives, one for each of the four quadrants of Portland. And because we don't want to publicly bribe you, and because honey is a community effort being derived from the flowers all over Portland, we would gladly donate on your behalf these jars to four local nonprofits of your choosing. That's very nice. Thank you.
 I'm sure Blanchet House would love to put some on their biscuits. You tell me who to send them to, and I'm glad to get them there. Here's this Blanchet. Mine is Right to Dream 2, please. Say that again one more time. Right to Dream 2. It's at 4th and Burnside. Excellent. We'll get you addresses. Do I have a nomination? Fine. We'll let Steve and Dan give you a nomination by email. And this is zucchini pollinated or not pollinated. Kind of graphic. These are what children experience with honeybees if you give them a chance. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. My pleasure. Do you have any questions about honeybees?
 bees at all, neonics, colony collapse disorder, varroa mites? Actually, yeah, about varroa mites, I mean, what's your perspective? I mean, on the one hand, you might think that varroa mites will probably be around forever, so how could they suddenly be causing colony collapse? Well, they have. It's a geographic thing. It's sort of like zebra mussels and other things. When human beings move too quickly and carry unknowns to them,
 something that is not native to another part of the world, and where there is no habituation to it, then yes, there will be problems. So when in the mid-'70s, Varroa mites were on hives that originally came from Russia, were transported back to Russia via train fast enough for the Varroa mite to still inhabit those hives, and they spread to Europe and hence to everywhere except Australia,
 Asian bees are, you know, they have handled the Varroa mite for a long time. And Russian bees are one of the best bees to bring in, when we integrate them into the genetic pool,
 here in the United States, that'll help. There's something called varroa-sensitive hygiene, wherein if the queen and the drone that the queen mates with both have this ability, the workers that that queen will lay will be able to sense mites in the cells and open up those cells and destroy the mites. So you only need about 10% of your total bee population to do that. So using breeding, using organic and biodynamic methods
 to solve these problems of bedbugs versus bees, I think is the way to go. Thank you. You're welcome. Thanks very much. The next three are Molly Fitzpatrick, Carrie Weisenbach-Foles, and Bob Bernstein, and they'll be followed by Kathleen Clark, McKenna McClure, and Madeline Morris. Thank you.
 I think this council hearing is the first time that we've had a grapefruit or a jar of honey in the chamber. So we're setting some kind of new standard here. Welcome. Hi, thank you. My name is Molly Fitzpatrick. I am a Northeast Portland resident acupuncturist as well as a beekeeper, bee advocate, and a swarm catcher since 2009. I want to speak to the events of the summer of 2013 where I witnessed multiple bee deaths.
 as well as behavior that's indicative of bee poisoning. In my own backyard, I would notice my bees would return to the yard and not be able to make it to their hive because they were demonstrating erratic movements, indicative of neurotic movements.
 toxicity. I've also witnessed dysfunctional behavior in catching a swarm in northeast Portland on the neighborhood of 35th and Shaver. I was called to a swarm in the 90 degree heat of that summer that was also during the time of the Wilsonville bee kill. The birch tree that the bees landed in were, I
 I would presume to be, was sprayed with bees given the nature of the manicured lawn. The person who I was in contact with asked me not to speak to the owner of the property because he was supporting an ailing wife and was elderly himself, so I did not follow up with his use of chemicals in his lawn. But...
 as Lon demonstrated, an indication of chemical management. And the bees that had landed in this birch tree were not able to cling to one another. So a swarm is how bees reproduce. It's the birth of a new hive. And instead of being in a cohesive structure where at the center the queen is being protected by her workers,
 these bees were falling in clumps, baseball-sized clumps. I noticed at first when they were hitting me on the back, and I was wondering why I was being hit with bees falling from the tree. And I climbed up into the tree myself, and I investigated this swarm, and they weren't able to cling to one another, indicating to me there was some neurotoxic potential of poisoning there.
 and it was very distressing to me. It was during a time when I was enrolled at a doctoral program at the Oregon College of Oriental Medicine, and for that requirement, I took a PSU class on Gandhi's philosophy of nonviolence in education and sustainability, and this was an extracurricular class for a doctoral of acupuncture and oriental medicine, and what I learned in this class was...
 a number of things, but ultimately, that the search for truth comes through acts of compassion. And I had to reflect back to myself, how could I be most compassionate? And pursuing the advocacy at that time was,
 fundamental in my learning process. So for this course at PSU, I did additional hours of community-based learning in which I brought to the Wilsonville Bee Memorial prayer flags. So I brought blank pieces of fabric
 And I'm going to read to you these, and Brian and Jen are going to help me as I read. So the first one says, I love bees. Bees, hold on, I'm going to just read them as we go. Stay strong. And these are voices from citizens that may or may not be in this room. I recognize a few people, but not everyone's here. So be strong. I love you, bees. German language I don't understand. Spanish. Muestra tu amor a las abejas. Ayúdales. Salvatores.
 It says, show us your love for the bees. Save us, help us. Happiness equals bees. Happy trees means happy bees. Let's hear it for the bees. Om symbol. Let's choose to be GMO free. Let's see. Be here now. Don't worry. Be happy. Be strong. What does it say? Why on bees buzz? Buzz.
 Small child handwriting, save the R.B.s. I might need to get you to stop before you go all the way through. Okay. Well, there are 41 other people here that posted this, but it was an opportunity for folks to express their grief, sadness, as well as hope and solidarity. And I am appreciative of City Council to take the steps. I do have concerns about...
 Some of the aspects of the ordinances, which other people have spoke about, but I just want to close with that. This is an opportunity we all have to really look within our hearts and find out what is really best for all of life and look at this from a holistic perspective. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. I'm Carrie Weisenbach-Bowles, dear mayor and city council.
 We, the undersigned residents living at 6325 North Albina Avenue across the street from Peninsula Park, strongly support the proposed ordinance prohibiting the use and purchase of neonicotinoid pesticides by the City of Portland. We strongly support prohibiting the use of these pesticides in our parks and natural areas.
 We are a community of adults and children that regularly use Peninsula Park year-round. We grow food in our front yard and our fruit trees, and our property is certified under Audubon Society of Portland's Backyard Habitat Certification Program. We strongly support city policies that promote human health and safeguard pollinators, native birds, and other wildlife in our community.
 Therefore, we strongly support your action to prohibit the use of neonicotinoid pesticides and neonicotinoid-like pesticides in our parks, natural areas, and other city-owned property.
 We understand that the proposed ordinance includes an exemption for the Rose Garden at Peninsula Park, where the Rose Midge is a problem. We also understand that the proposed prohibition would therefore not occur immediately in our local park, but we urge city staff to aggressively pursue alternatives to the use of the neonicotinoid pesticides that
 so that the prohibition can be extended to the Peninsula Park Rose Garden as soon as possible. We enjoy the roses at Peninsula Park Rose Garden, but we value human and ecological health more than the particular aesthetic they provide.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks so much. And most likely the pilot project will be at Peninsula Park. So I'd love to engage you and your neighbors in volunteering for that effort and monitoring it and just in the whole process. Thank you so much for coming in. I support that. Thank you. Welcome. Hello, Mayor and Commissioners and Amanda Fritz. I thank you for this proposal. And the best of all – Pay me the record, sorry. I'm Bob Bernstein. No, no, no.
 In the best of all possible worlds, we could count on the EPA or the Food and Drug Administration to take care of these sorts of matters. There's a well-documented revolving door between Monsanto and chemical companies and our regulatory system. Money talks. Take a look at what's happened in southern Oregon with silviculture and aerial spraying.
 It's the same sort of thing. I'm not surprised that people come up here who are being paid for their time, unlike me, and want to keep the status quo. They want to make a buck. I do believe that human beings are adaptable enough that they will find a way to make a buck. If you create a market for plants that haven't been treated, that market will get filled by enterprising people. I don't buy that argument at all.
 In terms of trying to find a smoking gun, it would be nice if we were still living in a 1950s sort of John Wayne world. We are not. We used to think that cancer was one disease. It is thousands of diseases. When you look at how you...
 break that chain, there are thousands of different ways of interfering with that replication. When you get into looking for a smoking gun and the kind of course testing that is being done on chemicals that are brought into our environment, it's ridiculous. There are papers that I've read that say,
 What may be happening is that we're interfering with a cytochrome inside of the bee that then makes the bee less able to get rid of other toxins. So then, like, how do you deal with this with a very industry-friendly regulatory process that says you have to find one single smoking gun? The world doesn't work that way. It's fallacious. And so I would say that you should do what you can
 you know, to ban these substances, I would tighten things up. The devil's in the details. It seems to me there's a lot of wiggle room there to continue using these substances. And I also went to an interesting talk by a woman, Susan Kegley. She's a doctorate, I believe. And this was through the Chemistry Society of Portland.
 And she works out of the Pesticide Research Institute. And you might want to contact her, and I can send you some information about her. And so I would just tighten things up with the exceptions. I would move ahead. If you want to use neonics on bedbugs, you know, I'm half ticked off that they used up time on this.
 But, you know, what people do to other people, at least we get to vote. What we do to critters, you know, the micro and macroinvertebrates that are in the water table, that the fish rely on for food. I did amphibian research surveys last year. Our amphibians are in terrible shape.
 You know, the world's basically falling apart. If you want to continue using Neonix, it's on you. I don't think you should. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you all. The next three are Kathleen Cook, or Clark, rather, McKenna McClure, and Madeline Morris, and they'll be followed by Patricia Green, Peter Tannow, and John Nicol. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners.
 My name is Kathleen Clark, and I'm a private residence, like a clinical social worker, and a gardener. I am urging the holistic view of, like, questioning, as been asked before, questioning what is our definition of aesthetics, like with the Rosemage, and that I'm also a permaculture student, and that refers to...
 the holistic design of nature and that multi-multi factors come into play. I don't believe that we can test, like the smoking gun that Bob Bernstein, that we can isolate in that way. And as the owner of Garden Fever said, the multifaceted organic care of their plants –
 produce results, the alternative results. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is McKenna McClure and I appreciate taking the time to hold a hearing on this very important issue and giving me an opportunity to speak. I'm a 9th grader from southeast Portland and in my arts lab class this year I created an environmental magazine on this subject and chose this topic for one of the articles because I also think it is very important. I'm just going to briefly list three reasons why I think you should ban the use of new nicotinoid insecticides in Portland.
 First, the bees provide critical ecosystem services. These services are worth a lot of money and are a significant part of the regional economy. The metropolitan area of northern Malay, between Salem and Portland, produces one-fifth of the state's gross farm revenue. According to the 2012 Census of Agriculture for Multnomah County, there were 598 farms on nearly 30,000 acres. They sold...
 nearly $45 million worth of nursery, greenhouse, floriculture, and sod products, and $19.4 million worth of vegetables, melons, fruits, nuts, and berries. A lot of these are flowering crops that depend on pollinators, and the harm to the pollinators will harm the local agriculture and economy.
 Second, there are more scientific studies that link necrotoid use to serious harm in bees. This has raised fears that the pesticides are an important factor in the plummeting populations of bees in culinary collapse disorder, along with diseases and widespread loss of habitat.
 A new study from Harvard says that neonicotinoids are likely a primary cause of culinary collapse disorder. According to the lead researcher, it apparently doesn't take much of the pesticide to affect the bees. Our experiment included pesticide amounts below what is normally present in the environment. Although more research is being done, the risk is serious enough that the European Union already put a two-year moratorium on the use of these insecticides on flowering crops.
 As a progressive city that gets an increasing amount of our produce from local farms, I think we also need to protect our local pollinators and food security and take a precautionary approach by not using these insecticides
 in-site neurotoxins until better information on their impact is available. Third, I'm worried about how these pesticides accumulate and pose a threat to ecosystems and human health. Neonicotinoid pesticides are systemic, meaning they're in the plant and can't be washed off. They also persist and accumulate in the soil for more than 10 years. Neonicotinoid
 Neonicotinoids have ecosystem impact because they can contaminate surface waters and then kill aquatic insects that provide essential food for birds, fish,
 such as endangered salmon in Johnson Creek and the Willamette River. A 2012 Japanese study also showed that neonicotinoids affect brain development in mammals. The research warned that detailed investigation of the neonicotinoids is needed to protect the health of human children. As a human child, I urge you to ban these toxins from my city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. What school do you go to? Milwaukee Academy of the Arts.
 You're a credit, and I don't think I could have written like that when I was in ninth grade. Good job. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, my name is Madeline Morris. I'm a beekeeper. I'm a gardener. I'm also a small business owner.
 My business is called Mickleberry Gardens. We create honey-based herbal remedies that we sell at a variety of local retailers. So, you know, many of my passions, as well as my livelihood, really depend on pollinator health. We keep about 25 to 30 honeybee colonies around the Portland area. And then we also work with larger scale beekeepers all around the region who equally depend on pollinators.
 having healthy pollinators. So I started beekeeping about eight years ago out of my concern for bees dying and since then it seems really clear that the scientific community overwhelmingly agrees that the neonicotinoid class of pesticides is a major contributing factor to the declining health of pollinator species. And that's also been something that I've been able to observe in our own experiences keeping bees.
 And, you know, this use of pesticides really has a reverberating effect up through the food chain. It impacts birds, amphibians, reptiles, plant communities, and human beings, as a lot of other people have mentioned today. And the thing about this particular systemic class of pesticides is that they can remain in plant tissue for many years, and that this essentially provides poison pollen and nectar to sensitive bees, right?
 And, you know, I think I heard the argument earlier that there's no scientific evidence that these pesticides are toxic to bees. But it is clear that it's toxic in large amounts. We've had descriptions of bees falling like rain out of trees from, you know, when too many of the neonicotinoids used or too much of it. So it's reasonable to assume that, you know, it would have toxic impacts even in lower doses, right?
 Especially, you know, when it becomes clear how far-reaching and ubiquitous these classes of pesticides are used. You know, they're in a lot of nursery plants. They're in a lot of seeds. Like, they're really all over the place. So, I think it's...
 It's important to recognize the pollinator species have a wide range of assaults on their health and well-being, from loss of habitat, inadequate access to nutritious forage, pests and diseases, and exposure to a wide range of toxic pesticides.
 So, you know, this is not the only thing that's going to solve the problem, but it's going to be a major step in the right direction. And the health, vitality, and prosperity of our region is really interconnected with the health of pollinator species. So please approve this ordinance. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for coming. Thank you all. Next three are Patricia Green, Peter Tannot, and John Nickel. And they'll be followed by Barbara Quinn, Don Francis, and Serena Jepsen.
 I think Don left. Let's go ahead and go with Barbara Quinn. Okay. Welcome. Please. Thank you. I'm John Nickel. I live in North Portland. I'll keep this brief because much has been said that I would be saying about this. I'm very much in favor of this ordinance, but I...
 I do not feel that it goes far enough. We're facing a real crisis here. I consider the cities to be a refuge for our pollinators. The commercial countryside is so bombarded by chemicals that really the cities, with intelligent, small family organic gardeners and people taking care of birds, birds,
 are really what's going to save these pollinators. We may be looking at pollinators going from the cities to the countryside.
 given the monoculture and the vast acres that are being sprayed with pesticides. And Oregon is just beginning to examine its archaic pesticide laws regarding forestry in this legislative session. So the onus is on you to really protect what we have.
 That being said, I don't think that this ordinance goes anywhere near far enough. And like the tobacco ban, I can see it very rapidly gathering much more speed and addressing commercial application. And I think that that should begin...
 with data collecting and what has already been sprayed, where have these already been. The records of the commercial pesticide people have to have what they used and where, and that should be examined so that we really see what the magnitude of our urban situation is. Thank you.
 I'll let somebody else speak. Thank you very much. Thanks. Welcome. Thank you. And thank you for bringing this up as an ordinance and for Amanda Fritz, what you've done on this. I'm going to speak. We've had excellent testimony. Don't just put your name in the record. Oh, Peter Tenno. Thanks, Peter. And I live in North Portland.
 and I'll speak more from the heart, I suppose, or philosophical point, because some excellent testimony has been given here today, and I've been educated. But I also read. I'm not uninformed, and I also have practical experience as a natural gardener in Portland on a large lot. And I have a little story with regard to that, and it pertains to what some other people have said about beauty should not trump beauty.
 Nature. Beauty. Nature is beauty if it remains intact. I have a rhody about 15 feet high among many wonderful rhodes on my property, and this one is my prize plant of all trees and plants in that garden. It's my prize. It came up with a problem. Lace bug infestation, and the city is probably experienced with this.
 I, in investigating, found that imidaclopid, which is a neonic, I did some research on this. I was to make a decision. Well, I was committed to being a natural gardener, so I wasn't going to use it anyway. But that was what the, that was what was suggested. I could have applied this and it could save this rhody. The rhody is now very, very sick. I will lose that rhody, but I still maintain the value
 as a natural gardener. We're fooling around with nature too much. Nature takes care of itself. Our fixes, these chemical fixes, just continue on and on and on. And nature has a way of getting around them. They adapt to them. So heavier doses of chemicals have to be used. Back to the point, the city is only concerned with its own property with this, but it can be an example.
 It could be an example for all people. I would particularly say that the labeling is an important issue. People want to know what they're buying, but thank you very much, and I support this wholeheartedly. In fact, maybe it would go beyond. Thank you, Peter. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Barbara Quinn. Thank you very much for coming.
 this forum today. I'm representing the Friends of Baltimore Woods, also of North Portland, today, and the Friends support this ban on the use of neonicotinoids on city properties. About one-third of Baltimore Woods corridor is meadow prairie. It's going to be conserved as prairie and open grassland, specifically for the purpose of
 housing the Greenway Trail and providing an environmental education to local students as well as adults who use the trail and this is part of this
 prairie property cost about $3 million. The city has a big part of that investment in this property. And we really like to see that investment used well. We want to bring, in fact, we have a permit with Parks Right Now to bring children down to the meadow to do a butterfly monitoring project. We would really like them to find some butterflies. And so we appreciate this
 partnering with the city on these projects, but we really need you to take leadership on stewarding, being a steward for both grassland, which is a very quickly disappearing important pollinator habitat, and also partnering with us on working on getting pollinators back. We want to help have the kids in our neighborhood monitoring for monarchs and other types of pollinators. We think it would be really exciting for them. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks a lot.
 Thank you all. If Don Francis left, then the last three I show are Serena Jepson, Charles Johnson, and Nancy Newell. Okay. Come on up, please. Looks like we might have two out of three. This is a Patricia Green also. Welcome. Thanks. Can I start? So my name is Serena Jepson, and I work for the Xerces Society. I direct the endangered species program there, and I'm an entomologist by training.
 and I strongly support this ordinance. I've been asked to read a letter that Claire Clock, a blueberry farmer from Corbett, sent in for this, so I'll read that, and then I just have a brief comment as well. Mayor Hale and city council members, I am Claire Clock from East Multnomah County. My wife and I have a farm in the Corbett area. I have certification as a certified private pesticide applicator and pesticide consultant from the Oregon Department of Agriculture.
 I practiced a strict form of integrated pest management. I have and continue to use restricted pesticides on my farm as needed. I am here to urge a ban on the neonicotinoid pesticides by the City of Portland and will continue my effort at the state legislative level. I use native pollinators, including bumblebees, mason bees, solitary ground bees, and parasitic wasps to pollinate my blueberry field,
 for at least the last 10 years. Diversity in pollinator and other species will increase resiliency in this era of climate change. While neonicotinoids have been an effective chemical for insecticide control, we are now seeing that collateral damage is too high. Other chemicals that have been effective and are now gone, at least in the United States, are not.
 include DDT, lead arsenate, 245T, and methyl bromide. It is important to take the lead on this important issue. Again, I urge you to ban the use of neonicotinoids in the city of Portland. Thank you for your time. And then also, I just wanted to address a couple points that I heard during the great testimonies today. Okay.
 The representatives from Oregon Nursery Association and Oregonians for Food and Shelter called into question this idea that neonicotinoids are the sole contributor to colony collapse disorder in honeybees. And I just, I want to point out I'm really familiar with the wide body of scientific research and literature on this topic. And it is true that colony collapse disorder is likely caused by multiple factors, not just neonicotinoid use. But there is...
 vast body of research out there right now that demonstrates unambiguous lethal and sublethal effects of Neonicotinoids on both honeybees which are not native managed both commercially and by folks like your father as well as our Native bees like our nearly 50 species of native bumblebees and
 as well as a wide variety of other organisms. So as Laurie-Anne from Center for Biological Diversity pointed out, there are new studies coming out almost every day. One very recently just came out of the University of Minnesota looking at the effect of neonicotinoids on ladybugs, painted lady butterfly, and monarch butterfly caterpillars, and found these compounds to be highly toxic to all of those organisms there.
 And this is, I think, the tip of the iceberg. I mean, a lot of the research in that area has not been well-developed. This is new research, but I just want to read one quote from her paper. And she said, quote, The use of the neonicotinoid imidacloprid at greenhouse-slash-nursery rates reduced survival of beneficial insects feeding on pollen and nectar and is incompatible with the principles of IPM. So I just...
 urge you to approve this ordinance and be a leader in IPM with the City of Portland. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. Charles, I think you might get the last word here. Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Charles Johnson, and I'm representing Oregonians for Food and Shelter and Wisdom and Compassion. We almost always disagree with Oregonians for Food and Shelter.
 And on that note, we'll talk about the reference to the situation in Canada.
 Europe, where there's been many bans on neonicotinoid products. And, of course, we know Europe is doing it wrong. They're giving their children health care with the children not having to have bake sales. And they're not spending a huge, disgusting amount of their budget on frivolous defense projects. So they're probably also wrong about neonicotinoids. Yeah.
 So obviously this small baby step should be taken. The city parks and the little landscaping that's done around city business. And if the mayor takes long naps and has bed bugs in the office –
 He should not... Neither. He should be spared... He should have the option, maybe, of suing the city to use neonicotinoids to restore his cot. But... I have no cot. Let the record show. But generally... You're going down real fast here, Charles. We should accept that there is...
 No research of any kind that has found one definitive cause to colony collapse disorder. And since pollination is slightly important to maintaining the circle of life, we should feel good about moving forward with this ban on pollination.
 city-owned property use of neonicotinoids. The problem, as I think it was Mr. Nichols pointed out with this ordinance, is it could use some broader, stronger language about how we're going to invest a specific number of man-hours into working with metro government and with Multnomah County and the state to bring this wise policy to a broader use in Oregon. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak? So, um...
 I haven't heard any proposals for amendments, Commissioner, so this will come back for a second reading, but it might be an opportunity for council members to comment now while we have folks here that are interested in the issue. So you'd like to do that? I would. I want to thank everybody. This has been a really very interesting hearing and a,
 wide range of perspectives, giving me even more information that I didn't know about this issue despite having studied it. So thank you all for being here, and thank you, Mayor, for entertaining this hearing and for being here. Potentially if we have agreements on the council next week, I might...
 I'm asked to add an emergency close so we can get started earlier. Can we do that at the second reading? Yes, the city attorney says we can, so that's good. There's only three of us here right now, so we can't do that right now. But certainly thanks to Tom Bizzot and my staff and to our partners at Beyond Toxics, Zooksy Society, Center for Biological Diversity, Audubon, and multiple other groups.
 John Reed of the Portland Parks and Recreation gave us information about our integrated pest management, and he, Mike Abate, and our team will be implementing the pilot project. So I think maybe what we need to do is lobby the mayor to keep signing me parks, because I would love to continue pushing this matter to the...
 And it is a first step. It's not the end. We're doing the pilot project that we heard from industry representatives that like to see. And we will take it from there. So it's exciting. It was particularly great to hear from the Peninsula Park neighbors because often it's the close-by neighbors who are –
 I wasn't sure when she started talking whether she was going to say, all of my garden is going to be at risk because you're no longer going to be using this stuff. But, in fact, that was not the case. So thanks very much to everybody. Commissioner Saltzman, the question was raised, depending on how the council feels about this ordinance, that we might add the emergency clause today so that it will go into effect immediately. So I wanted to know what your thoughts were on that. Actually, in light of the testimony, I've asked the fire bureau to get back to me since they are the only people.
 city bureau that has actual beds. I did want to hear their position on this issue. That's right, they do have beds. So I'd prefer voting next week. Also, maybe we could add the emergency close next week, once you've got that. We did ask the Office of Management and Finance because they do most of our facilities monitoring and they don't have any contracts for the iniquitinoid use. But yes, certainly, let's check into the bed issue. Other comments? Commissioner Novick?
 I really appreciate everybody who testified today. And it does sound like there is some debate in the scientific community as to the precise role of neonicotinoids in colony collapse. But if the Fish and Wildlife Service has banned it, if Europe has banned them, I think we don't need to know, as some people have suggested, that...
 Neo-nicotinoids are the smoking gun in colony collapse to think that the cautious thing to do is to get rid of them. And I do want to reiterate that I trust that the Parks Bureau will make sure that they don't replace these with other dangerous pesticides and hope that we're moving towards a less pesticide-filled world in general in the city. Any other comments, Dan? So I just want to make what might be a strange statement.
 but I believe it's sound, and that is we as a city were an early leader in the question of climate change. And there was a debate, a scientific debate for a while, and then a political debate masquerading as a scientific debate about whether climate change was actually happening. And the question was also, well, what could little old Portland do? You know, we're only one gazillionth of world...
 energy use. And so what happened is not only did we act early on a trend that turned out to be real, but then other localities around the world have turned to Portland and said, oh, that's how you reduce per capita carbon emissions by 35 percent by building transit and
 and doing urban design differently, and creating walkability, and putting green roofs on buildings, and all the other things that Portland has done. So I think often on an issue like this, it is municipalities that lead because it comes from the grassroots. People say, let's try this. We had the chance to innovate much more quickly and more boldly.
 see the next hearing that we'll have than maybe the federal government will do. And so I think it's appropriate for us to take this kind of action as, if you will, a pilot project of our own effort, as much as we did with city buildings and giving our own workers transit passes and those kinds of things. So this, to me, seems very consistent with the urban innovation that Portland has been part of, and that much of that urban innovation has been
 around environmental policy. So this is also very consistent with that. And a parks bureau that has gone out of its way to manage our green assets in a responsible way, including under your leadership, Commissioner. So I'm certainly supportive of this. And again, I want to respond with a strong objection to the suggestion that I have a cot in my office
 because I don't, but I will disclose that because I'm treating a cold, after I go home this evening, I'm going to put a spoonful of honey in a glass of scotch and take a good night's sleep. So thank you all very much, and we'll bring this back for second reading next week. Thank you. Okay, let's take a two-minute recess, and then we'll take up our next ordinance this afternoon. Come back to order, please, and take number 319. Okay.
 Add code removing barriers to employment to establish procedures for the use of criminal history information by employers within the city. Thank you very much. So we had an excellent hearing two weeks ago in which.
 people that have been thinking about this issue and advocating for us to be a leader on this issue came and spoke to us. And also we heard, I thought, some pretty moving testimony from individuals who have been struggling to find their way back into the economy because they bear the stigma of having served time in the correctional system and paid their debt to society.
 So I hope that all of us felt that we should move forward on policy on this subject, and that's why we're here today, because I think it's appropriate and fits our values in Portland to broaden the workforce by giving people access to jobs who might not otherwise have that chance.
 We've had a lot of conversations in the community. We know there's broad support for the concept and some concerns about the particulars. We've tried to take that into account in the draft ordinance that Judy Prosper is going to walk through for us today. And without much further ado than that, I want to call Judy up. She's going to be with us for the first part of this hearing but not the last, depending on how long it goes, because she's leaving town this evening for a trip. So, Judy, please come up and walk us through the ordinance in front of us.
 and tell us what's next. I'll ask if Tracy Reed would. And Tracy, of course, please. I have a question, sir. Okay. Welcome. Thank you. So good afternoon once again, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm back today to present some actual proposed code, which was filed last week with the auditor's office, that we discussed here on March 11th.
 The proposed code will be added to Chapter 23 of the Portland City Code, creating a new Section 2310. The ordinance accompanying the agenda item highlights the policy justifications for this proposed change to the City Code. I have also provided you, I hope you've received it, with the National Employment Law Project highlights, which with anecdotal experience from around the country in jurisdictions who have adopted similar policies.
 I'm going to now go ahead and turn to the actual proposed code language. As you mentioned, discussions continued on the best way forward since my last appearance before you. In the draft code language, there are two major changes to the structure of the policy that was outlined two weeks ago. The first is that an exception would be included to account for a situation where a candidate voluntarily discloses their criminal history to an employer prior to the conditional offer stage.
 That can be found in the proposed section 23.10.040A. And that states if a person voluntarily discloses during an interview that he or she has a criminal history, an employer may engage in a discussion concerning the information that is voluntarily disclosed but must still conduct an individualized assessment utilizing the factors set forth.
 in the earlier subsection to determine whether or not the person's criminal history has a direct relationship to the person's ability to perform the duties or responsibilities of the employment sought. In such a situation, the employer could engage in discussion concerning information that has been voluntarily disclosed, but would still be required to conduct the individualized EEOC 2012 guidance factors
 them being the nature and gravity of the offense, the time that has elapsed since the offense took place, and the nature of the employment sought. The second major change from what was proposed two weeks ago is that the private right of action against an employer has been removed.
 This change clarifies that the objective of the ordinance is to set out a required process for employers rather than a scheme that would substitute the determination of a trier of fact for that of an employer who conducted a good faith individualized assessment of a person's criminal history vis-a-vis the position sought.
 If you look at paragraph 8 of the ordinance, the subjective is pretty clear. It states, an employer who makes an individualized assessment of a person's criminal history and determines in good faith that it has a direct relationship to the person's ability to perform the duties of a particular job is entitled to decline to hire that person for that job. Proposed code language in 23.10.030 states,
 use of criminal history in employment decisions, sets out exactly what would constitute a violation of the ordinance. In Section B, the second part, for example, talks about an employer violates this chapter if an employer accesses or inquires into a person's criminal history prior to making a conditional offer of employment. That would be one way the ordinance would be violated. Again, it states in the ordinance...
 The employer may rescind a conditional offer of employment or take another adverse employment action based upon a person's criminal history if an employer determines in good faith that the specific offense or conduct has a direct relationship to a person's ability to perform the duties or responsibilities of the employment. The ordinance would create an administrative procedure within the city to do three things. One, review, investigate, and determine if an employer accessed or inquired into a person's criminal history.
 prior to making a conditional offer of employment. The second thing it would do is examine whether the employer made an individualized assessment of a person's criminal history using the EEOC nature time, nature test. And the third would be to assure that the required process outlined in 23.10.050, when an employer makes an adverse employment decision, is followed.
 So the characteristics of this violation scheme don't lend themselves to a private right of action, where a trier of fact would substitute its own judgment for that of the employer. The proposed ordinance would penalize employers with a monetary fine for failing to engage in the required process.
 As I mentioned a few weeks ago over the last few months, I have reviewed ordinances and laws passed by other municipalities and states and have provided you with a summary chart of the highlights of those ordinances, comparing them to the ordinance being proposed for Portland.
 Lastly, I would like to be clear that this ordinance would not prohibit employers from reviewing a person's criminal history, nor would they be required to hire a person with such a history. The proposed ordinance would merely delay inquiries so an employer and applicant could together flesh out a person's qualifications and experience first to obtain the policy initiatives outlined in the ordinance. Thank you.
 Unless you have other specific questions, I was going to stop there. I just wanted to highlight the differences and be around for questions. Okay. I know Commissioner Saltzman did. Yeah, I have some questions that I want to just review, and I think I reviewed them all yesterday with you, but I want to get them on the record. So please explain what the hearings officer would be considering when determining whether or not employer has violated this ordinance. Now, as I understand from our conversation yesterday, I understand that the hearings officer would be considering
 If an employer does the individualized assessment following the EEOC time, nature, time, nature? Is that right? Yes. Nature, time, nature? Guidelines in good faith, that is sufficient, but I guess explain it to me on the record. Absolutely. Okay. It's exactly what you've said. So the ordinance is crafted so that the person,
 the behavior of not going through an individualized assessment is what would be a violation of the ordinance. So as in Section 23.10.030, Use of Criminal History in Employment Decisions, that section outlines what is required of the employer to
 A, it just speaks to that it's an unlawful employment practice to do anything contrary to this ordinance. B, talks about an employer may consider a person's criminal history in the hiring process only after making a conditional offer of employment. So they have to get to that stage. In D, it talks about when making a determination, the nature, time, nature process.
 test, and then Section 23.10.050 sets out what needs to be done procedurally if you would like to make an adverse employment decision. So outlined in 23.10.030, 050, and onward are the procedure that have to be followed by employers. So what is meant by, who determines what a good faith effort is? I mean, we've spent a lot of time.
 in procurement issues talking about this, and I don't think we really, you know, we've tried to deal with this. So, yeah, who determines whether a good faith effort was made under this ordinance? That is what would come before the hearing officer, sort of the evidence of how the process by which an employer made their decision. Okay.
 I'll give an example that, you know, we talked about sort of different examples and what could come up in our conversations. If, for example, advocates sent a group of potential employees to one business and they got sort of the same result over and over, the fact that those folks were treated similarly, were they people with criminal histories, would sort of lend us to think that maybe –
 the procedure was not followed. So at a hearing, the hearing officer could request information about what did you do? Did you, you know, when did you review the criminal histories of these people? When did you inquire into the criminal histories of these people? Those are the kinds of things that the hearing officer could determine and be the fact finder on, not second guessing the actual decision.
 being made by the employer. So if the employer or prospective employer produced the nature time nature test and said here is the test I went through with this particular employee, is that something, you know, that's different than a pattern of discrimination against people with records, I guess.
 Certainly. I just used the pattern example because I think it would be an easier way to make a determination. I just set that out as an example of a way that it would come to our attention, to the city's attention, that a violation occurred. It would be easier than one individual person coming back and saying, I think my individual rights were violated. If an employer shows he or she did the time-nature, nature-time-nature test, and that goes to a hearings officer –
 That would be at the request of the city for the hearings officer to review that claim? Well, so the procedure outlined is that the city would receive complaints, be they by individuals, be they from advocacy groups, alleging violations of the ordinance. Yes.
 The city would do an investigation. They would review the information that came to them. The process is not yet fully fleshed out, but whatever process were to be established by the city attorney and in the admin rules, that process would be followed. The city would then try to mediate with the employer. A letter would be sent. Some conciliation efforts would take place to see if something could be worked out with the employer.
 If those efforts failed, then yes, the city, some arm of the city, would bring a case before the hearing officer. And that case would be to determine whether or not a good faith assessment was made. And if the hearings officer does make a decision that a good faith effort of the nature time, nature test was made... Then that would end the inquiry. That ends it. So the city...
 The city, the job applicant has no further course of appeal? Under the scheme as it's written, yes. Under that circumstance. Okay. And then, so whether or not an employer has violated the ordinance, it would be subject to appeal only by the, well, it wouldn't be, as long as there was good faith, nature time, nature test, it wouldn't be subject to further appeal. Theoretically, it could be, but my understanding is it's generally not what happens. Okay.
 Although on the side of the employer, were the employer to be found in violation, the employer would have an appeal. Right. Yeah.
 I think we're anticipating that our normal code hearings officer procedures would be followed. The appeal from a code hearings office decision is generally a writ of review to circuit court. It would be highly, highly unusual for the city to be appealing a code hearings officer decision to circuit court. It has happened.
 However, an employer who was found to have violated the ordinance at the code hearings level would have a right to seek a writ of review in circuit court. Okay. And then, so I want to ask the question I asked yesterday, and I think a lot of people have asked you the same sort of scenario playing, and I know it makes some people uncomfortable to talk about it, but I know a lot of women who I work with, it doesn't make them uncomfortable at all. In fact, it concerns them. The idea that if somebody who's a registered sex offender, convicted sex offender, convicted
 could be denied a job if that job involves being around children, being around older adults, being around women at closing time of a restaurant, for instance. So talk to me about that.
 Commissioner, there are exceptions written into 23.10.040. And those exceptions, we talked about the first, but the second exception speaks to just what you're talking about. They would not apply, this ordinance would not apply for
 where a federal, state, or local law or regulation requires or authorizes the consideration of a person's criminal history. And these situations would include but not be limited to employment with law enforcement or the criminal justice system, private security employment where a license is required by the Oregon Department of Safety Standards and Training,
 Employment involving direct access to or the provision of services to children, the elderly, persons with disabilities, persons with mental illness, or individuals with alcohol or drug dependence or substance abuse disorders. Also, employment that requires licensing, being registered, certified, or otherwise authorized to practice your profession. Speaking to the second question, the nature time nature test.
 would come in, is always going to come into play. So once an employer, after the conditional offer stage, if they decide to look at someone's criminal history and one of these convictions is on that criminal history, they can engage in the nature time, nature test, and the nature of the crime, the time that has elapsed since the crime took place, and the nature of the job sought.
 And again, if the employer makes a good faith assessment that the criminal conviction is related to one of those three factors, they can deny a person employment or rescind a conditional offer of employment. So if I'm the regional manager of a McDonald's and I'm hiring, looking for a manager of one of the local restaurants, and I make a conditional offer to somebody, find out their registered sex offender,
 convicted rapist whatever and i conclude you know gee my employees are 90 female i'm not comfortable having this guy supervising them particularly on late night shifts and where they're going to be closing is that
 I think that without putting myself in the place of a hearings officer, I think what you're talking about is making an assessment of the nature of the crime and the nature of the employment sought. So you are, in essence, doing that math in your head while we're having this conversation. The nature of the crime, being a sex crime, and the nature of the position being sought is different.
 with access to maybe young women or young people at vulnerable times of day. So you're talking about the very test that is required. So that, in the example I just ran through, that could be a legitimate exercise of that test. Without putting myself in the place of the hearings officer. Yes, sir. Okay. And then I had just two other questions. One is the estimated expenses of three-quarters of an FTE and then $500,000 –
 in money for education? Where do those numbers come from? Is there a budget that's been delivered? I'm going to let the city attorney speak to that. Commissioner Saltzman, we believe it would take us about three-quarters of an FTE the first year of implementation of this ordinance to –
 work with the training, get training developed, develop administrative rules, do training. In terms of the actual outreach budget, that's something that the mayor's office has developed, the projections for the training budget. But we believe that we could do the work necessary to support the first year of implementation of this for three-quarters of an FTE. Okay.
 And that's really a placeholder. Yeah, the outreach money is really just a placeholder. We have to honestly say there's going to be some cost if we're going to do this right in terms of employer education. But that's a placeholder number until we get into more detailed understanding of what we're going to be doing and when. And then I guess my last question for, again, Tracy Reeve is, you know, we had this discussion yesterday about,
 about enforcement responsibilities kind of being all over the place within the city and your desire to want to bring some more uniformity and consistency and perhaps a
 central office for enforcing various laws. Is that something you're prepared to take a lead on in that effort? One of my objectives for the next year is to serve at least as a facilitator and coordinator of that discussion within the city. There are a variety of bureaus that would need to be at the table. I don't even know that the outcome of those discussions would be a particular office. I do know that as a city and compared to comparable cities of our size, we really lack –
 civil rights and other rights enforcement capacity. We also are deficient, I would say, or at least not where we would like to be in our capacity to do.
 independent investigations in a variety of fronts. And so that's something that in my work plan for the coming year, I'm hoping to take on, as I say, at least a facilitating or coordinating function with a variety of bureaus and
 Certainly it's something I've had preliminary discussions with the Director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the Director of the Bureau of Human Resources, the City Auditor and Ombudsman, and I'm sure many others in the city would be involved in those discussions. But as Council continues to look at a variety of ways to protect residents of the City of Portland, whether it be sick leave, whether it be regulations to protect residents,
 disability rights, whether it be ban the box, we have not historically had good enforcement or investigation capacity, and that's something that I think we as a city need to have a discussion around and look at and bring some proposals forward for your consideration. That is on your to-do list for this year. It absolutely is. And then my final, final question was, you know, first of all, Mayor, I do want to commend you for, you know, bringing this issue forward. I think it's a very important issue. Sure.
 We, you know, I think Commissioner Hurts and I both last time suggested a work group to look at this before we passed it. But, you know, we're here today. I think, well, we're going to pass it, I guess, next week maybe. But are you still interested in convening some sort of business work? I am for helping us with the administrative rules. Yeah, state rules. Yeah. Okay. So we'll do that then. Yeah.
 But why aren't we having that to inform the ordinance? This is a fairly straightforward policy call of are we going to do this and the bare outlines of how we are going to do it put into code and then with much more detail into administrative rule. And I think that's the approach that made sense to me in taking this on in the first place.
 What we found in sick leave is that we had an ordinance that we thought was the best approach when we convened the task force with balanced representation, we found that in fact there were some improvements that could be made in the ordinance. And so I encourage you to think about doing that, Mayor, because it was only, as you remember, three meetings between the first and second meeting. It was only a month between the readings. And it seemed like that.
 Going back to then amend ordinances once you find the glitch. And actually, I have a few questions as well. Okay. But I'd like you to consider doing that because we've already heard, I've already heard emails from business owners raising what I think are some pretty legitimate points. Okay. All right. Well, let's hear what else you have. Dan, others? Any points you had? Well, I wanted to follow up on the question that Commissioner Saltzman was asking about regarding the exemptions. Only mine was kind of the other way around. In the,
 23-10-040, it says that these are the exceptions. It says, B, the prohibitions in this chapter do not apply where a federal, state, or local law or regulation requires or authorizes the consideration of a person's criminal history. It says including but not limited to, and then in number three it goes employment in the quoted direct access to the provision of services to children. I'm wondering, are there federal, state, or local laws that
 describe the situation Commissioner Salzman described with a late night supervisor serving potentially minors, supervising minors? Is there a state law that says that we can do that? I can't speak to the full panoply of state law and whether or not there's one specifically that would ban the situation that the Commissioner spoke to. What I can speak to and what this is guided by are the state of Oregon not familiar with all the agencies yet
 Department of Human Services, when they are giving funds for the care of the elderly, daycare centers, and the like, they have a matrix, as I call it, which is a list of prohibited convictions that people can't have in order to be hired into those jobs.
 So my thought was that that kind of a matrix could inform other like positions. If you have a private rehab facility or a private daycare center, your decisions could be informed by the state matrix. I'm concerned that the state matrix may not give us broad enough authority, but if you look at B3 without the preamble at the beginning of B, employment's involving the direct access or the provision of services to children,
 That's definitely retail jobs, service jobs. You know, if anywhere those kids are around, could an employer invoke this in order to be able to do background checks earlier? I'm going to hesitate to want to have a catch-all that sort of makes it so that any employment could fall into this category, but...
 The state's matrix is based on the care of. We're talking about nursing homes, rehab centers, daycare centers, where the job is to care for a vulnerable person versus an establishment where a child might come, which will be almost any establishment, be it a Starbucks, be it a grocery store, or just really any establishment.
 But that child would presumably be in the care of an adult, and the job would not be to care for that vulnerable child. So that's the nuance. I hope that answers your question. That's how I would read that. Yeah, it does.
 I have concerns about that language, and I would like it considered more. I also, in the next section, Section 10.050, it says that this is for making the adverse employment decision. The notice may be hand-delivered, emailed, or mailed by U.S. Mail.
 And then A2 says, describe the person's right to reconsideration within two business days after the employer provides the notice. So that, to me, sounds like the two business days start when the employer mails the notice. And sometimes a letter doesn't arrive for two days in my part of the town. For under the...
 civil code, there's an additional three days for mailing, and that would be spoken to in the administrative rules. But when you mail anything for legal purposes, you would get an additional three days. So the two days would only kick in if the person was either hand-delivered the notice, then they would have two days. But if it was put in the mail, there'd be an additional three days on either side of the mailing. Okay.
 And where's the burden of proof? How do you prove that you hand-delivered or that the person did or did not receive it? In the legal profession, we file what's called an affidavit. You would have an affidavit of service. But also in the administrative rules, we can address those kinds of things so that employers could have, just as we plan to do some kind of a safe harbor notice provision, in that safe harbor notice provision, there could be something about, you know, so-and-so certifies that they placed
 this in the mail or so and so certified that they made a phone call and actually spoke to X person. So I think we can work those details out in the administrative rules in terms of the adding mailing days or something in the safe harbor notice provision that could be a checkoff box or a category that says, this is how I affected service or notice to the candidate. Okay.
 So again, I'd like to have some more discussion between employers, hiring managers, and employees as to whether that two days is the right length of time to allow that. And then I'm really concerned about this $500,000. I'm trying to get information. We didn't have anything like $500,000 for educating on sick time.
 So that seems like an enormous number. It's a plug number, don't worry. Well, I would think it's much more like 50,000 rather than 500,000. We'll get to budgeting when we get to budgeting. But the question is, are we going to spend money?
 Well, again, I was admonished in my parks acquisition today that I would be requesting that rather than stating in the FIPIS that it's needed. We need to disclose potential financial impact up front. We're supposed to do that. Right. So what was – and I've had some discussion with Ms. Pepler about this. What was the pros and cons of doing it in-house versus doing it with BOLI?
 Well, Judy can talk about that some more as probably Tracy can as well, but it doesn't appear from our initial review that it's necessarily going to save us that much money to have Boley do it. And, of course, we also have more administrative control over how things are processed and how quickly if we're doing them ourselves.
 Commissioner Fritz, I'm not at all convinced that it would be less expensive to have BOLI do it. As you know from our experience with sick leave, while BOLI is doing the actual enforcement work, city staff still spend a tremendous amount of time getting the administrative rules up, preparing the training materials, working with BOLI to make all that happen, and participating with BOLI in the trainings.
 So it's not as if we elect the Bowley route, staff is not doing some heavy lifting. On something like this that is not a wage and hour regulation, doesn't have – I would not anticipate –
 But I would not anticipate the same level of enforcement activity right off the bat with this and the same number of things going to hearing that you would have, say, with sick leave that's involving are you being paid appropriately. That tends to be a pretty contested area of the law. And taking out that interface with a third agency or a second agency and being able to have that conversation.
 hone the city's own policies and then develop the city's own enforcement mechanisms, I think does have economies of scale and also enables us to, in some ways, control our own destiny and design, design the type of enforcement mechanism that we want to have. So it's a, because it's a process that,
 statute because you're really looking at is the employer complying with the process requirements. I don't see it being nearly as complex of an enforcement endeavor as sick leave was. So let me, I don't know if you run that course, but let me particularly going back to Dan's questions, I think it's very good that
 You're asking these detailed scenario questions of what if, how, because it's really important that we test the structure of the ordinance against those kind of scenarios. But I guess something that would be helpful to me is looking at your summary. A number of these other municipalities have had these kinds of regulations in place for some time. Do we have some information as yet about that?
 how frequent enforcement has even been necessary. My sense is that when cities, we included, have taken on a civil rights issue, that we set the bar and most people comply without enforcement. When we say you can't discriminate based on sexual orientation, for example, which Portland did before the state did,
 I don't recall having a lot of enforcement activity, but I do recall a lot of quick acceptance and compliance. I'm hoping that that's going to be very much the case here because we are even hearing from folks that aren't completely happy about us taking this on that, of course, we agree with the goal here. So it's one of those cases, I believe, where if we have that kind of congruity in the community that most people support the goal, even if they have some arguments about the particulars,
 I think we won't be doing a lot of enforcement, and that prediction could be perhaps informed by what's happened in Philadelphia or Seattle. So I don't know if we've got that kind of track record information from the other cities yet, but are they in court every day, or is it rare?
 My understanding is it's rare. I'll give you the Philadelphia example because it's very specific what their statute. First of all, these other jurisdictions are able to place a ban on the actual box, which maybe we'll discuss later why that may not be such a good idea in Portland. So turning in...
 an application that has a box on it is violative of those ordinances. So a lot of times what has happened is folks have turned those in, and those cities have done conciliation with the employers, and for the most part, as you say, they have complied. I know that Philadelphia had some issue with national employers who said, you know, we don't want to have to change our
 application for every state or jurisdiction that we have stores in or whatever. And those are the contentious cases. And when I last spoke to them, I think there were two of those cases. The other jurisdictions, except for Rochester, have an administrative enforcement mechanism within their cities. So they are able to do more conciliation, more. There has not been a heated
 docket of ban the box litigation or enforcement. The NELP, the National Employment Law Project, I had this handout passed around to you. It's sort of chock full of really good anecdotes. I didn't want to walk through them, but there are specifically Durham, North Carolina, which I think I spoke to last time, which kept track, the city and county of Durham,
 banned the box internally, and they tracked from the time that they did so how many folks they hired with criminal histories and whether or not they had any negative experiences. And there were no negative experiences, but their rates of hiring people with criminal histories shot up.
 So this is very well put together by the National Employment Law Project with a lot of those kinds of anecdotal examples. Have you considered an exemption for companies that already hire, that aimed to hire people returning from incarceration, like Dave's Killer Bread? We got an email from Portland Bottling saying that 47% of their team members are currently second-chance citizens.
 There is an exception, Commissioner. 23.10.040C talks about prohibitions of this chapter do not apply to any position designated by the employer as part of a federal, state, or local government program designed to encourage the employment of those with criminal histories. I don't think those companies do it. Do they do it as part of the federal program? Is that because they get the tax break from the feds?
 I think it's through workforce programs, but it's a fair question. We ought to check on that.
 The other, and I'll let the advocates speak to this, but I know in our meetings with some advocates who work with folks with criminal histories that some of those models are not considered the ideal models for people coming out of incarceration with criminal histories is to sort of send them to locations where many of the people who work in a certain location are people with criminal histories, that the idea is to really get folks to understand
 go mainstream and not continue to associate with people who are only ex-offenders. So I'll really let the advocate speak more to that because that's more of a policy consideration.
 Commissioner Novick, do you have any other questions out of the gate here? Yeah. One, I mean, I share Commissioner Fritz's concern about the language of 2310-040-B3 because I think just looking at it as written, it strikes me it's possible that it could turn out to be an exception you could drive a truck through. On enforcement...
 I, although it may be that the experience of other cities suggests that I'm being paranoid, I start from a different place than the mayor. My assumption is that laws are useless without enforcement. That's partially based on being told when I worked for the Justice Department doing environmental law that the Soviet Union had great environmental laws in a terrible environment because they didn't enforce them.
 And the penalty for violating the Clean Air and the Clean Water Act, at least used to be, up to $25,000 per day per violation. And those laws generally were, you know, complied with. $1,000 per violation doesn't sound like very much. And I'm curious, I actually don't know, what are the penalties for violating the federal employment discrimination statutes? Well, the penalties for the federal employment discrimination statutes can be,
 Many things other than a penalty. You can get back pay. You can get reinstated. All kinds of... But again, those discrimination laws have a scheme of a fact finder
 second guessing, for lack of a better term, what the employer has done and saying, no, your assessment was wrong. We say, yes, it was race discrimination. This ordinance does not have that kind of scheme. This ordinance is a procedural ordinance asking employers to consider certain things under the EEOC 2012 guideline, the nature, time, nature test, making a good faith determination that the job is...
 is related to the conviction. And the penalties will come as a result of not following the procedure. There won't be these additional penalties or injunctive relief given to a candidate who did not get a job. So the scheme is very different. So comparing them is a little bit difficult.
 I mean, based on what you just said, it sounds like, I mean, with the employment discrimination statutes, there are other remedies here that an employer would have to pay attention to. Here, if all you've got is up to a $1,000 penalty for an employer to worry about, doesn't that sound like, I mean, what is McDonald's care of three times they have $1,000 assessed against them? Yeah.
 Well, if McDonald's, which is presumably doing a high volume of applicant consideration and hiring, is found to be routinely not complying, that's going to be many thousands of dollars because every time they don't engage in this process for every applicant, that's an additional violation. So those could pile up pretty quickly for a large employer that's just choosing not to comply.
 I certainly don't mean to suggest when we talk about doing internal enforcement and when we talk about having a goal of conciliation and securing compliance that that doesn't mean that you need the other foot to drop sometimes if those efforts aren't successful.
 And one of the things that we would envision is having the capacity to do some investigation and find those would be the employers I think that we would be hoping that advocates would be identifying for us. And that we would then be looking into and identifying ourselves if we're getting complaints from job applicants. And where you see those repeat violations, I think those do start to add up. Obviously, if over time we're not finding that we have the deterrent effect in securing compliance,
 We can look at that, and that may need to be ratcheted up. Okay. Other initial questions? Because I want to get to testimony. Thank you both very much. So we want to take testimony from those who signed up last time and didn't get the chance and were courteous and were able to wait until now and waited even longer. So let's take those folks. I think we also have someone from the Restaurant Association who needs to leave.
 Fairly shortly, so let's maybe take the first three and then see where we are Okay, I didn't see anybody on the current list who signed up from the previous list So I will go ahead and go with the current list except for Charles Johnson He did sign up previously and Marion Haynes and Steve McCoy. Yeah. Okay. Mr. McCoy is from the restaurant association Come on up all three, please Johnson I think you get to be first this time. So the last good morning commissioners. I
 I hope that you'll be able to move this forward quickly, and I hope that we will have a little bit more conversation on the ability to literally ban the box in addition to these procedural – there's about 10 pages of PDF that get into all these little 23 dot this dot that. But most often, and with the T-Streamer exam, I'm here to you about the homeless issue, and I think one problem we've had here is not connecting the dots.
 If we want to not have 3,000 people sleeping on the streets of Portland, which seems to be the position of the Portland Business Alliance, and they generally support this ordinance, then we need to have real conversations about the labor market and moving more people into sustainable jobs. Otherwise, they're going to be on the dole. So I want you to continue to...
 work hard to get this ordinance in effect as quickly as possible and to look at how that particularly affects the houselessness problem in the city. How many of these people that are causing an increase in policeman hours and work for clean and safe people,
 are people who feel blocked out from the job market. And especially considering how good the city budget is looking and the fact that we might put $500,000 into this program, I think that some of that money might also be tied in to programs
 outreach to reaching some of these people and letting them know that they have a better chance of employment, that they don't have to feel like as soon as they go and they admit that they had a criminal offense in whatever scope of time that they're just wasting their time looking for work so they'll just continue to sleep in a doorway on 1st or 2nd or 3rd Avenue. As to the conversation about particular offenses and risks,
 Obviously, business owners need to be concerned about liability, but when we talk about, and I think incongruously lumped together, actual rapists with all other sex offenders, we really need to go back and talk about the women's strength and girl power programs. People can't rely on legislation and the background check of an employer to protect themselves. So, yeah.
 Women and parents should just know that any time that they're concerned about somebody, they should just go to www.nsopw.gov and check the person out for themselves, not rely on what some manager who's hectic or had a personal preference for a worker did. I don't think that that's really going to be an area of litigation. Obviously...
 employers just on the general issue of liability are going to have a legal standing to keep their employees safe. So I don't think we need to finesse that language so much. Thanks very much. Thank you. Ms. Haynes, welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, Commissioners, Marian Haynes with the Portland Business Alliance. I won't repeat the fact that you all know that we support the goal of removing barriers to employment and do support banning the box on applications.
 We had been concerned that there was not a more inclusive dialogue in developing the ordinance language. That was before we had actually seen ordinance language, which we've now had an opportunity to do, and listening to the discussion and questions with the previous presenters. And I think we are growing more and more concerned, frankly, with what we see before us. And we would like the opportunity to do that.
 address some of the issues and make the ordinance work in a way that will work for both applicants and employers. In my review, I have also looked at other jurisdictions. I have Seattle's ordinance right here. I have Philadelphia's ordinance right here. They look absolutely nothing like what is before you today. They're very, very different, much less cumbersome, much less burdensome, much less processed back and forth, none of the notice issues, things like that. There are things in...
 the ordinance before you right now that cannot be addressed in administrative rule. There's inconsistencies in the document that need to be addressed before it goes to the rulemaking point. We have a number of questions and concerns that I think by all means we can and should have a dialogue to work through, but I think that the way that this ordinance is structured, it is dangerously close to creating a new protected class,
 The EEOC guidance, which is a good guidance and tool for employers just generally to use, but really specifically applies to when criminal histories do have a disparate impact on protected classes based on race or national origin, things of that nature.
 I'm very concerned about the language that says that you have to have a direct relationship to the person's ability to perform the duties and responsibilities of a job. Again, that goes beyond the language that EEOC uses in looking at discrimination based on federally identified protected classes. The language that they use is job related and consistent with business necessities.
 So once again, we've gone far beyond and looking in the experience in other jurisdictions is not particularly useful in looking at what this might do here. The nature time nature test, you know, we're pretty familiar with. I think the third bullet in that, the second nature, has some additional considerations that generally are built out around that that we could use to have included in this ordinance.
 We have some questions about what it means to access a criminal history, what if that access is inadvertent, how would you deal with something like that. It also says that you can't make the inquiry. I understand that we can't ban the box because of free speech issues, and so how can we then ban the actual verbal inquiry? I think that's something that needs more discussion and something to be worked out.
 the we have a lot of concerns about the the safety issues that Commissioner Salzman and Fritz raised the way that I read this language those one two three four factors that are in the exemptions are preconditioned on there being a state federal or local law that that
 that speaks to those specific issues. And I'm not sure that that's what the city intended. I don't think that that's broad enough for some circumstances where people will have potential access to or proximity to populations that we ought to be really quite concerned about.
 The sort of back and forth after a determination has been made is unusual in my review of some of these other ordinances. The two days with the extra three days for the notice, and yet there's language that says four days after the adverse decision is made, that decision is final. You can't reconcile that. We can't do that in administrative rules. There's an inconsistency in the code right now.
 There's also some inconsistencies in the record keeping the statute of limitations, which actually doesn't exist in the limitation of action. So the city can take action within six months of learning about something, but that doesn't mean that that's within six months of when the action actually occurred, and yet there's a one-year record keeping. So we have another built-in inconsistency in the ordinance that I'm not sure can be resolved through administrative rules.
 We really don't understand the provision that allows the city to conduct a conciliation effort to remediate the violations. There was some discussion about what is the violation. Is that you didn't follow the process, or is it there will be a second guessing of the employer's good faith judgment? The only place when I can see any language with any clarity that that is not going to be the case is in the findings of the ordinance, not actually in the whereases, which are operative and nowhere in the code language. That's a concern.
 So all in all, we would like to get to a place where we can support this. We very much support the goal. We support banning the box. We would like to see criminal background histories allowed during the interview process. That's what by far most jurisdictions allow that have done this.
 It's ironic, I think, a little bit to us that when we were first approached, the idea was that removing the box will allow people to have a conversation about the totality of the person, their criminal background, whether that was relevant to a particular job or not, because it's quite possible that that box was impeding those conversations. Unfortunately, we've swung the pendulum so far with this particular ordinance that we're prohibiting those conversations once again.
 and I think that that concerns us. So in the spirit of conversation and dialogue, we would ask that we take a little bit more time, get all the affected parties to the table, and work through some of these issues. Thank you. Thanks. Let me get you to clarify a couple things, because in the extensive discussions that you've had with my staff about this proposal, you've said some things here that sound a little inconsistent with that. So you said at the outset that you support banning the box.
 But you said later in your testimony that you understand that we cannot do that. Does the Portland Business Alliance believe that it's legally possible in Oregon with our free speech clause and our Constitution to have an ordinance like these other cities where we require employers to ban the box? Do you believe that that's legally permissible in Oregon? We have not commissioned a legal opinion to determine that yet. But we don't believe that it is.
 So that's why the ordinance is written this way. If someone wants to bring us a legal opinion that says that it is possible to actually require employers to ban the box, I'll be interested in hearing that. But it's our understanding and our city attorney's understanding that it is not legally permissible for a municipality in Oregon to say you may not put the box on your application because of our free speech clause. And so that's why the ordinance is written differently here.
 than the other city's ordinances? Still, the other city's ordinances do allow criminal background checks during the interview process. They don't have some of the elements that this one does. We have not commissioned a legal review of that. I would note that, as you're probably aware, there are two bills in the legislature right now that also address this issue, and legislative counsel has seen fit to include banning the box in those in the state of Oregon. So
 Again, that's not a formal legal opinion. It's not a court opinion, but there does seem to be some potential disagreement out there about whether that's permissible or not. Okay. Well, that's informative. Thank you. Other questions? So when you say that Put-In Business Alliance is in favor of banning the box, you're saying you're in favor of supporting people being able to have an opportunity for interviewing and for getting jobs. Is that the shorthand for that? Absolutely. Thank you.
 Which I just would have to note is really different from sick time where the PBA was pretty clear they didn't like it at all. They were willing to come to the table to help make it better, which you did. So I do think there's an opportunity with us both, with us I think many people being on the same page as wanting to give people a second chance. Very much. That we should be able to come up with something that we all think will work well. That's what we would hope. Thank you. Okay, good. Dan, did you have a question?
 Well, you mentioned in testimony, I think there were things in the ordinance that you wanted to see in the rules. Did you want to be specific? The one thing that I had not seen in the code language that was referenced by the last speakers is clarity that an employer's good faith judgment that the criminal history is related to the job is,
 is not clear in the code that that judgment won't be second-guessed there is a number eight I think it was of the findings of the ordinance language that got to that issue but that's not really the operative language of the ordinance and it's not what's getting put into code and I think that that is a very
 detail, one of those ones that, you know, this is something because employers are exposed to liability, there are real safety issues at risk and real opportunities for a lot of people. And so our goal is really to make it right so that it works for both employers and applicants, and we have the best opportunity to really reach the goal that we all share. So if we took that finding and put it in the code, you're saying it's a stronger, more clear
 at least of what I understand the good faith efforts to be all about. It appears that that would help. Okay. Not one issue, yeah. Okay. You're on. Sorry, go ahead. A couple of questions from Aaron. First of all, I share Commissioner Fritz's appreciation that PBA's attitude is if we could ban the box, then you're in favor of literally banning the box. A question I had is –
 In terms of the timing of when a background check or something like a background check can be done, my sort of off-the-cup assumption was that an employer probably wouldn't go to the trouble and expense of doing a background check until they'd gotten to the conditional offer stage anyway. Have you found that there's a number of employers who actually have a procedure where after they've interviewed five people, they do background checks on all of them? Okay.
 Commissioner Novick, it really varies by business. People aren't going to run around doing a bunch of background checks. I mean, they cost money. You're going to get to a very, very small candidate pool. But I think there are – I have talked to some companies who do wait to the conditional offer stage. I have talked to some who particularly have to do a lot of hiring very fast, maybe for, you know,
 seasonal things or something like that, that if you get to a very short list, you might start running those background checks because you want to get somebody in within the next couple days to start filling shifts. So it's very much dependent, and I think what we tried to express when I was here last time is
 I don't know every single different employer's workplace, job requirements, hiring practices, and there ought to be some level of flexibility for employers who those conditions vary widely. I can tell you that I've been involved or aware of some city hiring processes where there were three finalists. We've done background checks on all three of them.
 Thank you. Mr. McCoy, you're on. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Steve McCoy, President of the Oregon Restaurant and Lodging Association. We're here, and it's going to echo a little bit what you just heard from Marianne.
 We understand the logic of batting the box, and with the caveat, we have no problem with that. We can see where, real frankly. That could be a barrier you can't get by if somebody looks at that and, you know, the resume or the application just goes in the no pile. We understand that logic. But where we have a problem is saying that business can't question the applicant during the normal flow of an interview when you're going through resumes, when you're going through –
 job history,
 That seems to be, in certain job areas, a question you want to ask and not have to go all the way through the process, do a conditional offer, and then ask the question, do we have a criminal history that doesn't work? And let me give you a couple examples. On the lodging side, because I got calls from some of our lodging members, when you've got people working in the rooms and they've got a pass key to every room in the hotel and they've got access to those rooms when the customer is gone.
 with their personal belongings there, they don't want to have people that have history of theft, burglary, those kinds of things, in the room. So in the interview process, if that's the job you're getting interviewed for,
 That's when that question would be asked. If you're going to be working in catering or if you're going to be working as a door man, that question's not going to be asked and the demand won't be there. Same with restaurants and handling credit cards, those kinds of issues. What really makes it important in the hospitality industry, which is what I represent, is the incidence of social media, TripAdvisor and Yelp,
 All you need is one person to have that bad experience. They've lost something, a watch got stolen out of their room, whatever it might be, and
 They're a victim of credit card fraud because somebody got a hold of their credit card number. That goes on Yelp, and now it's not an issue between you and that customer. It's an issue between you, and it can be tens of thousands of potential customers who go to those sites to see what's going on when they're making a decision, whether to frequent the business or not. So what we think, it's a one-size-all approach, which is what we're seeing here in the proposal. It doesn't fit.
 in every instance. And what we would like is a little more flexibility is needed in the ordinance. And again, if it's bounding the box, that's fine.
 And what really bothers us and what we think is needed is, again, input from business. We're more than happy to come to the table, sit down with the proponents, discuss this, hash it out, find out where the barriers and the blockages are, and work out something that works better for everybody involved and move forward with that. So I really would ask you to slow this process down a little bit, get input from everybody involved, both the folks that are affected and the folks that are pushing this proposal,
 And let's sit down and make this a better – something that works better for everybody involved, because this is getting needlessly involved. We think we need to have that access during the interview process, and frankly, having our input at the end on the administrative rules means the things we object to are already in case, and all we're doing is dealing with how you're going to enforce the issue. And that's really not where we want the input. Thank you. Thank you.
 Question for both employer groups. Do either of you publish a standard employment application now for your members, or have you done anything in terms of recommending that your members take the box off their application now, regardless of law?
 I'll go first. No, we got out of that years ago, A, on providing the application itself. We don't do that anymore. And, B, no, the issue hasn't come up, but in discussions with folks as I'm getting ready to come talk with you, I don't think they're absolutely against it, and some already have it off the application, don't even have it all.
 I mean, I know there's some standard forms out there, Stevens-Ness and so forth, that in some cases still have the box on it. So I was just wondering if you've done anything in terms of voluntary efforts among your members. I'm sorry, Steve, was your answer that you do, you have removed the box? My answer is we don't supply the applications. And, B, in talking with some of my members just to see what's going on, some have said we took it off already, we don't use it now. So it's a little bit of everything out there.
 uh mayor has we have a number of members that have also voluntarily removed the box we don't have any history or practice of providing kind of standard employment applications um encouragement i mean we've taken a position saying we should ban the box so i think that's that's an open question that i can that i can bring back but some of some of our members are also national employers who
 you know, the decisions about what their applications look like are way above my and our pay grade. Okay, great. Thank you. Now, back when I worked for his organization, we published a lot of standard forms. So that's what it is. We quit doing that. The advent of the electronic age sort of did away with a lot of that stuff.
 Steve, I apologize that this came up a couple of weeks ago when I was out of town, but I am curious as to how exactly this topic tends to come up in the interview process. I mean, is it really the case that you're interviewing somebody who's going to have access to hotel rooms and you ask, have you ever been convicted of a theft? I guess I've got a personal example since I've been managing the association, and it had to do with an accounting person.
 And we hired an accounting person that came through, one of our members, and highly pushed them in. They said they'd be doing a great job, brought her in about a week and a half in, and I didn't ask about criminal history, that background. I went through everything.
 what she'd done in her education, those things. So we get a call from the Beaverton Police Department, and this person was up and waiting trial for embezzlement, a major embezzlement. It was way more than they would have got out of our little association. But when I then went in and confronted her, she said, well, yeah, that is the case.
 Did it occur? Yes, it did occur. I said, well, sorry, I can't keep you in this job handling the money we've got coming in here, and had to let her go. Since then, when it comes to those jobs where it's handling funds, where I need to be sure we're fine here, it gets asked. And I ask about the criminal history. Do we have something you need to discuss that we need to know about? And frankly, I ask them at that point, I'd like to do a criminal background check first,
 And specifically, that's pretty the only job in the company I do it with. But it's the only job where we're at risk and there's, you know, we're in danger of experiencing not a good experience. So we do it then. Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Appreciate your help. Thanks. Okay. Who's next? We have Trudy Cooper from the previous list. And if anybody else signed up from the previous March 11th, please let me know. And then we're going to go with Simon Brooks and Marsha Hayes.
 Okay. Ms. Cooper, you're next. Hi. I'm Trudy Cooper. I live and work in the Elliott neighborhood. I want to focus on, first of all, I love it that my city has brought this forward, and I only want to focus on the 2310050. As an organization development consultant, I've worked with many employers on their hiring and other practices.
 And the area of the rules where the required process of the decision is to retract the offer, I see some potential weaknesses there, at least in my understanding of the way that I'm reading it. Thank you.
 First, I'm wondering about the turnaround time for the employer being only two days to evaluate the applicant's appeal of an adverse employment decision. I've worked for many HR departments and I've rarely seen them do a turnaround of two days having received a complaint.
 I don't see in the text what the rationale is for that, and I don't see what the penalty is if they don't bring about that turnaround time. And since the analysis contains about a half dozen considerations that are presented by the applicant in the event of a request for reconsideration, I think is the terminology, it seems like a longer time might be more practical. Thank you.
 And then second, the notification instructions from the employer to the applicant in the case of an adverse decision seem to lack specificity, that it seems that it is a disadvantage to the applicant to not have the specific information.
 I don't see any indication that the employer is required to communicate to the applicant the nature of the additional information that is going to be needed when they, whatever the process is for the reconsideration of the factors. And while the list of factors seem to be sound, I don't see where the employer is required to include that on the list of instructions.
 to show, in other words, the nature, time, nature analysis. And there's a list of, I think, eight things that they may bring to that reconsideration, whether that's written or a meeting, I don't know. But five of those eight things...
 substantive and it seems that they should be indicated. And then third, the decision seems to be left entirely up to the employer, and I think this has been discussed, that it's procedural. The employer can still simply say uphold their decision to retract the offer and the
 and maybe I'm not understanding the scope or appreciating that the scope is only to delay and have that conversation before pulling that criminal record, but...
 it seems that there ought to be some way to demonstrate more than just that you went through the motions of the nature-time-nature, as opposed to there being any hearing or consideration during a complaint process where the quality of that analysis could be questioned or could be reconsidered. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 You're next. Hi. I'm Judy Cirillo. I'm a member of the Partnership for Safety and Justice, and I'm just very concerned about the number of people we have in prison today.
 I read the new Jim Crow. I hope other people have read it. It really explains what we're doing to people, and especially people of color, locking them up. And many times they're young children, really, who don't make good decisions and end up in jail for something that's relatively minor or end up in some kind of prison. So...
 I just want to talk, I don't have a lot of facts and figures I talk from the heart because I feel it's such an emotional issue to think of your child possibly being locked up. I mean, I thank God that I am a white person. I think if I were raising a black son nowadays, I would be very, very concerned. What else did I want to say?
 You have to think of what happens to the family also when someone is incarcerated. If a child's father is incarcerated, there's no man in the family. There's no one to be a role model for him. A man or a woman could have made a mistake, but they still need to be at home with their children. So the children, I have a good friend who's,
 teenage, her daughter, I should say, was incarcerated, and the teenage children were left to float around, and she was supposed to take care of them. She was a woman in her 70s, and she could not really have any control over these kids, so they didn't go to school, and they got into all kinds of trouble. I don't think we've really looked at the outcomes when we just, you know, say, okay, check the box, and you're in prison because you did something that you shouldn't have done. Yeah.
 I have a granddaughter myself who managed to get herself into a lot of trouble. She was driving under the influence and various things like that. And luckily, there was a lawyer in the family who went to bat for her, and she didn't go to prison. And today, she's a young mother, and she's a wonderful person. So if she were black, I don't think that would have happened unless there were some unusual circumstances. And I think we really have to look at that and think about it. It's completely unfair. Yeah.
 I don't know if I have my ... Oh, I saw a wonderful video last night, which I wanted to mention, and was done by Second Chances for Everyone, which is a group that tries to help people coming out of prison. It really brought tears to my eyes to see this man who was in his late 30s or early 40s. He'd been locked up for 14 years. He came out. Of course, your family hardly knows you after 14 years.
 He had to, he tried to get a job. Nobody would employ him. And he was just sort of at the point where he was thinking, I'm going to be back in prison. And the second chance for everyone came to his rescue and managed to help him get a job. And he was so grateful. And he's been out of trouble. Even if you think of the cost of sending that person back to prison, I think they said it's like $35,000 a year to keep someone incarcerated. Right.
 where he could be out earning a living and getting a life back together so i think that's mainly it it's it's an important thing to talk about thank you thank you very much good afternoon welcome mayor hills and commissioners my name is simone brooks i'm the president of brooks staffing i'm also a co-owner our company's mission is to provide employment solutions for employers and applicants that enhance and diversify the workforce
 The majority of our work consists of providing temporary temp to hire and contract staff to private and public sector employers. The majority of our staff are located in the Portland metro area. The nature of our work results in exposure to companies ranging in size from small to large in numerous industries and with a variety of hiring timetables and practices.
 Our experience has shown us that there are companies that will use the admission of a criminal background, for example, on an application as a means of weeding people out. We have long recognized that solely relying upon the admission of a criminal background to make an adverse hiring decision not only unnecessarily thins the labor pool, but more importantly, negatively and disproportionately impacts communities of color in terms of opportunities for employment.
 Prior to November of 2014, we included the box on our applications. However, we used the information provided for two reasons. One, to start a dialogue with our applicants about their backgrounds and possible implications for which client locations they could be at. And two, to compare against the criminal background record obtained should one be needed given the position being applied for. In November of 2014, we moved to an online application and removed the criminal background question.
 Please note that at the time of the interview, we do discuss with our applicants their criminal background, specifically convictions as opposed to arrests, and the possible implication in terms of potential placements, again, positions and clients. For example, a warehouse where food is being shipped and received is very different than if there's high-level material or very expensive.
 high worth material being shipped and received. Further, the same business that ships and receives high-end merchandise may have different requirements for a receptionist versus someone that's in their warehouse. I am supportive of removing criminal background inquiries from applications. However, I am not in support of the ordinance as drafted, particularly the requirement for a conditional offer of employment.
 For instance, this ordinance does not take into consideration that in the temporary staffing industry, often a written conditional offer of employment is never issued.
 Often, because the applicant has already applied with us, is no longer in our office, and may need to go on assignment the next day, we often verbally discuss employment details. While we may send an assignment confirmation, the conditional offer as defined in this ordinance does not always occur. Further, the ordinance does not take into consideration that the turnaround time for staffing agencies receiving a request to filling a position is often hours or mere days, rarely even a week. Thank you.
 It can take a day or more for a criminal background check to be completed. If we know that an individual is interested in certain types of positions, we may run the criminal background check specifically so that we can discuss any issues and be prepared to place them on assignments that will work for them. I believe the purpose of this ordinance is to allow qualified applicants to build rapport with employers. We think that can be done at the interview process. Thank you. Questions? Thank you all very much. Actually, I did want to ask Ms. Brooks a question.
 what would you have us do here? I mean, I recognize that temporary staffing is a different kind of animal. And I did ask this question of the attorneys yesterday. I had a hard time imagining that somebody hiring a line cook, for example, does a conditional offer. And I guess their answer was, well, if you choose not to do criminal backgrounds on anybody, then you're free to offer whoever you like as a line cook.
 So what would you have us do to meet the particular circumstances of your business? I think allowing to have that discussion at the interview stage, whether that be a phone interview or in-person interview, would solve a lot of those problems just to be able to have the discussion. The fact that there's even an exception in the ordinance that basically says if they voluntarily tell me, then I can talk about it. But I can't talk about it if they don't voluntarily tell me. And yet, if there's a big gap in employment, I'm going to say,
 well, why is there this gap? And I can't pursue that and try to understand the applicant. But I think the example that you gave about, let's say the line cook is working in an environment where many of the other employees are female and they stay late in order to clean the kitchen. Do I need to be concerned about that as an employer? Perhaps. Thank you. Other questions? Thank you all very much. Thank you. And the next three I show are Mary Ng. Oh, she's here.
 And Michelle Rodriguez and Christine Harbacek. Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. Mary, why don't you go ahead and go. Hi, my name is Mary Ng. I want to thank you for offering this proposal. I think...
 Currently in the current situation with Ferguson and the protests going around, there was a young man killed in Atlanta recently with post-traumatic stress from Afghanistan. We have unassessed needs surrounding the issue of racial profiling. And I feel that that's not what, it's not really, it's sort of like we're saying one thing, but what we're really saying is that
 our police are unfairly targeting a certain demographic and rubber stamping them with a permanent scarlet letter F for felon when maybe their crime was related to their poverty or to systemic racism or to self-protection, like the young man who kept a gun on him in his neighborhood
 Just because he wanted to be safe. He didn't want to go home dead. And I think in some ways, we are also acting as if the DA is omnipotent and somehow has a handle on crime. We know that there are massive levels of failed prosecution. I know that all three of my rapists walk free. And one of them, I don't even know his name.
 So I don't know where he is, whether he's alive or dead, working or not. I know that I've been a victim of sexual harassment in a wide variety of contexts and that frequently serious crimes are committed by people with no prior background. And actually, people who are convicted of crimes can be some of the nicest, most reformed people you ever met. And so I think there's sort of a...
 Trying to make this into a boxy kind of issue is hard on my brain because we have a very harsh employment law atmosphere here in Oregon where I ran into a woman who was trying to raise enough money to visit her parents in Korea by working 14-hour shifts in Starbucks. And I'm thinking, well, in California, you'd at least have overtime pay after eight and a half hours. And I think we need to look more at comprehensive overhaul of the employment law systems,
 as well as issues surrounding the Innocence Project with wrongful convictions and framing and preventing racial profiling and building up our communities so we don't have this prison system of people
 cheap below minimum wage prison labor which is being exploited and we don't have disability assessment for prison rape victims who come out and then are supposed to join the labor commit Community and be exploited and not have proper benefits. There's a lot going on but um, thank you for listening I live in felony flats and I can tell you the unregulated industries which will not apply to this box culture
 culture are the meth, the scrap metal, the panhandling, the strip clubs, the stick-ups, and the car break-ins, which I had a car break-in just a few days ago in my mother's drive lot. So there's a lot going on in felony flats that I'd love you to check out, but maybe you could set up some kind of work center to get people involved in things other than crystal meth. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Hello, sir. May I have a panel? There's a button on the bottom of that microphone in front of you.
 There you go. Good evening, afternoon. My name is Christine Harbacek, and I support Ban the Box because it gives a hiring system a throwaway issue in regards that when they see the box, they don't want to hire a person. I have spent 18 years in prison, and I've had my trouble in coming out and looking for work. And in the process of looking for work, I have been told that my...
 credentials and my ableness to do the job was acceptable. My resume passed, yet because of the box issue and the reason why I was wrongfully convicted, which is related to a sexual offense, kept me from getting employment, kept me from being hired. I've lived and worked prior to this
 without any problem paying taxes and as yet coming out of a situation which has labeled me into somebody that i'm not which is a stigma that puts me in a category of situations non-related to me but legally related to me which now i have to apply by which is i belong around paper i have since been employed by sportsman's warehouse um
 And I will be there July going into my third year. The first three 90 days of being there, I was employee of the month and given a pay raise. I have been supporting myself by using the money from the schooling, from the money that I received from the job, to repay myself back to go back to school for the student loan that was paid.
 in deferment for a long while and I've since put myself back into school and I'm into my third term and this is spring break. My employee now allowed me to come here today for understanding the seriousness and the understanding of of this of how personal and related it was for me to be here. I work at Sportsman's Warehouse on 82nd and they have been great in supporting it of me and working with me towards my education and towards helping me get back into society
 Mike Gray is the initial hiring guy that hired me, and his question to me then was, they won't let you get past this. Very true. As long as we have a stigma about these cases that come before hiring people, you will not have productive people coming back into society that want to work, and you won't get people to pay taxes, and you're going to be losing money by sending them back into prison instead of just...
 used in the past and used in the present, and tying the two together as if they're the one and the same person. And they may not even be that person at all to begin with, but the law assessed them, judgment, preconceived them into somebody, and sent them away, and the time frame that was spent in prison
 does not only take away from the individual of who they are or not, but also the time frame is lacking as far as educational inside prison and how to come out of prison into a world that is foreign. And cell phones is all foreign to me. And it's a totally different world you walk into. And they expect within a matter of X amount of time frame to be employed online.
 That can't be done with the box still on the application. The application boxes you in, confines you, and doesn't help you move forward. It deters the whole effect of what I'm sure you guys aren't here today to have is people going back into prison, and you guys have a tax money going into an area that it is $35, $40 a year to keep one inside.
 That money could be better off in us coming out, paying taxes, and supporting back the city. And I just thank you for listening. Thank you for being here. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Any questions? Good luck to you. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Marsha Hayes. I am a current job seeker. Really sorry that I missed the initial hearings.
 What I have here is my background check from a potential employer that I interviewed with last week, I believe. They send it to me, and 14 days later, they send it to the employer. Now, I may or may not get this job based on this. It also doesn't help that...
 one charge that I have or one conviction that I have, it's listed multiple times and so it looks like I've committed this crime multiple times when it was actually only one time. That doesn't help. I understand the logic of keeping that criminal background check there. It is necessary in some cases. But
 the nature time, nature approach. The nature of my crimes or my conviction or crimes period, I think the circumstances should be looked at more in depth. When you're,
 have to condense this because it's just so long. So on the applications where it says, have you ever been convicted of a felony? I'm always honest. I'm very transparent about my life. I say yes. And then there's a box that says, if yes, please explain. And there's a little tiny box. And so working with Project something up on 47th and Killingsworth.
 I learned how to write a letter of disclosure. So I say, please see letter of disclosure. So I have my letter of disclosure that explains the circumstances surrounding my convictions. I am a child rape survivor. I am a trafficking survivor. I'm a DV survivor. I'm a substance abuse survivor. Like so many things that happened in my life as a result of things that were out of my control. And
 led me to make some poor choices because I didn't know how to make good choices. Back then, I didn't know. I never heard anything about DV shelters or rape. All I know is I had been violated. And, you know, having my child kidnapped and murdered and no justice behind those things, nothing in life made sense to me. Like, I didn't have the ability to make good decisions. Right.
 being in an abusive relationship where I ask for help.
 I asked the police for help. There was nothing they could do for me. So I had to stay in that situation and be trafficked and be beat and make choices that instead of jumping in and out of cars with strange men and risking them killing me, I made other choices that I didn't understand at the time. I was victimizing someone. I didn't have the ability to make those good choices moving forward.
 At some point in my life, of course, you know, the drugs and all that stuff came along with all that. And, you know, looking for love in all the wrong places and things like that. When this person was removed out of my life because of something he had finally got caught for after many, many years of enduring that abuse, then I began to understand that the negative effects of my life were a direct result of the negative choices I made. Like, I'm not making excuses.
 But I've come up with a theory as to why I was making those choices. Um...
 And so I wanted some positive events to occur in my life, and so I started making some more positive choices. I'm a certified domestic and sexual abuse advocate. I'm a certified Christian counselor through Good Samaritan Ministries. I went back to school and got a bachelor's in social work. I went back to school and got a master's of science and management and organizational leadership with a nonprofit management emphasis because –
 As this lady stated down here, there needs to be more education within the prison system to rehabilitate as opposed to retribution system.
 My thesis is shifting the burden, and that's what we do. We throw people in prison. They do have to pay for the mistakes that they made. However, while they're in prison, what are we doing for them while they're in prison? And then what are we doing for them when they get out? So that's this whole thesis is about this thing here. And I made a lot of mistakes. But as a result of have you ever been convicted? Yes, I have.
 If yes, please explain. Now, I don't know how many of these attachments that I sent in, I don't know how many of them were read and said, what? These charges? Oh, my God. Okay. Dump. I have gotten some interviews. I have been on a lot of interviews. At this point, I still haven't. I've been looking for work since August. I can't get work. I've had two and three and five interviews for one organization. I lack experience. Yes.
 I lack the experience that other people have. I have the credentials. I'm qualified, but I lack the experience, and I lack that experience because I can't get in anywhere. I can't get in anywhere. I'm at risk right now being homeless because I can't get in anywhere. I can't even display these in my home because they mean nothing to me anymore. I worked hard. I worked really, really hard to – it's like I didn't have help.
 I didn't have any help. I made a choice to seek professional help for the trauma that was imposed on me by myself and by other people. I had to go do that for myself. I made a choice to go to school and persevere through five and a half years. This is determination, perseverance. I was, I needed to do this for me. Now I need to go to work.
 in my community and help other people that are going through or stuck in where I once was. And then I need to be able to go to work and do like you guys do. Pay my taxes.
 I want to pay taxes. You know why? Because I want to pay for the taxes. I don't know if it's tax money that goes for shelters or domestic violence shelters or any kind of resources that are going to help somebody's medical, mental health or medical. I don't mind because it has worked for me. It has helped me. I want to go to work. I want to be a productive member of society. But because of some mistakes that I made,
 And it was 30-something years. And people say, leave your past in your past and move forward. I think I've moved forward. But every time I turn around, somebody is bringing it back to me. I'm not proud of this. I don't even like looking at it because it brings up issues for me. When people reject me for employment, they have no idea the circumstances that led to this.
 They weren't there when I was getting my face beaten and then told to go get my money. They weren't there when I endured all this. It keeps coming back to haunt me. And at this point, I'm real discouraged. I'm tired. And I see why people recidivate.
 They have expectations when they get out of prison to go get a job. You have to get employment. But you keep going and you keep going and you keep going and you keep getting rejected. Everybody doesn't have the foundation that I have. Thank God for the foundation that I have that allows me to keep forging ahead. Everybody's not that strong will. They give up. And they go back to what's familiar to them. So I think that...
 I do understand the logic in having it there, but then I do think that, and I think somebody said it here, there needs to be more dialogue around how that's going to really work. Because how do you know if somebody has violated the policy that they currently have in place? How do I know that the people didn't already do the background check before they offered me to talk?
 Generally, if the box is not on the application and we're talking about it and I know that they're going to do a background check, I initiate the dialogue.
 I initiate and say, okay, look, this is how it is. Because I don't want to waste your time and I don't want you to waste my time and get my hopes up and have me thinking that I have a possible, you know, job. And then knowing that because that list that lady talked about is going to weed me out.
 At one time, Oregon did have this long list. There was this permanent disqualifiers. There's the 10-year disqualifiers, and there's the five-year disqualifiers. And most of my convictions were in permanent disqualifiers.
 So that, thank God that that list was shortened. So it's like murder and arson and, you know, sex crimes and things like that. I was offered a job that I actually didn't apply for. I got a call and I had to go through the DHS weigh test, what they call the weigh test now, where I presented everything that I've done. And I had a stack of letters of character references from people who knew.
 That I had made some significant changes in my life. And I think that those are the type of things. Because I heard somebody say. I think just word of mouth from me saying. Oh yeah I've done this, this, that and the other. Where's your proof? You know where's your documentation? You know I think those kind of things should be implemented in there. I think a certain amount of time. Should be implemented. In order to.
 exclude someone. I want to ask you to wrap up, even though we so appreciate you being here. And I think all three of you, with your personal experience, have really informed our understanding of why this is so important. Thank you. Thank you all for being here and for being courageous enough to come forward and tell us your stories and why this matters. Okay. Thank you. And we wish you well. And I believe there's an employer who's going to
 see why you will be such a great asset to their organization. And I hope that happens really soon. Yeah, me too. I believe it too. It's just a matter of when. I don't want to be pushing a shopping cart down the street with stuff in it looking for work. Ms. Hayes, that was really compelling, and I appreciate you sharing your story. When you have boarded up at the interview stage, what has been the response of the employer at this? Okay.
 Well, two things. The one for this one, they appreciated my transparency. They had the information beforehand. I also left them with my letter of disclosure. Yesterday, I got a call from a potential employer. Well, I had gotten an email, and it was for a legal advocacy specialist for domestic violence, YWCA. And she sent this...
 She sent me a list of things to do to call for the phone screen, blah, blah, blah, and the background check. So in the background check, there was these convictions that would disqualify me. So I called her and left a message. I let her know, unfortunately, my convictions fall under your list. She called me back, and she says, look, you qualify. You qualify. Okay.
 She said, I want you to consider going ahead with the phone screen. And she called me back yesterday and said that she had new information. And because I would be working, well, the person in that position would be working with prosecutors, that they had such strict guidelines that prohibit me from having that job. And so they couldn't offer me the job.
 It was pretty devastating because I'm probably the one that the prosecutors want to work with. Right. You know what I'm saying? So, you know, that whole thing, it's kind of, it's a give and take. It's complex and then it's like, I think it should just be on an individual basis. And I heard somebody say, you know, like using your best judgment, but two, not having me sit
 with a group of people doing an interview, that is not making the final decision. And then you guys go back and tell the actual hiring manager or the actual person who has the say. So you guys go in and tell them my story instead of allowing me to speak with the individual who's going to make the final decision because I can share my story better than you can. I can express my, you know, I'm like...
 Well, I'm glad that the YCCA, that was a step forward, and then they hit a roadblock that that employer was willing. I know that Janice Youth and some others actually prefer having people with a criminal history because you're then able to relate to the youth that they serve. You've been in their situation. It goes back to experience. Yes.
 Like I've had several interviews with the Healing Root Center, which I volunteered for after completing my training, my certification. I volunteered there, and every time that there's a position open and it comes down to me and someone else, you know, this other person has more experience. And I'm not getting experience because I'm not getting in the door.
 Well, maybe they need to start considering your life experience, which is certainly compelling. That's what I ask them. Keep going. I actually had a job with...
 Volunteers of America Home Free Program. And I didn't actually have the job. I interviewed, and I interviewed really well. And at the end of the interview, one of the ladies, like, let me see her resume. And she looked at my resume and says, well, this is a high-level position, and they require that you have two years. And I said, well, my life experience doesn't count? They said, no, we'll have to talk to HR. We might have to repost this position. They send me an email later and say,
 You know, you interview well, your skills, qualifications, all that was spot on. But as we stated, this is a high-level position, and they require that you have two years' experience. And for that reason, we cannot offer you the job. Well, keep going because I know that at some point you're going to be a tremendous asset to some company. And I hope you'll come back and tell us about that. I will. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Ban the box. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right. Do we have some others still? Yes, the last two I show are Michelle Natividad Rodriguez and Patty Katz. Come on up.
 Hi, I'm Michelle Natividad Rodriguez. I'm with the National Employment Law Project, and I'm very pleased to be here today. I actually heard our organization's name mentioned earlier. If you're not familiar with our organization, NELP, it's a national organization, much as the name suggests. We have offices across the country. And I actually came here today in part for this hearing and in part for a hearing in Salem on a Ban the Box bill there.
 And we do actually focus on fair hiring reform. We're one of the leaders in the national movement, and I keep track of all of the jurisdictions across the country, compile data information, have been consulting with and working with advocates across the country, and have worked now with dozens of jurisdictions on their policies. So I hope to bring those experiences here today. And in fact, some of the themes that have
 come up and that I've heard today, I have to say they are the same themes that have come up across the country and where I think you all have the benefit of is to learn from the experiences from years now of policies in place in other places and as well as individual jurisdictions are going through the process of implementation and enforcement now.
 Because this issue around private employer enforcement, this is something that's coming up. It's the next edge of the fair hiring movement. There are now six states.
 and about a couple of dozen jurisdictions that have at least something in terms of their policy or law that apply to private employers, whether that's city contractors or the whole scope of private employers. So there's a good amount of experience, and I also worked personally on some of the advocacy in San Francisco and California,
 actually compiling a report on robust enforcement and implementation that i hope i can share with the commissioners and the mayor and i hope that that will be helpful and some of the themes that were talked about earlier are some of the pieces that we would recommend
 I want to focus in on, there's so many things I could focus in on, but I want to focus in on specifically on this provision around voluntary disclosure that has come up because I think it has the tendency to be very appealing. So the voluntary disclosure provision basically says that if you have a voluntary disclosure during the process, then you're going to be able to do that.
 Basically, it circumvents the law. You can go ahead and talk about the conviction history, and you don't have to wait until the condition or offer stage. That may make a lot of sense at first blush. In fact, that's very problematic. It actually sidesteps the entire law. And part of it has been hinted at from what you heard earlier. Individuals are taught to self-disclose. So you're basically looking at a population that is being told they self-disclose.
 And if we're talking about a budget of $500,000 in terms of outreach and education, that would be just the tip of the iceberg in terms of trying to shift the entire culture of how that operates. So I would recommend not having that particular component implemented.
 I haven't been able to touch upon the other components of enforcement, so I will make sure to put together some documentation for you and different principles that I hope will be helpful. Your counsel will be very helpful, along with others that we've heard from today as we refine this. So thank you very much. I'd particularly like to hear your advice on, you know, what,
 which parts of our ordinance are better than, build on the other ordinances and which parts you would recommend getting rid of. I'm also interested to know what's happening with the bill at the state, what's happening at the state level? It's having a hearing. Yeah, we had a hearing today, and we will see from there. It was a hearing, there wasn't a vote at this point, and so we'll see when the vote does come up. And is our ordinance modeled on theirs? How do they match, Mayor?
 I can't answer that question. I don't know if Judy or Casey can. I have some questions for later. Thank you. Thank you very much. Could I just ask a quick question? I'd just like your quick reaction to the arguments you heard made about temporary staffing agencies or other situations where there's quick turnover and there might not normally be such a thing as a conditional offer.
 Right. So that is something that has come up both in D.C. and San Francisco, and it's something that the enforcement agencies are working out right now. And I can certainly share their experiences and where they've landed. They've basically faced it in the administrative rules, but you could learn from those experiences and include something potentially in your provisions. Thank you. I'm sorry, do you have something, language, that San Francisco or –
 I'm sorry, I forgot the other jurisdiction you mentioned. There are many jurisdictions. Some of the most robust ones are D.C. and San Francisco. There is also – With respect to temporary staffing? Oh, in terms of private employer, ban the box, that's a very robust component, a fair hiring ordinance. They are working out at the administrative level how to deal with staffing agencies right now. Go ahead. Sit over here. My name is Patty Katz. I'm a –
 i'm an argonian my whole life which is a long life i've um am a formerly incarcerated person i got out of the system in 1994 and have been very fortunate i think because of my age and my race i've been able to get most jobs that i've applied for my drug addiction didn't really kick in until i was 38 years old and
 So I had a lot of life experience to bring to any employer that might ask.
 I went to work for Partnership for Safety and Justice and started having conversations with a lot of people who were coming in and out of drug and alcohol treatment, in and out of reentry services. And many of the things that I have learned is when you are in drug and alcohol treatment, they say be sure and tell the truth right away. When you are coming out of prison, one of the things they teach you in prison is tell the truth right away.
 is a woman in long-term recovery, I want to always tell the truth. However, I think when it's—and I have worked with a temporary staffing organization, and my application was thrown in the garbage while I was watching.
 So I applaud the staffing agency that has removed that box. I think that if I'm able to sit in front of someone and tell them the truth about what I did in my addiction and what I do today, I have a fair chance of being employed. Today I sit on the Governor's Reentry Council because of my past, not in spite of my past. I sit on several boards that have to do with...
 prison to housing, family. I'm on the CURE board, which we talk about. We work with families, Department of Corrections, and community corrections to help families help their loved ones be more successful when they enter prison and when they exit prison. So, you know, I think there's a lot of...
 education that needs to be done. I just surveyed 94 people about their employment experience with a felony conviction, and I'm compiling that into a report, and I'm happy to share that with you guys when I'm finished. But I really encourage us to let people
 have an opportunity to get back into the workforce, to become successful. A chance that was given to me I would like given to everyone. And it's going to take a lot of education with HR departments, with the prisons, and the reentry people who are saying, tell the truth, tell the truth, tell the truth. And I think that often we shoot ourselves in the foot.
 when we tell the truth too soon before we tell about our experience, our education, our resumes, our gifts, our skills. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Anyone else who wants to speak? So can we bring our staff back up for questions and guidance from counsel? I guess I have a suggestion I'd like to make. Yeah, what else? Okay.
 I would like to take the language from finding number 8 in the ordinance and put it into the code, Exhibit A. Sir, it is in the code. I looked. I know we talked about this yesterday. We did. I was looking at the last sentence. The last sentence says. 23-10-030-C. It's not the exact wording, but it is the concept.
 An employer may rescind a conditional offer of employment or take another adverse employment action based upon a person's criminal history if an employer determines in good faith that a specific offense or conduct has a direct relationship to a person's ability to perform the duties or responsibilities of the employment. So when you say it's not exactly the same, how is it different? Well, it's just code wording versus policy wording in the ordinance. Right.
 Yeah, making an individualized assessment, determining in good faith. It pretty much says the same thing. In aid, it says an employer who makes an individualized assessment, that's one factor of a person's criminal history and determines in good faith. Another factor, that it has a direct relationship. Yet a third factor to the person's ability to perform the duties of the particular job. Why is the word individualized assessment in finding number eight but not in...
 Code section 0.30C, I guess. Is there some... If you look at C and D together, D, the whole A, B, C, and D sort of blend into each other. And so if you look at C followed by D, it says in making the determination of whether a person's criminal history has a direct relationship, so forth and so on, an employer must conduct an individualized assessment of the factors. I think what happened in 8, it's just really more of a policy...
 phrase, and then we broke it out in A, B, C, and D of 23.10.030. Was that the issue we brought up yesterday with you? Yes. Yeah, that was it. Okay. So other questions, instructions, follow-up, recommendations? First of all, Ms. Prosper, I apologize for getting your name wrong earlier. It's been a long day. It's okay. I didn't even notice. It's been a long day for me. Thank you. So
 I would like to request to amend to say that when you're creating and amending administrative rules, that council offices will also be notified. You and I had talked about that. I'm interested to see that you're assigning the enforcement to the code hearings officer rather than to a new department within the city attorney's office. So that's different from what I had understood, and obviously the code hearings officer is under the auditor.
 The code hearings officer is what we have in the city currently, who is sort of the neutral arbiter of code, sort of the judge of code violations. What we're proposing is to leave that procedural piece with the code hearings officer, but the case would be brought by a city entity, and it could be the city attorney's office, it could be another office created, but using the same procedural mechanism of the code hearing officer. So, Commissioner Fritz, I think...
 I sort of envision this as a two-stage process. One is, as I indicated in my discussion with Commissioner Saltzman earlier, I think over the next year, there will be a number of us at the city looking at and bringing forward recommendations to you about how we could better do code enforcement and civil rights enforcement in the city going forward. Okay.
 Ordinance is set up to reflect what we currently have, which is that the city attorney's office would receive complaints that enforcement would be done and that those hearings would be conducted by the code hearings officer.
 Even if we were to move to additional enforcement authority, that might well be with a beefed-up code hearing structure. I think it's sort of a two-stage, I see it at least as a two-stage process. One is, how would we implement this using our existing code hearings process? The other is taking an enterprise look at how do we want to do more broadly civil rights enforcement going forward.
 So the code hearings officer under the auditor charges $1,300 for an appeal. And the auditor is concerned about that and looking to make sure that people with low incomes aren't excluded from the code hearings process. So that needs to be factored into the appeal.
 proposed cost. It does. The way that this is structured, it would be the city attorney or whatever enforcement, whoever ended up with that enforcement responsibility, initially the city attorney who would be filing those. It wouldn't be the individual person. The individual person would be bringing in a complaint to the city.
 But the Code Hearings Office will not accept your code complaint unless you are accompanied with a $1,300 check. And I realize there's a lot going on around that, and there's current proposals. So we have not yet addressed that. I know that there is a request by the auditor to have –
 There is, and in my opinion, it's massive. I mean, when we talked about enforcement for, I forget if it was demolitions or Airbnb, it was demolitions. We were thinking if only 20% of the demolition permits got appealed, that would be $97,000 a year. So...
 Adding in another city bureau may greatly increase the cost, and I'm just flagging that for you, Mayor, and I'm also thinking that it maybe increases the complexity because our current, as you know, our current civil rights laws are enforced by BOLI. I did get the numbers from my chief of staff,
 We got a pittance for sick leave enforcement compared with what is being proposed here. We got $37,000 for the contract with BOLI and $31,500 for education and outreach, including a citywide mailing.
 So I'm really concerned about what does this program look like? What are we actually creating? What are we proposing to create here? And to that end, in terms of next steps, I want to suggest one that we have had a long day, so I want to try to move to next steps. And one of those is I want to ask...
 Council offices to each supply a staff person for the working group, assuming folks are willing to send a member of each of our staffs to the table, along with some of the folks that we've heard from today. And then also maybe at least...
 have a notion about how long we want to wait for that process to do its work and refine the proposal and come back for council action, I would think that's somewhere between a month and two months, but want to take people's temperature about that. Are you talking about convening a work group now before we act on the ordinance? Yes.
 Oh, yes, I would like to do that. Because I know the question of Bowley v. City Attorney is something that Commissioner Fish was really interested in. He had another particular concern that I don't at this hour remember, but I'm sure he'll want to be involved. So my sense is, again, there's some of these issues that can wait for administrative rules, but there's others that can't. Right. And in the effort to measure...
 twice and cut once. It seems to me that if we bring the ordinance back in, say, 30 days or thereabouts, there's a discrete enough number of issues here
 particularly timing, a lot of them are timing issues, that we ought to be able to figure that out in fairly short order. Thank you. And, again, if we have staff people plus folks from the community that have showed up and brought a lot to the table and national organizations as well, I think we've got people of goodwill with willingness to roll up their sleeves.
 Marianne is still here. Yes, and she's nodding. We'll grab her. I mean, I'd love to have her. Her sleeve's rolled up. Thank you very much. Some of you stayed long enough that you're going to get named individually, Ms. Cooper. I'd love to have involved as well as, of course, we've had people from the Urban League involved in this all along, and she's still here, so you're in. She's out pretty soon. Yeah, that's right. While we've still got her. And Simone Brooks, I think, would be useful because of the staffing issue
 staffing company model as opposed to the standard employer model. So
 You know, there's a constellation of folks that we might recruit out of this room and who've otherwise been involved in the issue to work with our staff members. Josh Alpert, obviously, on my staff has been involved in this from the beginning. But if we could set a date maybe 30 days from now and see if that work has been completed, and then we'll know what remains to be done in administrative rules. And then there is the budgetary question of what do we have to spend to make this work. And, again, a plug number for now, but a more refined one later.
 i think that's a splendid suggestion i think on on sick time we didn't actually set a date for the next hearing we may have done we had the general understanding it was going to be about 30 days and then once we saw when we were done so we can continue the item without setting a date i think so right that's i think that's right all right let's do that but with a with an understanding that this isn't a six-month project it's a six-week project
 So if I might just put one more item on the table, and again, thinking to my experience employing folks, I agree that that face-to-face discussion of where there's a gap or where there's an issue, that can help explain why.
 to my satisfaction that this is indeed a great candidate that I want to offer the job to. I think if I was to go through that whole process and then do the background check and find something, I would want to have that candidate come back in again and have that conversation. So I'm wondering about the timeline to allow that to happen, that even under some... I could just say no. Even if I could just say no under the...
 Ordinance, I probably want to come back and say, gosh, I thought, I still think you are so great. Now I see that this has come up, you know, what's the story on that? So I'd like you to consider setting that in the timeline. And the other thing is where you've narrowed it down to a small number of candidates.
 And I'm thinking of city employment in particular, Mayor, where things we do are public record. It would be really embarrassing to go down the line and be ready to offer to a particular candidate, find out there's something that Willamette Week and others would splash on the front page that,
 this new person that's being hired has embezzled from a previous city or whatever, that we would not want to have that done in a public process and we might actually want to have two or more candidates have background checks just so that you, when you've got to your final choice,
 you're pretty sure that that person is the one that you can announce with fanfare and have the party. So that's a question to be puzzled with as to whether it's not that. And it's kind of the opposite of the staffing company condition. They don't have a conditional offer, but in some cases we or other employers for high-profile jobs
 might want to make those decisions informed about the entire background of all three. And in some cases, with Ms. Hayes' testimony, I think that it would make it even more compelling that the life experience had overcome any other background experience or lack of resume completeness that you might have been worried about. So, yeah.
 Just consider that as part of the process, please. Good suggestions. Steve, some guidance? I just wanted to say, let the record reflect that the Commissioner in no way suggested that the Portland Mercury would ever go out of its way to embarrass the city by splashing anything on the front page. Okay.
 Okay. Other instructions before we go? So I'm going to close the hearing and continue this item. No date named yet, but again, ask each council office to provide a staff person who's willing to work on the details of the issue with Mr. Alpert and Ms. Purcell and others around this room that we're going to recruit.
 for that work and make sure that we've got what I think is a broadly shared goal expressed the right way in an ordinance that will actually make a difference. I'm interested in refinement. I'm not interested in an ordinance that will be for show and not have results. I think
 that interest is shared here. So with that as a bit of a backstop to further discussions, I'm very interested in making it work, very interested in making it workable for employers, but also very interested in making it real and having it have the effect of a different outcome for people that are now coming out of the criminal justice system and seeing closed door after closed door after closed door, as we've heard so persuasively again today.
 I want to thank you all. This is a very important piece of work. Judy, thank you for your good work on this important Portland thing that we tend to do here, which is to set the bar on civil rights and human rights in ways that maybe others later follow.
 it would be a splendid misery if the legislature got there first and fixed this for us, because that doesn't happen very often. But the fact that both the state and the city are discussing this and trying to move forward is a good thing about Oregon as well as a good thing about Portland. So I'm happy that we have a problem that we're both rushing towards a good thing at the same time. But we won't rush. We'll do it right. Thank you all very much, and we're adjourned.