Good morning, everybody. Good morning. This is the March 20th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. It is also the first day of spring. Carla, could you please call the roll? Yes. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here.
 You daily? Here. Wheeler. Here. Before we begin, could our city attorney please read the rules of decorum? I'd be glad to. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting.
 If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good. Thank you. First up is the communications agenda. I understand all five speakers would like to come up together to honor the legacy of Bobby McKnight. They have requested that collectively they be able to use the 15 minutes. So, Carla, if you could just set the timer to 15 minutes when they start, and they'll figure out how to use their 15 minutes. Thank you.
 239 request to marry Helen Kincaid to address council regarding honor the legacy of Bonnie McKnight 240 request of Hannah Coon to address council regarding honor the legacy of Bonnie McKnight I
 241, request of Clara Carter to address counsel regarding recognizing Bonnie McKnight's contributions. 242, request of Chris Garzello to address counsel regarding honor the legacy of Bonnie McKnight. And 243, request of Linda Neddikovan to address counsel regarding tribute to Bonnie McKnight.
 Very good. And the only rule is please state your name for the record. And if the microphone's about six inches away, that's about the right amount. Thank you and good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning, and a great morning it is. My name is Claire Carter. I knew Bonnie McKnight...
 from citywide land use. Now, Bonnie McKnight, as many of you, or all of you, I hope, know, was a force of nature in Portland activist politics.
 I did not know her as long as many, probably most people who are sitting at this table did, but I certainly have grown to appreciate the value of her contributions, maybe more than many as well. I first met Bonnie in 2011 when I was a brand-new neighborhood chair for Maplewood Neighborhood Association. I soon got pulled into going to citywide land-use meetings.
 city-wide land use group meetings, which was a group that Bonnie McKnight ran, facilitated, and did everything else to support for years and years. What I discovered in my journey of land use education is that there are no groups that talked about land use city-wide in the city of Portland at that time and still to this day at this time.
 Bonnie facilitated Citywide Land Use Group. She set the agendas. She organized city staff, got other professionals to come to make presentations, and always ran a clean, quick, and really interesting meeting.
 Bonnie was really extraordinary in her ability to keep her fingers on the pulse of the community. She always had knowledgeable, she was able to pull city staff, other professionals to come to provide really great information to citywide land use.
 And she always seemed to know whatever issue was at full boil on the stovetop of citywide land use concerns. Paul Eisner, who I did not see here, but was a very long-time Office of Neighborhood Involvement staff person, expressed that Bonnie's long years of facilitating citywide was her great gift to the community. Thank you.
 In recognition of Bonnie's years of service and depth of her commitment, I would suggest that the office, and this is for you, Commissioner Udailey, I would suggest that the Office of Community and Civic Life propose a special Bonnie McKnight Award as part of the Spirit of Portland program to annually recognize an individual or organization that has done extraordinary work in the field of community engagement in land use planning and outreach.
 This could be one small but very important way to acknowledge Bonnie's service to our fair city and ensure that the spirit of engagement in our city is nurtured and supported into the future, even in the absence of such a strong community advocate as Bonnie McKnight. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Good morning. Linda Neddikhoven here. Since time is short, I'll kind of slip right in and continue the conversation that Claire began. Bonnie's ability to think big about issues facing Portland led me on a number of very interesting adventures in community involvement.
 First, there was her idea of having the Planning Commission spend an evening with community representatives from across the city, sitting at small tables discussing important questions about the future of Portland. Next came a series of bus tours for the Planning Commission. We worked carefully with our liaison planners, laying out routes through each coalition area to point out the challenges, opportunities, and sometimes unanticipated consequences of Planning Commission decisions amidst the current zoning code.
 The trip to East Portland was particularly significant. And way back before the days of Portlandia and the Great Recession, Bonnie talked to Gil Kelly into hosting a mini-summit on infill development we called Filling in the City. We involved planning staff, community volunteers, and developers of many stripes. Somehow we convinced them to be part of a very large panel discussion about how to make development work better in Portland. We engaged community participants to videotape their thoughts on infill
 and gathered a lot of great ideas. Unfortunately, the recession overtook us, and many of those are lost in the ethers. Bonnie worked incredibly hard for the greater good
 First, fighting the annexation of her East Portland community to the city of Portland, and then striving for decades to make Portland the best city it could be. As these examples indicate, Bonnie left us with an important lesson. While having three minutes to testify on an issue is important, it's often not sufficient. Finding ways to bring people from many walks of life together in settings that allow them to better understand each other is what is truly at the heart of a vibrant city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Hannah Kuhn. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. Thank you for this opportunity to speak about Bonnie McKnight. Bonnie McKnight was passionate about Portland. She believed our city could be fair and equitable, protect the environment, preserve historic homes, and provide affordable housing, and distribute sidewalks, parks, and swimming pools to all corners of our community. Thank you.
 In 2005, Bonnie was one of a small group of citizens that was helping city employees like me figure out what the authors of ballot measure 37 had intended and do it fast. The measure placed a 180-day clock on getting implementing rules in place. As you may recall, measure 37 was that infamous and thankfully long repealed ballot measure that placed severe limits on how local governments could regulate private land use. Thank you.
 Bonnie called me late one night at the office and asked, when was the city going to start outreach to neighbors about Measure 37 and how it might impact them? I told her, there was no city. There was just me. And I was working against the clock to get the implementing regs drafted. Plus, I shared one car with my husband and, well, none of my excuses persuaded Bonnie. Thank you.
 But she offered a solution. She would set up appointments with the neighborhood coalition offices, pick me up at City Hall, and drop me off afterwards. This was clearly an offer I could not refuse. Thanks to Bonnie's persistence, Portland's neighbors got early information about the measure and its impacts, and I got to spend quality time with Bonnie McKnight, her formidable intellect and passion for our city. Whenever Bonnie McKnight testified before this city council, people listened.
 Bonnie knew her stuff, and she presented her positions in a calm, respectful way, urging the mayor and commissioners by name to pay attention to the details, because details matter. C.E.S. Wood once said, good citizens are the riches of a city. And by that measure, Bonnie McKnight was a gem. She was like a tiny grain of sand, gently yet persistently irritating the layers of government, coaxing them to form a bright and shiny pearl.
 Bonnie McKnight and her tireless efforts on behalf of our city will be dearly missed. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Arlene Kimura, and I can't top any of the things that people have said about Bonnie, but I do want to know that she actually had kind of a fun sight, and one of the sights was that during the time we had a Rose Festival float, she was there blowing blue paint all over grains of rice to put on the float, and she was having a wonderful time doing it.
 I also want to honor Alice Blatt, who is another longtime East Portland activist that we just lost. And my memory of Alice is that she introduced my grandchildren to the joys of canoeing and kayaking on the Columbia Slough. Thank you. Thank you. I came this morning to speak on behalf of Alice Blatt as well. I met Alice Blatt 20 or 30 years ago. She introduced me to the Columbia Slough,
 It was because of her. I met her and signed her petition, and somehow the next day I was before city council for the first time I'd ever been here. And I trounced around. She showed me all the little treasures of the Columbia Slough. We trounced through more mud and weeds and things. And then when the bond measures, the metro bond measures came, we had the information we needed to put some quality properties on that list of ones that should be acquired there.
 I also worked with Alice on the Columbia South Shore issue. There had been a Columbia South Shore plan. She did an appeal to LUBA. It got referred back to the city and we spent a couple of years negotiating with the landowners and PDC and others to get a better plan that addressed the minimum corridor, a buffer along the slough. So through that process, I learned
 I just followed her to all those meetings, and I observed how she did things, her calm way of asking clarification questions, her way of saying, you know, can you say that in words that people like me can understand? So through that process, I became a neighborhood advocate and a park advocate. She worked a lot for parks and open spaces in particular. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. My name is Roberta Jortner, and thank you for doing this tribute for Bonnie. I retired from the city in 2016 after the good fortune of working for 25 years here, first with the Water Bureau, then with Environmental Services, and my last 14 years with Planning and Sustainability. And I can tell you from this experience that Bonnie McKnight and Alice Blatt were both standouts in terms of community leaders and activists. Thank you.
 I think of Bonnie, the words balance, patience, respect, and gratitude come to mind.
 Specifically, Bonnie balanced her sometimes very strong opinions and passions with patients. She understood that making real policy and practical changes took time, in some cases with our project's years. And it takes time both to flesh out the issues, hear from community members, and both identify and evaluate solutions. She prioritized progress over perfection.
 She supported solutions that she and everyone else, where they got part of what they wanted, but not necessarily all of what they wanted, sometimes in the short term, sometimes in the long term. Over the years, I never witnessed Bonnie speaking disrespectfully to or about anyone, whether it was to their face or in another room. Even if she disagreed with them or even when she was telling them that she thought they were being disingenuous, she had a way of bringing people together and moving the process along by that.
 She always welcomed new people to the process, community members and staff. And as a staff person, I can say she mentored a lot of staff, helping us do right by the public and the public process. She often thanked staff for their hard work, making us feel that it was important to her and the community. In one of the last emails I received from Bonnie, she was expressing gratitude for good friends and people to work with. And she closed her email with this statement.
 The absolute best reward is brought about by working together toward common goals. I'll say that one more time. The absolute best reward is brought about by working together toward common goals. I leave you with this bit of Bonnie wisdom. Thank you. Thank you. It's good wisdom. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for this opportunity. And I'm.
 specifically picked this day because you would all be here, and I knew some of you might not have known Bonnie, and this would give a good experience to those people that have not experienced her. Mayor Helen, was this your idea to organize the tribute?
 It was a number of people. It was my idea to call Carla and say we need to get on the schedule right away, and that was January. And this was the first date that five seats were available. Well, we're going to have a chance to give you some feedback afterwards, but the council will have a chance to say a few words. But I'm thinking back in my last ten years on this body, and it's been extremely rare that someone has organized such a tribute. And I just compliment you for doing this.
 Oh, well, compliment all of these people. I compliment everybody, but it's a wonderful way to start a council session. Right. So I've got a little prepared speech and then something at the end. My point is that Bonnie impacted many people in many ways. I want to share two stories.
 And upon hearing of Bonnie's death, former Mayor Sam Adams sent me a message and said, this is a part you can share. And then he wrote one that he said, this might not be to share, but I'm going to anyway. And so, Sam, if you're watching, he said he always knew that he was in trouble by the size of the folders that Bonnie brought to him. And if she came in empty-handed, he knew it was going to be a good day.
 Sam's message was, I am so very sad to hear about Bonnie's death. She did so much good for so many people. The countless hours she gave advocating for East Portland and all Portlanders to get fair treatment, smart land use, and great government services. Her passing is a huge loss to all of us. God bless her. I hope she is at peace knowing what an inspiration she was to me and so many other civic-minded people and to those that should be.
 And the other person that was impacted by Bonnie's existence is Mary Seip, and she's going to speak a little to her experience. Thank you. Good morning. Morning. My name is Mary Seip, and I met Bonnie about five years ago through Mary Helen. And I put met in air quotes because I never actually met Bonnie face-to-face.
 When Bonnie learned about the work I was doing on the pile driving initiative, she immediately began advocating, and she was a constant source of guidance and support and encouragement. It was her support that really often was the one thing that kept me going when all seemed really hopeless. Okay.
 I thought of Bonnie as the wizard behind the curtain. Since I'd never met her in person, yet we had numerous, numerous email exchanges. She wrote so many emails to so many people, gave me information on who I should be working with. And when I say the wizard behind the curtain, she was that person...
 that I never met who magically made things happen. And I just want to say that what I realize is that even though Bonnie is gone, and again, air quotes, her spirit's going to continue to live on in people like me who she influenced and guided and supported. Mary Helen? Yes.
 Those were two instances where Bonnie affected people that weren't citizens like us that went to city, a former mayor and someone she'd never met, and they all had big impacts. She had impacts on all of them. Bonnie brought passion to her beliefs, and while she requested no memorial service in this 15 minutes, it's kind of scaring me that it's a full moon, Ides of Mars, first day of spring, and we're doing something Bonnie didn't want to have done. Okay.
 I'm keenly aware of my surroundings today. But I think the best memorial, and I support Claire's idea about a special spirit of Portland award, but I also think that the best memorial we can give Bonnie is a living one. Her passion influenced, as I said, elected officials and people she never met.
 We need to work to continue her legacy of advocacy and action so we can make this world a better place. She'd like that. Statues and plaques cannot do that, but our actions can. And I just want to recognize all the people that are here today that made it down here and all the traffic to recognize Bonnie. Thank you.
 I guess thumbs up, that's the... Oh, there, clap. And we made it 21 seconds in. You had timed it perfectly. Bonnie would be scolding us that we didn't use that 21 seconds. She probably would. She'd say there's an entire message that you could put into that 21 seconds. I want to thank you for coming and...
 remembering the great legacy of Bonnie McKnight. And we all have in some way been touched with her great knowledge and her experience. I remember as a new elected official, as the new Multnomah County Chair, the whole issue of adjudicating Measure 37 cases fell squarely in my lap and in the laps collectively of my colleagues on the Multnomah County Commission.
 And as many of you remember, we were firing somewhat into the dark at that particular time. And she'd been very active, very engaged. And the way that she could communicate these complex ideas and simplify it and help us understand what the choices were that we had to make and what our options were was highly valuable to me. And that's just one way that her legacy has touched me.
 And second of all, I just want to say, look what it can do. Look at all of the leaders that are here in this room, sitting here at the table, who are all inspired by one person, not even a, you know, not a government official, not somebody who maybe on paper would be seen as having great prominence, particularly, but leaders.
 Her level of engagement and activism and passion for the community in which she lived and her desire to make it a better place had this just incredible pull on everybody she came into contact to bring people to the table and truly live what I think is what we talk about when we talk about this concept of the beloved community. It's not about just people sitting up here making decisions and everybody else making,
 dealing with the consequences. It's really about the public coming forward and shaping those conversations, shaping those policies, and in a sense, guiding us as elected officials in terms of what the community wants and expects. And that's a powerful legacy. And just seeing all of you here, and Mary Seip, who continues to come to council on a regular basis, what a great
 What a great legacy. And I can't tell you how much we appreciate your being here today to share it with us. Mayor? Commissioner Fish. I want to just add a couple of remarks. First, I want to thank Hannah Kuhn, because I think it was Hannah that first introduced me to Bonnie. And once you are introduced to Bonnie, you become a lifelong correspondent. Yeah.
 And I was the beneficiary before I was elected and after I was elected to regular tutorials by Bonnie. Lots of nudging, lots of advocacy work. And she was singular. There was no one else like her who was as focused and persistent on land use issues with a citywide perspective. She was the most knowledgeable person that I think I've ever dealt with from the community, particularly.
 I had a chance to visit with Bonnie when she was at an assisted living facility in Sylvan. So this is before I think she went into the final care. And it wasn't a particularly nice place, and it was – we visited in the sort of living room area in the front of the – and she clearly wasn't wild about her settings and comfortable, but she was all business. Right.
 She was lobbying for more money for her projects, and she was deeply concerned about lots of things that were going on. I've had the chance in the last 10 years to work with a lot of
 really wonderful people from the community that have helped me do my job at a better level and have helped the council see things differently and have done great work as advocates. And she was singular. So I'm so appreciative that you took the time today to come offer a tribute. And I can't think of a better way on a beautiful sunny day.
 first day of spring than for us to pay tribute to someone who really lived a good life and made a difference. Thank you for taking the time to share your tributes. Mayor. Commissioner Udaly. I just want to quickly say that I didn't have the pleasure of knowing Bonnie or Alice, so I really want to thank you for coming here today. And I wouldn't call this a memorial. I don't think she – I'd be happy to be remembered in such a loving way.
 And it is also a lovely way to start our day here at City Council. It's also Women's History Month.
 And it's a time in history when more women are seeking and winning public office. So it's really wonderful to be reminded whose shoulders we're standing on. And I'm going to bring your suggestion for a special award to the Bureau and to the people involved in that event and see what they think. So thank you. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you.
 I will be very brief. I just want to say, as I look at you beautiful women out here today, it does my heart good. Because each and every one of you have been living your passion. And most of you I know personally, so I know how hard you work for free. And it's just absolutely wonderful to see you come together to honor such good souls. Thank you for being here. Commissioner Fritz.
 I wasn't going to cry and then... I know. The compassion of my colleague here, who didn't know Bonnie, but was looking at naming an award for her. Because Bonnie was a Spirit of Portland Award winner in 2004. She was my friend, and I miss her. I thank all of you. Chris Garzalo is here, another retired employee, and Dunder Bauer, and Alice's family, and just so many people...
 I think we would have liked to have actually had a memorial for a whole thing. At least I would have, but Bonnie had wishes. And so this is a celebration, and it's one that we share with the entire community because it's out on television, and now it's recorded in the archives of the city of Portland.
 And so I remember she was involved in the planning of the red and blue lines for TriMet. She worked for TriMet and was really involved in making sure that those lines went in. And when I was learning from her and we were plotting together in the community, we would have lunch every month at Old Wives Tale. Long gone, very sad. I still want that recipe for the mushroom goulash. Yeah.
 And, you know, she didn't have much money towards the end of her life. She didn't have a big retirement saved up. And so often when I have lunches with friends, we take turns. And I very early on said, you know, would you mind if I just pick up the tab? And she said, you know...
 I've never considered that the amount of money a person has is any indication of their value. And yes, I'd be very happy to. It's fine for you. So I visited her in the...
 the assisted living close to my house and was actually quite scared because she was really feisty as Commissioner Fish said. She was just like, this, that and the other. But then the last phone call I had with her from my office to her in the assisted living in Sylvan
 We just laughed, and I think she was at peace that she was recognising that she had led a good life and got a lot of things accomplished and inspired a lot of us, including us, Commissioner Hardest, you know, a lot of women have been inspired by Bonnie. Also, a tribute to Alice Blatt. Thank you for including Alice. Losing two East Portland leaders in such a short time is a blow. I learned from Alice many, many things, but one of them was just show up.
 Because Alice would come to a meeting that I was running, and she'd come for the last five or ten minutes. And I knew she'd probably come from another meeting, which is why she was late. But she would come. And whenever Alice would come out, Alice thought this was important enough to come to my meeting. So that's a lesson for all of us, too. Even if you can only go for a few minutes, go. Show up and be as both of them were kind and thoughtful. So thank you very much. Thank you, all of you, for being here. Appreciate it so much. Thank you.
 Our first item is item number 244. Are we going to do the consent agenda? Why don't we go ahead and do that, get that out of the way. Have any items been pulled off the consent agenda, Carla? I'm sorry, what was that? Have any items been pulled off of the consent? Item 250 and 251. Okay.
 250 and 251, is that correct? Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item number 244, please. Accept the annual report for calendar year 2018 of the North and Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy Oversight Committee.
 Colleagues, the North Northeast Housing Strategy Oversight Committee report being presented today is the annual report on the progress of the North Northeast Housing Strategy. This takes considerable time and effort, so I'd like to thank the entire North Northeast Oversight Committee and especially the subcommittee members that worked on this report. Thank you.
 In 2018, I mentioned that, quite frankly, I was disappointed in the results and progress that we were making in the Northeast housing strategy.
 This year I had the chance to interact personally with the oversight committee members, including a quarterly meeting with the committee chair, along with conversations in various spaces with the participants. And I came to appreciate that the expectation to reverse discriminatory policies enacted in the city of Portland over decades won't be fixed in one year or two years or even in five years.
 We must have a steady and consistent commitment to this effort, and I'm committed to the progress in this plan. Here to present today is Dr. Stephen Holt, who is the chairman of the North Northeast Housing Strategy Oversight Committee, and Julian Seraj is also going to present as well, is my understanding. Good morning. Well, good morning. Good morning, Commissioners, and good morning, Mayor. Good morning.
 Good to see you. Good to be here. It is our fourth annual report and an opportunity to talk about this daunting task. As you so eloquently identified, we are addressing decades' intentional activity that impacted specifically African Americans and other people of color as it relates to the common right and opportunity of homeownership and or safe dwellings.
 And so the Oversight Committee is very committed to the work associated with it. It is a significant lift, if not daunting task. And I look forward to sharing what has happened this past year. It's amazing that we started this.
 It seems like just days ago to take this on, and the work that has happened has been slow, arduous at times, sometimes difficult, but absolutely necessary, and look forward to talking about all of that.
 Just to highlight a few. Well, before I say that, I want to say that I am extremely privileged to work with a very gifted, talented, capable, thoughtful group of people who bring expertise and view and lens from a variety of ways. If you look at the committee members that are identified, these are folks who have been committed to community way beyond just their own personal experience
 professional lives, but even in their personal commitments. And I'm grateful for that work, so I wanted to say that. If you look at the scope that we are charged with, it is to advise on, review, program proposals and plan development,
 It is that we will be informed by any activity going on in the interstate through Portland Housing Bureau, anything that happens around decisions or plans or proposals, that we monitor the implementation of policy and programming and associated outcomes, and that we advise the housing director or the housing commissioner –
 on progress, issues, and concerns associated with North and Northeast Portland. Now, our hope is that we don't just simply function as a group that points out issues, challenges, and trouble, but that we also offer some strategy and insight and planning to be thoughtful around how to equitably engage the talent,
 and the capacity within the city, offering opportunities not only for people to have housing and ownership or safe rental, but also opportunities to build wealth and capacity and workforce opportunities associated with it.
 Now, while we are predominantly focused on, and our charge is housing, we know that housing is not exclusive. It involves a variety of other dynamics, and we're concerned about those as well. This report will reflect the accomplishments and some of the challenges of 2018, and then we'll talk a little bit about what we see for 2019. Jillian was going to be kind enough to...
 Take us through our accomplishments. I have the pleasure of telling you what we've been able to accomplish this year, which is quite a bit. Two multifamily rental buildings were opened in the north-northeast area. One is the Beatrice Morrow Kennedy with 80 units and the Charlotte B. Rutherford that has 51 units.
 The preference policy, which prioritizes folks who were displaced from the North Northeast community, was utilized at three buildings, one that actually opted in to use the facility.
 the policy that was not required to, which is, to me, very exciting. And that was Garlington Plaza, the Charlotte B. Rutherford, and the Beatrice Morrow all are using the preference policy to fill their buildings. We also have down payment assistance forgiveness. So part of the strategy, which I'll go over in a minute, is homeownership.
 And these homeownership loans came due after 30 years, and council this year approved a forgiveness strategy over time so that at the end of 30 years when someone's paying off their mortgage, they don't end up with another loan that maybe they thought was a grant. We were also able to increase the boundary for the home retention funds so that they can be used within the entire urban renewal district.
 And three projects received additional funding in LIFT funds from Oregon Housing and Community Services, or OHCS, the Bridge Williams Project, Magnolia II, and Proud Ground, which is a homeownership building, the 50-20 condos. So the strategy of the oversight of the project,
 There's four strategies in the URA, and the first strategy that we are tasked with implementing is preventing displacement, and we are accomplishing that through home repair grants and home repair loans. The second strategy is to create new homeowners, and we have two pathways to create new homeowners. One is to build new units, and the other is to provide down payment assistance to purchase existing properties.
 Our third strategy is to create new rental homes. And the fourth is for land banking. So I'll go over the first, excuse me, the preventing displacement. So we received updates on the deployment of funds for home ownership grants. And here you can see it, the repair grants and loans broken out by race and by year.
 These are used in an effort to help people stay in the homes that they already have and prevent further displacement of the most vulnerable populations in north-northeast Portland.
 The second strategy is creating new homeowners, and I'm happy to inform you that since we produced this report, that another person has been able to close on a home purchase. So there are actually 11 more families that have become homeowners, and there are five that are currently shopping with funds. Not everyone that came through the preference policy process used the funds allocated.
 So there's seven people have been able to use the down payment assistance from the housing authority, three from Prosper, use the housing, sorry, down payment assistance from Prosper Portland, two using the construction excise tax, and four were actually able to go through the process of becoming mortgage ready and buy a home without any subsidy. Okay.
 So the next strategy is creating new homeowners through development. And we have two properties currently under development. One is the Habitat for Humanity, the Olin Townhomes, and the PCRI Williams Townhomes. And those units are under construction and hopefully will become available in the first half of this year. The date on here says March 2019, but I would think that they'll probably be filled later in the year.
 We are also creating new rental homes. So there are 51 at the... So there are 501...
 dwellings in the pipeline. There are 146 under construction and 131 new units available to lease now. And of those, 51 units are leased up at the Charlotte B. Rutherford and 81 units at the Beatrice Morrow and that is currently leasing up. I believe it's about halfway there. The Magnolia 2 is under construction. Can we stop there for a second? Of course. Um,
 Why is it taking so long to lease up the Beatrice Morrow? We have a tremendous housing crisis. There's a huge need. We have lots of people looking for affordable housing. It's wonderful that Charlotte Rutherford is completely leased, but Beatrice Morrow has lagged for some time. What do we know that explains why we're only at 50%? Go ahead. No, you go ahead. No. Okay.
 an excellent question. It's been one of the concerns we've had, one of the questions we've asked and there has been an uncertainty in response. As much as we know, there was an interruption in leasing for a period of time. Hold on a second, Bishop. Can we fix the screen? Looks like we don't have anybody on our screen. We just have a blue, so we don't, we're not seeing either the speaker or the PowerPoint. I'll find out what's wrong. Thank you. I'm not here.
 That's fine. That's fine. Thank you. You got it. Thank you. There you go. There. She did it. Excellent. Sorry. As long as you're speaking, I wanted to make sure people could see and hear you. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. So it's been something that we've been very concerned about to understand there was an interruption or a pause in the leasing process, and in my conversation with the director of
 They put the pause on the lease-up for a variety of reasons not fully understood yet. And so at this point, my anticipation and expectation is that the Beatrice Morrow will be fully leased, but all of the details, it's a great question. It's a concern of ours, too. So that's all I have to say. Let me ask you this. Let me put you on the spot. Yeah. Is the developer committed to the program? No.
 Is the developer committed? I think you would have to talk more specifically with the developer, honestly. My understanding is that there's an agreement to work through the program and to honor the preference policy. But let's be clear. I mean, this is not discretionary. We gave money. We have a preference program. We have goals in terms of leasing up. Are you encountering resistance to the idea of implementing the preference policy to these units? I don't think we are now.
 And I'm not sure what the issues were. If I did know, I would certainly tell you I have no reason not to. I don't think we are now. I think there were times of uncertainty and clarity. I think we've been able to resolve that. At least that's my hope. And my emphasis has been, even as you articulated, is that this isn't discretionary or optional, that all of the dollars that have been associated with interstate funding are to go through the preference policy process. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.
 If I might, Mayor. Yes, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Commissioner Fish, one of the things that I know about this project is that there was a difference of agreement between the developer and the project managers about how to use the preference policy in a way that ensured that
 that people who were living in inner northeast, who really were displaced, were the first ones to have access to this housing. I also don't know if those issues have been resolved, but I think it was a very fair question for the developer to raise based on the preference policy of the city has nothing to do with race. Yes.
 And we know most of the people displaced from inner northeast were African-American people. So I applaud the developer taking a pause to make sure that we were not exacerbating the fact that African-Americans have been pushed out of inner northeast Portland. Okay. I'll let you continue. Any other question about that at this moment? No. No.
 Where was I? Magnolia 2. Magnolia 2 is under construction and will be completed and scheduled to be completed in January of 2020. PCRI, the King Parks, to be named something else site, broke ground last month. The Bridge Williams site will be breaking ground this month, I think, this year.
 Tomorrow. I believe the construction loan closes today. And the Reach Argyle site construction has begun and should be completed in 2020. And there is a community event planned in June 2019 at that location. So...
 The fourth strategy is land banking. As I'm sure everyone in this room is aware, land prices are not going down, and they haven't in a long time. One of the best strategies that we can employ is to buy land and hold on to it for development, even if we don't have a project ready to go, because that land is not going to get less expensive. Okay.
 And PHB, Portland Housing Bureau, is currently in negotiations with a property owner to acquire a parcel within the district and was also able to purchase a property on Cary Boulevard from the Water Bureau for future homeownership development. And this is the oversight committee approved and is going to Prosper Portland to be included in the URA. Okay. On the 10th? April 10th.
 Well, excellent. Excellent, excellent. So let's talk about some of the or how the work is happening. And I mentioned in my opening statement that our concern is not merely people getting in units. It's also capacity building and workforce development and supporting minority women emerging small businesses being contracted and participating in the process. So under rental development, here you have interoperability.
 information with how dollars were disseminated and the opportunities afforded, you can see the breakout in percentages. Our concern continues to be that specifically African American companies, companies of color, continue to gain access, opportunity to these possibilities and are those who are employed doing this work. And then with home retention, part of that strategy being to increase
 help people not be displaced. We want to make sure the same thing is happening. Minority women, emerging small businesses are getting opportunity to participate in this process. And so specifically in 2018, you notice that the numbers drop considerably, and we're not sure as to why those numbers are so impacted. We are concerned that...
 There be adequate advertising, adequate communication, adequate engagement and opportunity be afforded. And not so sure if with the boom that's going on in the economy, reflective of the number of minority or specifically African-American companies in the city, if they're just busy with other projects that are generating more revenue. That's something worth understanding and being clear about. But we certainly would like to see those numbers increase. Commissioner. Yes, Commissioner.
 Dr. Holt, if you'll go back one slide, please. So I'm concerned that it didn't just drop. It disappeared for African Americans. The slide's not up. But from 41% of contractors for home repairs to a negligible amount of
 So to just say we don't know, what's being done to find out why that happened? We're asking the questions. Who are you asking? The Vast Portland Housing Bureau to help us understand why that number is reflective of what it is, yes. And do you know if there's anything that's changed between 2017 and 2018 that would account for that extreme drop? I do not have any specific information at this point, no. Sorry.
 So I'm disappointed in not knowing that because I think the report would have been more robust had we understood what the ebbs and flows are. So I just want to put that on the record. I'm not holding you personally responsible for it, Dr. Holt. But as the chair of the committee, I just think it's an important message to send back that we're just not going to accept numbers that don't make sense without some data behind it.
 And, Commissioner, I support that. And you need to know that that's exactly the conversation we're having. So we need to understand that. And as much as possible, see the strategy for improvement. Yes. Yeah. And so once you get the answer to that, if you could let the council know, because I think we're all curious. Absolutely. Thank you. It would be our delight. An email would be fine. Thank you. Absolutely. It would be our delight.
 So here are the opportunities then. Here are the things, and you highlighted one of them. Improvement, advertising, marketing efforts to increase awareness of participation of communities of color, especially African Americans, within the Home Repair and Home Grant Program. Okay.
 To reestablish a quarterly newsletter that keeps people informed of the work that the partners and the Housing Bureau is doing. To decrease barriers and increase opportunities for the MWESB participation, minority women emerging small business participation at all levels of construction and development, for multifamily rentals, single-family home repairs, increase initiatives for economic development,
 via the Prosper Portland and the Northeast Community Development Initiatives work. There's a gap for community development services and programs that cannot be funded through tax increment financing dollars. We need to figure out how we address those things. We are suggesting a maximization of the indebtedness of the URA for the purpose of expanding the reach
 for the purpose of creating greater opportunities to communities that have been impacted. Then reducing communication barriers with community partners. That continues to be challenging at times in figuring out how can we get past the things that are not relevant, pertinent, and or necessary so that we can do what is most impactful and beneficial.
 we're pressing all partners to present their work, learn about serving families who experience the root shock of displacement, and to be specific in how they are serving and willing or being willing to serve the African American families as they report out to the committees. I will read this, and then I'll make a few comments about it. We have an incredible opportunity to do generational good.
 It is incumbent upon all of us, City of Portland, PHB, Partners, and Oversight Committee, to recognize and understand that this work is not about any one of us. This is about and for the community of people who have been negatively impacted by intentional acts of displacement and gentrification. And I will say more specifically, it's about the African American people who live in the City of Portland who have consistently been impacted by these acts.
 This work is about offering hope to some of the many who want to take advantage of these possibilities and return to their historic roots. The community deserves the best efforts of all participants to achieve our goals.
 Preference policy continues to be the best tool for ensuring this aim. It is imperative that we function with emotional intelligence and clear vision. Our time is limited. This moment won't last forever. We implore each of you to give your best effort so that the promises made will be promises kept.
 I sat here years ago, and I began with the statement that the promises made must be promises kept. And for the last five years, four specifically in this seat, giving time and energy to address the various issues and bringing us back to the core and bringing us back to the center. I would say that...
 With the help of each of you as influencers doing what you can to leverage your voice, your authority, and your understanding about this moment, we can do something amazing that will impact generations. This is a lift. It is difficult work. It is necessary work. It's our work. So let's do it. Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Hardesty, then Commissioner Fish.
 So I'd like to go back to the 11 homes that have closed that you referenced. And I'm interested in learning what has been our most effective tool in helping people close the gap and achieve the dream of homeownership. So I think, you know, first of all, I would be interested in knowing of those 11 homes where we now have new homeowners in the district, right?
 What was the average subsidy that we invested so that we can understand what the public return was? What's been the average subsidy of those 11 homes? That's an excellent question. Do you know that? I will say this. If you recall, we adjusted the subsidy because of the challenges. We had, I think, three challenges related to getting people into homeownership that we didn't know. It was an oversight committee, and we stepped into it. One was the rapid rate of increase of home pricing.
 And so we adjusted subsidy from $65,000 to $80,000 and then to $100,000. And you recall that process. Secondly, the other challenge was just the amount of time to help families get through cleaning credit, raising their credit score, reducing debt, and so forth. And so that was a challenge. And then the third one was just all of the...
 from my perspective, the third one, was all of the issues associated with the training, the educating, and the getting people through the elements and aspects around the preference policy. So all of those things took time to get us to this moment. The average subsidy. Currently, the subsidy is $100,000 within the URA to provide opportunity based on home pricing. And so that's what it was increased to...
 earlier last year. So it's $100,000. And so Leslie, does the $100,000, I just don't remember from past briefings, can that be used as in part as the down payment? So currently with TIF dollars, 80% is down payment and 20% is for home improvements. Okay.
 We're going to be coming back to council in a few weeks about potentially changing that percentage. But, yes, 80% of that $80,000, $77,000 actually because $3,000 of it is a fee, would go as a down payment. All right. So someone who is looking at a...
 a $300,000 or $400,000 house within the district can use that money towards the 20% down payment, which is often one of the biggest barriers that people have. Simultaneously, we're helping people improve their credit scores and their balance sheets. And then third, we're also working to make sure people understand how the preference works and how to access these benefits. That summarizes, I think. That summarizes. And dealing with the credit, that's the work of the partners? Yes.
 to work people through or help them work through the process of credit scores, debt reduction, et cetera. So one piece that changed last year was that we hired Portland Housing Center to do a single list management for people coming through the preference policy to purchase homes.
 And so they are managing all of the folks that are interested and have had significant success in a short period of time to getting people ready. As we said, we've had several people purchase since the last report, and we have five people shopping. One person closed last week. We have another person closing in approximately two weeks. So we've tripled the number of people that have purchased since the last report. Okay.
 And my second and final question has to do with home repairs. In the slide that we saw earlier, it seemed that with African-American homeowners, the program seemed to be focused and having some success. The numbers for Hispanic, Asian, Native American were very low, almost negligible as you went down the line. To what do you attribute that?
 Well, I think part of it is because this program is located in interstate, and the numbers of those families living in that area that own homes is probably smaller than other populations. I think that that's the greatest impact on those numbers.
 And I think, Commissioner, it goes back to kind of my comment at the end where we're talking about improving the advertising and the marketing, that there is a need to make sure that as many people possibly know about the programs that exist. And so how we do the marketing, how we do the advertising, that's a concern that we carry and how that happens, so that we increase the numbers of people who can take advantage of the programs that exist. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much, panel. I appreciate the information. And please know my questions are more related to whether or not we're headed down the same path. Because this program started in 2015. And so what I'm to understand is that we have less than 200 homeowners who have had their homes repaired. We have about 11 people who are now homeowners. Um...
 How many African Americans are part of that 11 group? All of the homeowners are African American. So 11 in five years are moving into homeownership opportunities. And it feels like we haven't moved the ball enough yet, right? I mean, we say this vision was a lofty vision when it was passed by the city council, but
 But do we have the right people working on the right part of the problem at the right time? Because if we do it at this rate, we'll all be 1,500 years old by the time African Americans have the opportunity to have homes in inner northeast Portland.
 So, Commissioner Hardesty, let me respond. I smile and I chuckle a little bit, not by any means to be dismissive. It's because I agree with you 100%. And so much of the angst in your presentation doesn't, I think, equate to the energy by which I address this issue. Okay.
 Those who were at the meeting know there was significant intensity around that. Since that time, having the opportunity to talk more in depth and understand the impact of the barriers associated with the people we're trying to help, it's going to just take time. You know, like I do, it takes time to clean credit. It takes time to reduce debt.
 It takes time around this process. By bringing in the Portland Housing Center, we were able to kind of expedite some of that process. But we're talking about people who've had barriers significant for years. And while this opportunity exists, it's one of the things we need to think about is extending the timeline only because of what it takes to do it.
 to help people work through what they need to work through. I didn't understand that, and so I was extremely frustrated. Are you kidding me? Four people after four years at this, but to be able to triple that
 at this point is extremely encouraging. I believe we're going to be able to do that again. Again, part of it, just because of the time it's taken to get people to this point, to clean their credit, to reduce their debt, and then to help shift a mindset and empower people to think toward homeownership with a strategy and a path has also been part of this work. I would just add that...
 The policy intentionally is as inclusive as it can be. There were no barriers. There was no income requirements, credit requirements, in order to get on the list to be part of this program. And so a lot of the people that are working towards homeownership are some of the people that have been the most vulnerable, the most displaced people.
 folks in our city. And like Dr. Holt said, it takes time to get from point A to point B. And I think that we are now seeing the results of several years of work at that. And are we identifying homeowners who are close to being priced out of their homes, who still live in inner Northeast? And does this fund help them be able to stay in their home?
 I think part of the mitigation strategy, a simple answer is yes, but there are nuances associated with that. And I think we're going to have to re-examine how we address those very issues beyond just home repairs and beyond...
 I'll say this. Part of the conversation that was happening was a strategy for wealth creation and or assistance for sustainability to be able to maintain your housing. That was the ADU concept. For some homeowners, can they bring in an accessory dwelling unit? But then that has its own challenges associated with it also, because now you're making landlords. Now you're making business owners. Now you're making...
 All of the strategies, or each of the strategies, require their own level of intentionality, thoughtfulness, and planning. And so what's unfortunate is that there's no panacea. There's no simple way to address this multifaceted and nuanced issue. And so thoughtfulness and our collective intelligence to address that, I think, is extremely important.
 This is my last question. Thank you very much. I really appreciate the patience of my colleagues and others. This is probably one of the most frustrating policy proposals that I have observed over the last four or five years, because again, as I said, the goal is lofty. However, I'm
 When it's not working, we don't have a strategy about changing course to figure out what would be a better approach, right? We just keep going down the same path and say, well, in a couple of years, rather than 11, maybe we'll have 15. And, you know, maybe in a couple of more years, rather than 15, we'll have 20. That is not sufficient. I know that African-American elders are being...
 uh, fleeced of their property and inner Northeast Portland. Now, uh, there, uh, folks, speculators are coming in and buying it up. They're cheap. And then either revising it or tearing it down and building whatever. Um,
 And I would think, and I'm not a housing expert, so this is just my own humble opinion, but I would think that we would be connecting with elder, empty nest homeowners and saying, what's your plans for the future, right? And how do we make sure we keep low-income housing actually low-income, right? Because what we're still doing is subsidizing housing
 developers. And to me, it's like we can never subsidize developers enough to actually increase the housing stock as we need to. So I guess that's my soapbox and thank you very much. Appreciate it. If I could say two things in regard to that. One is, and I agree, that this is a it is an arduous process. The preference policy being associated with geography instead of ethnicity was to secure the best opportunity possible for it not to be reversed.
 so we could reach as many people as possible. I personally would love it to be directed at those who've been most impacted. I'd love to be able to say that this is for black people. These are the blacks who've been hurt, and here are the ways we're going to help them. To have a policy that would say that or would identify that would put us in a position like New York or San Francisco that had their policies overturned.
 And so to associate it with geography gave the opportunity for the broadest reach, knowing that the people who lived in that area were most impacted. I am absolutely in support of the heartbeat of which you express and communicate. The frustration I can only, at this moment, trying to maintain my appropriate expression, the frustration about the pace has been...
 palpable. And we want to see as many people benefited as possible, as well as those who presently own homes and a strategy to engage the elderly homeowner and help them think about estate planning and long-term planning and how do we pass this on to families. That's been part of the discussion of
 of the Oversight Committee and would welcome your participation in some more of that in terms of how we can make this reality. So, you were going to answer. I was just going to add, I'm sorry, we do have a pilot project that will be starting in a few weeks.
 Um, we're doing an RFP for exactly what you're talking about to hire, um, an organization to provide, um, case management to particularly to seniors about predatory lending, about, um, uh,
 estate planning, how to pass their homes on, about reverse mortgages, all of those things that we know seniors get sucked into. I live in the district and I get probably three or four letters a week saying, I'll buy your house for cash. I just tell them a million and a half dollars, you can come and get it. They're like, well, that's outrageous. Well, my house is not for sale. That's exactly what we're going to be working on.
 Thanks, Leslie. Commissioner Fritz. Dr. Hall, thank you for all of your work and for the community members, the esteemed community members who form this committee. I mean, it's really difficult work, and it's heartfelt work, and I appreciate it. You just mentioned accessory dwelling units. When you gave us the report last year, you said that the committee recommended putting that concept on the back burner. Is it permanently on the back burner, or is there an update? No.
 When we put it on the back burners because it needed some more cooking, from our perspective, it needed to be thought through. The presentation around how it would be implemented at the time just didn't benefit enough people. It was extremely narrow. And then some of the things I just mentioned in terms of how are we going to address educating people who are most of them elderly in becoming business owners, in becoming landlords. It just brought some...
 elements that needed to be thought through. So we didn't want to dismiss it. It was never saying that, hey, this is not something to do, but it was something we needed to think about more thoroughly and be very strategic with how it happens. The goal is to create, to not only help people stay in their homes, but then it would be great to create a way to increase some revenue to support that, especially as prices go up. So has any more work been done on it in the past year or is it still just kind of... Not specifically to our committee.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor. I am very pleased to hear about the work to reduce barriers to participation. I think a lot of work went into developing that preference equation. And like you said, we had to be very careful so we didn't run afoul of the Fair Housing Act, which is why it can't be based on race. I...
 But there wasn't enough acknowledgement given to the fact that the very people we were trying to reach and engage were not going to be credit ready, that were beginning from a more economically disadvantaged point. And I remember a lot of friends of mine or people I just know through housing justice work being very excited initially and then feeling very discouraged.
 by what they learned when they participated in those first rounds of community conversations. So I absolutely agree. We need a new marketing campaign. We need to reintroduce this project to the public. And perhaps, you know, one side should be the home ownership opportunities and another angle should be to seniors and families.
 to not sell and to help them with maintenance, help them with energy efficiency. And I'm particularly interested in succession of ownership within families, because we know that's when that asset is really at a big risk of being lost.
 As far as the ADU conversation goes, I'm very interested in that. I can connect you with a host of people who are working on a variety of issues around ADUs. One is that there's currently no financing product.
 And unless you have access to $150,000, $200,000 in capital, you cannot develop an ADU, or unless you can build it yourself, I guess. And so we are working on filling that gap with a product that would allow, I guess, applicants to take rental income into account. So it's not going to deliver...
 to everybody that's in this program, but average Portlanders should be able to develop an ADU and increase value in their homes and generate income. But there's also the challenge of turning homeowners into business owners and landlords, and there's another group of people working on that. So it's a complicated but really promising opportunity, and I'd love to...
 Please, we welcome the conversation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your presentational entertainment. I move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Well, thank you all for your presentation. Certainly some achievements to celebrate, and I appreciate getting that update. And also that you called out areas where there's room for improvement and communication opportunities.
 and the other places that you highlighted for us. And it's kind of unusual to have a presentation where the flaws are highlighted as well as the things to celebrate. So I appreciate you calling them out and giving us the explanations that you have and that you'll follow up with us afterwards for the ones that are still to come. Thank you. Bye.
 Dr. Holt, I'm not sure when you find time for sleeping because in addition to doing this work, you're also engaged in a community visioning plan for the IFCC, among other things, and we look forward at some point to your report on that and how we might take that treasure and honor the legacy of Charles Jordan and the investment that we've made in turning it into something even better. I want to thank all the members of the Oversight Committee who are listed in your report for their service. Thank you.
 Clearly, there is frustration with the pace, but time will tell whether this is a successful strategy. I am pleased that you've got two homeownership projects in the pipeline, one with Habitat and one with PCRI. I think that's very important. That's going to help us significantly expand the number of homeowners in the district. And please, in between your next presentation, if there are questions,
 Tools that you need or changes that the council needs to consider to advance your work, we need to hear from you. It's great to have these annual reports, but you're going to encounter barriers that need our attention sooner. So I hope you're not shy about letting us know what kinds of things we can consider to help make your work smoother and your outcomes more effective. Thank you very much. You will hear from me frequently. So I appreciate the report. Aye. Aye.
 Hardesty? I also appreciate the dedication of the community volunteers who are spending a lot of time trying to figure this out. But again, for me, I guess I'm most frustrated with just the glacier pace that we're moving.
 and the lack of analysis about what it will take to get us to what we say the goal is. And so it is my hope, as Commissioner Fish said, that we don't wait a year to hear from you again, that you come as soon as you have some requests from us.
 what changes you need and the policy or the direction that you're headed because I really don't want to sit here for another year and hear that we put five more people into a home and we're doing all these great pilots but at the end of the day we still have people suffering on our street. It's about relieving the suffering. I vote aye. Thank you.
 Well, thank you to members of the Oversight Committee, Dr. Holt, Portland City staff. Slightly more hopeful report than last year. And like I said, please reach out on the ADU issue and the Don't Sell marketing campaign. I would really love to help. Aye. Again, I want to thank the entire Oversight Committee and especially Dr. Holt.
 I cannot stress enough how important your leadership has been to this, and I really just at every opportunity I want to take the opportunity to thank you for the great work that you're doing in the community. And Dr. Karen Edward, Felicia Tripp, and Tristan Dallas, who were all the subcommittee members who are very, very instrumental in making sure that this report came to the city council today. I want to thank Cupid Alexander on my team, who has worked tirelessly on this as well.
 We obviously today focused on the many challenges. That's what we spent last year doing as well when you came before the City Council. But I also want to just acknowledge that today's report highlighted many significant outcomes in 2018. There were two buildings opened in 2018 providing 132 more units of affordable housing within the interstate corridor.
 New approaches were implemented based on some of the conversations that we had last year. For example, the down payment assistance loan forgiveness was instituted, which gave participants the opportunity to have their total loan forgiven within a 30-year period.
 And as Dr. Holt said, I think very eloquently, there are many barriers that have to be overcome with the population that we're working on, cleaning up credit, decreasing debt, and working with our colleagues at the Portland Housing Center to make sure that people are ready to be successful in those homeownership opportunities that they're provided. Okay.
 So in total now, 15 families have become homeowners. That's up from the reported four at this time last year. And as Dr. Holt mentioned, seven families are actively looking at this time. This is measured progress. And I also want to acknowledge the work of the Housing Bureau and the community on coming together to further improve upon this.
 As has been acknowledged, we have much further to go. Our city is seeing a massive investment in affordable housing construction and we must improve the ways in which these opportunities are shared for all people in our community, making sure that we're hiring minority contractors and creating a broad array of economic and housing opportunities. As has
 has been noted in the report. There are still critical gaps that exist. For example, the question remaining about the contractors participating in home retention, I think that's important data, and we should work together to better shine a light on what's going on there. And finally, I just want to say this. This is really about trust. We have to continue to recognize and acknowledge the past and move forward in an intentional, community-centered way.
 That is one of the reasons that this committee was put into place in the first place. We've made some adjustments, and I'm sure we will continue to make adjustments as this process unfolds. I'm obviously, I continue to be highly committed to the outcomes, and I'll work with all of you on the Oversight Committee, and I'll work with the Portland Housing Bureau on how best to achieve our collective goals. So thank you again for coming in. Thank you for your leadership and commitment. I vote aye, the report's accepted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Colleagues, next item will be item number 245. Given that we have a massive agenda, I'm going to limit public testimony to two minutes. So please be aware of that when we get down to the public testimony side of the agenda. Next item is a report 245. Fixing our streets annual program report. Commissioner Udaly. Sorry, I got lost in what you were saying.
 Thank you, Mayor. It's a pleasure to bring this progress report forward for the Fixing Our Streets program, which is delivering on the promises made to voters when we asked them to approve a $0.10 increase per gallon in local gas taxes. Our new iteration of the Oversight Committee has been established, and it's recommending that the revenues collected be allocated to the existing projects in the program.
 Something you'll hear more about and a highlight for me is our disadvantaged minority women in emerging small businesses, affectionately called DMWESB.
 And that is the exciting news that our utilization rates are more than double the goal of 30% set by the city coming in at 68%. So I just want to congratulate the Bureau and encourage continued efforts.
 This construction season is going to be a doozy. I've just been saying that as often as I can to try to gently prepare people for how challenging some of the streets are going to be this summer and next. We have 41 major capital projects beginning or finishing in 2019 with a total investment value of over $124 million.
 Those are some of the highlights of the report. Staff will go into more detail. And now I'm going to introduce Interim Director Chris Warner, Program Manager Michael Tette, and Oversight Committee Member Jennifer Rollins. Welcome. Great. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, thank you. Members of Council, Chris Warner from PBOT. So thank you for this opportunity to talk about fixing our streets. I'm going to just give a quick overview and then I'll come back, but I'm going to have Michael do most of the work. But really, and also have Jennifer because the public has been a critical part of our success with this program thus far.
 So just a quick reminder, Fixing Our Streets was made possible by the voters and by you, City Council. In May of 2016, voters put their trust in us and passed Measure 26-173. That same month, you passed the Heavy Vehicle Use Tax. Together, these two measures created Portland's first ever local transportation funding mechanism.
 And as mandated by the voters, Fixing Our Streets dedicates 56% of the funding for maintenance projects and 46% for safety projects.
 And with Measure 26173, we also created the Citizens Oversight Committee, which will monitor and report on the program. We promised voters and we promised you that we would deliver better streets, more sidewalks, improved bike lanes, and safe routes to schools throughout the city. And I'm happy to report that we're keeping that promise. So we'll be hearing from Jennifer, who's sitting to my right, a member of our Oversight Committee. And we're also invited some other members from the public that we've been working with on this to give them their perspective on neighborhoods from across Portland.
 So I'm going to turn it over to Michael, and he can go through the technical piece, but we will be here to have a discussion and answer any questions you might have. So, Michael. Thank you, Chris. Mayor, commissioners, it's really a privilege to be able to present the work that we're doing with Fixing Our Streets with you today. Thank you.
 Now that spring is finally here, the construction season is about to start in earnest. 2019 will be our busiest year yet. We will cut the ribbon on 20 projects, including the Foster streetscape. Thanks to fixing our streets, we will not only make Foster safer and more efficient, we will create an attractive tree-lined street for residents and businesses. We will break ground on 21 projects, including the Capitol Highway project. The community has been asking for a safer, well-maintained Capitol Highway for decades. Fixing our streets is making that possible. Thank you.
 We're going to match $3.3 million worth of Fixing Our Streets funds with $19 million of additional funding to deliver new pavement, new sidewalks, and new lanes. We'll also begin work on Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard pedestrian projects and make four major crossings easier and safer to navigate for residents and visitors along this busy street. Next, I'd like to share some more context about where we're at as it relates to program implementation. Thank you.
 At the end of 2019, we forecast a total planned investment of over $124 million worth of capital projects, drawing from a multitude of funding sources, and will complete or break ground on 41 major capital projects. This doesn't include the Safe Routes to School projects. These projects range from installing crosswalks and signs to building median islands and installing rapid flashing beacons. In each case, we make it easier and safer for families and their kids to get to school.
 Thanks to fixing our streets, we have also completed 253 base repair projects all over the city since 2016. These are small but mighty repairs that save a street. We fully reconstruct those sections of the street where it has failed. These focused interventions keep the rest of the street from failing, saving us money over the long term.
 By the end of 2019, we will have installed 48 blocks of sidewalks, delivered 375 pavement reconstruction projects, provided over 30 curb ramps in partnership with our resident ramp request program, added 12 lane miles of bicycling facilities, and made it easier and safer to get around on some of our most important streets, including 82nd and 122nd Avenues, Outer Division, Halsey, Wydler, Alberta, Columbia Boulevard, Denver Avenue, and Beaverton Hillsdale Highway.
 Much of this work is possible because PBOT staff have worked tirelessly to multiply taxpayer dollars wherever possible by leveraging funding from other sources. These funds help us deliver more projects, ensure that we meet federal, state, and local policies designed to protect the most vulnerable roadway users. The Fixing Our Streets program is about more than just projects. It's about projects.
 I'm especially proud of the early progress we've made in supporting more widely shared economic prosperity. Over the last five years, PBOT, like the rest of our city government, has made a clear commitment to equity. As part of this commitment, we pledged to make sure that 30% of contracts were awarded to DMW ESB firms. And as you heard from Commissioner Udaly, we not only met that mark, but we've exceeded it by a wide margin.
 Our low bid contracts have gone to DMW ESB firms at an unprecedented rate. In partnership with our colleagues in the Prime Contractor Development Program and Central Procurement, we've raised the bar and have shown what can be achieved when we fully commit ourselves to increasing equitable outcomes in capital project delivery. Beyond the outcomes in our community, PBOT staff have been hard at work accelerating improvements in our capacity to deliver our capital programs.
 The Fixing Our Streets program inaugurated a new era at PBOT. We have used the program to drive key changes at the Bureau. The changes have not only improved how we have delivered Fixing Our Streets program, but it has also helped us improve our project delivery and financial forecasting in all of our capital and maintenance projects. These changes include capital project controls that analyzes capital project delivery and supports resolution on key capacity challenges.
 project value stream analysis, which informs key process improvement priorities. We also led the implementation of the Get Portland Moving initiative, which improves coordination and limits conflicts in the right-of-way, and the establishment of a dedicated team focused on the delivery of quick-build projects implemented through on-call contracts or directly through our maintenance operations crew. Now I'd like to turn it over to one of our oversight committee members, Jennifer Rollins, to share some of the ways in which we're engaging our neighbors as we deliver this program.
 Before you do, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to applaud how well, how overwhelmingly you exceeded the goals on hiring minority women and emerging small businesses. My applause to the commissioner in charge as well as to the Bureau. You were sitting here under the last presentation. And...
 Same goals, but radically different outcomes. So I just want to thank you for where you are and where you're headed and keep up the good work. Thank you. Thank you and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for listening to me talk about this again. Thank you for being here.
 We've been determined as the oversight committee to keep the trust of Portlanders. So for this reason, we've continued to seek input on the projects and keep the public informed about the activities as well. We've engaged thousands of Portlanders in person and hosted open houses and information sessions in 35 different neighborhoods around the city. We've translated our recent progress report into five safe harbor languages, and it's available online.
 And with support of this program, we completed an historic outreach effort for safe routes to school. We met with families in all of Portland's five school districts. They talked to us at length about where they needed safer crossings, sidewalks, and other infrastructure. As a result, we have a truly comprehensive list of projects to improve walking and biking for students in each of the city's 12 high school clusters. Thank you.
 We've also invested at Fixing Our Streets funds to support community-driven initiatives like East Portland in Motion, Southwest in Motion, and Northwest in Motion. And our committee will continue to engage our neighbors to ensure that the remaining Fixing Our Streets projects reflect community needs. And I'm going to go off topic just for one second. I just want to remind everyone how important this is because yesterday while I was –
 Picking up my carpool in the neighborhood, I drove right past the woman who was killed while walking in her neighborhood in Southwest. And so I'm reminded that this isn't just my obsession, but it's really important to everybody in Portland. So thank you. Thank you.
 Great. And just one thing about Jennifer. The work that she's been doing has just been magnificent, not only on the Fixing Our Street Committee, but before we got there. The work in terms of she's been an advocate for additional funding for transportation, and she's just been tireless, and we just really thank you for all your work. So in approving 26-173 and the heavy vehicle use tax, you've really asked for transparent, accountable, and efficient program.
 Thank you for the opportunity to give you an update on this, and we look forward to coming back in the fall to talk more about it as we get through the spring and summer construction season. So we've got a lot to do. We've got much more to do. One other quick thing I did want to say before we call up some of the neighborhood folks we've been working with. Michael, who is our program manager of this, is taking another position within PBOT. So thank you.
 It's been a journey. He's been a great advocate and just been a super. We wouldn't have got this far without him. We've given him the job. We've passed this ballot measure. Now go find a way to do it. And so Michael, all the things that we talked about in terms of the controls group and project delivery, he's been right in the middle of. So he's only moving forward.
 across the floor. He'll actually be closer to the program managers who used to bother all the time in terms of work. But he's a valuable member of PBOT. But he's not going to be doing this, but he's going to be doing other extraordinary things for the city. So, Michael, thank you. Thank you, Chris. I'd also like to thank and congratulate Michael. I'm a little nervous about you leaving, fixing our streets, but I know we're going to find...
 a worthy replacement, but I do want to acknowledge the daunting task that Michael was handed and recognize that he brought a somewhat, I guess, antiquated system into the 21st century, and I will be forever grateful for that, and so will everyone in Portland. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. So we are replacing with six people. So maybe that's not the efficiency you wanted to hear about. So this is a no-brainer. Double his salary and keep him here. Save the 4FT.
 So right now I would love to – Michael's not laughing. So I would love to call up Terrence, Brent, and Keith to say a few words about some of the work we've been doing out in the community. So thank you, and we'll be here for any questions. Thank you. Appreciate it. Welcome. Please state your name for the record. Yes. Thank you.
 good morning commissioners and mayor i want to first thank you for allowing me to sit before you and speak about this topic my name is terence moses i'm a kitten neighborhood kenton neighborhood association business member a kenton neighborhood association member and as well as i'm a neighborhood advocate and i want to thank you for the awesome work that pbot has done for the uh portland streets projects that they are doing
 Denver Avenue project is amazing. And what Michael has brought to the table has been really great. He's been out in the community from the start. He's knocked on doors, passed out flyers. He's met with us over time and talked about the two different projects that they proposed for Kenton neighborhood. And I want to thank him and the rest of PBOT for just that.
 And the due diligence that they put forward to this was excellent, and they kept us informed of what they were doing, how it was going to go about, and what was their plans. So this North Denver project –
 has been a great one. It has been excellent working with Michael and his team in getting it done. The project will provide necessary means for our cyclists to roam down the streets safely. It will allow for our elderly to cross the crosswalks in a safe manner. It will allow for the traffic to flow much more quickly and smoother. The pavement that they're implementing in this policy was a tough one.
 But we did narrow it down to a project that is best suited for the Kenton neighborhood and the business district. And we're happy with that. And we thank them for that as well. And I just wanted to let you know that we are glad that they were able to get this done in our community for this short period of time. And also, I want to speak from a personal note, as mentioning with Jennifer from the oversight committee, her having to witness that.
 is what I wanted to ask you for us to be proactive on for the Kenton neighborhood. Kenton sits right in a neighborhood where there's a huge park, and it is used by almost everyone in the neighborhood and surrounding neighborhoods. Over the last three years, we have developed a housing in that same corridor on Argyle, on Willis, and on Brandon Avenue.
 There's an intersection on the corner of Willis and Brandon Avenue that has raised a concern. It is a marked crosswalk, but the traffic has begun to get heavy and ferocious. And having a beacon marker put there would be proactive in causing a catastrophic incident to happen.
 I would like to see a beacon light put there because the daycare crosses that three times a day to take kids to the park. Our pedestrians walk that crosswalk from the local restaurants to get to the park. And I've seen and witnessed numerous accounts of where pedestrians could have been hit and or killed. And I want Portland to think about being more proactive in stopping these things more than, well, now it's time to because of a catastrophic incident. Thank you.
 And that's my take on it, and I hope that you can understand where we're coming from. And I speak on behalf of the Kenton Neighborhood Association and Kenton Business Association. And thank you for your time. That's fine. Thank you. Thanks for your testimony. Thank you.
 Good morning. Yes, good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. My name is Brett Bolstad, and I am the parent of second and fifth graders at Lewis Elementary School at the corner of Southeast 45th and Evergreen. For several years, I have also coordinated monthly walk-and-roll events at the school as a part of the Safe Routes to School program.
 Southeast 45th is a major thoroughfare connecting the heart of the Woodstock neighborhood to Johnson Creek Boulevard. It serves TriMet Bus Line 75, and it is also the route that many children use to get to and from Lewis Elementary School.
 However, Southeast 45th presents a number of hazards within the Lewis Elementary School boundaries. High traffic volume before and after school, drivers traveling at high speeds, cross-traffic emerging from narrow feeder streets.
 Poor visibility at corners due to parked cars and or vegetation. Traffic signs obscured by vegetation. Missing sections of sidewalk on the west side. Heavily worn street surface and potholes. Lack of street alignment at Southeast Knapp and blind intersection at Henderson Flavelle due to the grade there.
 Recently, I've been pleased with City of Portland projects to provide ADA-compliant corner curb cutouts along Southeast 45th and to grade and re-gravel alleyways in the neighborhood. Children often walk or bike to school through these alleyways as an alternative to Southeast 45th. I'm also pleased to hear of upcoming projects. Michael Tete.
 with fixing our streets has informed me that there will be improvements to crossings at Southeast 45th and Evergreen, as well as Southeast 46th and Henry during spring break to minimize impacts on the school community, as well as other projects in the neighborhood. Also Scott Cohen, city of Portland capital project manager has also informed me that Southeast 45th will be resurfaced from Southeast Glenwood to Southeast Harney later this year.
 So I applaud these efforts to improve Southeast 45th, and I hope that the City of Portland will continue with further improvements along Southeast 45th in order to enhance the safety of children walking or biking to and from Lewis Elementary School. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Keith Leiden. I'm a Southwest resident.
 When Vermont was identified to receive street maintenance attention through Fix Our Streets, I was immediately hoping that additional bicycle and pedestrian facilities and safety would be installed as part of that project. However, given the city's historical tendency to pass on opportunities like this, I was somewhat pessimistic. But I'm pleased to say that PBOT did a splendid job and exceeded my expectations on Vermont.
 For a number of reasons, the public involvement phase was very robust, comprehensive, and inclusive. Residents could communicate directly with PBOT staff, including the project manager. Pedestrian and bicycle gaps between 30th and 52nd were completed consistent with the TSP and citizen comments.
 Additional improvements were added beyond that for existing facilities, particularly for westbound cyclists, improving the intersection at Vermont and 30th, and then also making the existing bike lane between 35th and 45th a lot safer. So in total, the change between 30th and 52nd was transformational. Vermont should be a shining example for how similar projects are conducted in the future.
 The question is how can the city provide funding to do much more.
 As the SWIM Southwest in Motion public review draft nears completion, the PBOT staff is painting a very pessimistic funding picture for actually being able to implement the projects in that plan. To partially mitigate this funding shortage, I believe the city should do four things in southwest Portland and probably the city generally. One, continue to and hopefully expand the Fix Our Streets program.
 The city asked for a nickel when it really needed a dollar, and we still have a critical need for a lot more funding in this area, as you're very aware. Second, don't be preoccupied with large projects only. Small, strategically important improvements can have a lot of bang for the buck.
 Create a robust, flexible fund that can be used to leverage street projects that are conducted by PBOT or other city bureaus to include pedestrian and bike safety improvements along with them. The key is to be agile and take advantage of opportunities and complete planned improvements when it is most cost effective. And then finally, aggressively pursue funding in the anticipated 2020-21.
 regional transportation bond for pedestrian and bike improvements that would enhance the performance of Southwest Corridor-like rail. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. So we're here to answer any questions you may have. Callings, any further questions? Commissioner Hardesty? I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Hardesty. Carla, please call the roll.
 Thank you to everyone who presented. Thank you, Jennifer, for your leadership of the committee and Michael Tate for your work on this. I do also want to mention Zan Gibbs and Irene Marion, the equity managers in transportation, who this has really been an exemplary implementation of how to do outreach, how to target and target.
 these opportunities, and indeed many of these projects are suitable for emerging and smaller businesses, so I really appreciate that. Thanks, Chris Warner, former director at Lear Treat. Thank you, Commissioner Udalian, former Commissioners Saltzman and Novick. I hope we're going to be continuing this program. I would second the suggestion that we need more money for these purposes, and I appreciate this report. Aye. Fish. Aye.
 Hardesty? Aye. Udaly?
 Well, thank you for the report, and thank you everyone for their hard work. I feel so lucky to have such amazing staff to work with as I learn the ropes of a new Bureau. We are certainly going to take the gas tax back to the voters. I agree it's a dime for a dollar's worth of problems. However, I sincerely doubt that the public would pass a dollar a gallon gas tax. So...
 We have to work with the system that we have, and if you have other ideas about revenue, I'm all ears. Fixing our streets is large and small projects, and I love how kind of diverse and dispersed throughout the whole city the projects are and how we are prioritizing projects. Excuse me.
 with both an equity lens and an eye to meaningful safety improvements. So thank you again. I vote aye.
 Excellent report. I appreciate it. By the way, the PowerPoint presentation, the fact that there's lots of photos supporting the work is helpful for me to see it. So I appreciate the way the report was done as well. Very good. Thank you. I vote aye. Report is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to lose Commissioner Fritz soon. I'd like to do item 252 before we go back to the time certain. 252. Oh, I'm really disappointed because I really wanted to see the presentation. And you don't need me for the other one. Okay.
 Well, we'll make it your choice. I'm going on city business. Everybody says that. Yeah, Mayor, I think this next item, Mayor, directly results from the Parks Bond that Commissioner Fritz passed. Very good. I'm sorry I got misinformation. Thank you. I was told by the council offices that you wanted to be here for 252. So we'll go back to 246, please.
 2-4-6, amend bid of Paul Brothers, Inc. for Lynchview Park play area improvement projects for $2,007,457. You should be here for 2-5-2. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, today's procurement report is for a new playground, pathways, benches,
 irrigation improvements, and other park amenities to be added to Lynchview Park in East Portland. Portland Parks and Recreation is able to make these improvements thanks to funding from the parks replacement bond and the park system development charges. I should note, as we did in our budget presentation yesterday, that if the council continues to support, as I hope they do, our equity agenda in East Portland,
 and continues to support additional assets being built so East Portland has the same opportunities as the rest of the city, I hope that we will continue to honor council budget commitments
 to fund the O&M on these projects when they opened so that we're not shortchanging East Portland in the process. Today we have a presentation from Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services Manager, and we're joined by Parks Bond Manager Robin Laughlin and Parks Project Manager Gary Dotka. Welcome. Oh, we've also invited testimony, I believe. Is that right? So Brian Flores-Garcia. Yeah.
 Mr. Garcia has been invited to testify after this panel presentation. Larry? Good morning, Commissioners. Good morning. I'm Larry Black for Chairman Services. Oh, sorry. I thought it was already on. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Paul Brothers for Lynchview Park play area improvements in the amount of $2,007,457. Thank you.
 The original engineer's estimate of this project was $2 million, and the Bureau's confidence level was moderate. The project was advertised on the city's electronic procurement system. Bids were opened on February 12, 2019. Two bids were received in response. Paul Brothers is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder, $2,007,457, which is four-tenths of a percent over the engineer's estimate. Not bad.
 and includes all bid items in the original estimate. The Bureau of Parks and Recreation, along with Procurement Services, identified an aspirational goal for the State of Oregon-certified co-bid firm subcontractor-supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction costs
 Paul Brothers, acting as a prime contractor, identified the following areas as opportunities for subcontracting, trucking and hauling services, concrete, retaining wall construction, play area servicing, site furnishings and installation, hydro mulch, landscaping, fencing and metal fabrication.
 There is $304,598, or 17.14%, COVID-certified subcontractor-supplier utilization identified for the project. It is apportioned as follows. DBE-MBE dual-certified subcontractor-supplier at $24,656, which represents 1.2% of the total.
 Excuse me, Larry. Can you tell me who the two firms were, the DMWS, DVBE, and whether they are – who are they?
 To be honest, ma'am, I don't have it written down here. It's identified on the form one. I can get it and send it to you as soon as I get back to my office. I'd be happy to do that. I would be greatly appreciative because, you know, when we do that alphabet soup, we really don't know who has actually received the contracts, and I'm very interested in whether African Americans and Latinos and Native Americans and women
 I want to know specifically who's getting those contracts. So I would appreciate it if you ever report to us again that you just bring that because I'm going to ask it every time. And that's fine. And what I did break down for this is the DBE, both of those firms are actually MBEs also. So they are both minority owned. But I will get you the firm names. I'd be happy to do that.
 The SBE supplier subcontractor is the remaining 15.9%. Paul Brothers actually is a State of Oregon COVID-certified WBE contractor, and they are self-
 What does that mean? I'm sorry. I should be maybe a little bit more specific. WBE is Women-Owned Business Enterprise. Oh, I'm sorry. The COBID. What is that? Oh, COBID. COBID stands for the Certification Office for Business Inclusion and Diversity. It is the state office which – I understand. It is the state office which certifies firms you have to make an application to become either minority firm, woman-owned firm, all of that. So it's COBID.com.
 We got also the same as you, the alphabet soup, the really big, long thing. So we've just taken it to calling it COVID. It includes all of the COVID certified D, M, W, E, SDV, all that. I appreciate that, but that just doesn't give us the information that I need.
 Thank you. I'll break it all down going forward. Now, Paul Brothers, as I said, is a state of Oregon certified women-owned business enterprise. They are self-performing $1,236,430, which brings the total certification firm participation for this project to $1,541,028, or 76.77% of the total project cost.
 Paul Brothers is in compliance with all of the city's requirements for contracting. If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can certainly answer those, or you have part staff here for follow-on. Larry, let me just underscore what Commissioner Hardesty has asked for. There is no area of our council practice where we are engaged in more acronyms that the public really has no idea what we're talking about.
 And while the ultimate percentage that you are presenting us with today is very robust,
 I do think putting the human face, so listing the companies that are getting the work, makes a lot of sense. That's a standing request by our newest colleague. I think it would improve the reporting that comes to council, so I just ask that we do that, particularly on the projects that I'm responsible for in parks and VES. Just make that a regular feature. Absolutely. I will do that. Thank you. Thank you, Larry. Now we'll turn it over to the parks team to walk us through a PowerPoint. Okay.
 Hello, Mayor Wheeler, councillors. My name is Robin Laughlin. I'm the bond program manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. With me today is Gary Dacca. He's our project manager for this project. Gary will be giving a brief presentation on the Lynchview Park playground project. As you know, we are here today to request council accept the bid from Paul Brothers for Lynchview Park in the amount of $2,007,457. Thank you.
 The Lynchview Park Project is part of the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond Program that was generously passed by voters who approved a $68 million measure to address the critical needs in our park infrastructure without increasing tax rates.
 As you know, the bond funding goes towards Portland Park and Recreation's most urgent needs in seven priority areas. Those are playgrounds, trails and bridges, pools, accessibility, protecting workers, Pioneer Courthouse Square, and restrooms and other facilities.
 With that, I'd like to, oh, I'm sorry, one more thing. The project fits into two focus areas of the bond, playgrounds and restrooms and others, and it will be the seventh replacement bond playground project to go into construction. In addition to bond funding of $1.4 million, the project has received fundings from the Park and Recreation's SDC, Systems Development Charges, in the amount of $1.8 million.
 And with that, I'd like to introduce Gary to share a bit more about the project. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you for having me here today. My name is Gary Doudka. I'm a project manager with Portland Parks and Rec.
 I'm really excited to bring this project to you today as new development for a currently undeveloped park. Lynchview Park was acquired in 1993 by Portland Parks and Recreation. It's a seven and a half acre park in outer southeast Portland between 164th and 167th and southeast Market and southeast Mill Street.
 It's in the Centennial neighborhood and is part of the East Portland Community Office. The park shown here in the red box has very limited street frontage, and the main entry to the park will be off of Southeast 167th in the top right-hand corner. The park is primarily bordered by single-family homes and is adjacent to the Centennial School District Patrick Lynch Elementary School to the east. You can see one of its ball fields there.
 Currently, there is no playground or community assets in Lynchview Park, and its lack of mature trees and shade leave it informally used by neighbors as an open play space and a dog's off-leash area. The most used feature in the park is a non-reservable soccer field that is heavily used for drop-in matches, but it lacks the infrastructure to maintain the field in a long-term, safe, and usable way. Thank you.
 Additionally, like much of East Portland, the neighborhood surrounding Lynchview Park lacks sidewalks, and no multimodal connections through the park exist today, making the park with its limited street frontage very difficult to access. Lynchview Park did not have a master plan to guide the development of this park. Through a series of five project advisory committee meetings, four public open houses, Portland Parks and Rec.,
 conducted an extensive public involvement process with neighbors to understand the current uses of the park, connect with neighbors about the positive aspects of developing the park, and develop a framework plan, which is shown here, to solicit feedback and gain support for siting the design and play area and other community assets. At all open houses, Portland Parks and Rec provided translation in Spanish and Russian to reach as many community members as possible.
 Through this framework plan, Portland Parks and Rec developed a design that will construct key improvements focusing on a play area with ADA-inclusive and adaptive play features, as you can see in the pictures, community gathering spaces, establishing formal access and entries into the park, pedestrian vehicular circulation, and making a multimodal connection through the park, linking both the play area and the soccer field. We'll be improving safety with pedestrian-level lighting around the play area,
 and improving the soccer field playability with an automatic irrigation system and making soccer field renovations. The project also adds an imaginative art installation through the Regional Arts and Culture Council. With the acceptance of this bid, construction is set to begin late this spring and has an anticipated completion date of fall 2019.
 We have one invited guest today in support of this project, Brian Flores Garcia, and I have three letters written by community members and our project advisory committee who are not able to be here today. I would like to read one of them. But first I'd like to introduce Brian. I'm going to ask Larry to give up his seat. Thanks, Larry. Thank you, Larry. Brian.
 Brian is a superstar for parks. Working as a youth ambassador in East Portland, he's also served as a member of our project advisory committee and was on our art selection panel. We really appreciate him being here today. Brian? Good morning, everyone. I really want to thank you guys for having me here today. It's something a little new, so I'm going to be a little nervous.
 I was, or actually I think I do need to state my name. My name is Brian Flores Garcia. I am a youth ambassador, but I was also a member of the Lynchview Park Project Advisory Committee, as well as the art panel, or the art selection panel for Lynchview Park. And so a little bit of what we talked about here, that participatory process, I got the chance to talk to a lot of community members who live in the area, and I myself live pretty close to Lynchview.
 And it was a really, really great experience because it showed a lot of community members there that parks really did care about what they thought. And I know it meant a lot to a lot of the members there who have families and who would like to see a park in their community like that. And well, I guess I'll just. So I think working in my community, I have seen, or at least I know a lot of people in East Portland feel like that's the part of the city that's been forgotten by the city.
 I think a lot of people see the lack of sidewalks, they see the lack of crosswalks, they see the really high speed limits, and they think, this is the part of my city that people don't care about. And working, having a chance to be on this project and to work in the art panel and to see all of this participation on part of the community, I really, I can tell that people care about East Portland. The people who live there care about East Portland, and I can tell that Parks really cares about East Portland.
 giving the opportunity for community members to come together and to talk about what they would like to see in a park. And that's not something that's always done when it comes to community work. I think a lot of the time people come in and they have a prescription for how they would like to see a community. And...
 the community really has no say in how that's implemented. And I think this specific project really changed my way of seeing how PARCS operates because it shows me that PARCS cares about what our communities think, especially our communities of color. These are some of the most disinvested communities in all of Portland, some of the most struggling, vulnerable communities in all of Portland. And I grew up there.
 I know that it's hard to do this process every time, but this process really, really showed me that Parks definitely cares and that Parks wants to continue on this equity work in the right way.
 And as a member of East Portland, and as a member of Parks, and as a member of all of these different communities, I really want to say thank you for supporting all of these efforts and for investing in our communities because it is so important. And it really shows our people here in Portland, and it shows our people in East Portland, sometimes they feel like different cities, that we care and that we are one, and that no matter what, everyone deserves to have a great park. And I think that's really important.
 So, as a member of East Portland and Parks and all of these other things, I want to thank you and I want to ask you to continue to invest in East Portland. Because we have a lot to give. And by showing us that you care, we are able to give back and to participate and to care as well. And it means a lot to families in the neighborhood to have a park that their kids can go to where there's lighting, where there's walking pads. It means a lot to people who are in wheelchairs to have pads that they can access.
 or people who can't really walk that well. I myself, I'm a home care worker for one of my neighbors, and I know that she can't walk through gravel or grass or bark chips. She needs a good, solid ground to walk on. And so for people who need it, it is so important to have a really well-structured park, and there's so many community members there who could really use it.
 Thank you. Commissioner Udaly, then Commissioner Fritz. Can I go first because I've got to go? Commissioner Fritz, then Commissioner Udaly. I'm going to be running for the bus. Thank you, Brian, for taking time to come in. Thank you to Parkstar. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. This is a really exciting project. I'm glad to see the soccer field gets improved as well. Thank you, Maya Spencer, for your great work with outreach.
 I know that there will be a naming process for this park. I do hope that you consider Mrs. Lynch as well as, I know there was some thought of naming, the family that gave the land, the school has now been renamed for the male partner in that family.
 Of course, the land didn't belong to them before that either. So I just ask you to consider all of those things as you're looking at the appropriate name for what it looks like. It's going to be a fantastic park. Thank you so much. I'm sorry I have to run. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner, you're daily. Well, I just wanted to congratulate you on your first time giving testimony.
 And assure you that it really doesn't ever get less intimidating because I was just down in Salem on Monday and I rarely now sit on the other side of the dais. And it was really nerve wracking. My mouth got dry. I was tripping over some words. I was trying to smile at you a lot because the committee I was...
 testifying to, was not smiling at me, was not even looking at me. And I also want to thank you for your contribution and just like the wealth of knowledge and experience that you brought to the process because although you are quite young, it seems like you have already a lot of experience and accomplishments under your belt. So, thanks. Commissioner Fish? Mayor, you've now heard from our presenters
 thanks to the parks bond replacement bond and thanks to robust systems development charges that we have been booking. We're able to make these investments. I believe this will be the furthest East park that we have invested in. We will take commissioner Fritz's recommend suggestions into consideration around naming. There's been a somewhat problematic history with the naming of this property and the adjacent school. And I think it's time to hit the refresh button.
 This particular project went through substantial community review and has the enthusiastic support of the neighbors. And the reason that so much of our outreach work was done in Spanish and in Russian is it reflects many of the key stakeholders who live in the neighborhood.
 Brian, thank you for joining us today and adding your personal perspective. And I will just remind my colleagues that ultimately what we're asking your permission today is to accept the bid of Paul Brothers so that we can move forward on the construction. Thank you, Mayor. That concludes our presentation. Thank you. Commissioner Harz, do you have a comment? Very good. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Please call the roll, Carla.
 I want to thank Larry. I want to thank Robin and Gary. I want to thank Brian. I want to thank Todd on my team, Lofgren, and all the Parks family that's been involved in this. We are deeply committed to reversing a legacy of disinvestment in East Portland.
 And one of the slides that was in the parks presentation yesterday to the whole city council and to our budget advisory committee was a map that showed where our biggest gaps are. And if you define our biggest gaps as the places where you have the most people who have to travel the farthest to access a park, it's East Portland. And we continue to have work to do.
 We are deeply committed to using the park's bond resources and systems development charges to address that inequity. It is part of what we take for granted in this city, that you can walk to a park with your family and enjoy outdoor time and space and recreation. And this is part of a number of efforts that are underway to fulfill that commitment, and
 By accepting this project, the council is also saying that at some point in the future, it is okay with us coming forward with a request for O&M to maintain this park because we cannot build it under our guidelines without also having an allocation of money to maintain it. I'm very proud of the park's work on this and grateful to Commissioner Fritz for laying the groundwork for much of the best work we're doing in East Portland. I vote aye.
 Hardesty? Thank you. I want to agree with Commissioner Udeli. It never gets easier, even on this side. Some days, you know, it's like you think you're ready and you're really not, right? But practice makes perfect, and thank you for being here, and look forward to you coming back.
 I will say that I live in East Portland, so as a resident of East Portland, I know that we've been neglected for decades. And it's wonderful to see us starting to prioritize investing in places where we have failed to invest in the past.
 I'm always concerned about who's getting the work, who's benefiting from public dollars, which is why the questions I asked earlier and not just of Parks, I asked it of everybody because again, it's about making sure that when we talk about equity, it actually relates to people being able to feed their families and it's not just the word that we use to make ourselves feel better.
 I am very, very proud, first of Discovery, Gateway Discovery Park, which is a really, really awesome park. I hope this one is just as awesome as that one is. And how wonderful to see that finally we are making those investments. And I agree with you, Commissioner Fish. We can't build parks and then not maintain them and not have them staffed. And so I hope that after we get through this insane budget,
 process that we start looking at what are the city services that we value and actually putting our money where our mouth is. I vote aye. Well, thank you for the presentation and I'm very pleased to support this item as well as happy to have what I consider a partner in the Parks Bureau in our investments in East Portland because a park is a beautiful thing to have
 Not so beautiful if there's no safe route to get there. So in addition to East Portland residents having to walk further or drive further for a park, they're also twice as likely to be injured or killed on that pedestrian trip. Not to...
 bring us all down, but it's a group effort, and there's still a lot of work to do, but I'm pleased with the progress and happy to vote aye. I've long been concerned.
 about the issues that you spoke about today. I thought you were extremely eloquent, even inspirational in your testimony. So if you thought you were nervous in any way, I'll tell you from where I was sitting, it didn't come across that way. It came across as a very, very powerful statement. So I want to thank you for being here. Number two, equity with East Portland is an issue that has long been of interest to me and it's concerned me for quite some time.
 And as an original co-convener of the East Portland Action Plan, along with then-Mayor Tom Potter and then-Oregon House Speaker Jeff Merkley,
 We laid what we hoped would be a community foundation to achieve equity in the kinds of investments that we make in the community that you identified. Investments around housing, investments around transportation, safety, and infrastructure, investments that help support economic prosperity that could be shared by all people in this community, and yes, parity around parks investments and infrastructure.
 I'm pleased to see that we're making good on that longstanding commitment.
 I'm really proud of the work that the Parks Bureau has done, and my colleagues over the years on the City Council, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, has already demonstrated excellence in his role as the Parks Commissioner. And I know that Commissioner Udaly has spoken very eloquently about the importance of accessibility in everything we do, and it's great to see that being front and center in the development process.
 and conceptualization of this park. Because as you said, this is really about connectivity. It's about bringing us all together. And if we're all coming together, that means all of us. And so this is just an excellent plan. I can't help but be enthusiastically cheering for it. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thanks for your great work. Thank you. Next item, please, is item number 252.
 Amend City Code, Office of the City Attorney, Duties and Responsibilities. And we're now on the regular agenda. Colleagues, the City Attorney's Office performs all of the legal work of the city with few exceptions. The City Attorney's Office provides legal advice and training, reviews all of our city contracts, and represents the city in litigation in state and federal court, among other legal duties on behalf of the City of Portland.
 The city code defines the scope of the city attorney's responsibilities, and different legal activities require the city attorney to obtain different approvals before they're allowed to take any action. This city code has not been revised in over a decade.
 In that time, the city attorney has identified a few items in the code that should be improved. These items include giving the city attorney the ability to act quickly, to defend the city's legal interests, as well as the ability to affirmatively help protect city employees in certain circumstances. These are very important and common sense changes to the city code. This ordinance is sponsored by all of us here on the city council.
 Would any of my colleagues like to make any open statements before I turn this over to our city attorney, Tracy Reeve? Very good. With all that then, we'll turn it over to Tracy Reeve, who will walk us through the proposed changes to the city code. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Tracy Reeve. I'm the city attorney, and I'm here this morning to walk you through the changes to PCC Section 3.10.030, which is the section that sets forth the duties and responsibilities of the city attorney.
 So before I do that, I thought I would just briefly state that our mission is to provide excellent, objective, timely, and cost-effective legal advice and advocacy in support of the city's policy goals and to ensure that the official actions of the city, its elected officials, and employees comply with the law.
 And to enable us to achieve that mission, we have four strategic goals that guide our work. Those are to provide excellent customer service, to advocate effectively for the city's interests, to advance equity, and to ensure accountability. As the mayor has noted, my office is responsible for performing almost all of the legal work for the city.
 And the code section at issue here today sets forth our duties and responsibilities. In a nutshell, we represent the city in court and administrative proceedings, and we represent all city elected officials, officers, employees, boards, and commissions in all matters arising in the course and scope of their work for the city.
 We give legal advice and prepare legal documents. We review and approve all written contracts and other legally binding documents to which the city is a party. We work to ensure compliance with the law and ethical obligations and to prevent legal problems by providing training, advice, direction, and opinions to the city and its elected officials, officers, employees, boards, and commissions. And we institute legal proceedings on behalf of the city with the appropriate authorization.
 The changes before you today relate to our scope of authority in this last area of instituting legal proceedings. We've identified two areas in which amendments to the scope of our authority to institute legal proceedings will enable us to better meet the needs and policy objectives of the city.
 The first area is that in the last few years, we are increasingly seeing situations in which city elected officials, officers, and employees are experiencing hostile, harassing, and even threatening behavior directed at them because of their role as city officials and employees. Thank you.
 Currently, under the city code, we are only authorized to represent officers' employees as required by the Oregon Tort Claims Act, which would not cover this situation. This amendment would enable us, with the authorization of the commissioner in charge, to represent city employees in their personal capacity when in proceedings that are connected to their city employment and that are related to their personal safety.
 And as an example, this would enable us, in an appropriate circumstance, to represent a city official or employee who is seeking a restraining order against someone who is threatening them as a result of their city employment. So that's the first area. The second area pertains to our ability to institute or participate in legal proceedings on a timely basis.
 In the last couple of years, and particularly since the Trump administration took office, we are increasingly participating as an amicus curiae or friend of the court in cases involving policy issues of concern to the city. For example, we have participated as an amicus in numerous cases challenging the Trump administration's attack on immigrants and the DACA program.
 We've been able to participate in many of these immigration-related issues due to a resolution that the Council passed, giving us fairly broad authority in this area with the mayor's authorization. But we're also fielding regularly requests that align with the city's values in other areas. On occasion, we simply are not able to get before Council with a resolution in time for us to participate.
 Most recently, this occurred when we were asked to participate as a friend of the court in the climate litigation brought by Oregon Young People. And the timeline was just too tight, although as that case, assuming that it continues, that was at the motion to dismiss level, we will seek to participate.
 This change to the code, though, would enable us to file an amicus brief in cases in which we are not a party, the city is not a party, but does have legal or policy interests that align with the litigation or that are at issue in the litigation with the authorization of the commissioner in charge. Finally, the last change before you is to address a relatively rare but potentially significant issue.
 Generally speaking, to appeal a court or administrative decision in most circumstances, we need city council approval. Normally that's fine, it doesn't present a problem, but occasionally we are faced with a filing timeline that makes this extremely difficult. And this is particularly problematic because in most circumstances, appellate filing timelines are jurisdictional, meaning if you miss the timeline, you are completely without recourse to pursue the appeal.
 The issue arose most recently when we were working with other national partners and it was determined that the city should appeal the FCC ruling having to do with broadband and the uses of the city's rights-of-way. And the timeline was such that we needed a special council meeting to get the authorization. We were able to do that because council already had a work session, so council was already gathered in together. But...
 that could present a very difficult circumstance if council didn't happen to have a work session already scheduled within the time frame that we needed. So what we're proposing is that in and only in those types of situations where in the judgment of the city attorney it's necessary to protect the city's legal interests and with the authorization of the commissioner in charge, we would have authority to file a notice of appeal to protect the city's legal interests
 but we would still come before you as soon as possible to get authorization to actually prosecute or move forward with the appeal. In that situation, were counseled to determine that it did not wish the city attorney to prosecute the appeal, we would then simply dismiss the notice of appeal, but the city at least would not have waived its right to participate. Thank you for your consideration of these changes to the code, which we believe will enable us to better meet the city's needs.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fish? I have one question, and I'm reflecting on the fact that in our legislative work, we have a policy that says that we're all bound by our legislative agenda, no freelancing. We even sign a letter to that. We sign a memo to that effect so that we're all clear as to what the city's legislative priorities are. And if we go down to Salem, we have to stick to the script.
 That was a big step forward when we implemented that a couple years ago because we were adopting legislative agendas, but there was a lot of freelancing going on in the council, and it was unclear whether individual commissioners were speaking for the council or not, and it got confusing. Here, the mechanism in most instances is the commissioner in charge gets to decide. I can imagine a circumstance where it's not entirely clear who the commissioner in charge is.
 Because it's an issue that doesn't just fall neatly within someone's portfolio. Under those circumstances, how do you determine who is the authorizing official? That would be a fact-specific circumstance, Commissioner. If there was a doubt, my...
 would be to work with more than one commissioner if there were more than one commissioner who had direct authority. The other thing I'll say about the amicus participation is I see this as a way where it's...
 pretty clear what the council's policy objectives are and that an amicus brief would align with those if there's doubt as to whether uh what the city's policy position would be namely what the council's position would be we would still come before the council as a whole to seek that authorization makes sense thank you very much
 Thank you. Very good. Public testimony on this item. Carla? Yes, we have, I believe, three people signed up. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Dan Handelman, and Maggie. Very good. Thank you. Come on up. Two minutes. Name for the record, please. Oh, yeah, don't lose that. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Dan Handelman with the Portland Cop Watch. I'm sorry, Dan. Could you turn that microphone back on? Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and we are concerned about this emergency ordinance giving too much power to the city attorney with no oversight and few restrictions. We are particularly concerned because of the city's history of filing appeals against the interest of community justice, such as two appeals of Judge Simon's rulings in the DOJ agreement. The city attorney is one of the most powerful people in this government, is not elected, and is rarely held accountable.
 Elected officials come and go, city attorneys stay for a longer time. This has the positive effect of continuity but the added with the legal advisory role, it means that their suggestions can carry inordinate weight with new officials, particularly those without legal backgrounds. We've also seen numerous incidents where the city attorney has given bad or even wrong advice to elected officials, including but not limited to advising the auditor and citizen review committee. They could not exclude people from their meeting if those people were being disruptive.
 I'm going to skip over some of this because I didn't realize I only have two minutes. In terms of training, the city attorney is obviously doing a poor job training about the 181A law that prevents gathering information on individuals. From that email, the police circulated among themselves that listed names of people involved in Antifa and Patriot Prayer with no allegations of criminal activity.
 Although the ordinance allows for counsel post facto to approve an appeal that's filed, it's difficult to unring that bell once it's been rung. It also says the city attorney has to seek counsel approval as soon as practicable, not as soon as possible.
 rather than the next council hearing following the paperwork being filed. I can hardly think of a case where you have to file appeal within eight days. You usually have to file your paperwork on a Tuesday before a following Wednesday. And even if it is such a rush, you can have a four-fifths agenda item to vote on something. So I'm not really sure why this is happening. What happens if...
 There's a president that you do like, and they try to file an amicus or an appeal against them. There's no language in here, actually, that says that they have to follow city policies to file these legal motions. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning on this beautiful Wednesday. Thank you.
 Here in the era of Trump at the Portland City Council, the first public testimony from a citizen in the public occurs two hours after the beginning of the meeting, almost two and a half hours after the beginning of the meeting. Great public involvement and transparency here. To follow up on an issue that Commissioner Fish raised about determining who...
 the commissioner in charge is. It would be a little bit better if this wording was language, if we knew that whenever there was an effort made to reach the commissioner in charge, all the commissioners were being informed simultaneously. That would even be a good amendment. I don't really expect you to all move it forward, but I think that it's been a pleasure to be engaged in some forms with Tracy Reeve. She came...
 out of her own wisdom to a meeting in one of the many public meetings in the basement of the Mount Tabor Presbyterian Church when we were talking about police conduct or misconduct. So I'm encouraged that on her own, City Attorney Reeve would kind of adopt that standard of any time she needed to get an appeal in on some weird timeline, very weird timeline, as Mr. Handelman pointed out, that all the commissioners would be simultaneously informed that we're going to
 They were looking for the commissioner in charge, whoever that might be. Maybe Ted's in London and it's Madam President with her awesome new hair. But I think that would be better government. In the 31 seconds I've got left on my two minutes, one of the other things a city attorney could do to impress us all is actually become in favor of requiring police to require professional liability insurance. But that's a long battle that we'll look into in the future. Okay.
 The issue of restraining orders, I recently saw one of you all have a somewhat disruptive lunch or steps towards your lunch. You got to be interrogated or whatever by one of our people who is sometimes described as cop watch. I'm not sure that's certainly not applicable in the situation. I hope you'll never need protective orders and that you all engage with the community so we can be sure that all our elected officials have safety and respect. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning.
 I want to second everything that Charles said, and I am concerned about this idea of using the city attorney to ameliorate government incompetence, like, say, the kind we saw in Katrina, where the engineers were trying to tell the city officials that the wall was going to go. It was not...
 sound, or when the wall finally went in Katrina down in New Orleans.
 And those buses that they had where they could have saved people's lives, and they had three days to get those buses out, and they didn't do it. And they didn't get those people out of their publicly owned buildings and off of those roofs. And people drowned. They were stranded.
 women, men, children, babies died. And I don't think you should be protected against something like that. I agree, you know, if there's somebody like,
 What happened to Ronald Reagan where someone is stalking you and they're mentally ill? Okay, yes, but you, like any other citizen, you can come forward and just get a restraining order just like anybody else. You don't need a special...
 thing from the city attorney to do that you as a citizen can can go and and Apply for a restraining order. I don't see how how that changes anything, but I don't think that I
 In situations of great catastrophe, like we're the second largest homeless population in the nation, I don't think where there's government incompetence that you should be protected by the city attorney. Thank you. We still have a blue screen. Now we've got a PowerPoint. Yeah.
 It was a good PowerPoint. That completes public testimony? No, I was signed up. Oh, you're signed up. You might not have seen it. Very good. Were you signed up? Yes. Okay. I have a Terrence somebody, Terrence Moses, but I don't have lightning. So this is, okay, I expect you to please sign up like everybody else so we know that you're on the list. His name isn't on the list. It's on there. We just had a dispute on that, but I signed up, so I'd like to speak. Fair enough. Thank you. Go. Okay. Thank you.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superhumanity. One of the biggest concerns I've ever had in these council— Lightning, could you hold for a second? Yes, sir. Very disconcerting. Okay, there we go. Oh, okay. Very good. Sorry. Go ahead. One of the biggest concerns I've had in these council chambers is seeing cop watchers have restraining orders put on them in this building. Now, where I have a problem with that is that although we do have the city attorney sitting behind me,
 The city attorney also represents the people's interests on all these contracts, all these issues. So with that in mind, when you're talking a personal capacity of a commissioner or the mayor outside, to me, if she goes in and represents at that point, that's almost a conflict of interest. She does represent the people of the city.
 She is being paid by the people of this city. So if somebody in here is saying something and you think it's so outrageous and you go, you know what?
 That voice is just saying, I'm going to shut that person down. I don't care what it takes. I'll work through the DA. I'll work through anybody I can, and I'll get it done. And I'll even have my city attorney. We will stop them. Let's go for a restraining order. Let's do this. Whatever it takes, I just want their voice shut down and keep them out of the council chambers. We've got to be very careful on this because I can assure you on some of these cases...
 If it ever goes up in front of a judge like Judge Michael Simon, who understands the Constitution and is a constitutional scholar, I think what we're going to vote on today is unconstitutional. I think there's going to be a conflict of interest there. I think when you're outside and you're not doing your duties at that time, you need to get your own personal attorney. So if I sit on the other side and I want to bankrupt you in the process for being an incompetent mayor, I'm going to do it.
 That's my right. I don't think you should be represented by a city attorney to protect your interests if you're unconstitutional, because we will bankrupt you if that's what is necessary. We will bankrupt you and remove you out of your chair, unconstitutional Mayor Wheeler. Your time is up. One term. Thank you. Remember that. One term. Retaliate on me. One term or...
 I'd like to hear from the city attorney. Your time is up. Thank you. Sit down, please. I'd like to hear from the city. Excuse me. You need to sit down or you need to leave. Could I hear from the city attorney, please? So the concern was raised in two different flavors here.
 Could this be used to shut down dissenting opinions? So what would happen in the case that somebody files a restraining order against somebody and it turns out it is not? Excuse me. You're going to have to please be quiet. You are interrupting everything else. You need to please be quiet or I'm going to ask you to leave. In the event that somebody does misuse.
 The restraining order. And I'm certainly aware, as the mayor of the city of Portland, I can walk the entire length of this city and have people standing nearby heckling me, shouting at me, calling me incompetent, shouting at my wife or my child who are standing next to us. And I understand that that is actually, while it's awful behavior, it's also constitutionally protected, given my particular role. Is that not true? No.
 That is true, Mayor. And if we went to court saying we want a restraining order against somebody because they were engaged in that behavior, reprehensible though it may be, what would happen? We would lose. And if I could just back up for a moment even from that, which is that, you know,
 I would have the obligation and my office would have the obligation if that situation was raised, either by an elected official or just by an employee. This behavior has been occurring. You know, elected officials are certainly subjected to it, but just ordinary city employees. So there are protections here then for people's constitutional rights built into the system, unlike what we just heard.
 through testimony. Absolutely. And we would have the obligation to evaluate the behavior that was being described to see if, A, it was connected to the person's employment, B, it was related to their personal safety, and C, whether it met the legal standard, whether we had a good faith basis to believe it met the legal standard for whatever relief we were looking for. Say it was a restraining order, we would have to look at the statutory criteria, which in
 and we would have to believe that we had a good faith basis to represent that employee and that all of those factors were met before we even went in. So that would be the first threshold. And then, of course, the court is looking at those constitutional issues as well. I appreciate that clarification. And I also just want to state for the record, because it was stated during testimony, that people have had to wait an hour or an hour and a half for public testimony. I want to remind everybody.
 that the first 15 minutes of every council session is reserved for public commentary on whatever they want to talk about. So I just want to correct the record on that matter. Any further questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Mayor. My question has to do with, I just want to be clear for the record. So if I'm going through a divorce, you're not going to represent me, right? Absolutely. It has to be related to your employment and related to your safety. Thank you.
 Commissioner Hurst, did you have a question? She's a new daily. I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly, did you have a question? We're in uncharted waters now. I'm just so flattered every time someone mistakenly calls me Commissioner Hurst. Commissioner Fritz called me Commissioner Fritz the other day. We're in uncharted waters. That was special. That was a special moment. We're in uncharted waters. So I'm going to bring us back. I'm going to bring us back. Please call the roll. This is an emergency ordinance. Fish. Well, I support these common sense amendments. And...
 For me, this goes to a fundamental principle, which is everybody who works here at the city deserves to work in a safe workplace. Whether you are an elected official or whether you are a staff person, whether you are represented or nonrepresented, you have the right to work in a safe workplace. And that's just not me saying that. That's protected under state and federal law. We are required as an employer to maintain a safe workplace. Unfortunately, there are a small number of people
 who continue to push the boundaries of behavior which is lawful and which may be the subject of future actions taken under these changes. Now, look, I've been an elected official now for 10 years. Sort of piggybacking off of what the mayor just said, I understand that as an elected official I actually have fewer rights than others. I understand that people have the right to express themselves with vigor. Yesterday I was –
 getting into a ride share on 4th Avenue, and one of the frequent flyers here who is very opinionated came and actually stood in the street filming me and insulting me, insulted a member of the mayor's staff who was coming out to get into the car with his family. Look, I understand that in a democracy people have a right to express themselves. They have a right to test boundaries. What they don't have the right to do is to cross the line on personal safety.
 Because that's where we have a legal obligation to draw the line. I have a trusted and treasured employee that for some time was required to have a restraining order because someone couldn't follow the law and continually put him in awkward positions and made threats, and that's not acceptable.
 On the other hand, I understand as an elected official I have fewer rights, so we have done a security assessment of my rental apartment building. We've made some changes in my life because of some unfortunate things that have happened and are continuing to happen on social media. I get that.
 And I have my eyes wide open. I ran for reelection knowing that this job presents a whole range of good and challenging things. But let's go back to what is the core of one set of recommendations that you're making today. Our obligation to maintain a safe work environment. This is an outgrowth of this. We anticipate and expect that it will be exercised responsibly. Council will ultimately be the backstop.
 With respect to the timing on things like friend of the court briefs and other litigation, let me just say to our city attorney, I'm proud to serve on a council that has been aggressive in having our voice in courts around the country reflecting our values. I think we should continue to do it, joining with sister cities up and down the West Coast. And what we're fixing here is a situation where, because of timing,
 We may not have a chance to authorize something. We can still have the council revisit. The council still can weigh in after the fact. But because of timing, we want to streamline the process. That makes eminent sense to me. As I said, these are common sense amendments, and I support them. I vote aye. Hardesty.
 Thank you. And thank you, Tracy, for your presentation. I also support the changes that are before us today. And though I understand the fear of what the attorney will do with this new power, I also understand the necessity to make sure that my employees are safe when they come to work in the city of Portland.
 I have no fear myself personally, but I have seen how people intimidate, harass, and just make life a living heck for some of our employees. And to me, that's just not acceptable. You got a bone to pick. Pick it with me. Do not pick it with my staff. Do not pick it with other city employees. That is just so outrageous. That is just outrageous. Okay.
 I support this because I want to be able to assure my staff that it is not a safety risk for them showing up
 into the office and doing the job that they've been hired to do. And I just want to say to Dan Handelman, I know that I spent a lot of quality time with Tracy, and we will continue to do so, and we will continue to make sure that the city attorney really is doing the job that we want them to do. I vote aye. You, Daly.
 As a person who has had to navigate this world as a woman for the last 48 years, and who has faced harassment, intimidation, and physical violence due to the simple fact that I am a woman, I'm not remotely interested in what any man thinks about me.
 me feeling threatened. I don't care what my colleagues think. I don't care what any of you think. Based on my lived experience, it is reasonable for me to fear for my safety when I am being stalked, harassed, insulted inside my work, outside my work, at my home.
 on my free time when I'm sitting outside the Senate chambers in Salem taking a break after giving testimony. That was on Monday. I have experienced frequent ongoing harassment here, and I have felt, I have feared for my physical safety, that of my family, my staff, and city employees, and it is unacceptable, and it makes me sick
 to hear community members making excuses for that behavior. You are disrupting. You are disrupting. Listen, please sit down. You have your turn and you do not get to say anything else. Well, he's disrupted multiple times. I just want to note that. I was surprised recently after being stopped half a mile on foot walking to lunch by a member of the public.
 after I repeatedly asked him to stop, that the city could not assist me with obtaining a stocking order. That I would have... ...down and shut up, Lightning. Okay, we're going to take a three-minute recess. You need to go. Thumbs up. We're back. This is a great example. We're back. Thank you. Sorry for the delay.
 of someone who takes up an inordinate amount of time, creates a hostile workplace, and refuses to abide by the time, place, and manner that it is our right to set in the limited public forum, which is what city council meetings are. As I was saying, I was surprised to learn that I would have to use my own time and financial resources, both of which are limited, to obtain a stalking order against someone who was stalking me
 Because of what my job is. Because of my role. And as far as I know, when I was elected to city council, I didn't give up all of my rights. I am also a member of the public. I am also the people, as Lightning likes to say. And it's just unacceptable to treat anyone the way that we are sometimes treated. I want to thank...
 The Chief City Attorney, Tracy Reeves, for taking the initiative to draft this new policy. Commissioner Hardesty and her Policy Director, Derek Bradley, for making sure this effort was brought forward and that we all took part in its support. As you can see, it's an emotional issue for me. I love this job, and I'm good at this job. This behavior by a couple handfuls of people has changed the way I navigate my city.
 It has limited the way I interact with the public. It makes me feel isolated and less connected to the community that I'm supposed to be represented. And it's so disappointing to hear from people who I often agree with and I respect, that they don't think that I deserve to feel safe and have support from the city in order to do my job. I vote aye. Wheeler.
 The city attorney needs the ability to act quickly to protect the legal interests of the city, especially now that those interests are increasingly under attack. And I appreciate Tracy Reeve for coming forward and actually giving us a couple of credible examples where that has been the case. And we also have an obligation to protect our employees. While we are the government,
 We are also an employer, and those who seek to work for the City of Portland in any capacity have a right to a safe environment. These changes allow the city attorney to help employees who have their personal safety threatened because of their city employment. I obviously support these changes. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 253.
 accept bid of Brown Contracting, Inc. for the HSIP 2016 Signalize Improvements Portland Project for $1,047,900. Follow that, Larry. Are you sure we can't take lunch or something? Okay.
 Good morning. I am Larry Palat, Procurement Services, and you have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to Brown Contracting, Inc. for the Highway Safety Improvement Program, Signalized Improvement for Portland Project, $1,047,900.
 The engineer's estimate for the project was $718,900. The project was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system. Two bids were received and opened on January 15th. This report seeks approval of the contract award to Brown Contracting for $1,047,900, which is 45% over the engineer's estimate.
 The Portland Bureau of Transportation has chosen to move forward with this bid partly because this project was bid once before. Earlier this year, they received absolutely no bids. And the city had made some strategic decisions about aspects of the project relating to a couple of thought processes relative to signal to traffic control and things that when –
 I participated with the Bureau in the value engineering session trying to get closer to the budget. They kind of demonstrated that some of the thought processes wouldn't actually work for a contractor. This project is slightly more than 90% funded by a federal highway safety grant, and as such, the total cost to the project has little impact on the city's budget, regardless of how close it is or is not to the engineer's estimate.
 This project is a federally funded highway project. As such, the city's standard goals, and I apologize, Commissioner Hardesty, but the alphabet soup of COVID, all that is not applicable here because federal projects recognize the disadvantaged business enterprise certification only. The Oregon Department of Transportation, which is the grantor and manager of all of DBE funding,
 assigns a goal to every individual project. This project, unfortunately, had a goal of 0%, significantly lower than what the city typically gets and what they've been asking for for years. So they keep requesting higher goals. Unfortunately, on this particular project, ODOT could not be supportive of a higher goal. Commissioner Hardest. Thank you. Y. Y.
 That's ODOT's decision. They manage – the federal money comes to ODOT. ODOT is a pass-through to the city, and the ODOT determines the goal, and the city doesn't have, for lack of a better term, appeal rights relative to the goals. ODOT assigns it, and we're kind of stuck with it. So the city has a value of contracting with minority and women and emerging small businesses, right?
 And you're asking us to put a million and a half dollars into a federal project that has less than 2% participation, DMWESB. And three firms, I'm assuming are quote-unquote disadvantaged businesses, are going to share $18,000 out of a $1.5 million contract. Yes.
 And are you telling me there's nothing the city of Portland can do to actually live our values? Actually, Commissioner, that's the next report. That's the mayor's. That's the Moore Enterprises. This is the Brown Contract Report for the Signal Eyes. It's item 253. Oh, I'm sorry. Never mind. At least you got his name right, though. That's better than I did today.
 My apologies. It's not a problem. As soon as you were with the numbers, I realized, okay, well, that's the next one up. But now you know what she's going to ask. Yes, I have a good hunch. I do.
 Brown Contracting is located in Eugene, Oregon. They are not a state-certified co-bid contractor. They do have current city of Portland business tax registration and full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements. If there's any questions relative to the bid or the bidding process, I can certainly answer those. I believe Dan Layton from PBOT's in chambers if you need him to come up for specific questions. Commissioner Fish. I move the report. Thank you.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fish to accept the report. A second from Commissioner Hardesty. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Wheeler? I feel, Larry, like you've killed the suspense on the next item, but I'll go for it anyway. What can I say? I don't know why the report's accepted. Next item, 254, which will be the most boring report we've had today because we already know where it's going. Thank you.
 Accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Road 10R MP28.77-31.85 improvements project for $1,099,917. Larry. Good morning. I am Larry, still Larry Palat. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Road 10...
 Carla's already given you the whole thing. In the amount of $1,099,917, the engineer's estimate on this project was $1,540,000. The Bureau's confidence level was moderate. Okay.
 On November 21st, Council approved Ordinance Number 189257 for procurement services to competitively solicit this project. It was posted on our electronic procurement system. Bids were opened January 31. Two bids were received. In response to the solicitation, Amore Excavation, Inc. is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,099,917, which is 28.5% under the engineer's estimate. Thank you.
 The Port of Water Bureau, along with Procurement Services, identified our aspirational goal for state-certified DMWESVDBEs, co-bid certified contractors, 20%. Unfortunately, there is a total of $18,350, 1.67% state of Oregon certified firm participation on this project.
 uh... as follows db and mb e dual certified three firms trucking sock cutting erosion control uh... while the project has extremely low prok participation it should be noted that more excavation met all of the outreach requirements for the city subcontractor inequity rsvp program the project itself is located in a remote area of the mount hood watershed it's difficult to get to
 Many, many subcontractors that Moore, and we did some follow-up work with this, Moore had contacted declined to bid. The available opportunities were not significant enough to basically interest them in the mobilization cost to get that far up into the watershed. It's a pretty remote area. Excuse me, Mayor. Go ahead.
 Be that as it may, we're splitting $18,000 between three firms to do basically the same kind of work. And somebody else is going to make $1.5 million plus, or $1.48 million. A little over a million, yes. I don't get why we, if we say we value making opportunities available, that we would accept that as, oh, well, it's remote, so nobody wants it. I don't get it.
 I'm just not buying that. I think that there could have been an opportunity there, and it just puzzles me as to why we would accept such a low participation rate. Well, I think part of the answer is that we have specific rules in our subcontractor equity program. They're required to make decisions.
 do certain amounts of outreach and get written responses. It's not just like, you know, oh, I made a phone call and they didn't call me back. That doesn't cut it. What does cut it is if they have an email and they get an email back that says thanks but no thanks, if they can document phone calls and return phone calls, that works, or flat-out written note saying, no, we don't want to do that. Moore Excavation met all the requirements. They did do the outreach. Okay.
 They've been getting, it's interesting to note, more has been getting better and better at participation. Not too long ago, I believe it was December or November, maybe Commissioner Fisher will remember, we had a project up that I really had to call out that they had done a significantly better job. They were up at...
 And I know it's under the goal, but they were up at about 16 percent. And from when I first started doing these reports, they were consistently in three and four and five. So I believe they're making the efforts. They certainly seem to be demonstrating that this particular project didn't lend itself, but they did meet all of the requirements.
 Are there repercussions for not reaching the minority women and emerging small business goals? Not if they meet the requirements of the program, because the city does not have hard, fixed goals. We have aspirational goals. We do not have enough diversity study type information to establish fixed goals, minimum goals. I know there's a...
 a thought process to the city investing in another diversity study, but they are very expensive. So the idea, you know, if you want to establish fixed goals, you have to have the diversity study information which backs that up. Can I just add one thing? Because I want to emphasize something about more excavation because I don't remember the exact time frame, but there was a time when the numbers were pretty anemic.
 And so we actually had a meeting with them, and we had a meeting for the purpose of making clear what the city's values were and what we expected. And actually, the numbers came up quite a bit. The challenge from time to time is we have aspirational goals. There's a protocol someone has to go through. They have to reach out to their list. They have to document that they've made the effort.
 But if no one bids on the work, we get a situation like this. And I think there are, in every bid, there are lessons that we can learn. And, Larry, you may be hearing from the council a desire to go a little deeper on lessons learned here. Certainly. The fact that the work is remote shouldn't in and of itself be a disqualifier. Is there something we can learn here?
 So the next time we have a project like this, we can do better. I think that's what you're going to be hearing. But your role is to satisfy us, at least now, that the contractor met our legal requirements in terms of the process they went through. The actual numbers may be inadequate. Right.
 Right. But did they go through the process they were required to by the city? They absolutely met the requirements of the program. And based on that is why we are moving forward with the recommendation for an award is because they did meet the requirements. They met. They tried. They really did try. And with documented evidence in terms of e-mails and tracking and everything else, they did try. Okay.
 The fact that they didn't get it, they didn't get it. And I do think that a big chunk of that is the fact that the project is just so remote. But certainly they put the effort in.
 Commissioner Hurst. Thank you. I appreciate that, Commissioner Fish. You know, I've only been on the city council for a couple of months, but I've been around for both disparity studies that have been done around contracting for the city of Portland. The first you might remember was like an 18-volume document that every government within the Portland metro area had their own individual disparity study.
 We spent, like, I think $1.9 million on that one. Then the city of Portland did another one a few years back. And we do a really, really, really, really good job of studying, but we never actually implement what the findings are that come out of those studies. So I'm not convinced that another study will get us better outcomes. I just think more accountability will get us better outcomes. Great. I'll entertain a motion and move to report. Thank you, sir.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish to accept the report. A second from Commissioner Udaly. Please call the roll. Fish. Good discussion. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Wheeler. All right. Report is accepted. Next item, 255. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Larry. Approve findings to authorize an exemption to the competitive bidding requirements, authorize use of the alternative contracting method of two-step negotiated requests for proposals, and authorize the chief procurement officer to execute a contract with the successful contractor.
 proposal upon acceptance by council for Leach Upper Garden project for an estimated $6.8 million. Mayor and colleagues, this is another good news story for East Portland. As you know, Leach Botanical Garden is a city landmark and a treasure in East Portland.
 This ordinance will allow the Chief Procurement Officer to solicit proposals to optimize best value for a complex garden improvement project, as well as to promote the city's contracting equity goals. We have for presentation today Leslie Spittler, Chief Procurement Officer, and Ross Swanson, Parks Project Manager. Yes? Thank you. Yes. Well, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. Welcome, Lester and Ross. Excuse me. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mayor, council members, my name is Ross Swanson. I am the capital project manager with Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm back here today to seek permission for an alternative bid process for the Leach Botanical Garden project. You may remember that I was here in November to seek permission to bid, and today we're here to modify that request.
 As a reminder about the project, this project has been in development since 2014. It is a collaborative effort between Parks and Recreation, Leach Garden Friends, which is the nonprofit organization that runs the day-to-day operations there, Prosper Portland, and Metro. The scope of the work of this project, in brief, is improve infrastructure and utilities for the garden,
 An aerial tree walk, which will be demonstrated in the next slide, which is basically a giant deck that makes its way through the forest at 30 feet. Community open spaces, which includes fireplace terrace and gathering greens. That's demonstrated in the slide. And a habitat and pollinator garden. So last November...
 I was here to get council permission to go to bid, which unanimously agreed to. However, as the Parks and Rec and the procurement staff started working through all the documents that it takes for a traditional bid, we identified a couple of risk items that gave us a moment of pause. We wanted to ensure that we had a quality of work in a sensitive habitat area, basically how to build an aerial tree walk in the forest,
 As well, we have a quantity and a variety of plant species. We anticipate over 400 different plant species to be procured for this project in a short time frame. So we had reason to ensure that portions of the work can be relatively complete for the American Public Gardens Conference, which will be in Portland in June of 2020. So the garden community of the United States will be here, and Leach Garden is anticipated to be one of the focal points.
 In short, this project has some level of difficulty that may overwhelm a traditional low bidding contractor that has not done their homework. So our goals here are twofold. One, ensure we get a quality built project for the public. And two, set up a successful starting point for the contracting companies. With these concerns in mind, Procurement Services offered up an alternative approach to the low bid that we would like. And we would like to pilot that process today.
 In order to proceed with the alternative approach, we need your council approval. And to better explain this process is Lester Spittler with Procurement Services. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Lester Spittler, the Chief Procurement Officer. The legislative action you have before you today is to exempt this project from the competitive low bid procurement method. As Ross said, there's a few critical elements that we believe need to be assessed in selecting a contractor.
 Those are the landscape and the plant procurement. We want to be able to assess the prime contractor's ability as well as the subcontractor's ability to procure those plants and successfully plant them to grow and flourish. The other area of concern is building this 30-foot high aerial deck that Ross mentioned. We want to be able to assess the qualifications and experience of the contractor before we make selection.
 So in a typical low bid situation, we issue 100% design documents and we seek pricing from the contractor community. With this two-step negotiated RFP process, the first step will be that pre-qualification step. So we'll ask for responses from prime contractors and subcontractors and we'll assess their qualifications and experience and we will pre-qualify them accordingly.
 And the second response or the second round is going to be proposals, joint proposals from prime contractors and subcontractors. So they'll form a team and propose. They'll respond to evaluation criteria that we will ask them to respond to. Those things will include what their subcontracting plan is.
 their approach, their experience, their qualifications, and their ability to adequately purchase all 400 different species of plants and then plant and install them successfully.
 So with that, we are asking for your approval to exempt this project from the competitive low bid process. We feel that there's going to be significant cost savings and schedule benefits as a result of this approach. Portland Parks and Recreation is going to be able to negotiate with a selected team on the price, on the schedule, whereas in a low bid situation, we wouldn't have the ability to do that.
 So we feel like an alternative approach benefits the project and benefits the taxpayers in the city. Can you explain to us why you believe that an alternative approach also potentially helps the city boost its minority contracting equity goals? Absolutely. So part of the response or the proposal is going to be a subcontracting plan where we ask the prime contractor to tell us how they plan to subcontract out the work.
 We will apply our 20% aspirational goal, but that's an opportunity for them to come in and tell us exactly what they're going to do, who they're going to reach out to, and then we're able to hold them to that in the contract. So it's an additional mechanism to make sure that we're assessing the experience and qualifications of the prime contractor in their ability to achieve our social equity goals and objectives. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. And so with this alternative contracting pilot, what if your prime contractors don't reach the aspirational goal?
 So we have the ability to negotiate. And so we'll get initial proposals, and there will be a valuation committee that's representative of parks and other bureaus and other stakeholders. We'll evaluate their proposals, and then we'll invite, depending on the level of competition, we'll invite firms in for an interview. And in the interview is typically where we ask them to explain their subcontracting plan. That gives us an opportunity to emphasize the importance of.
 of our social equity goals. And so through those discussions, we typically benefit by, you know, being able to negotiate with that prime contractor and to get them to increase their numbers. Or if they don't put forth a good plan and an effort, then we will, that will affect their score. And that will ultimately affect their ability to get the award.
 One other item on that, we will be doing a pre-bid meeting with all prospective contractors, and at that meeting we also get to reiterate at that point what our goals are and that we're serious about it. And this process, will there be ongoing evaluation of whether or not the contractor is continuing to reach their goal? I mean, like, is there a monthly monitoring meeting or is there a – what's the process of oversight?
 So when we execute the contract and we have that goal that's agreed to, Procurement Services has a compliance team that adequately monitors the contractor's participation. There will be, I think there's construction meetings that happen regularly. The compliance team or the representative from Procurement Services can attend those meetings.
 depending on how the contractor is doing. So we do hold them accountable throughout the life of the project for meeting the goal that we both agreed to and negotiated up front. Well, and you're also speaking for procurement services. I'll speak for parks. As our presentation made clear yesterday to council,
 We've had a proud tradition in the last number of years of far exceeding the city's aspirational goals. So making sure that the benefits of these investments accrue to the larger community and breaking down barriers is important to the Bureau. So what you've got is both the Parks Bureau prioritizing this as a core value, and you've got procurement services. And this pilot allows us to see whether, working together, we can boost those numbers. Very good. Any further questions? Great. Public testimony. Thank you.
 Two people signed up. Charles Bridgecrain Johnson and Maggie. On the findings? Yeah, folks, we've got a long agenda, so please make sure the testimony is germane. Two minutes each name for the record.
 Good morning, Commissioner, or afternoon, I guess now. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And, you know, when we sign up, we haven't heard the presentation yet. We've only been able to review the documents. You know, I think this is a good thing. I think one thing that is maybe agonizing the city attorney is sometimes these situations seem to people like, oh, there's already a preferred contractor in the pocket.
 and so it sounds like the team actually has a big plate full of work and does have a number of prospective bidders that will be using this new alternate process. So I just wanted to encourage you to all do an extra bit of oversight because of that risk. It would really be tragic if on this pilot program later on somebody sued and emails came out and it turned out that, oh, yeah, there was one party that was already in the bag. So please use your usual and extra due diligence. Thank you all very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. If this is about contractors, I would like to say I was having a conversation with the Connie McKnight people, and we agreed that you should focus on hiring people and not companies, that if you focused more on hiring people instead of companies, that there would be a lot more equity. Okay.
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Please call the roll. Fish. So, colleagues, I just want to highlight for you that the leach upper garden project is a major priority for me. It's something that I started working on the last time I had parks. Commissioner Fritz, during her leadership, ensured that there were investments made in building out their master plan.
 This is a gem in East Portland and deserves to be considered in the first tier of our parks. And you heard a reference to an event which is scheduled for June of 2020. So if I could get this on your calendar now, the American Public Garden Movement is coming to Portland. This is a huge feather in our cap because this is hundreds and hundreds of garden leaders from around the country.
 We will be showcasing all of our great gardens while they're here, and there will be many events you'll be invited to. Leach will be hosting an event which will not want to be missed. For those of you who haven't been to Leach recently, and I know Commissioner Udaly, your office was there, I think, for a retreat. My office scheduled time there for a retreat. It is a magical place with the work that's being done by PBOT to replace the bridge in front of Leach and make it more accessible. Thank you.
 That's a huge positive in development. This master plan promises to chart the next chapter of Leach's story. We're very excited to be a participant in this, and we urge your acceptance. I vote aye. Hardesty.
 Though I'm reluctant to just take people's word for a $6 million investment, I have every confidence in Commissioner Fish and the Bureau, the Parks Bureau, and Procurement that they will hold us to a standard whereby everyone has an opportunity to benefit from this reinvestment, this redevelopment process.
 And just know, I'll be here paying attention. I vote aye. You, Daly? Well, I'm a little embarrassed to admit that I had never been to Leach Garden until I became a commissioner, but it...
 Having lived in Northwest Portland for 20 years, Forest Park was my go-to, but Leach is quickly becoming very near and dear to my heart. I got to introduce it to my sweetheart for the first time on his 40th birthday.
 My office will be taking a retreat there. And I am particularly excited about this project, which is going to provide an incredible nature experience and access to people who use wheelchairs and other mobility devices. And I can't wait to take my son there, although he's not really a nature lover.
 Aye. I'll keep trying. I was so sad to miss the 122nd Avenue bridge ribbon cutting, which is just down the road from the garden due to my son's illness. But I will be back soon, and I'm happy to support this item. I vote aye. Wheeler. Great work. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 256.
 Other I'd South Park blocks urban renewal and redevelopment, refunding bonds. Very good. This should be fairly non-controversial, and I'd love to get my counsel out of here at 1 p.m. We have a long agenda this afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Matt Gerak in the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services.
 I'm presenting this ordinance to you today because the City's Debt Management Division is seeking approval to refinance the City's 2008 B Bonds related to the South Park Blocks Urban Renewal Area. We are interested in refinancing these bonds because there is a savings opportunity. The bonds have an above-market interest rate requirement and also have an upcoming prepayment option that occurs in June of 2019.
 The amount to be refunded is $26.7 million. Based on current interest rate indications, the refinancing would result in approximately $2 million in total interest savings. Additionally, the final maturity of these bonds is in 2024, whereby the urban renewal area would sunset and the associated taxes would be returned to the underlying taxing districts. Please let me know if you have any questions. Good presentation.
 So, Matt, first of all, I want to thank you for the presentation. I think you had us all at $2 million savings. And I want to congratulate you. I understand you have a new addition to your family. I do. Yeah, my son Anderson. Excellent. Congratulations. Thank you. Any further questions? Public testimony? One person, Maggie. Thank you. She's taking a pass. Thank you, Matt. Great work. Thank you for finding that savings for the people of the city.
 The debt management division goes often unheralded, but this is the kind of home run that you can hit through really hard analysis. So thank you for that. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 257.
 amend contract with OPC LLC to increase contract value by $1,422,620 for relocation assistance payments to residential and commercial tenants of the West Wind Apartments. Colleagues, the West Wind Apartments was acquired by the City of Portland in November of 2018 and consists of 70 low-cost, low-barrier, single-room occupancy units.
 Due to the age of the building and the scope and the cost of repairs needed, it was decided that redevelopment of the site is necessary. I want to be clear on this point. The city's mandatory relocation assistance does not apply here as the protections and payouts under the Federal Uniform Relocation Act far exceed the local benefits. So we're here today to talk about the Federal Act.
 To present on behalf of the Portland Housing Bureau, our director, Shannon Callahan, who I do not see, so she is not here, Assistant Director Molly Rogers, and Program Coordinator Cheyenne Sheehan. Thank you both for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Molly Rogers. I'm here with the Portland Housing Bureau. And I'm here to ask for your approval for the Westwind apartment relocation.
 As you see, this is a picture of the Westwind building located at 618 Northwest Flanders. In November 2018, City Council approved the purchase of the Westwind Apartments for redevelopment under the Portland's Housing Bond. At that time, we selected Central City Concern to be the operator of the building, but to operate it in a supportive housing way.
 They are providing property management, employment, and services to best support the current residents of the West Wind. This spring, we are releasing a solicitation to secure a development team to rebuild on this site with the goal of creating at least 70 permanent supportive housing units. The full redevelopment of the building will require us to demolish the building.
 And this is constituting a displacement event, and that is why we're requesting to amend our contract to assume full relocation benefits for approximately 60 residents. The relocation of the West Wind falls under the provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation Act, which typically applies to projects with federal funding and when a public entity in Oregon purchases real property per state statute.
 Both the residents and the commercial tenants will receive relocation benefits. These benefits include a series of notifications regarding eligibility under the Act, reasonable notices to vacate, and tenant rights and responsibilities. It also includes relocation advisory services, assistance in finding replacement housing, moving costs and expenses, and replacement housing payments.
 These payments will cover 42 months of rent in a new home. This contract amendment to our relocation specialist, OPC LLC, anticipates the full cost of all of these relocation services and payments. Thank you. I'd be happy to take your questions. All these questions, Commissioner Hardesty. Just one. Thank you. Did you say how many months did you say the relocation assistance last? Forty-two months. So that's three and a half years.
 And do we anticipate people moving back into that building, or are they permanently relocated? Well, this provides permanent relocation assistance, but we will be programming the property to serve people coming from potentially the homeless system and people who need additional services who meet the PSH requirement.
 definition and also we're hoping to provide project-based section 8 vouchers so we would welcome those folks back to return if they would so choose. So that's permanent supportive housing for people who don't know what the acronyms stand for? Thank you for that. Very good. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item? Two people, Maggie and Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. Thank you.
 That's a problem. So someone once told me it's $40,000 that you give to each of these people, and it's not permanently relocation you're giving them. You're giving them three and a half years, and what is that at the rent they're paying of the Westwind that they will never, ever be able to find out in the marketplace? Yes.
 So I really doubt it's going to be three and a half years of rent assistance, because they're not going to be able to find that kind of rent out in the marketplace. So you're going to spend $3 million to buy the building, $1.5 million to relocate people in non-permanent housing, because that money is going to run out so fast
 and then you're going to spend money to demolish the building, and then you're going to rebuild, and that's going to be more money, and you haven't housed a single homeless person. And congratulations on that. And congratulations on, in 2016, you rejected Stuart Emmons Village, which would have housed 92 homeless people,
 And he went up to Seattle and they gave him $12 million and he will be housing 72 people in buildings, eight to a building.
 And then 20 tiny homes, those 20 timely homes, are being built by a Portland construction company. A Portland construction company is building housing for homeless people in Seattle. Not homeless people in Portland, homeless people in Seattle. And Portland has the second highest homeless population in the nation after L.A.,
 Then it goes New York City, and then I think it goes Seattle, and then San Francisco. We are the second highest homeless population in the nation, and you are building housing for people in Seattle. Thank you. I don't agree, but thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Commissioners, here at 10 minutes to 1 in the afternoon. And a lot of disappointment here. I think one of the disappointments is that in the eight-page PDF document,
 There's no spreadsheet. A spreadsheet is really appropriate to a $1.4 million item to know how much of this money is going to pass through to direct benefit for the clients and pay their rent, and how much of this $1.42 million is going to be skimmed by OPC. Now fortunately, the federal law requires that we actually get these people stable housing that's going to last three and a half years, 42 months. But
 As a taxpayer, I'm going to have to bug Nagy later on to find out how much of that actually gets shelled out for real rent because the rents may not be that high. Because what's going to happen is we're going to prioritize these already housed people at the Westwind to take the next empty spaces at Northwest Tower and all the other Portland Ford projects so that we can save money. So we're not getting...
 The only bang for the buck we're getting is caring for these people who are in the West Wind. Fortunately, the West Wind, some of these people are in active addiction, and maybe it's good that there's a management company that's going to help them find stabilized housing instead of giving them a cash settlement. But all the other homeless people in this town, you know,
 saw that the right response to y'all was to kill herself by setting herself on fire. And that's kind of how some other homeless people in this town feel when we see $20,000 per person allocated. Now, admittedly, it's not $20,000 per year. Some of that money gets stretched out over 42 months.
 But I can assure you it's kind of painful for insulting for people who can get $0 worth of assistance while they spend six years sleeping occupying the second lane of the bike path under Sandy, and now they find out that there's $20,000 spread over three years for these people. So help these people, but also bring the rest of the help, please. Thank you. So I'd just like to say one thing to my colleagues here.
 Mayor, you're going to lose your counsel at 1 o'clock. We have about four more votes. I'd like to say something. This is...
 and this is an important issue, and this question comes up repeatedly, if we are going to renovate this building and replace it, and therefore we're not creating any new housing. And I want to be very clear that, in fact, the Housing Bureau is aggressively bringing permanent supportive housing into the system. The goal here is to have the people who are currently in the West Wind, which is a subpar facility, moved into other properties,
 permanent housing situations. And then the West one will be rebuilt to modern standards, and it will allow at least the same number of people, but probably more. That is my hope. And that will be consistent with this city's and the county's policy, which we adopted last year around addressing the issue of the chronically homeless on our street. So it is an expansion of the system, and I just want to be perfectly clear about that. The easiest thing we could have done is nothing.
 and simply allow the West Wind to continue to be the West Wind. But that would have been, I think, negligence and a missed opportunity. Nope. Thank you, Maggie. You've testified. With that, I'll call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Budaley. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everyone. Next item, 258.
 authorizing contract with the lowest responsible bidder for the construction of the Northeast Broadway and 94th pump station upgrade, project number E107834, an estimated construction cost of $1.2 million. Commissioner Fish. So, Mayor and colleagues, Environmental Services manages the city's stormwater and sewer infrastructure, including 99 pump stations that work together with about 2,500 miles of pipe.
 to send sewage to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. The Northeast Broadway Pump Station was built in 1988, and its condition has deteriorated, leading to the need to frequent repairs. This ordinance would authorize environmental services to move forward on upgrading the pump station to improve reliability. Here today to give us a very brief presentation is Hun Win, Senior Engineering Associate with Environmental Services. Welcome. Thank you.
 Yes, good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. I'm Lee Kujiro. I'm a senior engineer with the Bureau of Environmental Services. And this is Hun Nguyen, our senior engineer associate. So I'm going to leave a little...
 tiny background about the pump stations, what is our project objective, and show you a little bit of what the facility will look like after the upgrade, walk you through a budget and schedule and with our recommendations. So as you can see, our pump station is located in Northeast Broadway, and it serves the 14 acre of the residential area. It is sewage pump stations.
 It is constructed in 1988, and it have not go to any remodel. Typically, we would do every 25 years, we would upgrade the electrical and mechanical. So this 30 years old pump station is really due to the update, and that's why I'm here today.
 So if you can see in the photo, there's just existing conditions of the equipment that's housed into a fiberglass enclosure. The type of the pump that we use here is very problematic and is causing a lot of problem for operation and maintenance and we will replace with submersible pump stations.
 The difficulty right now that operation and maintenance has is accessibility and the issues. There is very difficult path for the maintenance vehicle and the tractor truck to come into the service area. So we will upgrade that.
 Our project objective is to upgrade to a standard submersible pump station, replace all of the obsolete equipment, and bring it to the current code, address all of the difficulty drainage issues that we have, provide a clear design, easy to build, easy to construct, and easy to maintain, and manage the overall project budget within schedule. And here is a little...
 view for the new facility will be. You can see there's a, the building generator, odor control. It's a shame we don't have money to put a roof on that building, but it looks very nice. Yeah, there's not gonna be. Go ahead. Yeah. So there's not gonna be a roof for the generator. Sure. Yeah, so this is another view of the pump stations that we have.
 And this one just to show you what is above-grade building and what is the feature underground, how it's look like inside a building. This is what we see, all of the control panel and its locations.
 We designed it in Revit, which is a 3D model, and it's been very helpful for all of the designers to look at the location, the equipment, and to identify any conflict. And so it's been very helpful. So for the project schedule, we would like to go to bid to advertise in June, and then open the bid in July.
 to notice a proceed in October and starting a construction next year for finish it by October of 2020. And for the project cost, so far we have 200,000 in pre-design. Design is 400,000, advertise about 20. Total construction cost would be $2,000.
 $1.6 million and close out would be $40,000. I'd bring it up almost $2.3 million. And with that, to move the project forward, our recommendation is for Council to authorize the contract to the lowest bidder for us to go to construct the pump station.
 Well, thank you for a very succinct and very informative presentation. Thank you. Yeah, thank you for the schematics, too. That's actually very helpful. It's very helpful. Is there a public testimony on this item? She left. Very good. Please call the roll. Oh, sorry. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 259, which is a second reading. Okay.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Luther Road Restoration Project number E10854 for the estimated amount of $1,750,000. Any further discussion? Seeing none, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item.
 Item number 260. Amend contract with HDR Engineering, Inc. for additional construction and startup support services for the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Renewable Natural Gas Facility, project number E10033, not to exceed $222,800. Also a second reading. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardestine. Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Ordinance is adopted, and while I'm on a roll, 262, our last second reading. 262, amend transportation fee schedule to change fees associated with the master lease agreement and wireless small cell permits and associated fees. Call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 261.
 amend intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Transportation to increase limit allowed to be paid to the city for services requested through a work order contract by $500,000. Welcome, and Commissioner Udaly and Carla, the screens are still on the last presentation.
 Thank you, Mayor. It's common for ODOT to enter into intergovernmental agreements, also known as IGAs. You'll be hearing that acronym a lot, Commissioner Hardesty, with the city to help us pay for our review of aspects of a project ODOT has that impact city facilities.
 Wow, that did not sound very clear. I hope it made sense to the public. This amendment merely increases the amount they may need to provide us by $500,000. PBOT staff, Millicent Williams, is here. If council has any further questions, I kind of hope not. That was a very succinct presentation. That's what I strive for. We get the prize today. And I need Commissioner Fisher. Is there any public testimony on this item? No. One signed up.
 I'd like to hold it open for one moment, please. We'll continue this for a moment. Could you please go to the first pulled item on the agenda, which was 250?
 250 approved application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program under the inclusionary housing program for 815 West Burnside located at 15 Northwest Park Avenue. Who pulled it? Lightning. Is there anybody else who'd like to testify on this item? Seeing none, we'll continue the item. Read item 251.
 authorize the Bureau of Emergency Management to enter into intergovernmental agreements with additional subrecipients of the Urban Area Security Initiative 2016, grant number 16-170. Who pulled this item? Lightning pulled this. And he is no longer here. Is there anybody else who would like to testify on this item?
 Seeing none, please continue this item. Let's go back, please, to item. Great. Let's go back to item number 261, please. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Thank you, ODA. And thank you, Ms. Williams. Aye. Wheeler. All right. The ordinance is adopted. 2-5-0. A continued hearing. Please call the roll. Aye. Hardesty. Aye.
 Hudailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 2-5-1, a continued hearing. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Hudailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We'll see you at 2. We're adjourned. All right. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the March 20th, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, could you please call the roll?
 Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Hardesty. Here. Udailey. Here. Wheeler. Here. We have one item. Carla, could you please read the item? Do you want to read the council rules? I can read the council rules first and then we'll... Okay, fair enough. Please go ahead and read the rules of conduct. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during city council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders. Feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you very much. Carla, can you please read the item? Do we have captioning on? Pardon? Is there captioning? We just turned it back on. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Item 263, appeal of Elliot Mantel against hearing officer's decision of denial for a conditional use review for the Everett House Community Healing Center in the former homes at 2917 and 2927 Northeast Everett Street and 2926 Northeast Flanders Street, LU18-190331CU.
 Very good. Thank you. First, the city attorney will make some announcements about today's hearing. Hello. Okay. This is an on-the-record hearing. This means you must limit your testimony to the materials and issues in the record.
 We will begin with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services for staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the City Council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes to speak to Council. Thank you.
 The principal opponent will have 15 minutes to address the counsel and rebut the appellant's presentation. If there is no principal opponent, the counsel will move directly to testimony from persons who oppose the appeal after supporters of the appeal conclude their testimony.
 After the principal opponent, the council will hear again from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. And finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. Council may then close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is a tentative vote, the council will set a future date for the adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before council.
 As this is a non-emergency ordinance, it will pass to a second reading. The council may then make amendments to the ordinance and findings or direct staff to return with amendments. Okay.
 I would like to make several announcements and guidelines for those who will be addressing the City Council today. The evidentiary record is closed. Again, this is an on-the-record hearing. The hearing is to decide only if the hearings officer made the correct decision based on the evidence that was presented to him. This means you must limit your remarks to arguments based on the record compiled by the hearings officer. You may refer to evidence that was previously submitted to the hearings officer. You may not submit new evidence today that was not submitted to the hearings officer.
 If your argument includes new evidence or issues, you may be interrupted and reminded that you must limit your testimony to the record. Council will not consider the new information, and it will be rejected in the City Council's final decision. If you believe a person who addressed the City Council today improperly presented new evidence or presented a legal argument that relies on evidence not in the record, you may object to that argument.
 And finally, under state law, only issues that were raised before the hearings officer may be raised in this appeal to City Council. If you believe another person has raised issues today that were not raised before the hearings officer, you may object to Council's consideration of the issue. Thank you.
 The applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. Additionally, if the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to the proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow the counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing the action for damages in circuit court. Commissioner Fish.
 So I just want to welcome everybody. It's actually reasonably rare for us to have a full house on an afternoon with a land use proceeding. In fact, we've had some land use proceedings in the not-too-distant past where it's been kind of lonely in here. So a lot of people have taken time to come out. I just want to offer one perspective, speaking as one member of council, based on 10 years of experience dealing with land use hearings, and that's the following.
 Some people have the view that if they get a lot of people to testify and say the same thing over and over again, that that will have some sway on the council. And I just want to let you know that we don't decide these cases based on, you know, whether 20 people come out in favor of it and 15 against it and sort of weigh that and then make our decision. This is uniquely an opportunity for people to make new arguments. Right.
 Making the same argument over and over again, I mean, at some point we're going to get the argument. We're going to get the point. But this is really a chance to make an array of arguments. But if you're here and you were planning to testify and say the exact same thing as your neighbor and you've got lots of people planning to do the same thing, all I would encourage you to consider is it's okay to say, I agree with the previous speaker or my view has been well expressed by the prior ten people. Okay.
 No extra credit for the number of people who say the same thing. We're sincerely looking for a range of views, thoughtful arguments off the record. You've had the city attorney set forth the guidelines. And then this is one of those areas where the council then publicly struggles to get to some consensus, and we're very transparent about how we do that. So I just want to offer that perspective for people who may be here thinking that if they can –
 say the same thing over and over again, it's going to carry the day. And I caution against that. We're really interested in new arguments. And we're perfectly happy to have you express solidarity with arguments that have already been made. And it will probably even make the hearing go more smoothly. So thank you, Mayor. Good. Thank you for that. Do any members of the council wish to declare any conflicts of interest? No member of the council is declaring any conflict of interest.
 Do any members of the council have ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing that they'd like to disclose? Commissioner Fritz. I believe we've all received several emails. I only opened one of them from somebody whose name I recognized, and I responded copycatically.
 copying the council clerk saying that since this is an on-the-record hearing, I'm not allowed to consider things that were not in the record before the hearings officer. And so after seeing that one and realising that we were going to have this as an appeal to council, I took the unusual step of not reading my emails.
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. I received probably about 15 emails on this topic, but I also haven't read any of them because I knew that the hearing was on its way.
 Very good. Does anyone present? Commissioner Udaly. Yes. So I'm sure I received the emails. I did not read them. I did read one article. I think it was published in Willamette Week. I've seen multiple posts on Facebook. I have not engaged. I feel like I should also say I'm a former patron of this establishment, but I haven't been there since 1994, so I feel pretty good about not being biased. Okay.
 Very good. Anyone else? Does anybody in the council chamber have any questions to ask of any of the commissioners about ex parte contacts or information received outside of this hearing? I don't see anyone who has questions. Do the council members have any other matters that need to be discussed before we begin the hearing? Very good. So with that, we will start with the testimony as outlined by legal counsel. We'll start with the staff report, approximately 10 minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Miller. Thank you. Good afternoon, Senators. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Mark Moffitt, Bureau of Development Services here. I'm going to try to make this quick to keep it within 10 minutes, so stop me if you need to, but otherwise I'm just going to race right through this. We are here today for an appeal of Land Use Case 18-190331CU. The Everett House Community Healing Center, we refer to it as Everett House,
 sought in the application to eliminate a 1982 condition of approval requiring some off-street parking. Staff recommended a conditional approval of the request. We had some cleanup of some unenforceable and vague conditions from the original 1982 case, as we discussed with the applicant at the pre-app. There was extensive testimony and evidence at the initial hearing with the hearings officer.
 The hearings officer ended up denying the application, overturning the staff report's recommendation due to the intensity and type of uses occurring at the site and the lack of evidence in the record for those uses and transportation impacts associated with those. And then, of course, the applicant has appealed to city council. So our applicant is our appellant today. That doesn't happen too often. The zoning construct, it's an R5 single-family zone.
 There's a lot of information in the record and a lot of people talking about Portland's mixed-use zones and allowing lots of different stuff to happen. But the fact of the matter is we're dealing with a Euclidean, if you will, zoning construct where we have a residential-only area. The zoning code only allows residential uses in those areas.
 So institutional uses, schools, hospitals, community service uses are allowed in that zone with a conditional use review. And the purpose of that review is to determine that the residential function and character, appearance, function, and character of the area is preserved. So commercial uses are prohibited in this area, but they can do conditional use for a community service use.
 We have our standard approval criteria in Chapter 815, Section 105.
 And the criteria talk about the residential area. Just to reemphasize that, that's the big purple outlined areas there. We're not talking about the commercial and mixed-use designations that are nearby the site on Gleason, 28th, and Burnside. That's outside of the conversation we're having. We're just really looking at those areas inside the purple boxes. Those are all residential. What is the impacts of this facility on those residential-only areas? Okay.
 I have a site plan here. I just have a couple comments about the site plan. This is like an aerial photo looking down. The two houses on the bottom face Everett Street. The house on the north is the one that faces Flanders.
 The hot tubs are behind the Everett House on the right in this photo, and they're behind a screened fence or enclosure, and then there's some open areas. I have two red stars on the site plan here for the buildings in question. You'll hear a little bit more about later. Staff had recommended they be removed, and the hearings officer concurred. An aerial photo here just showing an aerial view with the nice trees, backyard and street trees. Okay.
 This is a photo of the former parking lot. It's being redeveloped as an apartment building on the corner of 28th and Everett. It was an old one-story medical clinic. That was where their parking was. The parking's gone. A view from Everett of one of the two houses. Again, the red star means one of the two buildings you may hear about later that staff recommended be removed. There's another picture later. Another picture of Everett. Nice street front. Nice landscape front yard. Here's the front yard.
 This is the main sort of pedestrian entry into the spa area from Everett between the two houses. This is a picture of the backyard of Everett. This is one of the two buildings with the red star on it that would be required to be removed if you were to go back to the hearings officer recommendation. The structure is in the setback. It would be required to be 10 feet off that property line under the zoning code. Staff recommended that be removed.
 This is the other temporary structure. It's also in the backyard of one of the Everett Street houses. It's also in the setback, and staff recommended it be removed. Another view of the backyard. So it's not the properties that were recommended to be removed. It's temporary structures on the property. Correct. It's this gazebo-type thing, and the other one's kind of a carport thing, both up against the west property line or near. I just initially thought that you meant removed from the property.
 conditional use. So thank you. Yeah, just taking the buildings off. This is the Flanders facing house and another view of the driveway unloading area on the Flanders side. The hearings officer spent a lot of time going through the history of the use. Originally in 1980 there was a home occupation permit for hot tubs
 The next year, due to an increase in clientele, the applicant sought a conditional use review, got approval for 15 guests with conditions requiring some off-street parking, bike parking, adherence to the noise ordinance, and subsidized transit passes. And with this requirement that no new construction take place.
 The following year, they renewed that conditional use. The request is for sauna, hot tub, and massage therapy services, also relaxation and health counseling, and a tea house food service. And they did request the limitations to the number of people served be removed. That was approved by the hearings officer. There were some conditions limiting the intensity of the use, A, C, and I. A says no more people...
 No more people can use this facility than could be accommodated without creating undue noise or disturbance to surrounding residences. That was vague and discretionary language. There's no way to really enforce that, so staff recommended that be changed. There's some hours of operation, 8 to 11. And then there's this other problematic requirement. No new exterior construction shall take place. Well, what does that mean? Construction isn't defined, so we tried to clean that up, too. I'll go into that in a little bit. Staff recommended...
 Staff reviewed the proposal, I should say, first, based on the request that there was no changes to the use. All they wanted to do was get rid of their parking. We did not dissect the use or the evolution of the use or intensity of use over time. We just said the use isn't changing. It's there. They want to get rid of their parking. That's all we're looking at. We only had letters of support prior to the hearing.
 Our conditional approval included conditions requiring a case listing on the permits, that those structures be removed. There was a little small structure that could remain, but those two that I pointed out should be removed. A condition requiring future conditional use reviews for expansions instead of that condition that said no new exterior construction. We're saying, yes, you can, but you've got to go through this process. A new condition required.
 referencing Title 18 noise issues and how to file a complaint, and clarifying deleted and old conditions from the last case. I'm not going to spend time on it, but there was a couple other conditions we just got rid of, a condition to maintain licenses for the massage therapist, obey state codes, and get a permit that was issued.
 At the hearing, we had the staff and three representatives from the applicant testify, 21 supporters testify, and six in opposition. The record was held open for new information and rebuttal of the hearing.
 Just a very brief summary of the supporters of the proposal. The use provides valuable health services, classes, and seminars. They control noise with quiet hours and staff work. Many clients walk, bike, or take transit to the facility. They have discounts for arriving by a method besides a car. They host lots of other organizations and groups who couldn't find a place elsewhere, often for free or reduced rates. Parking was rarely used. On-street parking is available.
 The facility should not be punished for business growth nearby on 28th or Burnside or apartments being built with no parking. And the facility has deep community ties and provides a peaceful oasis. Opponents of the proposal argue that the use has expanded over the years and has a commercial character as opposed to community service. That noise and late hours detract from the residential character of the area and those evening hours should be reduced.
 parking is limited and there's traffic safety concerns, that the activity exceeds that of a community center and functions more like a medical office, which is prohibited, that original conditions of approval preventing new construction were ignored, that the parking study did not evaluate all the uses, that they lost their nonprofit status in the past, but it got it back after the city forced them to. And generally...
 expressing concerns about the intensity of it, but very few people actually wanted it to shut down. They just said they wanted it to be scaled back. We got a lot of information during the hearings officer record. I'm sorry, this is just so text heavy. I tried to make it prettier, but it's just lots of words. In the record, we got... Hold on one sec. I'm sorry. There we go. Oh, I see. We're trying to work on it. Mark, hold on just a second. During the open record period after the hearing, we got additional letters of support and concern...
 There was a lot of information submitted about the variety, intensity, and scope of activities at the site from Internet sources, Groupon activity, and other information, information about code enforcement over the years, some additional traffic data from the applicant's traffic engineer, some city memos about the use of the site, some additional use information with intensity and occupancy information from the applicant. That was my 30-second warning. Clarifying memos from the staff.
 There was a 1987 planner memo. I won't go into a lot of detail here, but this is one example from 1987 where the city, in response to Dr. Mantel, the applicant's request, made a determination that chiropractic services were not allowed there or approved in the original 82 review. The hearings officer found that the intensity...
 had issues with two findings, the intensity and scale criterion. Am I okay to keep going? Yeah, just to be clear, under the rules, the staff report is approximately 10 minutes. Okay. So they're basically saying, don't go on for an hour, but we need a thorough analysis. So please continue. I think I have only three more slides. So the two... Just go back to the previous one, and again, this is my question, so it doesn't count against your time. You said, you mentioned about the chiropractic use. Could you just explain that again, please?
 So in 1987, they were coming in for a building permit to remodel the structure. And the issue was they showed some chiropractic rooms, I think, on a floor plan. So the issue was can they do chiropractic? And the city planner wrote a memo in response to that basically saying that
 chiropractic is a medical office use and your original approval did not include chiropractic uses. So I just called this out because it was the only other city memo in the file that was clear on the chiropractic use issue. So is there chiropractic use? There's chiropractic services at Everett House. So that's never been approved? That's what the hearings officer found. Okay. Yeah.
 I think the applicant would argue differently. Okay. I'm sorry. I'm back to the hearings officer findings. The hearings officer found that a clear and detailed description of all the uses is required to evaluate the proposal. And I used green and red. I'm going to just put the next one up as code in this PowerPoint. Green uses are the ones the hearings officer said were approved in 1982. The red ones are the uses that the hearings officer said, no, you never got approval for that.
 So he said they had sauna, hot tub, massage therapy, relaxation and health counseling for individuals in small groups, and the tea house. The hearings officer found that their special events, chiropractic, acupuncture, yoga, hydrotherapy, flotation tank, and the larger classes, seminars, and workshops were not approved. Thank you.
 Based on that, he also went into some detail on their occupancy, comparing it to the 1981 approval, which wasn't the one approval they were operating on, but arguing that their occupancy or the number of people who are visiting, using the facility at any one time, has dramatically increased over the years, and that the 1982 approval eliminated those numerical limits, but that that was still important for context. Again, I'm here representing the hearings officer's decision. Okay.
 And that he said if the users had been unaltered from 1982, he would have approved the request. But because of the lack of information in the record about those additional uses and their impacts on the surrounding residential area, and that that had not been discussed or evaluated, he couldn't approve that criterion. I have two questions. One is – Commissioner Udailey. I'm just – Sorry. Okay.
 When the original application was submitted in the early 80s, were all three properties involved? Yeah. It was always the three houses. And there must be some limit to occupancy by our fire code. Do we know what that is? I don't, but you're right. There is a fire code. I'd like to know that. That was one of the things. There was a condition that said city and state codes apply. Yeah. They apply anyway. We got rid of that. So, yeah, fire code does apply, has applied, will continue to apply. Important. Yeah.
 detail. But it's not in the record, right? That is in the record. We talked about that in findings originally when we got rid of that old condition. But the fire code still applies. But not the number that would apply because of the fire code? No, we didn't ever get a number. I'm sorry, I don't know what the number is. Is that not allowable then? Commissioner Udail, your question is how many people did the fire code in 1982 allow? I mean...
 What I care about is now, but... Oh, how many fire code allows now? Right. That's not in the record. That's not in the record. The number. But the site would be subject to it anyway, regardless of whether it's in the record. The building code would still be triggered, and they would have to comply with it. And the fact that it is subject to fire code occupancy limits is also already in the record. Okay. I guess I need to ask another question. Okay.
 Was this 15-person occupancy limit based on the fire code? No, it was the staff's determination during the 1981, the first one-year only conditional use. Okay, thank you.
 I'm sorry, go ahead. So the main criterion that is not met, according to the hearings officer, A2, intensity and scale. The other one is transportation capacity, which has a parallel statewide planning goal. And the bottom line here is that the hearings officer found that the special events for up to 95 people, as proposed by the applicant, were not covered in the traffic study. So that's a situation where we don't have any information in the record yet.
 to approve those according to the hearings officer. He did find that all those other things, the red uses, if you will, that he said weren't originally approved, he found that those were covered in the traffic study. So the traffic study is limited to the special events issue, if that makes sense. The only reason it's there is that he's saying they can't have the special events.
 Again, this is kind of a summary slide. The hearings officer found that there was insufficient evidence in the record to assess whether chiropractic, acupuncture, yoga, hydrotherapy, flotation tanks, special events, and the larger classes, seminars, and workshops would lessen the overall character or appearance of the area. That the expanded list of uses, impacts of those expanded list of uses are not in the record or an analysis of those impacts.
 and that because the intensity scale and transportation-related approval criteria were not met, the request should be denied. He did say that if the council reverses a decision, that he would recommend you go back to the staff-recommended conditions. This is another sort of summary slide. We have an on-the-record appeal. We've talked about that already. We have a 120-day period that expires on October 17th, so we do have a little wiggle room. We have the...
 green uses that the hearings officer said were approved in 92 and the red uses that he said were not, I think that's your primary issue today. So can I ask you a question with regard to the red uses? What is that based on? What is the assumption that
 The statement is that those were not approved. Based on what? Because they were not explicitly in the conditional use permit? He went into the 1982 document and looked at what the written description of it was, which I had a quote earlier on that was massage, sauna, relaxation and health counseling, tea service. And is that typical that it would be that explicit in terms of what the conditional uses are?
 Typically, this is a little unusual one. Typically, yeah, we do define exactly which uses are approved in a decision language. In this case, that original 1982 approval just said approval of the conditional use, period, and then there's a bunch of conditions. So the hearings officer had to reach a little bit back into the staff report to look for how it was described in the staff report, and that's what he relied on. I see. That's helpful. Thank you. But if I could just follow up on that. Sure.
 It doesn't seem that it's just the fact that the hearing officer couldn't find a reference to chiropractic services in the old documents. The analysis that the hearing officer made, I think had to make, was that in his judgment, these services were, quote, not related to relaxation and health counseling services. In other words...
 had to make a finding that these are not the natural first cousins of existing uses that were permitted, because clearly over time definitions can expand based on changes in the marketplace, changes in services. Isn't the key word here not related to relaxation and health counseling services? That was really more –
 In terms of the hearing officer language, just for those larger classes, seminars and workshops. I see. He admitted he was being very narrow in taking a literal reading. What were the specific things listed in 1982 in the staff report? Anything else his logic said was not approved. When you go to a chiropractor, the chiropractor's shop will often provide massage services.
 So one of the things you have to sort of figure out here is what are like clusters of services that would be otherwise covered by the youth at the time, and are these related? Let me ask you just another question. There was a slide quite a bit earlier.
 where you showed the corner lot being developed for housing that used to be parking? Yeah. Could you just remind me, what's the significance of that slide for purposes of our deliberations? It was just in the original. That's what started this whole thing, that parking lot going away. But in black here, font, second from the bottom, it appears that the hearing officer did not have a problem with waiving the parking, correct? Correct.
 Correct. He was okay with that. He just said you couldn't do the special events. Couldn't do the special events. Now, if the hearing officer had not agreed to that, then there would be additional significance of developing the parking for housing because that might be a violation of a condition of approval. Right.
 Yeah, the condition didn't say where the parking had to be. But that's where effectively the parking was. Yeah, it said you have to have the parking within 300 feet of the site, so that's where it was. I see. So it would just be on the hook to find it somewhere else. So without that parking, it would have made it more complicated for the applicant if the hearing officer had not waived the parking requirement. Would have had to build parking or lease parking within 300 feet. Okay, so that's the significance of it.
 So as it stands, what is the staff recommendation for occupancy? I'm still confused on this issue. So this is a HO. We're appealing the HO's decision. So I'm here to represent the HO, and he would say yes to the greens and no to the reds. But that doesn't include occupancy. Okay.
 There's no, yeah, there's no occupancy limit. Just no special events. What the hearings officer would say is that the items in red we did not get good occupancy information about, so we couldn't even evaluate what the impacts would be. I think council has the discretion to decide, make their own decision about what was included in 82 and what was not. Great. Okay.
 Okay. So I have a fundamental question about the hearings officer. We're required to make the decision based on the approval criteria and the evidence in the record and the burden of proof is on the applicant to show that the approval criteria are met. Right. So the hearings officer found that he couldn't find that they were met because there just wasn't any information. Right.
 Right. And particular about this red list, chiropractic services and acupuncture services, you said earlier that medical offices are prohibited in residential zones. You can't get a conditional use for them. Right. So given that this is an on-the-record appeal, how could we possibly get evidence that would allow us to – that would overturn the – We can't. That's the puzzle. And basically –
 They're in a bind. Their traffic study covered everything but the special events, but everything else left out all this red stuff. That's what the hearings officer said. Which has never been approved. And it's too late to submit information to make those legal now. So they'd have to go back and start another conditional use. Yeah, I don't see how we can possibly do anything other than uphold the hearings officer's decision, but obviously we'll keep going. So I think that...
 I think I'm pretty much done with my summary there. There's the use issue, what's in or out, waving parking, keeping in mind the special events limit, and then there's the temporary buildings that you're going to hear about. You have, I think you're aware of all this stuff. You can deny the appeal, just uphold the hearings officer decision. You can grant the appeal, make some changes, and modify findings or not. Very good. Thank you. Any further questions? Next we'll hear from the appellant.
 Ten minutes, please. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. For the record, my name is Renee France. I'm a land use attorney, and I'm here this afternoon on behalf of the Everett House Community Healing Center. With me is Elliot Montel, who is the director of the Everett House, and Mike Ard with Ard Engineering, who prepared the traffic study. I'm going to delve into some of the more...
 reasons for the appeal in just a moment, but in the meantime, Mr. Elliott will provide a background on the Everett House. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Elliott Mantel. I'm the director of the Everett House Community Healing Center. The Everett House has provided community support and healing services in the Kearns neighborhood for the past 38 years. I've personally worked at the center since 1981. Consistent with our conditional use approval, we provide a sanctuary for community healing
 a social gathering place and a respite from the busy city that Portland has become. Community members can also enjoy hot tubs, saunas, relaxation, healing services, as well as workshops on health and improved self-awareness. The Everett House is a quiet place to relax and bring life back into balance.
 As the record clearly indicates, many people come to the Everhouse for our unique form of relaxation and peaceful ambience that we offer. This cannot be reproduced in a commercial setting because people come here for the inner city. People come here in the inner city because we provide social health-minded space offering discussions, tranquility because of trees, nature, and gardens. And it's a tranquility that we feel everybody needs.
 Community keeps our lives in balance, and we are a full inclusionary center, welcoming and accepting people of all faiths, races, gender identities, preferences, and economic means. Anyone can become a member of our community, and we offer special discounts and additional free services to our close-by neighbors. Community members can use our grounds, meeting spaces, and kitchens free of charge.
 Our social impact initiative includes classes and workshops related to relaxation, health and well-being, with many on donation-only basis. Other services are offered for free or are significantly reduced for people of modest means. We do understand our unique role in the neighborhood.
 and always strive to be good neighbors. We have petitions and letters of support from over 25 people who live on Everett Street in Flanders within two blocks of our center and over 40 people who live with a few blocks and many more letters and petitions from neighbors in Portland. To reduce traffic impacts, we encourage alternative transportation, offer substantial discounts to those who come by foot, bike, bus, ride share, and the Everett House also subsidizes the cost of employee bus passes and bike maintenance. Thank you.
 Those have helped decrease parking demand and seems to have encouraged a healthier lifestyle. We have policies and practices in place to avoid noise and impacts on surrounding neighbors. During evenings, we enforce quiet and silent times. We also ask that our neighbors walk quietly through the neighborhood when leaving, whether it's day or night. It is abundantly clear from the many letters and testimonies in the file that many people have come to depend upon the Everett House as their sanctuary, their gathering place, their respite from the busy city.
 We feel that with Portland growing as much as it has, a quiet, hidden retreat center close to the inner city, such as the Everett House, is needed. And with Council's help, we should be allowed to continue to serve the Kearns neighborhood as we have done so proudly for the last 38 years. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 So to turn to the grounds for the appeal, we're here today because we disagree with the ultimate decision that the hearings officer made in this case to deny the requested conditional use amendment. However, we actually agree with much of the reasoning and several of the conclusions of the decision. Thank you.
 The hearings officer denied the requested amendment to remove the off-street parking condition based upon just two of the approval criteria. However, the hearings officer also stated, and this is important and I will get back to your question, Commissioner Fritz, also stated that had the applicant restricted its proposed uses
 to those approved in the 1982 CUP, then the application likely would have been approved. That was one of the bases that the hearings officer could have and would have found that the amendment could be granted. As we explained in detail in our written testimony, and I will summarize in this presentation, we believe the activities in the Everett House are entirely consistent with that 1982 CUP decision.
 So turning to the specific criteria at issue, the sole request by the Everett House in this amendment was to remove the 1982 off-street parking requirement. Therefore, the central issue in this case is whether the city's on-street parking utilization requirements are met. The transportation analysis provided by Art Engineering...
 clearly showed that adequate on-street parking is available under the PBOT standard. And, again, Mr. Ard will speak to that in just a moment. PBOT agreed with that conclusion. The hearings officer also agreed with that conclusion with one very limited exception, and that was related to the special events. There was a mention of special events in – Amber Alert. Idaho. Sorry. In Hermiston. No.
 Oh, okay. It's an amber alert. I like that officials, we do have our alerts. Yeah, it's important to check on those alerts for sure. Don't panic. Don't panic. We'll keep that calm. So, again, the very limited exception that the hearings officer had for finding that the traffic off street, excuse me, on street traffic wasn't met was related to the special events. However, at this time, the Everett House agrees not to hold special events and agrees to a condition of approval to that effect.
 With the removal of the special events from the list of activities, the record clearly shows that the parking-related criterion is satisfied.
 The second criterion at issue in the appeal relates to the intensity and scale of uses. And Everett House did not propose to change any of the activities at the Everett House through the amendment. Nonetheless, the hearings officer found this criterion was not satisfied based upon a very narrow, and he admitted that it was narrow, and we believe it was unreasonably narrow, interpretation of the 1982 C.U.P.,
 In this case, the hearings officer unequivocally found that it is not permissible to reverse or otherwise modify the 1982 CUP approval. And we are in complete agreement with that position, and we think it's critical in this case. In other words, if an activity associated with the use was approved in 1982, it cannot now be taken away.
 So the only thing we disagree with the hearings officer on is what activities were approved with the conditional use in 1982. The 1982 decision itself does not limit the type of activities, as staff mentioned. However, the staff report at the time provided the following description. And I'm going to read it because it's a little bit different than what staff put on the board. Okay.
 Similar but a little bit different. So the description in the staff report in 1982 read, applicant requests permanent conditional use approval to continue sauna, hot tub, and massage therapy services. The community club will also include relaxation and health counseling and a tea house food service. So I believe the text that staff had up on the board had small one-on-one or small group counseling. That was actually not part of the text of the report.
 1982 staff report, that was the hearings officer's interpretation of what it said. So an important clarification there. So how do you fold chiropractic services and acupuncture services under that definition you just read? So in the letter we submitted, we believe that there is a connection with relaxation and health, and it is similar in nature to massage therapy. Understanding that...
 If you disagree and you read – so what the staff report said in 1982, they listed some very express uses, and then they had this broader category of –
 Go back to it. It's a broader category of relaxation and health counseling. And so the question really lies, I think, as you said earlier, Commissioner Fish, what does that mean in the context of this decision? We believe that a reasonable interpretation of that language would include chiropractic and acupuncture. But your best argument then, just to be clear, is that you're covered under the 1982 conditional use. That is correct. And that's why you're also saying that it shouldn't be changed, right?
 positively or negatively because it already anticipated that you could branch into things like chiropractic and acupuncture. That's your best argument. That is our best argument. However, to be clear, if you disagree with that, if you interpret that language more narrowly,
 then we would agree to a condition of approval to cease those activities that you deem that are currently happening and were identified in the hearing officer's decision to stop doing those activities at the Everett House. And so...
 Again, and this gets to your question, Commissioner Fritz, is that is how you can approve this. Because the hearings officer said you either need to stick to the 1982 CUP decision or you need to provide evidence on why these other activities meet the...
 the criterion. And we agree with an on-the-record appeal, we can't do the second. We're not arguing that we can. What we are saying is that what is being done now is consistent with the 1982 CUP. If you disagree and you interpret that language differently
 in a more narrow fashion, then we would agree, the Everett House would agree to cease those and only do those activities that are expressly subject. This is a rare moment in a complex matter where, thanks to your advocacy, I actually follow what you're saying. There's clarity, and I appreciate the way you're walking us through this because this is very complicated. Just a follow-up question.
 So if the council were to be persuaded just to knock out chiropractic and acupuncture services as a condition of approval, would your client still have the right at some point to bring a new conditional use process to try to put them back in? No.
 I believe that they would. It would require a Type 3 conditional use amendment, similar to the one we've gone through through this process. So they could request to bring it back in, and at that point they could introduce the evidence related to the impacts of that service.
 provide additional details on exactly what type of chiropractic practice is done. And so, yeah, I believe that they would have that option, but there would also then be the option for an opportunity for public input and testimony and all the things that go along with it. Thank you for walking me through it. I now have a much clearer understanding of your position. Commissioner Taylor.
 Yeah, that was helpful to me as well, but here's the hitch. I absolutely agree. Chiropractic and acupuncture and yoga, I think, was also in question. Could be reasonably defined as relaxation and health counseling, I guess was the wording. However, chiropractic and acupuncture are considered to be medical services, and it
 there would never be a conditional use for medical services in a residential area? Is that what I heard someone say earlier? We can check with staff at the end. Okay. Okay. And that's the, you know, it may make sense to me, but unfortunately what we have to do is work with the existing...
 Understood. And I think if there were a future CUP amendment to introduce the chiropractic services that have been included, that would come along with evidence about how this is different than a typical chiropractor's medical office. But, again, that's not today. That would be a future amendment request. Thank you. And, by the way, just so folks in the audience are aware of this, you're probably saying, wow, this has gone on more than ten minutes. Yes.
 When we ask a question, the clock stops. So we don't penalize you for either our asking you a question or your responding to that question. So it's truly just 10 minutes of actual testimony. I did have a couple more points to cover, if I may. About six and a half minutes. All right. Clock's restarted. Great. So...
 I think we've covered through your questioning my next point, which related to those uses identified in the hearing officer's decision that he believed were especially included in those that are essentially on the bubble and are up to your interpretation. Again, we do provide a more detailed interpretation of each of those activities in our written materials.
 The one thing I would state, and again, this goes to my point of the difference between what was in Staff's interpretation is the number of people per class that would be considered health-related issues.
 counseling, and I do in that case believe that the hearings officer placed an artificial and arbitrary limit of three to four one-on-one or three to four people. So we would ask that workshops and classes related to health and nutrition and relaxation be continued to go. We would, as a concession to the neighborhood, agree to limit those class sizes to 20 people
 to help with the off-site impact concerns. Can I ask a question? Excuse me. Would that be 20 people in addition to the 15 that are already permitted? That would be so I believe with the 15 that are already permitted, you are referring to what staff had on their slide of 15 people?
 So that number was actually in the 1981 temporary conditional use permit, and that condition was removed when the 1982 conditional use permit was issued, and there was no limit on the number of people that could be present at the site in the 1982 decision. So the hearings officer referenced that 15 person, but we would –
 I would argue that that reference was actually inappropriate because the 1982 decision completely removed that condition. In terms of the structures that staff referenced, we
 Everett House will agree to remove the carport-type structure. In terms of the gazebo, it would argue that it's not construction, as that term is not defined. And as the record indicates, it's a Costco-type structure. It was assembled. It would agree to move it to comply with the setback limitations, but believe it is actually an amenity that helps benefit the neighborhood.
 and reduce impacts from the site. That being said, if the council disagrees with that, Everett House would agree to remove both structures. And then I would just say, add, that we support all other condition changes proposed by staff. And with that, I'll turn it over to Mr. Ard to explain his transportation work and answer any questions. Could I just ask one question? Is it on the record or part of the record what the legal structure is?
 of Everett House is? The legal structure? Is it a non-profit organization? If that's not part of the record, I don't need to know. What is in staff's presentation, that was addressed, that there was questions about their non-profit status and they satisfied that to the city's satisfaction? They did. Yes. Okay, thank you. That was in staff's presentation. Okay, thank you. I appreciate that. You're welcome.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mike Ard with Ard Engineering. I prepared the traffic and parking analysis that was done for this project, as well as their transportation demand management plan and a parking update.
 We did a complete analysis that addressed all of the city's transportation-related approval criteria that are listed under 33.8.15.105.D.2. That study was scoped, reviewed, and approved by city staff. It included a pretty significant parking study that examined impacts over...
 a very large geographic area that extended from Gleason to Burnside and east from 28th for several blocks. And there are included in the original traffic impact study, 24 color-coded pages that are maps of hour by hour occupancy for the streets in the site vicinity to determine what the parking demand looks like and what the parking supply looks like as well.
 in the site vicinity, and that really has been one of the major cruxes of the discussions here, is adequacy of parking. The city considers parking to be functionally full when it's at 85% of capacity, so there has to be some buffer that allows people to find a parking spot without circling the block multiple times and having to hunt. And what we found is that at the highest level of occupancy that we observed, that the parking was 81% full.
 That is per my original traffic impact study. In the updated analysis, I also noted that there were areas that were over-parked. And that occurs when I wheel out the distance of a particular segment of curb and decide that 10 vehicles can fit there. But when I'm actually counting the cars, there were 12 that were parked there. And that happens occasionally, sometimes because there are smaller cars, sometimes because people are just parking more efficiently than what we expect.
 And I found that at the time of maximum parking occupancy, there were actually 39 extra vehicles that were squeezed into spaces that I didn't say existed in my original analysis. When we account for that, we actually find that the parking was only 77% full rather than 81% full. Under either measure, it falls below the threshold that the city considers to be functionally full. And we met the parking requirement. Now,
 Now, notably, all of the red uses that were listed in the application were present on the site and fully operating at the time that we did our parking analysis as well as our transportation analysis. So as the hearings examiner correctly pointed out, the transportation portion actually does cover all of those red uses in terms of the impact on the transportation system and on parking adequacy throughout the neighborhood.
 So the only question that was not addressed in the traffic impact study is that of the future uses. Because we were doing observations of existing conditions without a projection of something being added onto the top of it, that means that it did not cover event uses of the site, which, as you've heard, we've agreed to remove from the application. I think that the hearings are – Excuse me. Yes. When was the Parkins study done? No.
 The parking study was done in... It was done on multiple days. They were in December of 2017. This project's been going on for a while, and it included both weekday and weekend conditions so that we captured both of those dynamics. Thank you. So...
 To summarize, we believe that the transportation impact analysis and parking impact analysis did cover things more comprehensively than the other uses. I think that in terms of the neighborhood impacts of some of those interior uses, that the impacts really are related to transportation and parking impacts. And for that reason, I think that the record is a little more supportive than what the hearings examiner had indicated of allowing continued uses of the vehicles.
 as they've been in the past. I'm sure that you'll hear from some of the proponents that they believe that the specific red line uses were related to relaxation and do fall under that category, but I'll allow them to make those arguments. So, Ms. France, I have a question for you. I think we're on the cusp of a moment of clarity in terms of understanding your preferred position but your fallback position. Sure.
 So I think in order to set the mark, because when we conclude this hearing, the council will then consider all the various options, including potentially conditions of approval. I'd rather hear it from you, how you would frame this. So assuming, and I'm going to just set three conditions. Assuming the council was not persuaded that chiropractic and acupuncture services were covered under 1982, just assume that for a moment.
 Assume that the council agreed with your 20-person limit and assume we agreed to split the structure issue. Your proposed finding, you would urge us to adopt what? Reverse the hearing officer and impartiality?
 Imposed conditions? That's correct. Reverse the hearings officer's denial of the amendment to remove the parking condition. And then with conditions? With conditions. I would add, again, that we support staff's recommended conditions so that they have a list of conditions that they –
 also recommended? Right. And then you would add a condition prohibiting, under your example, chiropractic and acupuncture services. Okay, so just to be clear, reverse the hearing. Your position would be then reverse the hearing officer
 adopt the staff recommended conditions, and then wherever the council fell on these three issues. And you've expressed your preference, but you've also acknowledged we may have a different view on that, and therefore –
 your client is prepared to cease chiropractic and acupuncture services for now if we deem them not covered under ANT82. We can argue about the person limit and then the structures becomes the issue. That's correct. I want to be very clear on the person limit, though.
 recommendation there is a person limit for the classes and workshops. I think a condition related to that does two things. It clarifies in the record of the city that classes and workshops related to relaxation and health are allowed and the per person size of those classes would be 20 people. That's not a
 person limit on the overall occupancy of the three structures. So I want to be very clear about that because I think it's obviously important. So it would be a condition limiting class and workshop size to 20 people as opposed to what the hearings officer believed was included in the 1982 CUP, which would be a counseling size of three to four people.
 Got you. Thank you very much. Commissioner Fritz. Sorry. Were you finished with your presentation yet? I believe so. I think I answered your question in its entirety. And you were done with yours as well? Yes. Great. Thank you very much. And I think you have provided us with a way forward, because when I read the hearings office decision, I was like, my goodness. So on lines of Commissioner Fisher's question, and I'm getting these questions out, folks, so that you can testify on whether you find these questions
 a potential way forward, acceptable or not. On page three of the Director's Memo to Council, we do have the suggested conditions from the Bureau of Development Services. I'm an old schooler. It used to be Bureau of Planning.
 And one of them, so there's three, and I agree with most of them. There is one about the hours of operation shall be limited from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. City quiet hours at 10 p.m. Would you object to changing that condition to stopping at 10 p.m.? So that condition was in the original 1982 CUP. The record...
 It indicates that the practice of the center is to have whispering hours, and Elliot, correct me if I'm wrong, but whispering hours start beginning at 9 p.m. and silent hours at 10 p.m. So there's no talking within the houses beginning at 10 p.m. That's great, and I'll be happy to hear from community members whether that is, in fact, a problem. If we're going to eliminate the vehicle parking or the car parking, condition H from...
 the CU26-82, is to have 10 secure bicycle parking spots. That doesn't seem very many in this day and age. Did you look at whether the bike spots were full up all the time?
 The bike spots were not monitored over the multiple hours that the on-street parking was. The bike parking actually is located within the site, so it's not very visible from that perspective. Well, I'd be interested to hear from staff if this was a new approval with multiple classes, each of which can have 20 people at them. It seems like 10 bike spots is not enough in that case.
 Portland in 2019. So just something to think about. And then they didn't suggest a condition of approval on the event size. So something that would say something like no events, classes, or workshops over 20 people would be acceptable to you? Yeah, we would agree with that. Thank you. I'm still a little fuzzy on that concept. So you're saying each class or workshop in the facility would have no more than 20 people?
 Is that what you're suggesting? That is correct. But there's no limit on the number of classes or workshop that you could be running simultaneously. Is that also correct, or am I wrong? I believe it's – and this would be in the record because there's a site plan in the record. There's only one meeting space that can facilitate a class of that size. So it would be just by the nature of the buildings, there could only be one class held at a time. Classes are always held inside? Yes.
 Classes are, I believe, are always held inside. Okay. And obviously, if you wanted to expand that, you'd have to go through the whole process again. There's only the one meeting room space. Good. Okay. Thanks. That's helpful.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Next up, we will hear from supporters of the appeal. If you are a supporter of the appeal and you'd like to testify, you must sign up with the clerk. We need that information. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have 10 left on the list now. 10 on the list now. All right, come on up, three minutes each. And the clerk will call your name.
 The first three are Michael Fox, Karen Abrams, and Alan Wilson. Come on up. And they'll be followed by Joshua Ryan, Aaron Cardella, and Lisa Chun. Is there anybody else here who is not on the list who wants to be on the list? All right. Let's go ahead and close the list, please.
 Good afternoon. Name for the record, please. We do not need your address. About six inches or so works, and just leave the microphone on when you leave, and you can slide the microphones around however suits you the best. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Karen Abrams. I am here in support of the Everett Health Healing Center, both as someone who's been a resident in the neighborhood as well as a longtime patron since 1977. In fact, I'm one of the earliest patrons of the center since I lived at 2944 Northeast Cooch, just two blocks away from the Everett Health Healing Center.
 At the time, I was able to walk there and it was a very pleasant surprise that something of that value was right in my neighborhood and so immediately accessible. I basically felt that I had close access to a community health, social, and spiritual center and have always regarded as a very valuable resource in the neighborhood for neighbors and locals. As a patron, I have used the original outdoor hot tubs, sauna, and flotation tanks for relaxation.
 and more recently, massage therapy, chiropractic, and health counseling services when needed. Each visit, I always looked forward to and enjoyed the quiet, peaceful, friendly, and supportive environment that I discovered both inside and outside of the center. I returned to Portland in June of 2010, almost nine years ago, and was happy to see that the Everett House Healing Center was still there and going strong, retaining its unique ambiance and its healing offerings.
 Since my return, I have been utilizing many of the same services as before. It was only in very recent years that I learned of neighbors who moved into the area who started making complaints about the center. It caused me to question their motivation because parking, for one, has never been an issue for me. I never once had a problem finding a parking spot right there for my appointments or whenever I wanted to use the facilities.
 and there was never any noise around the center. It was always very serene and pleasant. Throughout the 40 years that I have had a relationship with the center, the owners and staff have always acted with the utmost integrity and respect towards all of their stakeholders. If not, the center would not still be in existence and would not have been able to enjoy such longevity. Thank you for this opportunity and for your thoughtful consideration. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Hello. My name is Michael Fox, and I live about a little less than a block away on Everett Street. And I also serve on the board of the Kearns Neighborhood Association. I emailed an email in support of the Everett House amendment for the hearing for the last time. And so I want to be here and reiterate that. And I support the request to eliminate the off-street parking.
 and still do. So the record shows that the parking requirements are really no longer needed or really relevant, and the Everhouse is a... I think it's a very positive thing in the neighborhood, just living right there. And I don't think they are going to significantly change anything with respect to parking, and that's pretty much it. I don't think they should be held to the standard of, you know,
 I guess what we could call ancient parking requirements, given that there's increased parking pressures. So I don't think they'll significantly impact anything with respect to parking. And that's pretty much it. I mean, thank you for your... Excuse me, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty. Can I just... You just said that there's additional parking pressure, but you also recommend that we remove the parking requirement. Right.
 those sounds like contrary opinions expressed in the same sentence. Yes, because I don't think the Everett House is going to significantly change anything. The Everett House itself. Perhaps the surroundings will, because as we all know, everything's getting more dense. So at one point in time, the parking requirements, I suppose, were more reasonable, but nowadays I believe that with our density increase, they're not.
 So what do you recommend for people who live in the neighborhood who say that they can't find parking in their neighborhood because of visitors who are coming to the center? One, I don't think it's very impactful because I live there and I don't really see anything significant with respect to the parking situation in present day. And I do know that, you know, off 28th Street, that has a far greater impact. So...
 as i said i just thought i heard two separate things i just wanted to make sure that both were right okay thank you okay good afternoon good afternoon thank you for being here my name is alan wilson i testified at the first hearing and i'm here again today because i absolutely love going to the effort house i'm a portland oregon native i was born here i have lived here most of my life i've been a business owner
 for 35 years in the landscaping industry. I'm a tree surgeon and I have done landscaping work for the Everett House. I'm also a basketball referee. Given the stresses of my jobs, I've done a lot of research about where I can go to relax. When I found the Everett House, it was one of the best experiences of my life. I was in an auto accident about a year and a half ago. My treatment plan was the highest level that one could ever imagine.
 People there treated me with the utmost care, utmost respect. Talk about mind, body, and spirit, being in a holistic space like that, to be in a spot where you can relax and wine, meet and greet people from different ethnic backgrounds and such, it's pretty awesome for a person like myself. I have a son who was dealing with mental health about a year and a half ago. During that process and time,
 I brought him to experience what I've experienced there. It was very endearing, very special for me to have that bonding time. I thought it was a very safe and secure place for me and my son, a place where I could share his experience with me and we could bond. So I would just like to say that on behalf of all the experiences that I've had there and all the people who have treated me with the utmost care,
 I absolutely love and respect and honor this sacred place. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it, all three of you. Next three people, please, Carla. Next three are Joshua Ryan, Aaron Cardella, and Lisa Chun. And they'll be followed by Lucas Littlefield, Bob Zimbel, and Jonathan Akers. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, please? Yes, good afternoon. My name is Joshua Ryan, and I'm speaking on behalf of Everett House.
 By way of introduction, I am formerly the executive director for the Pearl District Business Association, board member for the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. And it recalls to me things that we were challenged with in the Pearl, where neighborhoods that are so interesting and have such great amenities are why people come to those neighborhoods. And then after time, they try to emulate the very reasons for which they came.
 As I stated in my written testimony in the record, I've been a member of Everett House since 1993. As an LGBTQ person, I needed a place that was safe, inclusive, and peaceful. In the past 25 years, I've seen visitors, families with children, women with mastectomies working through their health issues in the bravest possible ways.
 People like me who suffer from back and circulatory issues and prefer to soak or to have massage or to include alternative healing to their health strategies. I've been pain-free and prescription drug-free for more than two decades. During my visits at Everett House, I've always been respectful of the neighborhood. I live in the neighborhood. I arrive silently. I speak in whispered tones.
 And I understand this is not a bar or a party place or a public pool. It is a sanctuary. And in my time, I have never seen an argument or any inappropriate behavior. I respectfully ask council to make a decision that allows the Everett House to continue to this urban space for health and relaxation and to most importantly keep the qualities and the lifestyles that are so unique to this great neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon to you. Aaron Cardella. Hello.
 I'm a resident of the Kerns neighborhood. I live three blocks away from the Everett House Community Healing Center, and I have previously served on the board of the neighborhood. I am now the secretary at the Mindful Men's Meditation Meeting of Refuge Recovery. That is a community supporting recovery from addiction of all kinds. We came across the kindness and generosity of the Everett House Community Healing Center at a time of need for our program.
 Everett House offered a space for group meetings and counseling free of charge in the existing meeting room. We are grateful for the healing space. I also have personal experience with parking and traffic in the neighborhood and find there is ample parking in the area. I request that council approve the requested amendment so that this healing community space may continue to provide space and service for those in need. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon.
 Hello, my name is Lisa Chun. I'm a retired attorney and have played roles in public pension funds in the past. I live on Cesar Chavez Boulevard, which is nine blocks from Everett House. Before explaining my positive experience with the Everett House, I would like to note...
 that it is well documented in the record that personal matters are involved in the primary opposition to the Everett House.
 As indicated in the written testimony at the first hearing, my husband, my sons, and I regularly visit the Everett House for body work and healing, and I usually walk there from my house. I personally have found relief from back pain through use of the spa, massage, and chiropractic services offered at the Everett House. Knowing that I can go to this urban place,
 sanctuary has been a blessing for me. I support removal of the off-street parking condition and request that the council reach a decision that allows continued operation of this important community benefit. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please, Carla. Are Lucas Littlefield, Bob Zimbel, and Jonathan Akers? And then the last person will be Bridget McGrath. Good afternoon.
 Would you like to start for us down on the end? Yes. Thank you. My name is Jonathan Akers. I'm a resident in the Kearns area. My family has resided there for 80 years. I've seen a lot of changes in the city. I'm also a construction worker. I've been home remodeling for 25 years. So I'm helping beautify this beautiful city that we all love. I also enjoy going to the sanctuary of Everhouse to get healing.
 for my body and because I do put through a lot of rigorous things on a daily basis and it's a quite the gem in my neighborhood. It's convenient and I always walk there since I live so close and I would love to see this place stay alive
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Afternoon. My name is Lucas Littlefield. I'm a resident very near the Kearns neighborhood, and I also attend the Everett House very regularly. I would say four to six days a week. I attend both in the earlier part of the day, the daytime hours, as well as very often at night, as my schedule pretty much requires me to do more night soaking than day. To that point, yes.
 There's only been, in my four years of attending the Everett House, there's only been one time where there was any kind of a noise situation where one of the members was just getting a little chatty, and it was during the whispering hours. The other patrons in the pool at the time sort of collectively quieted that person down politely and respectfully so his staff didn't have to be brought in to take care of the issue. And again, in four years of attending commonly at night, that's the only issue I've ever personally experienced with sound issues.
 After my sessions at the Everett House, I usually walk the neighborhood, you know, just to stroll home, sort of to cool off after the hot water and the steam. And at that time, again, I haven't noticed myself any issues with noise, disturbance in the neighborhood, whether they be at the actual Everett location or within the block surrounding it.
 The final point I wanted to make in response to the bike parking that was brought up, I often bike as well, and I've never had a problem finding a place for my bike there. If it is a little bunched up, there's usually room around the rack itself to bring bikes in. So I don't think at this point, from my experience, there's been an over-parking issue with bikes specifically.
 Thank you all very much for the opportunity to speak today. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Bob Simbel, and I have the honor of being one of the original founders of the retreat center, an in-town retreat center. At the time, I was...
 The director of a retreat center out near Forest Grove, in meeting with David Slauson, who was mentioned earlier, we said, there needs to be an in-town retreat center, so let's start one. And we started this place, and instantly the response to the need for this type of facility was overwhelming. So we expanded from one building to two buildings, and the three buildings it is now. And –
 It really has become an in-town retreat center. Many of us use the spa there. We don't need to have our own hot tub at home, which I think is very ecological. It's also our health and our spirituality for the people who attend there. Because I go there once or twice a week, every week for 40 years. You see something that people's health and their spirituality is totally integrated there.
 And to deal with the issue earlier about chiropractic and acupuncture, actually at this time that this facility was created, I had long hair and long beard. I taught yoga full time. So definitely people came there to relax. And in 1986, I was hit by a couple of trucks on a freeway. It was devastating. But I could go to the Everett House.
 And I could get chiropractic, acupuncture. I have to admit my wife's also an acupuncturist. And the hot tubs. And somehow that got me through that time. So to me, acupuncture, massage, all this is so integrated. When people come in there in pain, and if chiropractic helps, acupuncture helps, the hot tubs help, massage helps, the counseling helps. When you reduce pain, you create relaxation. So to me, they're inseparable.
 Thank you. I think Portland needs to recognize that the Everett House is a Portland treasure that needs to be preserved and protected. And I hope that if you could see what I've seen over the years, people come in, they're kind of tense, they leave very mellow. We need to see more of that in these troubled times. It's our home. It's our sanctuary. It's our home.
 It means so much to so many people. If you could only experience it, you would know what this is really all about. So I'd like to see a thumbs-up from the group behind me of all in favor of the Everett House. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks all for being here. Can I just ask you, sir, we don't always get a founder. Actually, you said your colleague is a founder. But I'm struck by the fact that you were able to assemble three properties in an inner northeast neighborhood. Yes.
 What was the serendipity that allowed you to acquire three single-family homes in an area as both residential and as highly regarded as this one? Well, I think a lot of it was just good luck. And at the time, I had just sold my house, and I had made $10,000. I helped – I donated $10,000. Wow.
 for lifetime membership, so that could happen. So people stepped up and loaned David Slauson, I think, like $400,000, so the finances came together. People put their personal finances online to see this vision become a dream. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The last person who signed up was Bridget McGrath. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I want to offer a little perspective. My name is Bridget McGrath. I'm originally from Berkeley, California, the home of crazy parking. I lived in Portland almost 20 years ago, and I'm back in part because I watched a lake dry up in the Oakland Hills over the five years before I moved. So I want to point to kind of a couple larger issues. One, water is sacred. It is healing. This
 This is a community resource, clearly, as you've heard. Also, since moving back to Portland almost three years ago, I can park anywhere I go. That is unheard of in an urban area. We're all experiencing pressures in these big cities, San Francisco, Oakland, Portland, Seattle. But to move back here almost 20 years later and still be able to park within a block or two of almost everywhere I go in this city...
 That's unheard of. So you guys kind of need to zoom out a little bit and think about the perspective of what's to be expected in an urban area. You can't always park across the street from where you're going. And the fact that Portland does such a good job with public transit, with biking, with people in the neighborhood walking, I think that speaks to the fact that where this tradition has come from can continue despite the pressures of condos being built on every corner.
 Also, just in terms of kind of the identity of Portland as a city, one of the reasons I came back here was there's this concept of sharing resources. As Bob said, we don't all have to have a hot tub in our backyard. To build community, to share resources makes so much more sense. So I just want to really support the Everett House as an accessible resource for everyone.
 working-class people of Portland who need it. In fact, I think the groundswell of support is evidence that every neighborhood needs a resource like this. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next up, we will have the principal opponent, who will have 15 minutes. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 And I just want to clarify with legal counsel, since there are documents being handed out. Yes. So staff has reviewed and confirmed that everything in that was already placed in the record. Okay. But we'll also provide a copy to the applicant so that they have an opportunity to object if they. Very good. Thank you. And if anybody has any objections about anything, they can please see the legal counsel. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Hardest, E. Fish, Fritz, and E. Daly, good afternoon. Thank you for this opportunity. Okay.
 to share some thoughts about this appeal. I agree. Would you give us your name, please? Yeah, my name is Fred King. I live at 2904 Northeast Flanders. And I want to say first that I agree with just about everybody who testified in favor of Everett House that it's a wonderful place. I've been there several times myself, and I don't know anybody who doesn't like getting a back massage and sitting in a hot tub. That's not really what this is about.
 from their website, first document in your packet is a story from the Oregonian. Last year, they ranked best tourist attractions in Portland. And when they did that, they found that the zoo was number 17. Omsley was number 19. Everett House was number five. It was the fifth rated tourist attraction in Portland.
 So I guess the question for me is how does a non-profit community center in a single-family residential neighborhood get to be the number five tourist attraction in the city? So that's what I'd like to talk about now. As you can see from the next document, as far back as 1982, the planning department staff report for the conditional use permit said, "...that the staff had reservations about allowing unlimited use of the site. It appeared that the applicant should seek a more flexible, properly zoned site if expansion is to continue."
 In the words of the hearing officer in November 2018, the operation was increasing in scale by providing services on a metropolitan-wide basis. That increasing scale posed a threat to the neighborhood and that their own success dictate that they relocate to allow expansion rather than intensifying in an R5 area. On page 16 of the decision, the hearing officer stated that the approval criterion requires analysis of the intensity and scale of the proposed use
 to determine if the applicant's proposal significantly lessens the appearance and function of the residential area. And he determined that the proposal, in this case, did increase the uses, scale of uses, and intensity of uses at the subject property. Simply stated, the business had already outgrown the neighborhood 37 years ago. Since then, they've added more services and kept growing. Last year, they bought a fourth house, adjoining the other three.
 The sheer number of people that you've heard from today and the stacks of testimonials you probably have received or will receive are proof that Everett House has outgrown the neighborhood. They've become so big that they sold over $50,000 in Groupons, even though on paper they claim to be a nonprofit. The next document in your packet is an article from Willamette Week, 1995. They tried to expand that year by putting a new hot tub in the backyard of the house with the chiropractic office.
 I was very surprised to look out my kitchen window that year to see this hole being dug in the ground right over my backyard fence in a new hot tub ready to be installed. I found out that this was in violation of the conditional use permit and took steps to contact the city about it. The city stopped him from building at that point, as you'll see in the article.
 And after that, Mr. Mantell took steps to take over the hot tub business next door from the previous management called Common Ground. Now, Everett House Management has claimed today to have been in the neighborhood for 38 years, but that's misleading. Before 2006, the hot tub business was operated by Mr. Mantell's partners, a collective called Common Ground. In 2006, he forced them out, first raising their rent and then suing them.
 He claimed that he found mold on a wall in a basement room. Imagine that, mold on a wall in a house that was built in Portland in 1905. But he sued them, and you've got a copy of the Multnomah County Circuit Court case, Mantell v. Common Ground. After settling that case, he took over the business for himself, and Common Ground moved to a commercial zone on 33rd and Alberta, and they're still there today.
 So after we took over the hot tub business, attempts to expand ramped up. Now, it's normal for a business that provides great services to grow, but Condition 1 of the conditional use states that no new exterior construction shall take place, and Condition E states that all applicable city and state codes shall be met at all times. They broke both of these conditions many times over the years in their attempts to expand.
 The green folder that you have contains some of the violations they committed over the years, including June 2006 when they were cited for operating a business in a residential area, October 2006 where they were cited for installing flotation tanks without permits or inspections, September 2011 they were cited for building a kiosk in front of the Flanders Street property, December 2011 they were cited again for installing a new hot tub in violation of their permit,
 and for removing a stop work order for that tub without approval. March 2014, there was a noise complaint, drums and gongs audible with doors and windows closed. March 2016, they were cited for not having the required exclusive parking spaces and for having commercial business in a residential zone. They currently have an eight-foot fence around 2917 NE Everett, which exceeds code height.
 So that's a total of five times they tried to build new hot tubs, flotation tanks, a steam room, a second sauna, and other facilities, all of which are currently in operation. People are paying money to go and use these facilities that were built illegally twice in 96, in 2006, and twice in 2011. Now, they have told you and they told the hearing officer at the land use hearing that the parking problem is from the restaurants on 28th Street,
 and businesses on Gleason. But the parking problem started long before Restaurant Row existed. Back when the Starbucks on the corner of 28th and Burnside was a Rexall drugstore and the Whole Foods was a food value, the only restaurants on 28th Street were Holman's and Xin Yan. Now, my house, my wife and I own a house that's directly connected to the... Sorry, parking timer. Uh...
 directly adjacent to one of their properties. And we have two, when we got the house, there were two beautiful flowering cherry trees, Japanese cherry trees in front of the house. We had to cut one of them down to build a driveway because my wife would get home with two kids in car seats and groceries and have no place to park, have to park a block away. So we had to put in the driveway, had to lose those trees.
 And at the time, these were not people parking to go to the restaurants because the restaurants didn't exist. These were people going with towels into the hot tubs. They were required to have 30 exclusive parking spaces, and the city accepted a deal where they got lease spaces. They had it on paper, a contract that they were sharing spaces with another business. But you'll notice that in their proposal, and four of the people that testified before me, that they didn't actually use parking.
 The spaces that they had a contract for because they always had parking on the street. And I don't think they even to this day understand that the whole idea of the parking requirement was that they would park there. Not just have it on paper, but tell their customers to park there, the employees to park there. And they said, I don't know, you know, it's on paper good enough.
 As you can see from the next document, the city told them in 1987 and again in 97 that operating a chiropractic office in an R5 zone was a code violation. If you Google Everett House Chiropractic right now, you'll see the next photo. It's an ad for chiropractic services and a sign on their porch proudly advertising it. Code violation. I mean, they're just not supposed to be allowed in an R5 zone, but...
 I don't know how they justify that to themselves.
 Conditioning of the conditional use permit states that no more people may use this facility without then can be accommodated without creating undue noise or disturbance in the surrounding residences. Now you have to understand the hot tubs are right over the backyard fences of the adjoining houses. People in the hot tubs, if you've ever, you probably have used a hot tub, you have to talk a little bit louder than normal to be heard over the motors of the hot tubs and the noise of the water and everything.
 And we can clearly hear conversations. If you're in our backyard, if you're in a summer afternoon relaxing, you can hear conversations continuously coming from the hot tubs. And you can hear music from their after-hour parties. One of my neighbors called in a noise complaint every day last summer. And in response to that noise complaint, they installed a waterfall in the hot tub.
 One of their practitioners used to conduct therapy sessions in a shack in the house next door to my home. There would be this horrible screaming noise. The first time we heard it, we're sitting in the backyard, and we thought, should we call 911? Should we go over there and try to help? And then we found out eventually that he was doing some kind of primal scream therapy.
 In 2006, Mr. Mantell bought the house at 2926 Northeast Flanders. And at that point, the activity at that site ramped up. The next document that you have is a list of 50 different organizations and eight massage therapists who use space in that building. The businesses that include a business that are using that space include a business that will charge you $25 for a full moon ceremony, $40 for lessons in astral projection, $40 for a full moon ceremony,
 $99 to create a vision board, $500 for couples' massage classes, and $20 to learn how to be your own best friend. Now, I don't have anything against these people making money. It's fine with me, whatever they want to teach. But I don't understand how this could possibly be a non-profit community center. It doesn't make sense.
 Their permit allowed them to have a sauna, hot tubs, massage, tea house, as long as their customers parked somewhere else. All this extra activity, the chiropractic office, acupuncture, flotation tanks, steam room, two or three classes a day, this goes way beyond what was allowed for in the conditional use permit. There's a reasonable limit to how much commercial activity you can have and still have the neighborhood function as a residential neighborhood.
 We have delivery trucks coming and going every day. The picture you have there of all the delivery trucks, there's a kombucha truck on the right in the photo. That truck sat in the middle of Flanders streets for a full 20 minutes, and we have time-stamped evidence of that. On leaf pickup days, when people sweep their leaves out into the street to get picked up, our leaves don't get picked up because they're covered with cars that are parked there waiting to use Everett House.
 Now I was told, be careful what you wish for, because if Everett House goes, there are going to be people living in those houses. That's four houses in a prime neighborhood that can be used to house people in a city that needs more housing for people. I think it would be great to have people living in those houses. Thank you.
 I like my neighbors. I can look from my backyard on 29th Street all the way down to 30th Street, and I can see the play structure that my kids used to play in when they were little because I sold it to my neighbor because he had young kids. Another neighbor, a lot of my neighbors I see when we're out working on our gardens. We trade gardening tips. I learned about feather meal, which I had never heard of before. Another neighbor of mine has an amazing block party every year.
 We had to have two trees taken down last year. One was rotten and the other one was just falling over.
 And they wanted $600 to haul the wood away just for the wood. And I have a neighbor who heats his home with a wood stove. So I asked him if he wanted the wood. He removed the wood for me, chopped it up. He's using it to heat his house for the next few years. He got free wood. I saved $600. I'm just saying this to illustrate the fact that you have a different kind of relationship with people who live in a neighborhood than you have with people who are coming there to go to work.
 I also want to say that the land use review process in this case, including today's hearing, was seriously flawed. The neighbors in the neighborhood did not get proper notice of the November 26th hearing on the proposal to eliminate the parking requirement. It was sprung on us. As you can see in the next two documents, the October and November 2018 agendas of the Kearns Neighborhood Association, there's nothing about it on the October agenda. We didn't hear about it.
 from the neighborhood association until November 21st, the day before Thanksgiving, five days before the hearing, giving us no time to organize a response. We had no input into the pre-conference hearings. You heard Mr. Moffitt say today that they only had letters of support when they were preparing their pre-conference materials.
 The president of the neighborhood association was told before the November meeting that the proposal had already been approved.
 which was obviously not true because the hearing hadn't even happened yet and it ended up being denied. Now, why did this happen? It's because the appellant, Elliot Mantel, is also the land use chair of the Kerns neighborhood association. In fact, if you look at page two of the announcement of this appeal under neighborhood contact, you will find his name. Now, does it make sense for a person who doesn't live in Portland, who has development plans in the neighborhood, to serve as the land use chair for a neighborhood association?
 At the November 26th hearing, when asked to give his address, Mr. Mantell and his wife, Ms. Pernickley, gave addresses on Everett Street. In one case, it's a vacant house, when in reality, they reside in Lake Oswego. So by suppressing information that should have been available to the neighbors and by providing false address information, the appellant has corrupted the review process. They even provided their customers free Uber rides to this hearing today.
 Finally, I want to direct your attention to a study by Metro, Assessment of Marginal Impact of Urban Amenities, which confirms that you know the idea that when a Starbucks loses its neighborhood, values of homes go up. Well, this study showed that when you live near a spa, the value of your home is reduced by 11.3%. So basically, granting any wiggle room, any appeal other than a denial will give Everett House approval
 the wheel room it needs to keep doing what it's been doing. Given the long history of noncompliance, I think the only alternative that you can really enforce is a total denial. We can't wait another 22 years. They became the fifth best tourist attraction in the city by breaking zoning laws and violating each and every condition of their permit, and now they want to be rewarded for it. Can I interrupt you for one moment? Sure. You're over your time.
 And I'm allowing you to go within reason, but then I'm going to offer the appellant additional time should they so choose. I appreciate that. Okay. Thank you very much. Are you close to being done or how much longer do you think you need? I've got 20 seconds. Perfect. Go for it. It would be profoundly unfair to the people in the community who live close to this business.
 Fool me once, shame on you. If the city can't see from its own documented evidence that Everett House's management has tried to fool us again and again and again, then shame on us. Great. Thank you, colleagues. Well, I have a question. Commissioner Fish. You know, I was struck, sir, as I read through your prepared testimony, and thank you for taking the time to do that because I was able to read it along, that a lot of the issues that you've raised –
 and I understand their issues of concern to you, don't seem particularly germane to the hearing before us because the issue before us has to do with the conditional use approval of whether we let this particular applicant off the hook on off-street parking.
 I'm not sure which are not germane. Well, lots of information about where the applicant lives and whether these homes should be restored to single-family residences or passing judgment on this particular business being in a neighborhood and neighborhood association politics and process. I appreciate that you have the right to offer that testimony.
 We have conditions of approval that we have to follow, so I'm trying to adapt your testimony to the issues before us. So I wanted to give you a chance to address something that you didn't, I don't think you addressed in your testimony, which is you heard the traffic consultant hired by the applicant.
 saying specifically that the neighborhood could accommodate the parking without this requirement, this condition of approval about dedicated off-street parking. That is one of the very narrow and key issues that's before council. I wanted to give you a chance to respond to what you heard in terms of the expert testimony or the consultant's testimony on parking. Sure. Well, I looked into this a little bit, and I found out that the appellant,
 Did not only hire one traffic engineer, he hired several and selected the one that would give him the result that he wanted. Okay, sir, let me just, again, I appreciate your right to frame your case in any way you want. And our job is, though, much more narrow. He can hire 10 and cherry-pick the one he wants. What I'm giving you an opportunity to do is to tell us.
 You were here, you were present, when their traffic consultant said that there is sufficient parking capacity in the neighborhood to give us confidence that we could relieve the applicant of this parking requirement. That's the major issue that triggered this whole thing. When are you going to retire? Folks, excuse me. We cannot have this hearing interrupted as per the rules that were read right up front. You know this, Mr. Patterson. Thank you.
 Okay, just take a second here. Just look at me and speak, Mayor. I already did. I said you're in violation of the rules that were read up front. This is a land use hearing. Can I set up a meeting? So, sir, I apologize for that interruption. Please continue. Reminal. Reminal. One moment. Go ahead, Commissioner. We celebrate democracy in these chambers. I understand. We take everyone as they come. Thank you.
 So I just – what I'm signaling to you, sir, and I'm not trying to argue the point, is I'm looking for relevant information that can help me make my decision. Okay. The original issue had to do with parking. We had a consultant say that there's sufficient parking. You apparently live adjacent to one of these properties, so you're uniquely qualified to answer the question.
 What is your view of the consultant's testimony that there's adequate parking so that the applicant can be relieved of this condition that they provide off-street parking? Sir, I work as a research analyst for the state of Oregon, and I'm trained as an evaluator. What I've learned is that when you're hired to perform any kind of evaluation, you have a certain amount of leeway in looking at data and evaluation.
 Given the pressures that you're experiencing in that position, you can pretty much come up with any result that the client who's paying you wants to come up with. Last night, we had a situation where one of the people who was an employee of Everett House parked directly across someone's driveway, completely blocking the driveway. So my...
 I guess my reaction to your question is experiential. I've had several times where I've been able to leave my house, leave the driveway I described earlier because it's being blocked by the customers. The city has recently reduced...
 their response, the way they're responding to parking requests like that, they no longer have a hotline where you can just call and say hey somebody's blocking my driveway, send someone out to give them a ticket. They now, city no longer responds in that way. So I think that problem is going to get worse. As far as the traffic study, I think it's just a little bit too
 fudgy. It's too easy to fudge something like that, I guess would be my reaction. Okay, thank you.
 Council, can I briefly just let you know that the applicant has indicated that the Oregonian ranking, the tourist ranking, that's not information that's in the record. So if Council could please disregard those statements. Fair enough. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for testifying, Mr. King, and for giving us more of the historical context. So in your documentation, you suggest that business hours should be reduced. Yes.
 You suggest that the hours of operation should be reduced? I don't believe that that's a solution that will work. Over the years, we've negotiated this back and forth. We met with South East Uplift to come up with some kind of negotiated solution. And my honest reaction to your question is that anything we do short of denying this appeal is going to give them wiggle room to...
 explain why chiropractic should be considered part of relaxation, why acupuncture is part of hot tubs. I don't know. I guess the phrase that comes to my mind is, give them an inch, they'll take a mile.
 I think the problem goes beyond specific hours, numbers of people. I mean, they have another house. They bought another house now, which supposedly is not going to be part of the complex, but it's right next to it. And there are pipes laid underneath the retaining wall that are connecting the two. In the past, they've had water courses between the Flanders and Everett Street houses that attracted mosquitoes. It's just a situation that I don't think we can put back in the bottle at this point by having half measures. Yes.
 Okay. I was particularly mindful of your comments about being able to hear the conversations in the hot tub when you're trying to enjoy your backyard. I think it's clear to me that this...
 operation is expanding and expanding and expanding. One of the options is, I'm a retired registered nurse, and you're never going to convince me that chiropractic and acupuncture should not be considered medical. We spent a long time making sure that people's medical insurance covers those very services. So that's a bottom-line thing, and that's the thing that the hearings office has denied the application on. If we were to deny the application...
 they would continue operating. They had to find some other off-street parking, but they would continue operating. I'm sorry, could you repeat the question? The application is to get rid of the off-street parking. It's not renewing the entire conditional use. So if we uphold the hearings officer's decision and just say no, they get to continue operating as they are, except that they would have to find a different location for off-street parking. Right, and given the fact that
 If that doesn't exist, I don't understand what would happen at that point. Okay. And you're thinking that just reducing the hours is not going to make that much of a difference? In my experience, no half measures would work with this organization. And you said that one of your neighbors submitted noise complaints every day last summer. Yes, ma'am. Is that in the record? Staff's indicating that it is not in the record. It's not in the record. Okay. Okay.
 Maybe the noise department has that record. I don't know. Yeah, I'm not allowed. Could I ask you not to open the curtains, please? Just leave him be. He'll be, just let him de-escalate a little bit. Thank you. Yeah, for the purpose of this particular hearing, we have to decide on what's in the record. And we have to decide, can the application be conditioned to meet the approval criteria required?
 And so I'm personally in a bit of a bind because I do appreciate that the character of your neighborhood is very much changed by this business and this suite of businesses that is operating in it. So thank you for coming. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Yes, I have a question slash concern, but once again, I'm not sure if it was in the record. And that is the issue of improper notification records.
 by the neighborhood association? The calendars were part of the record for the hearing. The calendars were part of the record, but can we be illuminated on whether the process was followed? I'm looking at the attorneys right now, sorry. Yeah, and I'll let CDS staff speak to what happened at the hearing in terms of what evidence was and wasn't included in the record. Okay.
 Thank you, Mr. King. My understanding, Fred, from your initial objections were that they were related to the pre-application conference, a notification around that? No, the pre-application conference happened in 2017. The calendars I submitted were 2018, October and November. Then I'm confused. There was information in the record about pre-application.
 You're saying the neighborhood did not properly notify people for the pre-application conference. That's not strictly a code requirement. There are notification requirements for the land use review, which we met. Okay. Okay. What I heard was new information. Okay. Excuse me. Just briefly, can I just go over the short list of new information that I heard? Okay.
 testimony. I think mostly it's not relevant as Fish mentioned. The tree removal and driveway issue, the noise complaints leading to a waterfall, not that there weren't noise complaints but that the noise complaints led to the installation of a waterfall, I think that was a new statement. That the tree was removed and wood was given to a neighbor, not relevant but new. That a false address info was given by the applicant, that's not really relevant but new. And the free Uber rides, not relevant but new.
 Okay. Thank you. Do we have testimony? Very good. So next up are opponents of the appeal. How many people do we have signed up, Carla? We have two left on the list. Very good. Three minutes each. Name for the record, please. We have Levi Cole and Mylinda King. Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. I'll just read my prepared testimony, and then you guys can ask me any sort of questions you might have. Very good. Thank you. Much along the same line of I live on the same street as Mr. King and –
 I was a little bit mistaken as to the nature of this testimony, and I thought it had to do with the entirety of the variants itself, the things that they were asking for. So I'll try to abbreviate in that regard. That's why I was asking those questions, because the presentation sounded like it was dealing with a much bigger issue than the narrow issue before us, and that also runs the risk of us getting information that's not in the record and stuff that's not germane and relevant. Getting it in the weeds and not germane. So I was just trying to focus. I understand. Yeah.
 I'll try to. What we're allowed to consider. I'll try to. And you did state your name. She didn't. My name is Leviticus Cole. Thank you, sir. I'm an RN. I live at 2905 Northeast Flanders Street, Portland, Oregon, 97232. Thank you, sir. The people on my street, I will loosely speak for a lot of us. We all signed a petition, the original petition for the
 last hearing. So I'm sort of speaking for a number of people who can't be here today. We just feel that this appeal should be denied, partly due to parking, mostly due to parking, and I'll try to stick to that topic. For us, the parking issue is not a parking issue, it's a traffic issue, and the numeration of people that come and go from the building creates a safety concern for us. It's definitely an annoyance when people block your driveway and you can't find any place to park, and it blocks your house, which I understand
 I understand is not really the city's concern and I don't know how to address whether somebody said it was a viable thing or the parking study I can say that it it doesn't feel to people who live on that street as though this is an acceptable level of business I've lived there for
 eight years and it's only increased over time and it's it's become kind of drastic the difference just from eight years ago the amount of traffic people that come and go out of the building and they've expanded i mean they bought the flander street building across the street from my house and i'm sure that had an impact on it but it is is incredibly noticeable and for us for me anyway i have two little kids we're out of the street you know playing around the sidewalk a lot and it's it's
 it's a disturbing amount of traffic and it is traffic that you can see is directly related to the average street house because you can watch them park and go in and leave that building and get in their car and leave. Um, so it's not a speculation on my part. Um,
 In my testimony, I was going to say things about the commercial zoning and how it's sort of been a little bit of mission creep and it's expanded past what it was intended to be. But if that's not what this hearing is for, then I can bypass. You can talk about that because that's in the hearings office's decision. Okay. Thank you.
 much in the same, Fred's pretty exhaustive and he's kind of covered a lot of things that I would also say so I'll try to abbreviate that but it does feel to those of us who live on the street, I'm not an attorney, I'm not in Mantell's books and I'm not trying to talk out of school. It just feels very much like this business is not operating at all like the original 1982 conditional use permit was intended for it to be. It doesn't feel like a community center. It feels very much like a for-profit medical office building which I
 I have no problem with any of that except for the fact that it's in the middle of my street in a residential neighborhood. And it's having a pretty profound impact on the way that we live our lives. And it feels as though this isn't really what the city intended it to be like. And, again, I don't have anything against – I know that it provides a service for people that – and people are very, obviously, very passionate about –
 this place and what it provides for them. And I don't disagree with that at all. It just is having a big impact on our lives and for the people who live on that street. Mr. Cole, I just want to make certain that you know that it's not that...
 Some of the issues raised are not a concern of the city. It's simply the very narrow restriction of this hearing. This is not a typical city council hearing. This is a land use proceeding. Okay. Well, then I'll leave the rest of that and go. Thank you for your time. Your views are appreciated. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Mylinda King. I live across the street from the city.
 Levi on Flanders Street and I will try to just be brief. We are concerned about the ramping up of activity over the years. I've lived in my house since 94 and I can say there's definitely been just one thing piled on, one thing piled on, one thing piled on, new things added and
 And I'll just give one example. A few years ago, the Flanders House, as it's called, was owned by somebody else. And at that time, it housed, I think, about nine, at least out about nine rooms for massage, mostly.
 And then a few years ago, Mr. Mantel bought that house, and almost immediately, there was an uptick in activity at the house, in addition to the nine massage rooms that were rented out. And I am going to give you each a copy of my full testimony and a copy of a calendar. This is a calendar of events for the Flanders House now. And it's...
 Every day there's a class, many days there are two classes, and this is in addition to all the other practitioners that work out of that house. And I think that this is the kind of thing that really impacts our neighborhood. When Mr. Ard talked about how on Everett and Flanders Street there are sometimes more cars parked on the street than spaces even allow,
 What that translates for us, the people that live there, is that our driveways are blocked. I don't know if they keep records, but if you could look at how many times...
 parking comes to our street for a car blocking a driveway, I think you'd be surprised. It happened just yesterday. It was a practitioner that worked out of the Flanders house, completely blocked somebody's driveway. So this is the kind of like adding more services is one thing, adding more events, classes is another. And to say that
 20 is an acceptable number. This is in addition to all the other people that are there already for all these other things. I think it is a parking issue. And you can perhaps come sometime and see for yourself what it's like. So I just want to...
 conclude and say that we've got a letter that we submitted in the last hearing. 20 people on my block signed it saying they oppose this. I would like to urge you to uphold the denial because I don't think the city has the bandwidth to monitor and enforce all of these issues. The burden has always been on the neighborhood and I also don't think the business can be trusted to comply on its own. So I thank you for your time. Thank you for being here.
 So next, and that concludes the testimony. Is that correct, Carla? Very good. Next up is any rebuttal by the appellant should the appellant so choose. You have five minutes plus an additional 45 seconds as a result of the principal opponent taking an extra 45 seconds. So, Carla, if you could set it at 545, please. For the record, Renee France.
 Oh, one moment. We're having some troubles with the timer. 5.45, please. There you go. Thank you. It's like the shot clock in basketball. You have the referee have to reset it. So one of the things that strikes me in listening to the supporters of the hearings officer's decision, I guess I will call them, is,
 testimony, and I think it's played out in the record, is one of the hard things, and I know that the hearings officer struggled with this as well, but the 1982 conditional use had some ambiguous conditions. It had some vague conditions. It had some conditions with requirements that weren't defined in code. For example, new construction requirements.
 um it's not a term that's defined in code one person can look at a gazebo that they buy at costco and assemble and place in a backyard in a residential setting and believe that that is not in violation of the condition so one of the the true benefits i think of this process is to get conditions that are
 clearer or less ambiguous, have grounding in the code definitions. And I think that staff's conditions actually do that. So I think in terms of the concerns about construction that has popped up largely comes from ambiguous conditions that were in the past conditions. That is rectified if you were to adopt our requested decision with the conditions proposed by staff.
 And I think that benefits everyone. I think it benefits the Everett House. I think it benefits the neighbors. I think it benefits the city in enforcing the conditional use. And so I think, again, that goes to addresses Mr. King's, many of Mr. King's concerns about wiggle room. The proposed condition language takes away that wiggle room by and large.
 There were a couple of items, as staff noted, of new evidence. I would note that I don't believe that the schedule that Mrs. King presented is on the record.
 The other thing, just in terms of clarifying the record, the Everett House actually made a public records request to determine if there were any formal noise complaints, and they discovered only one. It is on the record. It is Exhibit H-59 in the hearings officer's record, and it was five years ago.
 Again, just clarifying the record, in response to Mr. Cole's testimony, the applicant has never requested a variance. Instead, it's an amendment to its existing and valid conditional use.
 In terms of the use types and the activities, again, I want to be very clear that our preference would be, and we believe that all of the activities, including chiropractic and acupuncture, fall within a reasonable reading of the 1982 CUP. There is history in terms of discussions with the city that,
 I cited in our letter where it talks about Mr. Mantel's practice being nontraditional and holistic style of chiropractic medicine and that he was doing the same type of chiropractic service that he did when the conditional use was approved. Just to point that out again, we take the position that –
 If you disagree with that, then we would agree to the condition of removing those uses. And then finally, and again, to be very clear, the 1982 CUP did not have any limitations on the number of people that could be present at the site.
 And I think a good reference in terms of what was contemplated in 1982 when that conditional approval permit was originally issued, the hearings officer required 30 off-site parking spaces.
 the hearings officer also required 10 bike spaces so that's contemplating at least 40 people at the site and that doesn't account for those who walk multiple occupancy vehicles or those who take buses so i think um again the hearing officer's reliance on 15 people was was misplaced
 And we'll leave it at that. Again, I think what we've proposed resolves many of the concerns of the neighboring property owners, absent completely shutting down the –
 Everett House, and again, that's not on the table. As long as what is proposed is consistent with the 1982 CUP and we meet the approval criteria set out for amending it and removing the parking condition, approval of the center and allowing it to continue with appropriate conditions is the correct path. Yes, legal counsel.
 No, it looked like you had a comment. Is that a 37? That's all I have. I'm happy to answer any questions. If there's any more traffic questions, Mr. Art is available. If there's any more questions specifically about his chiropractic practice, Mr. Mantella is available. Yeah. Can I make a comment?
 You have 14 seconds to make it. Well, I'd like to say there's a letter from Sterling Bennett Bureau of Buildings in 1997 saying that the chiropractic practice that I was doing was holistic in nature, and therefore he was not going to question whether it was part of the conditions permit or not. And that's in the record. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? That is a building inspector and not a hearings officer who made that decision.
 I'm sorry? That was not in the record of the hearings office's decision on unconditional use. No, it was Sterling Bennett from the Bureau of Buildings or one of the bureaus. Sterling Bennett had written it to Charlie Hayes, Hayes' commissioner. Yeah, but they don't have the authority to make a policy decision like that. Yeah, I don't know.
 Because I'm very concerned about there was discussion back in 82 about was chiropractic allowed. There was recommendation to find a business zone. There was the recommendation in 82 that the staff recommends denial, stating that what began as a local community service is increasing in scale to provide service on a metropolitan-wide basis.
 And so, you know, what's your response to you've been providing chiropractic services and acupuncture, which are both medical services, without having permission to do that? Well, in 87, when I applied for a building permit or a remodeling permit,
 And staff, Doug Warren, reviewed everything and said that what was approved was some of the things that I did, which was massage, health counseling, relaxation. And in 1997, Sterling Bennett also reviewed it and basically said that, which is in the record. But did Mr. Warren say that, no, you couldn't do chiropractic? No.
 Doug Warren? Yeah. In 87? Yeah. Yeah. He said, yes, he said that chiropractic per se was not approved, but these activities that I did was approved. Okay.
 which was the massage, relaxation, and health counseling. And then in 97, it was reviewed again by Sterling Bennett, who basically said that he thought that the waters about chiropractic were muddied. He wasn't going to pursue any enforcement. And that I'd been established since it first started, and that the practice that I was in was holistic and seemed to fit within the definition of the condition he was permitted.
 And that's in the record, a letter from Sterling Bennett from 1997. I think the bottom line is there's evidence in the record that the city has not taken the position that chiropractic expressly wasn't allowed. They indicated that it was muddied. And so there wasn't clear enforcement action to prevent the chiropractic practice from happening. Again, no.
 We are very clear at this point that if the council believes that chiropractic does not fit within the 1982 CUP, that we would agree to an express condition prohibiting chiropractic or acupuncture on the site. Thank you. I appreciate that. The other concern I have, though, is that there's a tremendous amount of coming and going to this residential neighborhood. I think nobody questions that, right? Right.
 how else could you, the noise condition that's been proposed either by the hearings officer or by the planner is not helpful at all. It doesn't, you know, we know from noise complaint experiences that, and it's in the record, that it's only about amplified noise, it's not about people's voices. But if you've got
 10, 12 hours a day of people being outside talking to each other, even if after 9 they're whispering, that's a lot of activity in a residential neighborhood. Is there something that you could think of that would mitigate that issue? We've thought about ways to further mitigate. I think, again, it's not required by the 1982 CUP, would be my first point. But one thing that I think
 could be helpful again with these improved conditions both to the neighbors and to Everett House would be, and it would actually replace what is now condition A, which is the ambiguous, if the noise causes an undue impact, you couldn't have that number of people, would be to put, in addition to a cap on the number of people in a class, a cap on the overall people that can be on site at any time. And the...
 appropriate number, I think, would be 65. That's consistent with what the traffic study evaluated. And it's not that far, again, above what was considered in the 1982 CUP, given what they required for parking and bicycle and considering other forms of transportation. How would that be enforced?
 it the same as it would be an overall cap on the number of members and visitors that could be in those three houses it would be up to the everett house to um to enforce that themselves if they if you know the city could come up with a different enforcement mechanism i i do believe that that one thing that is that is clear to the everett house and their community from this process is
 that they need to be very conscious of their impact on the surrounding neighborhood. And I think that going forward they would understand the need to, if such a cap were placed, to adhere by it. Is the 65 number consistent? What's the relationship between 65?
 the 65-person limit that you've suggested and what you know about existing either building code requirements or fire bureau requirements.
 I don't know the exact number for building code or fire bureau. I believe that 65 is well below what would be the maximum in each individual house based upon the size of the houses, but I don't know that number. I would add, too, that based on the parking analysis and the fact that previously 30 parking spaces had been required, assuming a 1.6 person per vehicle occupancy and about 20% non-driving occupancy,
 participation in the site, you arrive basically at 65 people based on that. So that coincides both with the prior request for 30 off-street parking spaces and the analysis that showed that the approximate impact of this development is 30 parking spaces. So all of that is consistent with the existing use of the site as well as the prior condition of approval. So when it comes to occupancy requirements,
 I don't really care about the traffic analysis. What I care about is what is legal and safe according to our building codes and occupancy rules. So how in the world would we make a decision on that if we can't be provided with what those are? We would have to know the square footage of each of the buildings. It's not rocket science. Every restaurant and club...
 ELEVATORS HAVE OCCUPANCY LIMITS POSTED. WE COULD HAVE
 The fire marshal will find that out, I imagine. Yeah, but the problem is we have to make a decision today based on the information that's not today. I think irrespective of your decision, though, the fire code will apply. So if you made a decision that had a condition of approval that said a maximum of 65 people and the fire department determined the limit was 30, we would still be subject to the limit of 30. So the 65 is all three buildings plus outdoor space, and my knowledge is not a fire code for outdoor space, the number of people. Okay.
 And we are also self-limiting in terms of people that use the spa facility. There's only a maximum that we can have. There's health department rules, how many people can be at one time. But it does sound like at times there have been many more than 65 people. And while I think...
 your business or organization is a wonderful community service and a vital part of our social infrastructure. It's also an extraordinary amount of traffic, whether it's foot, bike, or cars.
 coming in and out of this neighborhood. Now, it's a block off of 28th Avenue. I don't know how the neighbors know that the offending drivers who are blocking driveways or parking illegally are your customers or their restaurant or theater customers. And I don't, you know, I want to do the reasonable, responsible thing here.
 But I don't know that it's really going to truly mitigate the neighborhood concerns. So what we have to go by is. I have a thought on that. Okay. So, you know, I'm looking at, are we through with this panel here? I don't have any further questions. I think we're through with it so we can. Can I just add one more thing related to that? We've got it. Okay. Thank you. That concludes the hearing part. So now we're in conversation. I just want to just share a couple thoughts with my colleagues. And I'm.
 Colleagues, I'm going off the March 20th, 2019 memorandum we received. So it's a four-page memo. And Commissioner Fritz, I believe that you were earlier on page two referring to the staff recommendations, which are laid out. And then on page four is under number five is alternatives facing council, lays out the menu of options. Right.
 I'm leaning towards the second bullet, which is grant the appeal with conditions, and the conditions are all laid out here. Commissioner Udaly, you've raised an interesting point. Number one, we are not – with the consent of the parties, we're not required to make a decision today. Most of us are going to make a tentative decision.
 I'm intrigued by the idea of a 65-person cap because it just intuitively, instinctively feels lower, actually, than what the law would provide. But nothing that, to my knowledge, nothing prevents us from reaching a tentative agreement with conditions.
 setting this over to a date for adoption, and during that time just reviewing that question a little more, having legal counsel take a look at that question about what actually the fire code is or the building code is. I'd like to propose a different way forward, and that is to deny the appeal. And having aired all these problems, I think it is appropriate for them to start over. Yes, I agree with Commissioner David, this is a very valued...
 resource for our area, it's having huge impacts on the neighborhood and has operated without permission of having chiropractic and acupuncture medical uses for many years. So if we set a limit on 65, I'd be horrified to have 65 vehicles coming to a hot tub near me. Well, I'm, since we're in the discussion phase,
 And I'm sorry we lost a colleague. This might be one of those rare instances where we need a body of five to make this decision. But let me make the case for granting the appeal as is suggested as a second alternative. And I'll just read the prompt from staff. Overturn the hearing officer's recommendation...
 Grant approval of the more limited spectrum of previously approved uses from CU 2682, which that specifically means limiting the uses to clearly defined 1982 conditional use and accepting council's alternative recommendation that we take chiropractic and acupuncture services off the table. Removing the requirement for off-street parking, that's the main issue before us.
 and imposing earlier staff recommendation conditions of approval, and those are all set forth on page two of the memo. And I think there may be a couple here where the council would want to sharpen them or modify them. But that's the framework that I would like to propose that we consider for a couple reasons. One is that I think the applicant has met the burden of proof.
 that the parking can be accommodated. And the parking is the issue that triggered all this. And by the way, I mean, I for 20 years lived not far from this location. Just having parking doesn't have necessarily much impact on the intensity of driving in the neighborhood. People can be driving in the neighborhood looking for parking spots.
 People are going to be dropping people off and then parking. The parking itself is not the silver bullet. But I think the applicant, through their consultant's report and their testimony, has met the burden of being required from the off-street parking requirement. I believe that it is charitable to call the 1982 Conditional Use Approval Act.
 so vague as to potentially cover chiropractic and acupuncture services. If that's charitable, it is not well written. I think that's an argument lawyers need to make.
 Ever since I got my cancer diagnosis, I'm a huge believer in acupuncture and massage, so I get it. But I do think Commissioner Fritz is right. I think these are qualitatively different. They're medical services in a residential area. I don't think they logically grow from the 82 conditional use permit. So my sense is balancing what I've heard as the testimony and the various issues that we have to grapple with with
 I'm prepared to support the second alternative. Again, grant the appeal, overturn the hearing officer's recommendation, grant approval of a clearly limited spectrum of previously approved uses, taking chiropractic and acupuncture services off the table, as has been discussed, removing the requirement for off-street parking, and imposing earlier staff-recommended conditions of approval.
 And I would urge that we use that as the framework for discussion. And Commissioner Fish, can I just clarify for the record what your reading has in parentheses as previously approved uses to include sauna, hot tub, massage therapy, relaxation, health counseling, and tea food services. So your motion includes those things but then explicitly excludes chiropractic.
 services. Is that correct? And acupuncture services. And acupuncture explicitly excludes those. Correct. And what's in parenthesis is what I think everyone agrees is at least covered by the conditional use permit. Health counseling is the term that's open to interpretation. I think, in fairness, and I'm persuaded by what Commissioner Fritz, the argument she made,
 that chiropractic and acupuncture services just can't be justified under health counseling, and in any event, our commercial activity of a different, our medical services of a different character in the neighborhood. I'm a huge believer in them, but I just don't think they're covered by the 82 actions. So I would offer that as a framework for discussion, Mayor. Could I ask one question, Commissioner Fish?
 With the staff report conclusions under Section E on page 3 under J, it says deleted. This is the occupancy permit to change the structures from residential to community service. They were obtained in 1982. This condition was previously met, so that's no longer applicable. That's probably a better question for legal counsel.
 Yeah, I mean, that's my understanding, that the recommendation from staff was to remove that condition. Okay, great. And with regard to, there was some testimony regarding, I think one structure was called a Sears-like structure, and the other, I think, was referred to as cardboard. Okay.
 Yeah, there's the tarp-covered carport-like structure, which has been identified as a maintenance storage, and a garden gazebo structure identified as a mediation area. And staff has recommended that both structures be removed. Okay. And that would be the net effect of that?
 of adopting the granting the appeal with the conditions that you've recommended here under paragraph two. Excuse me, the staff says one can remain in place and the other one has to be removed. Two. Okay. Two for removal.
 Pardon me? Two removed and one stays. Excuse me. Okay. And so let the record show also that I misheard. Obviously, they meant carport, not cardboard. And I was wondering who duped you into buying that. All right. Good. Thank you. I appreciate that. I offer that as a motion, Mayor. I have a question for the attorney. I can't. Okay. So there was mention about wanting to move the gazebo to
 To comply with the setbacks. Is it actually, do we know if it's possible to move the gazebo to comply with the setbacks from the property line, but also to be far enough away from the others? You know, I don't know what. Whether or not there's enough space in the site plan. Yeah.
 I don't know. Potentially, staff's indicating yes. But, I mean, council could always impose a condition that just says they could have that type of structure and that it just has to meet setbacks. Yeah, it needs to comply. Staff complier one doesn't. Okay. Okay.
 Get a smaller one. Commissioner Fish, I'll second that motion. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Udaly. Okay, I'd like to speak against the motion. Commissioner Fritz. There's multiple other places in the hearings officer's decision where he says that the accruable criteria are not met. For instance, the hydrotherapy services were not approved by the conditional use in 82. The flotation tank services were not approved in 1982. The classes of...
 up to 15 to 20 people were not approved. So, and multiple, multiple other places, I mean, it's going to take rewriting and being quite creatively rewriting this entire decision to be able to approve it. And part of the problem is, as the hearings officer notes, that the
 conditional use approval in 82 was really inexplicable in why they approved something taking off the 15 person limit that just went to something much more vague, despite saying this is clearly not compatible with the neighborhood.
 And Greg Frank notes that in 20 years as the city's hearings officer, he's never criticized another hearings officer. And yet his entire findings are riddled with concerns about the underlying conditional use, as well as now removing the parking with all of these people coming to the site that were not envisioned to come to the site before.
 So I think there's a hugely different impact on the neighbourhood than was envisioned in 1982. And by saying, yes, we're just going to do away with the one condition on parking and maybe putting a few others in, this is an on-the-record appeal. So it's supposed to be on the evidence and the record. As Commissioner Udaly has said, we don't know what the fire capacity is. We don't know what the fourth property that's now being used, what that's going to be used for.
 There's just not enough information in the record to be able to sustain an approval, in my opinion. Well, if I could just speak to that. Yes, sure. I think there's adequate evidence in the record to address off-street parking. We can agree to disagree on that. I think counsel made counsel for the applicant.
 I felt made a reasonable case for taking chiropractic services and acupuncture services off the table as an alternative approach. We did have testimony from the opponents that that is a heavily scheduled level of activity at the site. So I think it's reasonable to take up that charge and remove them because I don't think they're consistent with the 82 conditional use permit. I think that brings clarity. And I think the staff recommended conditions –
 are well grounded, in fact, and are thoughtful. So I think, in fact, what we're doing is replacing the 82 conditional use permit with a much better roadmap. I suspect this won't be the only conditional use process that they're going to go through over time because I think there's going to need to be further work.
 There may be future conditional use permits to get additional clarity about the scope of activities at this site, but I think under the proposal that I've made, which is a compromise, I think we have much greater clarity than we do currently under the 1982 conditional use permit, and that's why I would advance it for our consideration.
 And we're also capping at 65 and moving or removing the violating structures, right? The structures are part of the staff recommendation. So in terms of the cap on 65, is that a friendly amendment? I thought that's what we had been discussing. We were debating at that point. Oh, okay. Would you like a cap of 65? No.
 Previously we said there should be no events over 20 people, which the applicant agreed to. No events, classes, or workshops over 20 people. And I think we should add or total capacity of more than 65. I would accept that as a friendly amendment. Thank you. Just so I can understand, no more than 65 people at one time? No more than 65 people? Total. One time. At one time. On the entire site. All three facilities. And was there a cap on classes? 20. 20.
 on events, classes, or workshops. Okay. And then for the record, just so that I understand, Council, the remaining uses or activities that came up during the hearings officers, during the hearing before the staff recommendation of yoga, hydrotherapy, floatation, tank,
 and special events, council's considering those to be part of the general catch-all? I'm not proposing to limit yoga and flotation. So, I mean, I want to be clear that I understand why chiropractic and acupuncture would be reasonable to have at this facility, why it's really nice to have it combined with all these other services, but those are medical services, right?
 and need to be treated differently. No one can tell me that yoga doesn't fall under relaxation, and no one can tell me that's a medical service. So I'm comfortable with that distinction, and I want to say...
 It seems that Everett Street has been operating on an ask-forgiveness-not-permission basis for a really long time. And the result is a lot of unhappiness with the residential neighbors in your community. And you have to care about that. And it also sets a really bad precedent for other neighborhoods where we've got these conditional use permits for businesses operating in residential areas so well.
 Again, I love the facility and I love everything you do and I enjoy acupuncture, massage, and hot tubs. This thing seems to have grown beyond a manageable size given the context that the business exists in. So that's my thinking. Unless there's any further discussion, I'd like to call for a tentative vote on the proposal. Commissioner Fritz, do you have more questions? Please call the roll. Fritz. Yes.
 I appreciate what Commissioner Udeli just said. It's clear to me that this business has exceeded the size that the neighbourhood capacity, it's far exceeded what it was even allowed to do in 1982.
 And there was an opportunity over the last four years to ask for it to be rezoned to commercial, and that apparently was not taken. So I think it's a mistake to continue to allow it to expand and to take away the parking when we've heard from the neighbors that there's already a problem. No. First of all, I want to thank everybody for taking the time to join us this afternoon.
 if everybody here had taken the opportunity to testify, we'd be here till seven or eight o'clock. So I appreciate the restraint that people showed. I appreciate the care that went into the testimony on both sides. I appreciate from the opponent getting a written statement that I could read along and it was as thoughtfully worded and prepared, sir. So thank you for the time and energy you've put into your advocacy and
 And, of course, I thank counsel for the applicant, appellant, for doing something which happens all too rarely in land use proceedings, which is laying out alternatives for us to consider that sometimes are against the interest of their client.
 And we are trying to find the right balance in these things. This is art, not science. There are rules we're bound by, but we're also trying to balance a number of things. We're trying to be thoughtful. We're trying to be responsive when we are guided by counsel that pitch alternative ideas.
 help us get to the right place. I applaud that. It's not always the case, but it certainly serves the client well. Appreciate hearing from the testimony. And I just want to emphasize something that Commissioner Udaly said earlier, and we've all said, but this is not a referendum on chiropractic and acupuncture services. Two years ago, I was a complete stranger to Eastern medicine and to alternative health strategies. And
 Because of a chronic health problem, I was persuaded to try some new things. And, frankly, acupuncture has changed my life and massage and doing things. And I'm proof that you can turn 60 and still learn a new trick.
 And so I appreciate the benefits. We're not here acting as passing judgment on the quality of the services or the utility of the services. We're looking strictly at whether it's appropriate for this location, and I hope people understand that. I thank my colleagues for a very thoughtful discussion. I vote aye. You, Daly. Well, I'd like to think, Commissioner, that I have something to do with you opening your mind to acupuncture. He didn't accept all of my recommendations, but...
 I haven't made a final decision on one. Okay. I want to thank everyone for coming. I want to appreciate what all of you provide to the community. I want to say thank you to the opponents. I know it's not easy to be part of a small organization,
 opposition group and you brought really legitimate concerns and I jotted them all down and we certainly can't resolve all of them with this particular decision but I would like to follow up with you on some of them. Thank you Commissioner Fish for wrapping this up for us. I vote aye.
 Wheeler. Well, there's never a perfect answer to any of these. By the time an appeal gets to the city council, it's usually because there's no obvious solution. And so it requires us to balance what we hear in the hearings. I heard very thoughtful testimony on both sides of this issue. And at the end of the day, I'm compelled that the compromise solution is the right one. So I'm going to vote for the motion.
 The motion passes, but I want to be clear, this is a tentative vote. And we will have a final vote scheduled on. So the code requires that the prevailing party, which is the applicant in this case, their attorney prepare findings for then staff to review and the attorney's office to review. And it sounds, with everyone's schedule, we're looking at potentially the week of May 1st or May 2nd coming back to council? Yes.
 It'd be 11 a.m. on May 1st. And we'll coordinate directly with exact time frame for preparing everything. And if I could ask the city attorney's office to pay special attention to make sure that the framing of the findings doesn't expand on the 1982 permission.
 Yes, we always heavily review and revise as we go. I know you do. I just wanted to put that on the record. Thank you. Very good. So today's vote is a tentative vote. The final vote will be at 11 a.m. Times Certain, May 1st, here at Portland City Hall in the City Council Chamber. Thank you all. We are adjourned.