All right, good morning everybody. This is the March 21st, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Prince. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Daly. Here. Wheeler. Here.
 Good morning, welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and needs to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Wow, that's harsh. I'm glad I don't have to say all that. So, Sue, could you please read the communications? It's my understanding that all five of the communication slots are from Accelerator. Would you like to come up together? Sure.
 Item 263, 264, 65, 66, and 67, request to address counsel regarding the accelerator program. And the speakers are Lynn Lee, Siobhan James, Jennifer Balanas, Renee Shade, and Marianne Bahuruzi. Very good. And you each have three minutes. And please come right on up.
 And the first three of you, if you want to bring two more chairs up, that's great too. And again, we just need your name for the record. And we find that these microphones work best if you have them six or eight inches away and they slide around. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 So I'll begin. Good morning and thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today. My name is Lynn Lee and I'm the founder and CEO of a company called Society9, which is a modern women's boxing brand producing boxing gear and apparel to empower women in their fight.
 I started this company three years ago because women were severely underserved in the boxing world. There was no quality product designed to fit them. There was no brand in existence focusing exclusively on the unique needs of the 18 million women around the world who do boxing fitness recreationally and competitively.
 Because of awards I've received, such as the Forbes 30 under 30 list, I've been fortunate to build my network and receive investments, which has enabled my company to grow to where it is today. However, a company like mine is too risky for banks and not fast-growing enough for traditional venture capital funds that expect a return of 10x or more in a very short amount of time.
 I benefited professionally from a great relationship with the Portland Seed Fund, having been their first fund associate. This experience enabled me to learn behind the scenes what it takes to build and fund a high growth business from the many talented portfolio founders, while understanding the relationship management required between founders and investors. I want to emphasize though that my experience is unique. This is definitely not every woman entrepreneur's experience.
 When businesses leave the pre-revenue stage, there is a massive gap of resources. With programs like TIE and Portland Incubator Experiment that help businesses launch past the pre-revenue stage and institutional funds like Oregon Angel Fund that operate with a more traditional venture capital model, there is a huge opportunity in the middle where a majority of high potential businesses lie. And it just so happens that most of these companies are founded by women and people of color.
 Programs like Accelerate offer continued education and support to fill this gap. And while I have been fortunate to build my network because of my professional experience and Society9's unique success, I know that Accelerate will continue to provide a bridge for more women to grow their businesses and get to the next level. We are out here doing the work, striving to create meaningful impact, social change, jobs, and opportunities for others.
 and I encourage you to support women and minority entrepreneurs in order to represent all of the city and lift them up as a testament for what we hope Portland can be in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for allowing me to be here today. Hi, my name is Siobhan James, and I'm a business development consultant focusing on diverse founders in social innovation, consumer products, and consumer services.
 I currently work with the Portland Incubator Experiment, a business incubator that provides co-working space and mentorship to early stage startups. And I also work with Thai Oregon on their Entrepreneur Boot Camp, a boot camp that takes entrepreneurs through the lean canvas business model to help streamline and crystallize their ideas and businesses in five weeks.
 We hear a lot about who gets funded and has access to capital and resources nationally, but these are my actual personal statistics that I've encountered while being here in Portland. I've done recruitment and selection for the last three cohorts that have been a part of the Entrepreneur Boot Camp, and about 60% of those participants has been a woman of color.
 After completion, I don't know where to send all this talent. And in the past six months, I have encountered over 150 founders looking for support, not only financial, but for an incubator or a program or a development class, and more than half of those people that have approached me have been women.
 There is one woman in particular that I have seen at least a dozen times since the completion of the boot camp at different events around the city focusing on entrepreneurs and founders. She will be participating in Pitch Latino, and she's looking for more intensive programs to help continue her business growth. And I would hate to see us not fan her flames and have them burn out, or even worse, if she takes her talents to another city because of lack of opportunities here.
 I think we read in TechCrunch and the Portland Business Journal and other publications about the lack of resources available to underrepresented people. And there is a real, tangible need here in Portland, and we'd like to be a part of that solution.
 We know that there are women founders out there when we're being intentional about who we support. And I know what it feels like to walk into a room and be the only one. I experience it several times a day. And I can tell you that is not where I thrive, and that is not a space that actually promotes growth. I wouldn't be able to do this work if it wasn't for these women who allow me to be noticed. Thank you.
 Now we need to create a space where they feel supported and they get mentorship from each other and they feel noticed too. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for the work you do. Good morning. Good morning. Buenos dias. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. My name is Jennifer Bolanos and I'm the founder and owner of Via Raiz, a shop that celebrates the new era of Mexican craft.
 Via Raiz is an homage to my heritage. The name means through roots and pays tribute to the idea of going back to your roots as a source of inspiration. It has become a way to connect with my origins and share the love for my culture with the world. My family is from Michoacán, Mexico, a state rich in history, culture, and folklore. My family's background has played an important role in starting Via Raiz. As a little girl, my parents would take me to visit the artisan towns and see the artisans creating their beautiful crafts. And these memories are some of the fondest memories that I have.
 My parents were entrepreneurs themselves and they also served as inspiration. My dad was a flooring contractor and my mom owned a home cleaning business. They taught me the power of hard work and determination. Portland is home to an incredible community of makers, doers, and creators. So when I moved here four years ago, I couldn't help but be inspired by the city's entrepreneurial spirit. Being here has given me the opportunity to connect with amazing people and create an invaluable network.
 The community support of entrepreneurs gave me the motivation to start my own business. I have looked at other incubator-style programs in Portland, and there's nothing like the Accelerate Fund. It's inclusive to a variety of business models and concepts, with the sole requirement of seeking growth. With an all-female community, network, and mentorship, the Accelerate creates a safe and supportive space in which we can be understood, validated, celebrated, and successful.
 The Accelerate Fund recognizes the importance of women-owned businesses to their local communities. Their program is providing a critical platform to guide female entrepreneurs in creating sustainable growth strategies for their business and provide funding to businesses that span different industries and revenues. To achieve the goals that I have planned for Via Raiz, I'll need funding, but investors aren't interested in companies like mine, which are slow-growing without an immediate enormous return.
 Through the Accelerate Fund, businesses like mine will have the ability to access the capital needed to thrive. My vision is to reframe what it means to be made in Mexico. Now more than ever, it's important to create a platform through which a cultural exchange between Mexico and the world can take place. More than a shop, I see Villarraiz as a cultural hub, helping build community by offering a space for people to come together to explore Mexico's burgeoning creative scene.
 Through the beauty of finely crafted wares, I want people to experience a different aspect of Mexican culture. Mexico has a powerful story to share on the world stage, and with the support of the Accelerate Fund and Portland community, I can take part in telling it. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate all three of you. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for being here. Hi. Thank you again so much for the opportunity to speak with you this morning. My name is Renee Shade, and I'm the Deputy Director of Accelerate.
 Last year, the council supported us through Prosper Portland's budget process. Your support and the additional funding we received from Prosper Portland allowed us to successfully launch our Accelerator program and support the women entrepreneurs you see here today. Accelerate is a Portland-based nonprofit organization that provides support to women entrepreneurs to help them grow successful, scalable companies.
 Lynn, Jennifer, and Miriam don't have MBAs, but it's important that they have the business skills and knowledge to grow successful businesses. Accelerate provides this. We have a year-long accelerator for women entrepreneurs. Our programs provide practical and actionable education for women entrepreneurs. They have companies that currently have products in the market, or what's called post-revenue, and they've got customers in the U.S. and abroad.
 Our participants come together twice a month for education, mentorship, and peer support. Over the course of the program, they receive over 100 hours of intensive support. Our goal with each cohort is to double these companies' revenues, help them retain their existing employees, and create at least 50 new jobs. As Siobhan mentioned, once a startup has completed a program such as PIE, there is little structured support for them.
 Accelerate provides this structured support for women entrepreneurs. We create a safe space where entrepreneurs can be vulnerable and learn directly from the experience of other women. Nationally, the stories and statistics of women entrepreneurs, particularly women of color, are abysmal, and we've all heard them, particularly recently. In Oregon, the 2016 capital scan notes that a lack of business knowledge, financial knowledge, and capital is currently limiting new company formation and growth here in our state.
 Women have an amazing economic potential. We start businesses at five times the national average. We lead some of the most reliably profitable businesses that are more likely to succeed, are more capital efficient, and have higher annual revenues. A 2016 McKinsey study notes that a $475 billion investment in gender parity alone can lead to an additional $4.3 trillion in GDP by 2025.
 In cities such as Portland, this translates into a GDP increase that could be as much as 13%. With women-owned businesses, these economic gains are also not limited to those at the very top. One of our other participants, Ground Up, a nut butter company, works with local nonprofits to provide jobs to women transitioning out of homelessness. Accelerate's goal is to serve women entrepreneurs across the country. And here in Portland, we have the opportunity to build a national model to unlock the economic potential of women entrepreneurs across the U.S.,
 So thank you again for your support last year. I hope you continue to see the value in supporting underrepresented and entrepreneurs such as Lynn, Jennifer, Miriam, and many, many more. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Great.
 Hi, my name is Maryam Baruzi. Thank you for the opportunity to speak with you today. I am the founder of Spella Cosmetics. We launched in October 2016 and since then have expanded to over 40 storefronts nationwide, including retailers such as J.Crew and Anthropologie. I am a member of WomanLed and a member of the first cohort of Accelerate.
 When I was three, my parents fled Iran as political refugees. With three kids and a few thousand dollars, they started over in Vancouver, Canada. When I was 12, they opened their first grocery store and have since then expanded to seven retail locations and a wholesale distribution company employing hundreds of individuals. Thank you.
 They've had a lot of hard work and luck to enable their success, but I've learned through them that in building a business, the resources of time and money are always very limited.
 I attended law school here in Portland at Lewis and Clark, and looking for a change in my career, my dad reminded me of a childhood dream to start a cosmetics company. In building this business, I very quickly realized that there are really significant gaps in my knowledge, and Accelerate has been instrumental in filling those gaps and giving me the hard skills that I need to succeed.
 From the standpoint of mentorship and funding, it is so important that the leaders of this program are women. In my experience, it is very difficult to find male mentors without that relationship becoming misconstrued or sexualized. With regards to funding, I've been lucky enough to not need to seek outside funding yet, but I've heard many firsthand accounts of the difficulty of reaching funding as a female founder, particularly.
 Reasons range from investors not understanding a product or service targeted towards female consumers to investment meetings that end in being asked on a date. This atmosphere is not a great situation for women founders. And there is an undercurrent of sexism, in my opinion, in so much of the business world. And Accelerate defies that norm and they provide a safe space to access the network that I need to be successful.
 Through this network, we pool resources, we motivate each other, and we have access to the high level women mentors and investors that are so hard to find. As a cohort, we are all very focused on building successful businesses, which means hiring employees, giving back to our communities, and reinvesting in Portland's future. But as women, and especially as women of color, we have a lot of barriers to that success. And Accelerate builds that pathway and breaks down those barriers.
 Thank you for your support. Thanks for all of you being here, and we're proud to support Accelerate through Prosper Portland, and it's great to have this feedback to know that that investment is greatly appreciated. So it's wonderful to have you take the time to come in and share your stories with us and your successes, and we wish you many, many more in the years ahead. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you to each one of you for coming in and speaking your truth, and thank you in particular for spelling out why.
 It is so difficult for women in business and the culture that we live in. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? We've had two, item 273 and item 275. 273 and 275. Please call the roll on the remainder. Fritz. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Item 268, please. 268, authorize grant agreement with HAC Oregon for $31,600 to build an open data platform, data analytic tools, and web applications from smart cities sources. Colleagues, the foundation of our smart cities and open data program
 is to focus on more intentional management for city data and increase capability to turn data into useful information. We can derive insight from data we have now and data that we'll be collecting in the future to help us make and evaluate decisions,
 to design and evaluate policies and programs, to enhance community engagement, and to partner with the private sector to meet city goals around livability, affordability, safety, sustainability, resiliency, and equity.
 BPS has been coordinating our citywide smart cities and open data efforts and has partnered with PBOT, BTS, PSU, TriMet, Metro, and Hack Oregon to develop and pilot a centralized data platform to foster insight and enable data-driven decision-making. Staff and partners that are in this project are here today to give us a brief overview of the Portland Urban Data Lake project
 otherwise known as PUDL, concept and to request our approval of a grant to HACC Oregon to support the development of an open and community-owned version of the PUDL platform. Welcome. Thank you. Thanks, Mayor Whaler. Thanks, City Council, for having us here. We're really excited to be here to talk about this opportunity with HACC Oregon and to give you a very brief overview of the Portland Urban Data Lake project.
 So back when we were here in May of 2017 for the open data ordinance, City Council directed us to look at ways to foster a culture of using data to inform and evaluate city decisions and to explore technical tools and methodologies for doing so. So the Portland Urban Data Lake project is really a response to those directives coming out of the open data ordinance. Thank you.
 At a very high level, and if there's anything I'd like you to remember from this presentation, it's probably this. Portland Urban Data Lake is a platform to enable data-driven decision-making. Data lakes are kind of a thing. I think the term was coined by Amazon. For these platforms to allow you to store, permission, secure, govern, analyze, and make data available, we...
 called ours the Portland Urban Data Lake to get to the acronym PUDDLE, which we're way more proud of than we probably should be. But it's really this foundation for how we become a more data-driven organization. This is what it looks like if you're looking at the presentation. Kind of a high-level representation. We've got a bunch of data that we need to manage. It goes into this cloud-based platform system.
 This is just a sample of data that we need to manage. Obviously, there are thousands and thousands of data sets that are spread throughout the city and the region and data that we want to collect in the future that we need to figure out how to better manage and how to turn into useful information. So you feed this data into this cloud-based system, and then it makes available out the other side data
 to our GIS systems, to our business intelligence systems like Tableau and our data analysts in the city, to our web developers and programmers so they can build custom applications, mobile and web applications and dashboards, and to the public via our open data portals.
 And really, there's a whole lot. I'm not going to get into the technical weeds, but there's a whole lot going on inside that cloud-based system beyond just storing the data. It allows us to manage it. It allows us to clean it. It allows us to secure it and govern it. It allows us to build models actually inside the platform that integrate different data sources and turn them into new knowledge.
 And then it provides the sort of handles that we need for our data analysts in the city and for the public to grab that information and actually turn it into insight. So why do we need this? Okay.
 Really being a smart city is mostly about data. We think of becoming smart as using information to build new knowledge, and that's really what being a smart city is about, is how we take the data that we have now and how we take the data that we know we're going to have in the future and really start using it more effectively so we can better provide services to the public and so we can better make and evaluate our decisions. Thank you.
 I think it's pretty widely recognized that we are not really effectively managing and using the data that we have now, much less the data that we're looking at collecting in the future. What do you mean by that?
 Well, we have a lot of data. It tends to be fairly siloed. It tends to be not accessible across, say, bureau boundaries and program boundaries. We tend to collect and design our data for sort of single-purpose uses rather than thinking of it as a resource that can be shared across the city and with the public.
 And we tend to sort of, our data is siloed and it's also sort of siloed in the way that we store it. So we don't create systems where it's easy to integrate data from multiple sources. And that's really what we need to effectively analyze and turn our data into useful information.
 We do do that with spatial data, and really the city and the region, in partnership with Metro, has been a national leader in how we manage our GIS data. And really we want to build on that system and expand it so that it can accommodate other types of data beyond just things that we can put on a map. Small...
 small data is hard, so the data that we have now is quote-unquote small data, and we're having trouble managing it. As we move forward, we know we're going to roll out things like sensors that collect data 24-7, 365 days a year, some of which will provide data 10, 20, 30 times a minute, and
 how are we going to manage all that data as a resource? How are we going to store it? How are we going to turn it into actual information that folks like you, staff in the city, and the public can actually use to make decisions? Puddle is really a foundation for doing that. Why do you say it's inevitable that we are going to have more sensors?
 Well, I think that we recognize that there's a whole bunch that we don't know that if we knew, we would be able to more effectively make decisions about services we provide and investments that we make.
 The example that I'll use later that I can use now is that we don't know how pedestrians are using our infrastructure. We have pretty labor-intensive manual ways of going out with clickers to count pedestrians on sidewalks in the city.
 One of the things we know we want to do going forward is figure out a way that we can have much more real-time information about how pedestrians are moving through our system, similar to the way that we have information around how vehicles are moving through our system. I just suggest that that's a policy call because I think there is significant privacy and monitoring surveillance implications to sensors that surveil everybody who's on every sidewalk.
 I absolutely agree, and I think how we roll these things out and how we manage those issues around privacy and confidentiality of our community are core components of this discussion. We definitely don't want the technology to lead. We want the community to lead, and I think those privacy issues are definitely part of that conversation. And again, I would say whether we roll them out rather than how. Yeah. Yeah.
 You know, extracting value from our data is this untapped opportunity. This is a slide from Harvard from a couple of years ago, and it's not really specific to the public sector. This is actually a study of the private sector. So our percentages are probably a little bit different and probably not as good. But they found that only 50% of data is actively used in decision-making. 70% and sort of to your point, Commissioner Fritz,
 70% of employees have access to data that they should not. So really one of the things we're trying to build in the puddle is this concept of much more granule levels of permissioning around data so that we make sure that any information that's sensitive, any information that's confidential, only the people that need to see that data see it. And to the degree that's possible, we don't want to collect that information at all. And so really...
 Thinking that through as part of the technical platform is one of the things that we're talking about. And then this is near and dear to Michael Kerr's heart. 80% of the time that analysts spend analyzing data is really finding the data and cleaning it up so that they can actually use it. So that's a huge time suck that we want to really build a platform that reduces that percentage significantly. Okay.
 Some core principles, and I'll just run through these real quick. Data does not equal insight. We've seen a lot of cities rush into technical solutions like rolling out sensors, collecting a bunch of data, and then realizing they don't know what to do with it and they don't know how to use it. And so data does not magically become information just because you collect it. We need systems in place to make that data useful.
 Data is more valuable in combination with other data. We need systems that allow us to integrate data to tell a fuller story. We're really looking, you know, using the smartphone versus camera analogy to build something that's not single purpose. That's the way we tend to manage data now. We sort of store it over here, we analyze it over here. We want to build a platform that does all of those things, so akin to the smartphone.
 We want it to be nimble, open, and vendor agnostic. We don't want to lock ourselves into a particular solution. We know these are all new technologies. We want to be able to change our minds down the road in terms of where we store this data. We want to start small and test, evaluate, improve, and repeat. So really recognizing that there is no one right answer right now and that the way to do this, the way to innovate, is really to start small with a problem we can wrap our heads around and build from there.
 We want to learn from our past successes around how we manage GIS data, both as a city and a region. And we recognize we are not alone. So we're partnered with TriMet, PGE Metro, because we're all struggling with the same problem in the region. We're also working with the city of Austin, the city of Denver, and the city of Boston to try to look at if we can build sort of a shared collaborative solution. And other cities are...
 The City of Columbus just rolled out a $10 million RFP to essentially do what we're proposing to do here for a couple hundred thousand dollars in a pilot. We recognize that we want to start small and that no amount of money is going to bring somebody in to help solve this problem for us. We really need to solve this problem from within and then leverage the technical tools we need to do so.
 All of this is hard. This is just from 2014. This is a graphic of all the different data platforms that are out there in 2014. So it's 2018 now, so this is even messier than it was then. And we spent the past really three to six months evaluating all the different options and figuring out what technology is the best fit for Portland. And so we're now at the point where we're ready to move on a couple of pilots.
 And those pilots, again, at just a high level, we're looking at a pilot with Microsoft and a company called Cloudera, which is an aggregator of open source tools that you can use for these types of data platforms, and a company they work with called Clairvoyant. That's more of a platform as a service model. We'll be paying them to basically create and manage this platform for us.
 We're talking to Amazon AWS about more of a do-it-yourself model where we would build this internally and pick and choose the tools we want to use ourselves. And then what we're really here today to talk about is a pilot with Hack Oregon on sort of a community-built version of this and really recognizing that...
 There's an opportunity here to continue to support Hack Oregon, which is nationally recognized as a leader in using data to foster civic engagement and really want to continue that relationship with Hack Oregon going forward. And Kat's here from Hack Oregon to talk a little bit more about that.
 We're also focusing in on a few use cases around safety, pedestrian safety. So how can we use the data we have now and how can we look to future data sources to get a better handle on proactively identifying places where there's a high risk of pedestrian injuries before they actually occur? And how can we better assess the investments we're making around pedestrian safety so that we know that they're working? Thank you.
 and data has a role in both of those conversations. We're looking at a partnership with TriMet around improving transit arrival times based on real-time traffic and congestion information. We're calling this the will-I-be-late-to-work-and-be-fired use case. We're looking at a partnership with PSU around predictive pedestrian models to really get at a better understanding of how our curb is being utilized. So these are the initial use cases that we're rolling out with.
 And then we've got a pretty broad collaborative team internally. It's a partnership between BPS, PBOT, and BTS. But we're also working with Portland State, TriMet Metro, Hack Oregon, and Portland General Electric. The funding, the initial funding for all this is coming from PBOT and I just want to thank them for recognizing that they're going to need this data foundation to do the kind of work that they want to do going forward and
 That before we put out any systems or increase our capacity to collect data, we need a place for it to actually go and a place for us to actually manage it. So with that, I think I'm going to turn it over to Michael Kerr from PBOT for a little bit more on the data analyst perspective and also perspective from PBOT itself.
 Great. Thanks, Kevin. Good morning, everyone. My name is Michael Kerr, and I manage PBOT's Office of Strategy, Innovation, and Performance. I'm here today to provide a Bureau's perspective on the PUDL effort, as well as why we, PBOT, are so invested in making this a success.
 So the origins of our interests really stem from, as Kevin really has touched on already, but in a more applied sense, with the scope of our mission and just the breadth of our programs, naturally, organically, our data has just developed in ways and been brought in ways that we have siloed systems, siloed storage capacity, siloed data across our bureau.
 Every program office maintains immense amounts of data and they do it in their own way. They have to answer questions specific to their programs and this is just how things have gone. It's a natural occurrence. You see this in any organization, but in PBOT, given our breadth and scope, it tends to be a
 fairly immense how spread our data is. Add to that the fact that when you try and take data from different programs and bring it together to combine it to actually derive insights from the data, it tends to be highly unstructured, formatted in different ways, certain terms are called, a road is called a different things in different data sets for example, because each program may look at a road a little bit differently.
 So when you try and bring these things together, it's incredibly manual. It takes time, effort, labor, bringing subject matter experts to the table to really get them to explain to you what the data means and to make sure we're all in alignment and consensus before we can proceed. So with that, we look at PUDL as a great place to go because with a central platform for us to place our data, it introduces maturity. It introduces new behaviors that we'll need to pull out of our staff to ensure that going forward we don't continue to bring in data in a siloed fashion.
 That being the case, we are also given the puddle effort. We've already initiated internal efforts. We're inventorying our data across our bureau to better understand what we have today, where it resides, who maintains it. It's just a starting point. When you do any type of open data effort, this is a requirement, right? And we're already taking these steps.
 Simultaneously, we're looking at the data quality across our bureau. So if we do share data with PUDL or with external stakeholders, that we can accurately communicate what this data is, what it means, how sensitive is this information, when was it last collected, and then just a quality score, so to speak, so you know what you can do with it. And then finally, we're looking to warehouse data. It's a strategy of bringing data into a central place so that we can better transfer data back and forth with an open data platform like PUDL.
 That's our existing data. As Kevin's touched on, there are numerous emerging data sources across the smart city space that can help us as a bureau better answer questions that up to this point in time has been incredibly difficult to answer. Where we've utilized fixed counts and fixed intervals going out to street corners, as Kevin mentioned, to count pedestrians, count bikes,
 We have smart cities providers coming to us that are really providing incredibly innovative ways to present this information back to us, information that is real-time, information that is comprehensive, as opposed to fixed points. It is across the city, all roads. We can see from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. exactly how everyone was traveling, what mode they took, what roads they took. If there was construction on a road, how did they divert and where did they end up?
 It's incredibly promising material, and we are very encouraged by what's out there. But we know, given our current data infrastructure, if we start bringing this data in, it's almost like you open the floodgates, you start getting this data. As an example, the Waze CCP, the data we're getting through that community partnership, you turn that data on, it's thousands of records every minute coming in every day.
 just on an ongoing basis. It can overwhelm your systems, number one. Storage capacity is reached pretty quickly. And then two, it's coming in in an unstructured format, so you're getting reams of information that you then as an analyst have to take and somehow translate to drive insights out of it. When we look at Puddle, we see a platform that's going to be able to just take this data in
 translate it via machine learning, automation, however we ultimately design this system, and then provide back to us the insights that we've provided to them saying, we need data for these time intervals across these various modes, and PUDL will be able to provide that directly back to us. So that then we as a bureau can truly take this data
 do real rigorous analytics and provide each of our programs with various insights as to how what we're doing as a bureau is impacting our city and how investments are impacting our city and how we should be prioritizing going forward. And then I'll finally touch on this, the BI tools we have today. We've talked about GIS. GIS is incredibly promising from a spatial perspective. We use it for almost everything we do across our bureau in order to map where we are, what we're doing, where our investments are going.
 where our safety improvement projects are going, where Vision Zero is focused.
 But GIS has its limitations when it comes to real-time data. And our GIS techs will tell you, while we love the tool and we want to continue to use it for its current set of use cases, when it comes to real-time data, we get a little frightened about this, because GIS isn't necessarily capable of taking all these reams of information from the signals, from the sensors, from these GPS data sets, and automatically translating it over into actual derived insights.
 Then we have Tableau, super sophisticated BI tool that can actually work with immense amounts of information. However, the way we as a city have deployed Tableau, it's localized. Every bureau has various instances of it. It's on desktops. You can't necessarily tap into enterprise data sources like, say, SAP or our HR data sources to pull data out. You have to get flat files, and it's a very manual process. Subsequently, you also run into data security issues without an enterprise backbone because we're sharing data.
 dashboards, et cetera, with sensitive information. We have to withhold this information and manipulate ways to get it out only to those who need it. It's not the right way to go, which is where Puddle then provides us with an enterprise backbone that we can work with. So I'll leave it at that for now. We are absolutely on board with the Puddle project. We will continue to support this given the use cases we're focusing on, and we very much want to see this project succeed. Thank you. And Kristen Tufte is here from Portland State to talk about PSE's role and her role in the project.
 Good morning. My name is Kristen Tufte. I'm computer science faculty and Smart Cities liaison at Portland State University. And thank you for having me here this morning. So, you know, honestly, when I talk about our work in Puddle, I usually talk about people and how that I really honestly hope that our work will make a pedestrian safer or give some reassurance to a lady who's riding the bus, give her some more accurate information about when she gets to her destination so she knows she's going to get to work on time.
 But I'm going to try and take a little bit of a different tack today. And I'm going to put my academic hat on. And I'll tell you that I've been working in big data since the earlier mid-1990s. Maybe you don't want to admit that, but that's about 25 years.
 And this includes development of several really cutting-edge research data management projects, including one called Paradise that we actually sold to NCR Corporation. So data is my space. That data platforms diagram that Kevin mentioned that looks messy, I think, and complicated, that's my space. I love it. It's fascinating. It's interesting to me.
 Bringing us a bit back to where we are here today, so let's imagine for a moment that one of our project goals, and maybe it is, is to bring you guys a graphic, bring you all a graphic about an issue, pedestrian safety. And the purpose of that graphic is to maybe help you understand that issue better, to enable a little bit of a discussion and a decision. And the question is, how is PUDL going to help us get to that graphic? Okay.
 And so to my mind, the very first step in that is understanding that issue, whatever we're talking about pedestrian safety from your perspective. How does that issue appear from your perspective? What are the potential levers you may have to influence that issue? So, and that's a key point that I have, which is that all the work on data, the work on puddle, this work really absolutely must be driven by outcomes, specific outcomes such as providing you all with a really interesting graphic on pedestrian safety. Okay.
 So then Kevin presented this data pipeline. The first piece in that pipeline is ingest. So in my words, that's just getting data and getting it into the system. And as Mike described, that in and of itself can be a really difficult part.
 The next piece is data engineering. This is sort of my area. And I describe data engineering as getting the data to play nicely together. Yes, I know I personalize data, right? It makes me a geek. So it's trying to get all this data to play nicely together. And if you think about pedestrian safety, what data do we want to learn about intersection safety? We want to know how many cars are there.
 How fast are they going? Is it cars and trucks or mostly cars? How many pedestrians are there? Is there a bus stop nearby? There's a whole variety of data that might influence our pedestrian safety graphic. And we gotta get all that data to play nicely together. Different formats, different levels of qualities, et cetera. It is, to my eyes, relatively, there are tools and techniques out there that can help us solve it, but it's not a fully solved problem.
 We have some research ongoing at Portland State that we call Agile Data Integration that is applicable to this problem. So it's a problem even in the research space. So the data pipeline, ingest, engineering, stewardship, and then those three things provide the foundation for the data analytics and the data science that would create this graphics for you. So our goal in – yeah? Can you just hold for a second? We have a blank screen, and if the public isn't – okay, okay.
 There we go. Now it's on. So, there you go. Thank you. Okay. Okay. Sorry about that. Right. So, those are the three steps. So, that's what we'll focus on in PUDL, ingest, engineering, stewardship, followed by analytics and data science with the goal of providing actionable outcomes.
 PSU is a partner in this effort. We are excited to be a partner in this effort. We very much value the partnership with the city and with the regional agencies. We strive to provide the technical background for you all to be a smart city that is part of our shared goals and our partnership agenda. Thank you. Thank you and we hope you're better at data than plumbing. When I was in high school,
 When I was in high school and I took a test to tell me what career I should have, it told me I should be a plumber. My mom had wished that I was either a plumber or a electrician, and there's days when I do too. Commissioner Fritz, did you have a comment? I do. I have several questions. I noticed in the principles that there was nothing on equity. Yeah.
 And I'm wondering how this benefits our underserved communities, and particularly this really introduces a new category of underrepresented people who are those of us who don't understand technology, nor would really be able to delve into a lot of data. So I'm interested, maybe not extensively now, but as this project moves forward, to understand how those...
 people are going to be better served? Maybe I'll take a first crack at that. Okay. I think that's a really good question, and one of the things that we recognize is that the way that we make data available to the public now is not equitable in and of itself. So we have open data portals, and that's great. People can go and download data. But as we like to say, that...
 only serves sort of the 1% of people that can actually take that data and do something with it, that have those skills. So one of the reasons that we are so excited about the Puddle Project is because by building this sort of foundational platform for making data more accessible,
 we can make it accessible in a way that provides actual information rather than just raw data. So we've heard a lot from the community, like it's great that you're making your data available to us, but I can't do anything with it. And really we want to have a community conversation around as we make our data available, how can we do it in a way that you can actually make decisions based on it.
 Well, the challenge, though, is that it usually stimulates more conversation that we found with our geographic mapping. It looks like we invest a lot of money in East Portland in the water bureau, for example. That's because the reservoirs are there. So it's not that it's really benefiting. We had a robust conversation earlier this week about transportation and the state of roads in East Portland, that the East Portland representative was astonished to find out that, according to Tableau, streets are in pretty good shape there. So, you know, I'm concerned about...
 that this somehow sometimes doesn't create more understanding. It creates less understanding and more questions than coming into staff who may or may not have ever seen that particular graphic. So that's something I'm concerned about moving forward. You mentioned about doing the computer programs automatically analyzing all this data. I know that we will have – there are a lot of national concerns about voting machines and various other things. Right.
 how will it build in the quality control so that we know that the machine has done it correctly? Thirdly, is this all predicated on each of us being tracked through carrying our cell phones? No. So that's when you're talking about knowing where the traffic is and everything. It's kind of a mystery to me how Google Maps knows where all the congestion is and takes me around the right way. But this is it on a much more personal level that...
 People might not necessarily be asking Google Maps to tell them how to do it. So that's of concern. And then my last thing to be explored is what are the state laws about this? We know that Oregonians are very much into privacy. We have to battle to get photo radar in specific areas, and we have to put big signs up saying that, you know, watch out, you could be on camera. How do you envision any state laws needing to change in order to be able to do something like this?
 I mean, I think those are all excellent points. And, you know, part of what we're going to be doing in this pilot is doing some learning around how we approach all those issues. And I hope that we can continue to engage your office in those conversations. Thank you. I want to bring a cat up from Hack Oregon, too, to say a few words specifically about the grant with Hack Oregon. Thank you.
 Yeah. Cat, want to come up? Well, can we, I think we still have a couple questions with this panel. Okay. Can we do that first and then? Sure. So I had two questions. So one of the challenges we have in the bureaus, all the bureaus, is better understanding how the people we serve view us and what are the, what kind of information do they want? And I think a classic example of that,
 is when we have discussions at budget time about some of the benchmarks that have been developed. I've been a critic of some of the benchmarks because they seem to me not to be correlated to things that we're hearing that our customers care about. So we're trying to get benchmarks that are actually directly relevant to people's experience. So my two questions to PBOT, is it Mike? Yep. Is, number one,
 What's the process you go through to figure out what the people you serve are interested in? How do you determine what kinds of questions people have and how the data will serve that? And number two, does the proliferation of data allow you to make real-time changes in the grid daily? And I'll just give you one example. There's a huge...
 choke point in our city now around Grand, MLK, Cooch, and Burnside Bridge. And there's a lot of factors, including construction, a lane taken out of Burnside, and the like. But another piece of it is that, as I learned to my detriment the other day, the reason traffic is backed up on Grand so far is
 is that the light at MLK along Cooch lasts about eight seconds. And so there isn't enough capacity to get cars. So cars get blocked at the intersection. They can't get through the intersection, and so it backs up. Does the proliferation of good data allow PBOT to make real-time changes in those kinds of patterns? So I'll get, obviously, to that question in a moment. But to go back to your first question about how we solicit input from external stakeholders,
 Given that PBOT is so present, and as we like to describe it, every project we work on from a capital perspective is above ground. It is. We're shutting down lanes. We're diverting traffic. We're having to do something that inevitably impacts someone or a mass of someones. So through the capital improvement programs, I mean, that's one place where we get continuous feedback. You look at the immense outreach we do around our broader, bigger projects like NATO, for example. That's one major input there.
 Our planners are out there conducting stakeholder engagement meetings on an ongoing basis. I mean, this is real time, bringing people to the table, constant outreach, and it is throughout every year, and then you bring it back to our BVAC and how we get
 feedback through that process as well. We also are working on right now, our communications director is working on a community outreach survey, just another way of getting inputs. But again, we can never get enough. That is a constant discussion. But we do as a bureau, that is constantly a focus of what we're doing. But we know we could always get more and there are always opinions that we miss. And it's just something we have to take account of and constantly get better at.
 um to your question about real-time adjustments the answer in short is we believe that will be the case our signals and street lights team today i mean they already have means to see what's going on via video cameras and to make adjustments not necessarily real time but to we react to what's going on sometimes you can't necessarily foresee what's happening before it happens and it's going to take a day or two to make an adjustment that being regardless
 The hope would be with this data and in the future that back to this whole machine algorithm-based automated services that those types of real-time adjustments to the way a signal is timed, et cetera, will be possible across the board.
 across the transportation system without someone having to go in and intervene. But this is hypothetical. We don't know where we're going to go. Just the data shows that, yes, it's promising, and it may enable us to make these decisions. Thank you very much. Thank you. So I want to keep us moving. We're way over time here, and we still want to hear from CAT, and we still have to take public testimony. So if we could keep this focused on the grant agreement at PAC-ORG, that would be helpful. There's lots of time to talk about it.
 the transportation issues and the open data issues generally. Mayor, I don't think we saw several slides in your presentation, so if you could email them to us. I feel like you were referring to slides that we couldn't see. Yeah, I will make sure that you have those. Thank you. Thank you. Kat, do you want to come up? Kat, would you come up? Thank you.
 Hi, thank you. I'll do my best to keep this brief. It is a lot to digest. And I think just to highlight our program and really what Hack Oregon does and to continue on with...
 the partnership and investment that the city has made in us with a grant last year. We work with volunteers and build open data projects that are systems to help enable more of this data to be used in terms of analytics. It creates consolidation of existing information that we have.
 I would like to mention as well that we're working with data overall that is not sensitive, personally identifiable, or anything that gets into security concerns. We are really rich with opportunity and things that we can learn, especially when it comes to equity around the things that the public wants to hear about that don't necessarily fit into some of the programs and existing –
 workflow of people that work in these different areas. Even PBOT, if we want to discuss something about transportation and we're looking at mobility in our city and ridership, TriMet released a report in fall looking at a slow decline in ridership over the last 10 years. This is coming from an enormous data set.
 of ridership data. And they were able to, they put a lot of man hours into producing this report. And they couldn't quite say, why is ridership declining? There was an article that was published with, this was national looking at, well, potentially, its economic displacement.
 we would have to do a lot more work in order to understand this better. And of course that brings in questions about our neighborhoods, affordable housing, tie that all back into transportation, and then neighborhood development and change over time. All of this data, you're talking about 20 different types of sources involving a number of different bureaus, county, even state agencies.
 What does mobility mean in terms of disaster planning? That you can easily just compound the complexity of these questions, and if you don't have systems that are in place to be able to easily access and streamline some of your sources and make this machine readable so that when you have big data, you're not just doing calculations with small teams of analysts, you actually have some machinery that can help make this
 very quick and accelerate the pace of innovation of what enables the decision making. We have been able to access the ridership data from TriMet and really help them because we have a team of 40 engineers that are working as volunteers for six months to deliver a demo of this graphic that you'll see. It'll actually look like an entire system.
 that will let us know something new about ridership decline. And guess what? In order to learn something about ridership decline, we have to understand economic displacement, and we have to understand equity and mobility in Portland, which involves a lot of factors. And so in that way, we are required to be nimble and move in between bureaus in a way that can be really difficult for government to do. There's barriers to innovation when it comes to procurement and a lot of other things that's part
 Portland is not alone dealing with. And the reason that Hack Oregon is getting national attention at this moment is because we've been able to inspire teams of volunteers to come out from the private sector, work with domain experts, and oftentimes volunteer right alongside city employees after hours to see what we can do with this available information to offload some of that risk in R&D. These would be incredible.
 very expensive projects if we were paying for the time involved with the people doing them. But because it's so important and because it doesn't seem like there's a process for us to move forward on this, it creates this call to action that's very powerful for the community.
 Hack Oregon has been a nonprofit active in Portland for five years. We are continuing to build on the momentum that we got from our partnership with the city last year, and the whole country is paying attention. I think it's good to, if you're not aware, there's the Global Smart Cities Tech Jam Conference is coming to Portland in June. We are set up at the convention center for 2,000 people from the community to come out to watch this demo today.
 Our transportation partnership with Puddle and our grant today is just one of five projects that we're going to be demonstrating to the public. It's tradition for us actually, Commissioner Fish was there last year. The audience does a vote on their favorite projects. But we know that some of our other projects, by the way, are affordable housing, we're working on disaster resilience,
 That's also, we're working with PBM on that. And we're working on transportation with PUDL and neighborhood development with the county. And we're looking into elections and redistricting. So all of these projects share data sources. And what I'd like to just leave you with today
 is listening to all of this conversation, I know it may seem a little bit strange where we're talking about the city's long-term vision for what open data means, and there are so many questions that goes into what cloud and security and different pipelines mean. Hack Oregon is listed up there as a micropilot partner right alongside AWS and Microsoft.
 Why is that the case, and why is this happening with a nonprofit here in Oregon? It's actually very unusual nationwide, and when you think about the citizen engagement open part of it, you may think that it means that it's an amateur hour sort of creating a presentation presentation
 But these are some of the most talented, highly sought after developers, engineers, and data scientists in our city. We have thousands of applications of people who want to join these teams. We took 125 volunteers this year. By the way...
 60 of those volunteers went through extensive training with us as part of a workforce development program. And depending on how you look at it, we're one of the largest developer shops in town. And this is all going back into the public domain with these systems that belong to people and can be there to help inspire and inform all of the questions that are going to come at us for many years as we develop our long-ranging vision for open data.
 And so we want to have an amazing showcase in June when the country is going to be here looking at smart cities. We want to establish that leadership for Portland. I know that we can do it. We're entirely grateful for the support from BPS and PBOT. We also, just as a reminder, we have a formal request in for the budget bump as well.
 just to help us make sure we can get over the finish line, especially when it comes to looking at housing and affordability and some of those equity questions. So thank you. Thank you, Kath. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your presentation and for your work. You just mentioned having lots of volunteers involved in this.
 Some of the data that the city handles is confidential, sensitive information. How are your – I mean, the very name of your organization doesn't – usually being hacked is not something that is a happy day when that happens. So what are the safeguards for community members who might be worried about their data being available to –
 and people who are not public employees? I think that the simple answer to that question is that we're not working with data that wouldn't already be in the public domain. And that this is more of an accessibility question, that we can do a service to bureaus who actually would want to share their data.
 but can't necessarily, it's staff time to do that. Also cleaning up a lot of data sources, making it possible to make that available to be shared. I think that an example of this is when we were working with TriMet, the Smart Cities community, when this ridership report came out, they said that they would be willing to open up this ridership data, which is not available.
 allowing you to follow anyone's trip. It's just basically counts of on-offs and certain things around schedules. And
 But there's a lot of information there. And they were wanting to share it with other cities so we can do cross-regional analysis. And it was like, well, how do we get you that data? Are we mailing a thumb drive all around? And Hack Oregon was able to take that data, put it into a cloud-based system that now is accessible to other cities and also TriMet themselves. Usually the city is the number one user of the data that we
 serve. Okay, thank you. So for our city staff, when we get a public records request, we submit it through this, it gets submitted through the city attorney's office. Are you envisioning any involvement by the city attorney's office?
 Yes. Yeah, and we've had great conversations with the Attorney's Office around how we can leverage these kinds of platforms to actually reduce the number of public records requests by proactively making the data available before people ask for it. So we are definitely partnered with them in these conversations. And are they envisioning needing more staff in order to set this up?
 the pilots themselves? That's a good question. We're basically working with the resources that we have now, and everybody's sort of doing this on top of their day jobs, which...
 It's not a long-term plan, but we'll get us through the short-term pilots. That's one of the reasons we're looking at for one of the pilots for the vendor to essentially manage it for us, and there would be a transition plan of how we would build up the resources internal to the city that we could take that over at some point when it goes to production. But that's probably a 19-20 conversation. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. I understand you have some invited testimony. Is that correct? Do you still have time for that? We do if people could keep their remarks succinct. That would be great because I brought people here. Yeah. Let's – I know they're excited. They're time. They're busy people, and let's hear from them. So let's start. We have a partner from Intel and Metro here to provide some invited testimony. Welcome. Come on up. Yeah.
 Thank you for being here. We'll give Devin a little extra time. She just had a foot surgery. Oh, dear. Yeah, I see that. Hi. Thanks for the opportunity to introduce myself and my company's dedication to changing the world with technology. My name is Devin Rottier. I'm based out of Chicago, so I came here.
 all the way with my crutches and my boot to speak with you. Very excited. Excellent. Thank you for doing that. Yeah, of course. And I manage Intel's relationship with public sector end users in the Midwest and the Pacific Northwest. So I think... I'll try to keep this brief, but Kevin mentioned a couple of other cities across the country that are also trying to solve the same problem. And I think that this is an opportunity for Portland to really be a thought leader and be on the map. And being that...
 Portland is in Intel's backyard, and a large base of our employees are citizens of Portland. Intel's really excited to work on the Puddle project. And we're thrilled to have you. I think this is a great collaboration and a great partnership, and we're very, very appreciative to have you here.
 Thank you. Sorry about your foot. No problem. Good morning. Good morning. Thanks for taking the time to hear us. I'm Jeff Furconja. I'm the Metro Research Center Director. So the Research Center at Metro is our geek squad, and we've been privileged to share our expertise with the great team that Kevin has put together here with all the people you've already heard from.
 We are here to strongly endorse these pilot projects and the innovative work that your team is doing, and I want to say that the...
 steps that they are taking are early steps towards a greater vision of having a truly smart city, which, as you've heard in more detail, is really about, A, getting public servants like ourselves, the tools and resources to do our information job more efficiently, and then also to bring better decision support information to you folks.
 And so the ultimate vision then proceeds to getting the real value out to your constituents, the people who reside in the city and, of course, the region, so they have better information about public goods and services. So this is important work. It is a long game, but it
 but it will ultimately get us to a smart city and, in our view, from Metro's perspective, to a smart region. So we do endorse this work and hope that you will support it. And thank you very much. Excellent. Thank you. And I'll say the same thing to you that I said to the representative from Intel. We appreciate the partnership. We think that there's a lot of learning that can go on here simultaneously for all of us. Likewise. Thank you. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Devin. And then just a quick word from TriMet and PGE. Good morning. Good morning.
 Hi, I'm Tim McHugh from TriMet. I'm the CIO there. I've been involved in a lot of the open data initiatives that you've already heard from Kevin. I would tell you that our experience with that has been nothing but positive over the years. The – it's – it's
 produced results that we didn't initially envision in any way whatsoever. And it's been a great, just positive thing, engaging the public, getting a lot of good information, getting a lot of fantastic customer information out there that we would not have been able to provide otherwise. And I would add that a lot of the work that we need to do in order to get this data organized,
 diagrams that Kristen displayed for you, that kind of activity has to be taking place in every single one of our divisions, companies, bureaus, whatever we are. It's...
 It's so duplicative. I think that's one thing about this project that is really kind of exciting is for all of us to focus our resources, getting us all on the same sheet of music, and obviously for TriMet, it's the mobility of the region, and we all need to be working off the same sheet of music when we're looking at decisions on how to get things through the city faster. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for giving us the opportunity. I'm Josh Keeling. I manage our Customer Energy Solutions Group at Portland General Electric.
 Our team works on projects in new products and development across a wide suite of projects in smart cities, in decarbonization, in resilience, in transportation electrification. And as you can imagine, across those categories, we're pretty big customers of the data that the city provides already and are pretty invested in finding new opportunities to collaborate and find synergies in both –
 the provision of open data, but also analytics, and making that more operational. Our planning process on these projects is increasingly reliant on strong collaboration with the communities, with the cities, with the municipalities, particularly when we look at areas such as transportation electrification or resilience, where looking at supporting the communities, finding ways to help them manage in potentially catastrophic events.
 This is a huge focus, a corporate goal of our own, and as well in supporting the city's goals around smart cities and decarbonization. So we've been really happy with the partnership, both with the city and with Hack Oregon. We strongly endorse this effort. Excellent. Thank you both. Appreciate it very much.
 So, that is it for us. Thank you very much. Yes, thanks for your patience. Sue, how many people do we have signed up? No one signed up. Very good. I'm going to speak. Good morning. Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. There's one thing that I truly enjoy the most is data. And so when we're talking about bringing this data together and make it more user-friendly, say, to the public, I met...
 100% agreement. Now, I noticed on this grant, we're at $31,600. I don't see how you can do a lot with that amount of money. So I'd like to request that that amount be brought up to $150,000. And I think that's a reasonable request. And the benefits of this data for the public...
 to be able to review it and make more informed decisions on what happens at the various, the city, the county, the state level, I think is very beneficial. And I think $150,000 is not a far reach. $30,000 is on the low side. Another issue I have is that I feel that, and I hate to say this to Hack Oregon,
 We're looking at the autonomous vehicle data that we're going to need. We're looking at the, my good friend Larry Page, the Skyport data that we'll need. And I like this data being worked on right now. And I think we asked the ridership issue on streetcar, TriMet. I mean, let's face it. I don't need data to know why their ridership is down. We've got Uber, Lyft.
 We go into autonomous vehicles. I've always said we should stop investing in TriMet. We should stop investing in streetcar. I think they're going to be an obsolete dinosaur. And the reality here is this. We need to look at the data to truly analyze that and have a true understanding on the direction the public is going. We saw what happened to the independent taxicab companies when Uber came into town. As you know, I was asking Uber...
 Please, please understand you're going to cost a lot of these people their jobs. Now, they're not going to listen very closely to what I have to say. It's just one person from the public. But when we have real data that is provided, that makes a big difference. That makes a big difference to where they can look at it, they can analyze it, and then we can create solutions if there's going to be job losses.
 in the private taxi industry, which we've had tremendous. The city did nothing. I stood up here and said, you need to do something. You need to put caps on how many drivers you allow Uber to have out in the marketplace currently. Did we come up with a solution? I didn't have the data in front of me to be able to do that with you. And what has happened? What has happened?
 All right. Thank you. The private industry has plummeted, and they've lost all their money. Thank you very much, City Council. We need data. We need information. Give them $150,000. Thank you for your time. Thank you. I'm sure they do appreciate that. Please call the roll. Prince. Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish. Thanks for an excellent presentation, and I'd like to know more about the June conference. So hopefully we'll get an e-mail on events that you suggest that we consider going to.
 I look forward to reviewing the spring bump requests. If there's another presentation at OMSI or elsewhere like you did last year, I'd also like to know about that. This whole question of data, better data, and how we use data is at the core of government accountability, and this is a very exciting collaboration, so I'm pleased to vote aye. Ms. Halsman.
 Well, thank you for the very exciting work you're doing. And, you know, I wish I understood it all, but I have to confess I'm a layperson here. But I do, from a decision-maker's perspective, I guess I'm sort of wondering in the back of my mind as I'm listening to your presentations about data-driven decision-making is really, is there a limit to that? I mean, there's only so much data that we as decision-makers can absorb, right?
 And so I guess there's a role for subjective decision-making that I think we all employ up here to a certain degree or another versus sort of the objective decision-making, which is kind of the data-driven answer. So that's running through my mind, and I think it's something that will need to be looked at. I mean, it's like pointing a fire hose at us. There's only so much we can absorb into our brains and use it to make a good decision. Thank you.
 But I'm very confident in the organizations that are in Hack Oregon and all the other organizations, and I appreciate the work that Hack Oregon has already done for the city of Portland. It's been very productive. I think work you did for the Portland Fire and Rescue recently was very helpful. So I'm going to vote aye for this. Udaly. Udaly.
 I'm in the middle of a sneezing fit, so I'm just going to say I would love to meet with someone from Hack Oregon and talk about ways that we might work together and just vote aye before it starts again. Wheeler.
 So I'm obviously enthusiastically supportive of this, and I thank all of our partners for being here. This is a great opportunity to use the data to further our goals. And interestingly, this kind of...
 open platform will drive our city bureaus to work together to innovate and to focus on our overall objectives. So I think it's a huge movement in the right direction. Lightning I agree with you that the $31,000 and I want to acknowledge that's narrowly for the HACC portion of this particular proposal. This is really a pilot.
 when we roll this out in a more substantial way based on what we're going to learn through this program, the resources that will be required to make this feasible citywide, bureau-wide, are going to be substantially more than what's being proposed here. So I do want to acknowledge that. Great start. I vote aye. Thank you all for being here. The ordinance is adopted. The grant's approved. Next item, 269.
 Item 269, initiate foreclosure action on three properties for the collection of delinquent city liens. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Sarah Landis, Chief Deputy City Auditor. And with me today are Marco Maciel, the Foreclosure Program Manager, and Dan Simon in the City Attorney's Office. I've got the City Chief Financial Officer slash Treasurer. And...
 With us as well and the code enforcement manager for BDS are also here to answer any questions you might have Before I go into an individual property detail I'd like to take just a moment to review the city's efforts to address vacant and distressed properties and foreclosure This is the fourth foreclosure list that we have brought to council since focused efforts began in 2006. I
 As a reminder, properties end up in the foreclosure program when they have delinquent liens. For those properties determined to be vacant and distressed properties, these are code enforcement liens, which result in penalties, and nuisance abatement liens, where the city has incurred a cost to clean up the property.
 Taking someone's property is obviously a serious step. Per city code, foreclosure should only be used as a last resort when all other enforcement options have not improved the condition of the property. This effort is really the result of a partnership between the four agencies listed here with input from others, such as the police bureau, neighborhood involvement, and council offices, as well as community members.
 Very briefly, Development Services recommends candidate properties, the Auditor's Office reviews and selects properties to foreclose, the Treasurer conducts the sale, and the City Attorney advises along the way.
 Since we began bringing properties to council for foreclosure in 2016, the increased pressure being applied to the owners of these distressed properties has had positive results. We've brought 65. BDS has proposed 65 properties for foreclosure, including this list. Thirteen will have been brought to council for a vote. Of the 65 initially brought by BDS, we've had half of them pay in full, a 30%...
 Yeah, over half of them have paid in full, $57 million. And we've collected $1.6 million.
 Could you not forget the last bullet point on that slide? Because I think it's the most important one. Yeah, so as we move forward with foreclosure on properties and as owners and financial institutions receive notice that we're intending to move forward on foreclosure, there's a great deal of pressure applied, and that's where we see much of the resolution there in payment in full in turning those properties over back into productive use.
 Okay, so there are three properties on this list with a total of 15 liens and about $200,000 owed on those liens. Two of these are in the Extremely Distressed Properties Enforcement Program, and one is a distressed property with chronic maintenance violations. They're located in northeast Portland and one in southeast Portland.
 The first property is at 113th and Northeast Wygant. There are four liens on this property that were placed between 2015 and 2017. The total amount owed is just over $19,000. The property is in default and is slated for foreclosure by a financial institution later in the summer.
 It is currently vacant. It is an attractant for squatters and garbage accumulation and debris. Development Services has abated exterior yard nuisance issues twice. There have been 10 calls for police service since 2015, May of 2015. And it's currently boarded and secure by police and development services, but these board ups are frequently breached. The second property is at...
 4918 SE 128th Street. It has five liens and it has a 10 year history of problems with the city. At this point, the total amount owed is $130,521. There have been multiple violations cited on the property, including fire life safety and health sanitation problems. There are reports of squatters using the property from time to time.
 There's currently an open trench and collapsed cellar on the property, which is creating hazards for the neighbor's property, particularly their driveway. Attempts to rehabilitate the property were made initially, but those have been abandoned, and it's been uninhabitable for over five years. It's currently vacant and boarded.
 And the last property is at 4406 Northeast 13th Avenue. This property has six liens that were assessed between November of 2013 and November 2017. There's a total amount owed of $42,857. Thank you.
 This property is one of six that this owner has that have violations with the city, so we're anxious to get some progress on this particular property to hopefully spur some activity on the other properties as well. It has multiple fire life safety violations. It's been declared a derelict building with structural failure.
 It's an attractant for squatters and garbage and dumping. It's been vacant for 18 years, and the city has performed 10 nuisance abatements on the property. The next step for these three properties is for council to vote today on whether to foreclose. The auditor's office then transfers responsibility to the treasurer, who will conduct the foreclosure sale.
 A property owner can pay the amount owed up to the sale date, and after the sale is conducted, the current owner has a one-year redemption period in which they can reclaim the property by paying the full cost owed. And that's the end of my presentation. Happy to answer any questions you might have. Commissioner Daly? Thank you.
 i just was trying to read that last slide does the full cost owed include the costs that the city has incurred around remediation and other steps yes it does and as well as the collection costs and the cost for the conduct of the foreclosure sale and other fees thank you so i'm just curious so if if we sell a property at auction the the previous owner still has a one-year period in which they can
 Yes, that's by state law. That's by state law? Yeah. Okay. That seems kind of unfair to the purchaser, anyway. And then I wanted to ask, so when a bank forecloses, does that take precedence over our foreclosure, and we just get paid by the bank what we're owed? Is that how it works in a bank foreclosure? It depends on the position of the lien. So we have senior liens and junior liens. I would let Dan Simon from the city attorney's office answer any of those questions. Yes, and –
 The typical turdy answer is that it depends. It could be that we have senior liens on the property from nuisance abatement costs that have priority over any interest held by the bank or any other interested parties. It could be that the city has co-enforcement liens, which are junior priority, first in time, first in right. And so when the property is sold by a bank at foreclosure, the surplus of those funds go to pay off all the interest that are seniors to ours before the city has a chance to recoup its fees. Right.
 And just one last question. We were just talking about many of the owners do step up at the last minute. Is that last minute prior to going to auction, or is it at the end of that one-year redemption period? They can step up any time prior to the foreclosure sale and pay the amount owed. After the foreclosure sale, they'll have to pay the sale cost, so there could be a difference there between those two. And there is a penalty attached to that, too. Penalty? Okay. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Commissioner Eudaly. Well, I would just like to express my appreciation for your work on this issue. I mean, as you mentioned, we take foreclosure very seriously. I'm really one of the last people I think who would be enthusiastic about this option. But these houses are what are commonly referred to as zombie houses, and they're creating like extraordinary hardship in our neighborhoods. It's
 It's one of the most frustrating things I think we have to deal with at BDS. So I want to also just voice my opinion that we need to be more aggressive and move faster on these properties. And also my fantasy is that they would be turned into land trust opportunities for low-income home ownership. I don't know if that's an option, but I just want to put it out there in the ether. Thank you.
 Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Justice Watchdog. Again, one of the points I didn't hear is what other options did you give these people that are about to lose their equity and their time that they put into these properties? And as private property owners, I feel a lot of their rights to own a property are
 and have title in your name. Now here's my position if you've given them options as far as saying we'll just do away with any of these liens to us if you just get in here and fix this house up and make it a little safer. Have you done that? No. Because when you go into these properties as you can see on some of these homes when you come in as the code enforcement 10,000 there you come in the code enforcement on this other house
 $96,000 on a code enforcement coming in there one time. And then you came back again for the nuisance cost recovery, you know, to pay you for going out there and writing on your clipboard. Another $15,000. Then you came back again, another code enforcement of $16,000. Now they're in debt up to $130,000. Guess what? You just took their equity away from them. Their rights as a private property owner. Now get this.
 I can go out and buy a home today, and I can have it sit there empty. You know why? Because it's my right as a property owner. And my title, my name is on the title. Now guess what happens? If someone comes in off the sidewalk and kicks my door in, breaks my windows out, paints all over the front of my house, you look at that owner as they're the problem. No. Let's talk law enforcement. You haven't done your job here, law enforcement. No.
 That's a very unsafe neighborhood. Now, let's go back. You have police reports on this. We should be able to take those police reports, go to our insurance company, and say, look at the damage that has been done to my property. I'm allowed to have it sit empty. Why aren't the insurance companies paying for the damages? Why aren't they paying it? Why do the owners not appear here because they're so afraid of law enforcement? Right?
 Why don't they show up? Every report you have in here has directed that they have a concern with the way they're being treated. I would like everybody on this list to have somebody look over this list, talk to the owners, and ask them one question. One question.
 Do you feel you have been treated fair on this whole situation? One question. I'm glad they got another 12 months at the end of this auction to get their home back. But guess what? You put an anchor on them. You're sinking them. They're vulnerable. And are you helping them as a city? You're nothing but a bunch of bankers up here. You're nothing but a bunch of foreclosure vultures, smug little attitudes. And aren't you the one that voted against all that housing now?
 Pathetic. Pathetic. You know what? Time. Thank you. Thank you. Call the roll. Vultures.
 Chris. Well, thank you, Sarah Lundes, for working now with three mayors to get this program going. And thanks to Mayor Sam Adams and Charlie Hales for really digging deep into the questions such as those we just heard. I know all of us on the council are very reluctant to take people's properties. With private property rights come responsibilities, and it's very clear from the photographs that you showed that the owners are simply not looking after these properties.
 So thank you, and aye votes aye. Fish. Aye. Sossman. Thank you, auditor's office and city attorney and BDS and our treasurer, too. Thank you for your work. Aye. Udalli. Aye.
 I want to thank Mike Liefeld, who's in the audience today, and the whole enforcement team at BDS. We are, in fact, helping homeowners who are struggling to come into compliance. It is our absolute last resort to go through a foreclosure process. But as Amanda, sorry, as Commissioner Fritz...
 with rights come responsibilities. And often these owners are entirely absentee. They may be deceased. They may be a bank. And I would encourage anyone who thinks that this is a rash action by the city to go spend a few weeks living next door to one. Aye. Aye.
 Wheeler. So by law, it is extremely hard for government to foreclose.
 And in fact, we have some several hundred so-called zombie houses scattered throughout the city of Portland. And they provide public safety, public health, and environmental hazards, not only to the immediate properties but also to the adjacent properties. But we go through substantial hoops as a result of the kind of concerns that were expressed by Mr. Lightning.
 The idea of government taking private property is looked upon very, very dimly in this country. And therefore, the rules that we must follow and the steps that we must take are extremely onerous. As you just heard, there was one property on this list of three that is owned by a bank. There is one property on this list that has had ongoing problems for nearly two decades.
 and only now are we taking a vote which may start the process of resolution over the course of the next year. So this is a very, very slow, very, very thoughtful process, and it is designed by its very nature to not be quick and not be easy for government to be able to make these kinds of decisions. I think the auditor picked very wisely.
 With these three particular homes, they all provide substantial risk to the rest of the neighborhood, and I strongly support the passage of this ordinance. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 270, is the second reading.
 Item 270, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements in the Northeast 57th Avenue and Killingsworth Street local improvement district. So, colleagues, this is an item that has been brought previously for a first reading for a presentation.
 It has had testimony. It's come back for second reading. And I don't know if you have more to add or if my colleagues have further questions for you. I think Andrew has a lot to add at this point. Very good. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Southman, Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. So this project has had a lot of moving parts.
 Since we started it, there have been a lot of discussions over the past week. We think that we have a good pathway forward and that pathway forward is not continuing to turn our back on Coley, which is the only majority minority neighborhood in Portland that has some pretty severe infrastructure deficiencies. I just want to say to the council that I think walking away and kicking the can down the road and doing nothing is not on our preferred list of options. We have had some very good discussions with the community.
 that require a new procedural approach, which is to say that we can't use the existing LID to address some of the larger issues. So we are working through those. I've had some very good conversations with the neighbors in the past few days. I'm providing you an administrative recommendation under city code to vote no on this ordinance today.
 The effect of that will be that it will close out the pending lanes for the current LID, and we will continue those discussions with the neighbors. I expect to be reaching back out to them in April, and I would be expecting to bring something back before the council that a little bit more comprehensively deals with the infrastructure issues in Culley.
 I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. I just have a comment. I want to thank you, and I sent you a personal email, but I want to say this publicly. I hold you up as one example of a public employee who works for the City of Portland who goes beyond the basic job description and the call of duty. Colleagues, after our last conversation on this, Andrew actually met with representatives of the neighborhood over the weekend today
 and has continued to meet with them, and I appreciate that. So thank you. Thank you very much, Mayor. Commissioner, anything else? I just want to add my appreciation, too, for your hard work on behalf of us. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Call the roll, please. Fritz. So let me be very clear. I was ready to vote yes, but for Mr. Abbey's advice, I would still be voting yes. I believe there should be a connected street here. I believe it is in the public interest to have that street.
 And I believe that the concerns of increased traffic will be resolved over the years as more connections are done. And they won't be resolved unless we have connections. So I know that you share those values, Andrew. And so I trust that when it comes back, there will still be a finished street in this location. And yet, I do appreciate the extra time that you're willing to spend to try to get more understanding amongst the community.
 I appreciate the participation of Habitat, and that's also a value that their project should need to go forward as expeditiously as possible. So I know that you will come back to us as quickly as you can with a resolution. Thank you. No.
 Fish. I want to echo the Mayor's comments. I've had the privilege of presentations from Andrew over the last 10 years, and frankly, if you were a professional baseball player, I think you'd be an all-star closer. And it is remarkable how you end up building consensus. If you're telling us that we need to hit the pause button now and try a different approach, I think we should give you that opportunity, and I have great confidence in your ability to come back with an alternative approach.
 Thanks very much for your work. No. Softman. No. Udaly. Well, thanks, Andrew, for all your work. Thank you also for helping me gain a greater understanding of the LID process and issues. Thank you for being committed to seeing this through, even though we are all voting no today. So regretfully, I vote no.
 Wheeler. So like Commissioner Fritz, I was prepared to vote for this. I think ultimately the
 The benefits here outweigh the negative concerns, but I am trusting you when you say you believe there's an opportunity here for more of a consensus-based approach and that you can address some of the issues that have been raised during previous testimony. I trust you on that, so for that reason, I will vote no. The ordinance fails. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. Next item, 276.
 276, authorize application and accept a grant in the amount of $25,999 and approve $12,000 fiscal year 2017-18 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division fiscal year 2018 Safety Belt Grant Program for Swarm Personnel Overtime Reimbursement. Okay.
 Colleagues, we have Officer Bill Balzer here from the Traffic Division to present. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. Like the Mayor said, I'm Officer Bill Balzer with the Portland Police Traffic Division. I've been with the Police Bureau almost 22 years now, and I've managed this grant since 2005.
 This grant is essentially for overtime enforcement, but also education in seatbelt enforcement. And it's also kind of fallen into now a distracted driver thing, because when we're looking for seatbelts, we also sue people on cell phones right up by the seatbelts. So it goes in together. The benefit with it is that...
 For all seat belt violations, a certificate is given where we work in partnership with Emanuel Hospital and the Emanuel Nurse Tough Talk Program, and they go and give information on the importance of wearing safety belts. So it's an overtime through the traffic division. It's traffic division officers that have additional training in it as well as information on DUI detection.
 I have a question, sir. What is the current law in Portland concerning the use of seatbelts in the rear seats of a vehicle? So seatbelts have to be used. What the law is right now is if there's –
 five seatbelts in a car and there's five people in the car, all seatbelts have to be used by one person. You can't double buckle. So if a family has multiple kids, you can't put two kids in one seatbelt. Obviously, if there's not five passengers in that car, you only have to use a seatbelt where someone's seated. But even in the rear seat, if there's a seatbelt there, it has to be used. Okay. And I think...
 This is more for PBOT than for you. I'm not sure that's clearly communicated by TNCs or taxi cabs in the city, some of which have seatbelts, some of which have seatbelts that don't work. And there isn't clear signage saying that people sitting in the passenger seat in the back have to use a seatbelt.
 So food for thought. It might be beneficial to do a little public education around that. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Any other questions? Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fritz. Thank you, if you will. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udallie. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for coming in. We appreciate it, officer. Next item, 277, please.
 Item 277, grant a franchise to Sprint Communications Company, LP, for telecommunications services for a period of up to 10 years. Vote on it. This is a second reading. Yeah, is there any further comment or discussion on this item? I'm sorry. Please call the roll. I'm sorry, 277, this is the grant a franchise to Sprint Communications. Got it, sorry. Call the roll. Fritz? Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 278. 278. Approve interim use of the multiple unit limited tax exemption program to capture opportunities for affordable housing and housing developments not subject to inclusionary housing and amend the administrative rules.
 Colleagues, the multiple unit limited tax exemption or multi is a proven tool that we can use to get affordable units into the pipeline in the near term.
 We're in a housing crisis, as you're all aware, and the need is immediate. Not doing anything means that all of the units that are under consideration, that is the 10,000 units in the pipeline that are in the pipeline prior to the inclusionary housing ordinance coming into effect, all of those units will be market rate included.
 in the absence of this multi-program being approved. Not doing anything means that we lose the opportunity to ensure that we are taking the housing crisis as seriously as possible. I've worked with my colleagues to find what we believe is the sweet spot on the cap on individual projects.
 Before we, Portland Housing Bureau staff is here today to walk us through or answer any further questions that you may have. Where is my Portland Housing Bureau staff? Seriously? I think we were running really far behind and now we suddenly, thanks to the previous. Yeah, well, I frankly expect people to be more on the ball. Could you call item number 279, please? We'll hold 278 open. Item 279. Okay.
 Accept Bureau of Environmental Services 10-year strategic plan. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Because we were looking at about an hour's delay, my team, here they are. Mike, why don't you come to the table? It's quite an appearance. Colleagues, today I'm excited to have the Bureau of Environmental Services share with you their new strategic plan.
 The plan is the culmination of 18 months of work by BES staff and community members, including the Bureau's oversight bodies, the Portland Utility Board, and the Oregon Citizens Utility Board. BES manages Portland's wastewater and stormwater infrastructure to protect public health and the environment. And this plan will put BES on a path to become a fully sustainable utility in 10 years.
 I'm especially proud to see BES continuing to be a leader in innovative, cost-effective green infrastructure. I'd like to introduce BES Director Mike Jordan and Assistant Director Don Uchiyama to give a brief presentation today. Welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the Council. For the record, my name is Mike Jordan. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Environmental Services. And this mic is pretty hot. I'll try to get away from it a little bit.
 As the Commissioner mentioned here today with the Assistant Director, Don Uchiyama, to present the Bureau's 10-year strategic plan. Don will go through the plan for you and our approach. But first, I'd like to give just a few comments regarding some kind of context.
 The first is why now? The short and simple answer is that the Bureau had a strategic plan, a five-year strategic plan, that was up for renewal in 2016.
 One of the, I think, critical conversations that we had in trying to re-up that strategic plan was that we really wanted, and you'll see in the presentation, we really wanted to have a plan that could articulate the outcomes that this Bureau was trying to manifest in the community by doing our work.
 What were the things that we wanted this community to realize as we do the work? So pay particular attention when you look at the plan to the outcomes that are in the different goal categories. Secondly, why 10 years?
 Most people believe that it's very difficult to predict the future even a couple of years out. And we believe that we're in the hundred-year business. And when we make decisions about investments and when we make decisions about program, we often have to think in terms of decades and even centuries.
 And so we believe that having a 10-year plan forces us to continue to keep the long view in mind when we're making decisions about our investments and about our organization.
 And then third, and I think probably most importantly, strategic plans are certainly important in their content. They help direct us. But I believe that just as important when doing strategic planning is, first of all, how you go about doing them, who you engage and how you actually produce the plan, and who owns it when you're done.
 And then secondly, and I think what we forget often, is how you use them once they are done. I think we in the public sector are fairly guilty in some cases of producing coffee table books that are really wonderful and beautiful and have lots of great words in them, but we don't use them after we've produced them.
 First of all, I'm really proud of how the Bureau went about this and the engagement of the members of the Bureau. And that is predominantly due to the work of the steering committee, which you'll see the names of those people in the inside back cover of the plan. They really get most of the credit for the engagement portion of this plan and energizing the Bureau around the work.
 And then secondly, this notion of how we use the plan. I have a vision that we would take this plan and be able to have an annual strategic budget summit in September each year where we would take the metrics of this plan, which will be associated with the outcomes, look backwards, and really see how we've done.
 and ask the really hard why questions. Why did we do great on that? Why didn't we do great on this? And have a conversation about that why question, and only then look forward for the coming year in the budget and five years in our financial projections, as we do every year,
 and make adjustments to our strategies, make adjustments to our investment patterns, think about our organization in terms of being continually improving in the way we do our work. Lastly, in my remarks, I want to make two thanks for this. One, I want to thank Commissioner Fish. When I came to this job, he insisted that I hire an assistant director.
 And I will say that without Don Uchiyama's leadership on this, we would not have completed this the way we did. It would not have had the level of engagement, and we wouldn't have had the great product that we have. So thank you to both of you, and I'll turn it over to Don for the presentation. Great. Thank you, Mike, and thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, for having us here today. It's a pleasure.
 I want to call your attention first to the timeline that I've handed out. The first side is our early history, and I like to think about that as the reason why we're here. It defines why BES is doing the work that we're doing. And then the flip side is our more recent history, and it's a reminder of our accomplishments, our amazing accomplishments, and then also some lessons learned. And this is the first thing we did when we kicked off this exercise. We reflected on our past. So I have a question about that timeline.
 It says 2015, first at-will director, Michael Jordan, appointed to environmental services. No, that's not correct. I mean, Dean Marriott was an at-will. No, he wasn't. No, he wasn't. He was actually by civil service because he predated the charter change. Oh, okay. He was the lone holdover, Dan, and it explains why it was a little more complicated. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, great. That's okay. So anyway, a good reference for us and a starting point for us. But as Mike said, this plan is really about the stakeholders that helped us make it, especially our employees, 570 of them, the steering committee. We started out with an anonymous all-employee survey. We had a 75% response rate, which is just remarkable for surveys.
 We did numerous interviews and focus groups, and we had extremely strong support from the Bureau leadership team and from our management team.
 In addition to the employees that contributed and made this possible, external stakeholders also played a huge role. We consulted with city council offices, with the Portland Utility Board, the Citizens Utility Board, other bureau directors, agency leaders, over 20 environmental and conservation groups, community and customer groups, business and industry, and academic institutions. And it's because of this engagement the plan is what it is.
 Five major themes emerged from this work, community responsiveness, focus on equity and diversity, collaborative partnerships, workforce development, and infrastructure preparedness. And when I get into the priorities, you can see how they line back up with the needs the stakeholders identified.
 The plan is organized with a structure or framework that's fairly classic. We start with our mission, vision, and values. We have six goals. We've described desired outcomes, as Mike pointed out. We have 29 strategic initiatives, a number of action items, and then our metrics. We'll be implementing the priority action items and the performance metrics this year.
 In addition to looking at our history and engaging our stakeholders, one really important step that we took in the process was acknowledging our role in city government, that we're just one of 27 bureaus and that the work we do is in that context. And although we are assigned wastewater and stormwater, environmental compliance and lab services, watershed protection, and we have business system support and customer support responsibilities, our role in city government is critical to us achieving our mission. Thank you.
 So we refreshed our mission statement, BES Manages Portland's Wastewater and Stormwater Infrastructure to Protect Public Health and the Environment, and we updated our vision statement. BES is a mission-driven, high-performance organization leading the city in preserving and restoring the health of Portland's watersheds. The next part of the presentation orients you to the goals and the strategic priorities.
 We have six goals, as I mentioned, and I'm going to start in the right-hand corner with service delivery as kind of the anchor of our strategic initiatives. To make those successful, we need responsive systems and decision-making. The next two are paired in terms of workforce development, treating our employees and giving them opportunity for growth, and influencing our bureau culture and how that affects how we get our work done.
 The next two are also paired. What is our role in leadership and city government and then our commitment to community relations? And we didn't prioritize the goals. We see them interwoven and interrelated.
 So the next few slides are about the priorities in each of those goal areas. And as we've mentioned, performance metrics are a really big part of this work. We know that the mayor and the city budget office is very concerned and interested in how we measure our progress. We know that the Portland Utility Board and Citizen Utility Board has a great interest in this, as well as our customers and employees. So out of the gate, that's our number one priority.
 The next three are more around some of our business systems, and maybe you've heard that BES is looking at their CIP process delivery, project delivery work. And so we've looked at our biggest business system, and we're looking at integrated planning, portfolio management, and project delivery, and inter-bureau coordination. We've got some great work ahead on that front.
 We're also reinvigorating our asset management program, and we're committed to comprehensive data management strategies citywide and both within the Bureau.
 The workforce development and bureau culture goals really brought forth some great ideas from our employees, and we recognized that this was an area that we really had a lot of work to do. And we have prioritized equity and diversity training and professional development, social equity contracting, our recruitment, and our annual reporting.
 We're looking at a pilot for a job rotation so that we can give employees the opportunity to take on different roles within the organization. And then we're also looking at a workforce development and culture professional support and bringing in some training and other employee support.
 We have existing committees within the organization, the Committee for Workplace Excellence, Equity and Diversity, our peer program I hope you've heard about, our Employee Recognition Committee and our Management Excellence. That additional professional and technical support will be to support those existing committees and to sort out what employees do as almost volunteers within the organization and then what do we do systemically to make these changes permanent.
 Then the last area is leadership in city government and community relations. We have taken a strong position and are very committed to the idea of proactive coordination and collaboration, especially with our infrastructure agencies. PBOT and BES in particular have a leadership team that are bringing and coordinating the work.
 We work very closely with the Water Bureau and working with the Public Utility Board and reviewing our work there. We know that Portland Parks is a big partner, Office of Management and Finance as well. We're connected at the hip with the Portland Utility Board and Citizen Utility Board, and we know they're interested in our levels of service and budget development.
 The last two items, we heard loud and strong from our external stakeholder engagement the importance of strengthening our community relations and being more proactive. We're doing some work now around audience identification and messaging and working with community engagement liaisons to reach historically underrepresented communities.
 The last initiative I'll highlight in these priorities is our citywide green infrastructure agenda. We are committed to working with PSU and the Institute for Sustainable Solutions to get a citywide strategy for a green infrastructure agenda.
 So that's a quick flyover of our priorities that came out of the 29 initiatives that we identified. And I just want to say a little bit about metrics. We're organizing our metrics, looking at the intersection of quantity and quality versus effort and effect. So we'll be describing our work in these terms.
 And we're kicking off an effort now to engage our business services group as a pilot, and we're preparing a bureau-wide team to prepare the metrics for the next budget discussion this fall. As Mike mentioned, we'll be doing another budget summit this fall. Thank you.
 So the idea and the instruction from Mike when we got this started was that this needed to be in rhythm with the annual budget and financial planning cycle. We know that this year we did our best to fit our requests and our budget structure within the strategic goal framework, but it's the first time we're kind of trying it on, so it's still a work in progress.
 But we anticipate in future budget cycles that we'll be able to align all of our budget elements to the strategic initiatives and the performance measures. And we'll consider this a year-round exercise, assessing our decisions and measuring it against the outcomes that we've decided. And we're expecting that full integration will take multiple years.
 So the last slide, I just want to welcome you to join us in our strategic future. I'm very grateful for this opportunity to work with our employees and Mike Jordan and this council on getting this work done. And as Mike likes to say, now the hard part starts. So we like to think about the plan being done, but this is really just the beginning. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Commissioner, I'm not sure if there's someone, there may be others here to testify. I think we have, who signed up to testify? Mike Halk is here to testify. And is he the only one who signed up? Yes. Mr. Halk, come on up. Good morning. Thank you for being here. My name is Mike Halk. I'm here representing the Urban Green Spaces Institute. I've had the pleasure of serving on the interview committee for...
 the job that she got. And I think you can understand why we were so high on Don at the end of that process. And actually, one more comment before I get into my testimony. I looked at the timeline, and I noticed that 1983 was when it became the Bureau of Environmental Services, prior to which it was a sewage bill. And I can say I've been involved every step of the way since 1983, and I continue to stay involved.
 I'm here on behalf of the Urban Green Spaces Institute and several partners, including Audubon Society Portland, GreenWorks PC, Landscape Architectures Affirm, and others. And I guess we consider ourselves an ad hoc green infrastructure advisory group, I guess, to the city. You might think of this as a cabal or maybe the green infrastructure mafia or something along those lines.
 We followed development of the plan for some time and it provided input at every step of the way. We're impressed with its comprehensive nature and strongly support its adoption, but mostly its implementation to Don's final comment. On the point of implementation, I want to highlight one element that was presented this morning. The partnership BES has established with Portland State University's Institute for Sustainable Solutions.
 We have met with Fletcher Bedouin and Robert Liberty, who is the Institute's director. The Institute has, and they made this very clear recently, both financial, so they actually can bring money to the table, research and policy resources to bring to the table, and we feel is a critical partner in ensuring that the strategy is, in fact, implemented with input from and on the ground work from all city bureaus, not just BES.
 Mayor Wheeler, given the importance of an all-city approach, all hands on deck, that
 implementation of the plan across city bureaus, we look to you for your leadership in helping make that happen. And we look forward to having a conversation soon to discuss that with you. Commissioners, each of you have a role in the plan's implementation, and we feel this is an exciting opportunity to actually do what we talk about all the time, break down silos and collaborate across bureaus and obviously with stakeholders.
 We look forward as partners to work with all of you and your bureaus to make the strategic plan on the ground reality. Thank you. Great. And thank you, Mike, for your testimony. And, yes, I look forward to that conversation. I'd love to hear more about your perspective on how we can collaborate. This is another opportunity. And you were here earlier to hear the technology presentation. It will drive us to collaboration. I'd love to hear your perspectives on that. Thank you.
 That concludes our presentation, Mayor. I'll accept the motion. Move to accept the... Is it a report? Report. Report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Udaly, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fritz. Well, thank you for all your work. It's very impressive, and as you said, the difficult part is now implementing it. Fish. Mayor and colleagues, I'm about to hit my fifth-year anniversary anniversary,
 at the helm of the Bureau of Environmental Services. And I asked the team to blow up this chart because I thought the historical timeline was so interesting. And while I feel like it's been a really busy five years, it barely covers one column on the far right side on the front page.
 And Mike has reminded us that there's just a lot of stuff that's happened over time. One milestone that I want to call out in particular, though, is on the back of the sheet, and the date is 1952, and that's when our first wastewater treatment plant opened. And I know that sounds amazing, and people are going to scratch their head and say, how can that be? But it's because, frankly, the Willamette River used to basically serve as an open sewer.
 And it was 1952 we opened our first wastewater treatment plant. Fast forward, we've now figured out a way to take the byproduct of all that sewage, which is methane gas, and turned it into renewable natural gas, which is going to power our system, power our trucks and our cars, and also produce a profit for our rate payers. We've gone deep into green infrastructure, something that Mike Kauk has provided unparalleled leadership and advocacy around,
 And a lot of things have happened. What is really exciting to me about this strategic plan, in addition to all the things that Don highlighted, the level of collaboration, the full buy-in by employees and stakeholders and others, and then I think the vision that is being presented, is that Director Jordan has proposed something pretty radical, and that is that in 10 years we become a fully sustainable bureau.
 And what that means is he's saying in 10 years when we get those annual reports that document the state and the status of our infrastructure, that close to 100% of the infrastructure of this very complicated bureau will be in good condition. And that rather than having to invest in addressing catastrophic failures or other kinds of failures, we'll be investing in maintaining good infrastructure going forward. And he is proposing to do this.
 while simultaneously funding programs the community wants, green infrastructure, protecting our watersheds, and a number of other things, and keeping annual rate increases below the rate of inflation. If the Bureau is successful, and I'll just make a, I mean, it is likely that that 10-year milestone will happen with me in the audience and not up here, we will once again be a first. We'll be the first municipal agency
 sewage bureau now bes that has cracked this this code now it is it is true that we have an advantage that pbot doesn't have and a lot of our general a lot of our other infrastructure bureaus do don't have which is that we have dedicated revenue and we're very fortunate to have that and we don't take that for granted but it is within our grasp to be a fully sustainable bureau and i think that is just an amazing thing to shoot for and i'm not going to bet against this team
 I know there's other people from the Bureau that are here in the audience. I want to thank them for their service and just tell them it is with just such a point of pride for me to be associated with so many wonderful public servants. It is a very complicated Bureau. It is very challenging, but it is an honor to be part of this team. And today I'm pleased to support this vision and vote aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I appreciate both the timeline and the vision, the plan. And I feel confident in the employees and the leadership at BES, which includes the commissioner in charge, that they will deliver on this plan. So thank you. Udaly. Aye.
 Wheeler. I regret this timeline. My mom, who's nearly 88, still talks about a swim she had with her grandfather. They swam across the Willamette River in 1939, and she's still giddy about it. But Commissioner Fish, looking at this blown-up timeline, that means that it was an open sewer at the time, which may help to explain some things about me. Okay.
 I think this is a fabulous vision, and I'm energized by it, and I'm excited by it. And I really appreciate the work, Commissioner Fish, that you've put into this. And to Mike and your entire team, I want to thank you and Mike Houck and all the people in the community who are really passionate about this subject. This is a great blueprint for us.
 As Mike admonished us in his testimony, the blueprint is the first step, and now comes the action that follows the blueprint. And I'm really excited to be part of that. I know my whole team is, so I look forward to it. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Great work. Thank you all. Colleagues, we still have item number 278 open. It has been read. I have given my statement.
 This is a continuation. We have already taken public testimony on this item. However, I had a request from Brad Molson, who is here today, if he could testify. I would like to extend that courtesy before we invite the Housing Bureau up. Good morning, Brad. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Brad Molson, Central Eastside Industrial Council President and Beam Development and the founding board member of the Innovation Quadrant.
 I'm here to support the multi-program, but I'm here to read a kind of to give you a sense of caution that I'm seeing out in the world of development right now. And there is a lot of fear and hesitation and challenge to keep our development cycle going. No.
 the land prices are escalating, construction costs are escalating beyond reason, and people are fearful, developers are fearful, that with inclusionary zoning, we can't make a lot of projects work. As I think most of you know, there's a theory that if we reduce the amount of residential development, and I'm not specifically a residential developer, but...
 I have done some and I still continue to do. So I'm concerned about the effect on affordable housing. It seems contrary to reason that we would build more market rate and how it would affect, but it obviously creates an environment where we can leverage affordable housing and the competition works to drive down prices at some point. With that said...
 I'm also concerned about the design review. I'm concerned about the recent occurrence of the project in the Pearl that has been, was squashed. I'm sorry, but we can't talk about that. That's in a separate process. Sorry.
 Sorry. We can't take testimony. That process is not concluded, so please move on. Anyway, so I'm here to support Malti. I'm here to...
 to try to create the context of supporting development, smart development, conscious development, local development that I think will bolster opportunities for everyone. So with that, I welcome any questions that you might have. I have one question. We had a chance in the last hearing to ask two experts. Yes.
 If we adopt this, will someone take advantage of it? I'm going to support this proposal in the hope that it encourages someone. You're an active developer. Can you tell us whether you are hopeful that with this tweak, someone who beat the deadline on inclusionary housing will, in fact, take advantage of this additional incentive plan? Sure.
 I'm convinced that it's another tool in the toolbox for us to look at. We have to layer in all of the opportunities. And as a development community, I think that this is a program that we can use to move forward. Absolutely. Okay. That sounds like leaning yes. Leaning yes. I mean, obviously there are a lot of market conditions. Yes.
 I mean, it is staggering. We have three years of development in the pipeline that beat the inclusionary housing deadline. So that will take three years to clear the pipeline if it's all built. We have a crane on every corner of the city. We've never seen, the Bureau of Development Services has never seen so many permits pulled and so much revenue. So we're obviously all interested in continuing to support a robust housing market.
 The concern that I think this council has demonstrated time and time again is that the market is not serving a lot of people. There are people to whom the market is not serving right now. And that's why we need to look at a mix of carrots and sticks. And it is, I think, the mayor's hope that this –
 this proposal on multi will encourage some developers to step up and maybe you'll be one of them, but we hope that there are people who do take advantage of this. I believe that will be the case. And realize, as you well know, the development cycle takes three to four years between concept to, you know, delivering to the market. So we're reaching that point right now where things will change. We will hit a cliff, and I believe that...
 residential development will fall significantly unless we take some action. Thanks, Brad. Appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. We'll call up Shannon Callahan and Matt Scheibel from the Housing Bureau. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau, joined by Dory VanBakkel, the Development Incentive Teams Manager, and Matt Scheibel, Assistant Director. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. As Commissioner Fish just said, I know we all are concerned about the ongoing provision of housing in general and affordable housing. I have some questions about this particular proposal. So what is the average exemption per unit per month for the affordable units? Yes.
 So in our analysis looking back a couple of years into the multi-program, the tax exemption per affordable unit on average would equal to $833 per month.
 And what is the expected average market rate of these units? Newly constructed units in the central city, on average, are going for $2,000 a month. Across the city, newly constructed units are approximately $1,700 a month. So in the central city, we would be enabling somebody to live in a $2,000 a month apartment for about $1,100 a month? Yes, Commissioner. Okay.
 Do we know how many units this overall will, if it worked out to the maximum $3 million a year, how many units overall? We would expect 300 affordable units, Commissioner. For $3 million? Yes. Okay. Not for $3 million. The $3 million is the cap for all of the tax abatements. But that's the tax abatement per year for 300 units? For the $3 million cap, yes. Across all of our programs? Yes.
 In this program? In this program. So what's the – I'm sorry, Commissioner. I just don't want to muddle the record here. We have a $3 million cap with the county for all tax abatement programs. With the multi-program, we're capturing the value that has not been used, but the cap has not been lifted. This would be – we would propose to remain within the agreed-upon cap with the county –
 the number of units that we would expect to receive from a $3 million foregone revenue would be approximately 300 affordable units. And this is the only program that's in this program at this point, right? Commissioner, the inclusionary housing program would still be under the same cap that Commissioner Fish is speaking of, but it's...
 all together combined. So we would not be increasing the cap overall. Okay, and we're not expecting to get any inclusionary housing because of the rush of applications before the deadline is for the next two years? We have received some inclusionary housing proposals, but we are confident that we will be able to remain within the cap.
 In addition, the $3 million was agreed last year by the county to be on a rolling basis so we can meet the highs and lows of a development cycle in a five-year period. Okay. So I am concerned about a $900 a unit subsidy for new construction. When I was a low-income wage earner, I didn't expect to be able to live in new construction. I lived in fairly substandard housing and would have appreciated a much –
 deeper assistance had it been available rather than $900 going to live in brand new. And that's just a, obviously it's a policy choice. Are the market rate units in the projects allowed unlimited rent increases? Yes.
 We do not regulate the market rate units for the multi-program, so they would be under the same state and local laws. So they are allowed to raise rents in accordance with state law, but they would be subject to the city council's mandatory relocation assistance policy. And then back to the question of the caps. Does the $5,000, $100,000 per development, does that tend to then favor the smaller developments? Yes.
 Because the larger ones would bang up against it. Our intent was to exclude what would be considered luxury high-end apartment buildings. And so that's why we did a per project cap. And it could benefit more units that were outside the central city than inside. Based on that, $500,000 per project cap. Okay. Okay.
 And you just mentioned relocation. At the end of 10 years, the rents will go up by at least $900 a month, so presumably these tenants will need to move out. These tenants will then be eligible for relocation assistance? They would be if they met the parameters. We don't have experience with seeing what happens after year 10, but yes, yes, they would meet current city council policy.
 Thank you. And for projects with an FAR-Florio ratio of 5 to 1 or more, the only choice is 20% at 80% median family income. Why are we not allowing the choice of 10% at 60% median family income?
 Because that's what we got in the inclusionary housing. I believe we would allow that, but we do not require that as a basis for the tax exemption. If they wanted to give us deeper affordability, we would allow that, but it would not be a requirement of that building type. But it's a different level. So it's 10% under inclusionary housing, it's 10% at 60% or 20% at 80%. So there'd be no incentive for them to do 10% at 60% because that wouldn't get you to 20%.
 So why are we not just mirroring what we've got in inclusionary housing? The tax exemption at 10%, at 60% under this program, I don't know if we have the calculation, but it would double. We think we'd be over-enriching.
 Okay, and the reason the reason that inclusionary zoning commissioner was set up with 20% at 80 and 10 at 60 is because we're The need in the city is at 60% clearly, but we're required by state statute. We cannot require anything That is lower than 80% so it was our way your way of trying to encourage and
 the production of 60% units. Well, that was why I'm wondering why we're not doing it in this program. Because as you just said, the need is at 60%, not really at 80%. So we're spending $30 million or forgiving $30 million, not taking in $30 million, which we could otherwise spend elsewhere.
 to get 80% medium income housing. Is that correct? We would be allowing 80% housing and FAR 5 and above. That is essentially the central city area. It could be a policy choice that this council could make to lower the inclusion rate and require it 60%, but that is a very rich tax exemption product per unit. Okay.
 You've got information in here about accessibility, about 5% accessible or adaptable, which I appreciate because I think the state mandate is only 2%. So given that some of these projects will be smaller, is that 5% or one, whichever is greater?
 And then thank you, Dory van Bokkel, for providing information that I asked for last hearing about the tax exemptions. And in looking at the numbers of total affordable units and the estimated foregone revenues, the numbers are not at all the same as $900 a month. The average in 2015 was $400 a month. The average in 2016 was $600.
 In 2017, it was $337. And in year-to-date, it's only been $90 a unit is what we've forgiven, according to these numbers. So it seems this program that's proposed is more than twice as generous. In the data used for our presentation that Matt gave last week, it was taking out projects that...
 also had additional subsidy or were for other reasons providing additional affordable units. And so looking at any pool of data in a particular way, we wanted to show the worst or most that we could be providing based on purely for-profit developments. Okay.
 Okay. Well, obviously these are my concerns, and I think $900 a unit could be, if we had that, we could direct it to rent assistance elsewhere. That would be a better way to go. This is an emergency ordinance. You need unanimous consent to pass it, Mayor. So I'm going to go talk to a man about a dog, and I'll be back in a few minutes. Thank you, Commissioner. Other questions? Please call the roll.
 Fish. Well, first of all, I want to thank the Mayor for bringing this forward, and I want to thank the Housing Bureau for the briefings that we've received and the answers to our questions. We heard some sobering statistics the other day when the Housing Bureau presented at budget time, and Madam Director, you'll correct me if I get this wrong, but –
 we've identified that there's at least 24,000 units of deeply affordable housing that were short in the marketplace. And we're also seeing a lot of so-called luxury housing coming online that's out of the reach of middle-income working families and the poor. So when there's a market mismatch, it seems to me it is –
 incumbent on government to act to remedy that, and the market is not working great for lower-income people. So it is our job to take some action. As my colleagues know, I am very focused on people of very modest means, because I think if we had a dollar to spend, I would always prefer to create a subsidy for someone who's really struggling on the margins.
 But the truth is our housing crisis is affecting people throughout the spectrum. We have an enormous number of renters who are a cost burden. Now, they have a roof over their head, but they're spending way too much money of their income on their rent, and therefore they don't have resources for other necessities of life. We've got...
 people living on our streets, and we've got people doubled up on couches and in cars, and we've got people that can't find an affordable unit. We also learned that the success rate for Section 8 is in the 70s, which is well below what we as a community hope to get to. So the mayor has proposed a tool which, in my view, is an imperfect tool, and it's not even my favorite tool, but it does –
 offer the promise of getting some affordable units. And I think in a crisis, we should be opportunistic. And here's why ultimately I'm persuaded we should do this. You've made some tweaks to the program, which I like. You've engaged the development community, and we think someone's going to take advantage of this. We hope so. Thank you.
 Even at 80 percent, that is an area that there is need in our community, although I'm pleased that most of our federal dollars and our tax increment dollars and other programs target lower on the income range, and by policy we focus on people in greater need.
 But this has the promise to adding something. And I want to address the one question that was put on the table a couple minutes ago about what might we do with this money if we had an alternative. One of the things that I think we lose track of is that it is a cornerstone value, not just of the federal government through HUD, but it is a cornerstone value of your bureau that we invest in opportunity opportunities.
 And that means that our long-term goal is that if you are low-income, if you're a low-income family and you're choosing where to live, you'll have the same choices at some point that people who are more affluent have, people that can decide where they want to live and where they want to send their kids to school. And opportunity is a cornerstone of what we do. And it is the reason that we've accepted this tradeoff about putting some affordable units in new construction in places that are nice.
 Because we want people to have the choice to live in neighborhoods that have good transportation and parks and infrastructure. And that's the kind of community we want to be. So it's not my favorite program for a number of reasons. Yes, I would love to serve people lower down the income stream.
 But it is, in a crisis, it is another tool. And that's what Brad Mileson said. It's another tool in the kit, which we hope someone takes advantage of. It operates within the $3 million cap that we've already agreed to. So it's really not competing against other programs because we've already said we'll set aside $3 million a year for this and other programs. And that's baked in. And frankly...
 While I've heard some sort of on the margins some criticisms about this, I haven't heard something which convinces me we shouldn't try, and I think we should be willing to try things. And I know you'll come back to us in two years, and if you think this program wasn't as successful as we hoped or needed to be refined, you'll come back with suggestions. And finally, because we know this program has to be renewed by the legislature in a couple years,
 I want to pick up on a comment we've heard from one of my colleagues and some people testifying that I think we should ask for the authority in any new program that's authorized by the legislature to offer a 10-year renewal at the 60% level.
 Because my guess is that if we made one change in this program that got more developers interested, it is giving people an objective test and certainty that there could be a 10-year renewal, which doubles the benefit and limits the likelihood that someone will be displaced from that unit because they're now above income. That's a long-winded way of saying I'm persuaded that this is worth trying. Again, thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for bringing it forward. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Well, I do believe this is a well-intentioned proposal and one I will support. And I appreciate Mayor Wheeler for bringing this forward. I guess I want to express my concern about sort of the drumbeat we just heard from Brad Mawson. And we're starting to hear from many people that, you know, inclusionary housing spells the end of the world. We're going to fall off a cliff. There's going to be no residential development in Portland in three to four years. And I hope this council...
 will not listen to that i hope this council will be resolute in its insistence that inclusionary housing is as much a bedrock of developing a residential project in the city of portland and that's what it needs to become it's a bedrock it's not going to change and it has to be accepted by the development community as much as compliance with fire code or building code is it's these are things that are not debatable that's what inclusionary housing must become when it becomes that
 and this council and the state legislature indicate they're not going to yield on it, then it will be accepted, and it will no longer be a discussion point. But right now we're hearing drumbeats, innuendos, and everything, setting inclusionary housing up to be the fall person when the economy does cool down and residential development does cool down. It's going to happen. We all know that. And I think it's just important.
 I'm going to be speaking out now, but I do hope this council will remain resolute in its insistence that, as Commissioner Fish just said, that people of modest means have the right to live in these good projects, in these good neighborhoods, with good access to education, transit, and amenities that everybody else deserves. They don't deserve to be pushed out to the outskirts of our city or beyond our city. They need to have a place to live in the city of Portland. So I'm...
 I segued a little bit, but I was concerned about the testimony that was just given, and I just wanted to express that in this forum. But I am pleased. And I also know that there's some 19,000 units that are presently vested and are not subject to inclusionary housing. Many of those permits are going to expire. Land use approvals will expire before those projects are ready to be built. So they're going to have to come back to us, and they're going to have to confront inclusionary housing, which I believe is a very well-worthy policy goal.
 that this city worked very hard on to get the legislature to give us the permission to do it and we worked very hard on this and shannon callahan and matt schibold in particular worked very hard on making the policy that we adopted that took a place a little over a year ago uh to be one that can work so i'm pleased to vote aye you daily yeah thank you for those remarks and i'm feeling a little for feeling a little over clumped right now um
 I want to also express my support in general for inclusionary zoning. I'm concerned that it's going to be used as a scapegoat for a downturn in development, which we knew was coming, I think, prior to the passage of this policy.
 I'm not convinced that we have the perfect equation for abatement and length of affordability, but I think we're close. So I'm open to those conversations, although I'm absolutely committed to keeping IZ in place. We have a shortage of affordable units. So today we're incentivizing affordability in new construction areas
 of units that are already in the pipeline. And since we know that we don't need 19,000 market rate or luxury units added to that, to our inventory, I think this is a smart move. I don't see it as a subsidy to renters, but to developers willing to partner with us and deliver the type of housing that we need, which is, in this case, workforce housing at 60% to 80%.
 Our dollar goes further in the short term. I mean, I don't want to make a claim that's not entirely true, but we're roughly giving an abatement. We're giving an abatement that's roughly equivalent to what we might invest in affordable housing, which is about $100,000 a unit. However, we'd expect a much longer affordability period than 10 years.
 But we're in a crisis. This housing is going to exist. Let's try to capture some of it. It's still half of what we would spend on building an affordable unit ourselves with our housing bond dollars. I vote aye. Wheeler. So I am more optimistic about the potential for this program. This is really the only way we can reach back into the pipeline.
 that was in the pipeline prior to inclusionary housing becoming an ordinance here in the city of Portland. And so the reality is, as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, those 19,000 units –
 Of the ones that actually get built, let's say it's 10,000, they will all come on as market rate units. There will be no affordability, not 80% in the central city, not 60% outside of the central city. So the question is, do we want to use an abatement to incentivize that kind of activity?
 I have come to the conclusion that, yes, we absolutely do want to do that. The second question, then, is one that was raised, I think, correctly by Commissioner Fritz. There is a policy call here. And the question is, if we instead waited for that market rate housing to actually be constructed and come on the market, we would collect taxes, right?
 from that market rate housing. And then we could decide, rather than a subsidy through a tax abatement, whether we wanted to use the tax revenues on something else. And she had suggested we could use it perhaps in a different housing situation or for vouchers or other purposes that the Council designates. That is a compelling argument, but
 The reality is, as the director has said, we're talking about 300-ish units. Personally, I think we'll do better than that, but let's say publicly, 300 units out of 10,000 to 19,000 units. This is a small sliver.
 of tax abatement in exchange for immediate affordability on a fairly limited number of units. Commissioner Fritz asked a great question about the 80% in the central city, and I just want to remind people that in the central city we're talking about tall steel and cement buildings.
 The construction costs, therefore, per unit are higher. The rents per unit are higher. And if you go below that 80%, there are going to be very, very few takers for this abatement because it just factually won't pencil out. And we've done that analysis based on the historic multi-programs, and we've come to that conclusion. As far as the $500,000 per unit.
 I think that is a reasonable cap based on historic standards that we've already demonstrated. And I also want to address this issue of could we go lower? All of these projects, in fact, will come back to the city council.
 And therefore, if the council chooses, we could go beyond the tax abatement. If we wanted to provide a direct subsidy from the general fund or other sources, that's still on the table. But that's not what this program is. This program is using tax abatement as a strategy to make it economically viable for developers who have every right right now to develop only market rate housing. Okay?
 because they got in under the wire prior to inclusionary housing, to incentivize them instead to create some affordability throughout the city, including in the central city. So I think this is a very good addition to our portfolio of affordability. This will not solve the housing crisis, nor has anybody proposed that it would. But from my perspective, if we want affordability built now,
 the best place to look at is at all those projects that are going through the permitting process, that are going through their pre-development phase, that are ready to actually be built and have some of those units, which could come on as soon as a year from now, be affordable, as opposed to when we work through new housing projects.
 Even under inclusionary housing, that's going to take three or four years before we see that housing. And the crisis, as I said up front, is today. So I obviously wouldn't have brought this if I don't support it. So I'm voting aye. I support it. The ordinance is adopted. Next up, 280.
 280, amend contract with Burger-A-Bum, Inc., for the Triune Creek at Boones Ferry Culvert Replacement Project, number E08682, in the amount of $316,298. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, the Bureau of Environmental Services prioritizes their investments to reduce flooding and improve watershed health.
 The culvert under Southwest Boone's Ferry Road has been identified for replacement to a bridge to allow for better stormwater flow and fish passage. The new bridge will allow pedestrians to pass below the busy Boone's Ferry Road, as well as passage for wildlife and endangered salmon in Tryon Creek.
 Here today to join us are Environmental Program Manager Amin Wahab and Senior Engineer Eric Brenneke, both from Environmental Services, to give a brief presentation. Welcome, gentlemen. Good morning, Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Eric Brenneke. I'm Project Manager of the Boone's Ferry Covert Replacement Project. Co-presenting with me is Amin Wahab, West Watershed Program Manager. Thank you.
 This ordinance before you is to authorize contract amendment number five with Berger-Abam Incorporated for the Tryon Creek at Boone's Ferry Culvert replacement project in the amount of $316,298. The project is the culmination of years of facility planning, design, and community involvement in stormwater management, stream restoration, and pedestrian wildlife advocacy. Thank you.
 In this next couple slides, Amin will provide some brief history and overview. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, good morning or good afternoon. In the interest of time, I will be brief. Earlier, Director Jordan said that the work we do, the decisions we make today are 100-year decisions. And this is, I believe, one of those decisions today.
 replacing the current culvert under Boone's Ferry Road on Triant Creek to a bridge. I have a fairly long history with this culvert. Actually, it goes about a quarter century. Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Holtzman, and now Commissioner Fish, you all have some history with this too. We first looked into this culvert in 1991.
 to 97 in the facilities planning process that the Bureau conducted. And the Boones Ferry culvert was identified as one of the key pieces of infrastructure in a culvert that was undersized to convey flows. And the 1996 February flooding was an indication of that. You will later on see some slides showing how high the water can rise.
 The project is to remove a 60 inch, 140 foot long corrugated metal pipe culvert. We have looked at this culvert over the years. It's resting at the bottom, so it has lived its lifespan. And it's pretty clear. And it will be replaced with a new bridge, a single span steel girder bridge. And the replacement will allow not only for
 meeting the facility's planning requirements or needs to convey the flows, but also will allow for pedestrian connectivity from the upper parts of Triumph Creek, what's significant to natural areas, to the lower part of Triumph Creek with the state natural area. But it will also kind of allow for a fish and wildlife movement unimpeded. Boones Ferry Road is the second major impediment to fish movement after the Highway 43 culvert, and you probably are aware that
 There are efforts underway to have the Army Corps of Engineers to replace the Highway 43 culvert with a passable culvert. Along the way, we have been working with our colleagues at PBOT because Boone's Ferry is a major arterial connecting southwest Portland and Lake Oswego with the rest of the city.
 And it also, Triumph Creek is a key resource that it crosses. Before you move on from that slide, Commissioner Fish, Dawn Uchiyama used to live right in the circle where the work zone is. And that was kind of one of the places where we dreamed up the Triumph Creek Watershed Council. So I'm wondering, is that house still there? I know she doesn't live there anymore, and is that going to be impacted by the work? Sure.
 Well, we'll come to that later, but this project has gone through about five years of, you know, permitting, easements, and land acquisitions. The two properties downstream, Metro and BES acquired those two properties. We're in the process of basically, you know, finalizing the transaction for those two properties because of the need, you know, that existed there, and then also for the
 Trail connectivity. So that property will be acquired by Metro and the city, and the same with the property across the creek on the other side. Thank you.
 Gentlemen, we're cutting into the lunch hour because we're a little late, so I give you permission to speed up through the presentation. I have no further interruptions, sorry. No, no, please. So this culvert, after the 1997 facilities plan, we looked at it again in 2005 and in 2008 in the planning and the pre-design process.
 And in 2013, BES funded this as a capital improvement project to basically proceed with the design and construction of it. In September of 2013, BES signed a contract with Berger ABAM, you know, for design services. And when that...
 contract was signed, we took a pause to secure a grant from Metro of $650,000 because the advisory committee and the neighbors and other participants, they wanted to have a bridge instead of a culvert. So the Metro grant paid the difference in order to pay for the increased cost for replacement of that with a bridge.
 In September 2015, City Council approved the Metro grant for $650,000. That is for construction, so we have not tapped into that grant yet. And contract was renegotiated with Berger-Avon basically to proceed for the design of a bridge. The project area is within the middle reach of Tryon Creek and Arnold Creek confluence. This is also some low density residential use.
 in the uplands of the watershed. A number of fish species can be found in the stream, such as steelhead trout, chinook salmon, and coho salmon. The improvements to both Tryon and Arnold Creeks as a result of this project will expand upstream fish habitat and will provide significant benefits, especially for steelhead trout.
 This is the slide that Amin was referring to. On the upstream end of the culvert, seen on the left side, which includes a concrete trash rack, impedes conveyance of flows. The picture on the right will show the December 7, 2015 flood conditions that led to debris clogs at the concrete trash rack, causing flooding conditions and risk of flooding to local streams. And as you can see...
 With my mouse right here, that's Boone's Ferry Road right there. I'd like to note that the height of the water surface elevation is above 15 feet from the channel bottom. As it was observed in the 1996 flood events, those events were higher than these conditions without overtopping Boone's Ferry Road.
 By removing the existing culvert and providing a larger stream channel, all flow events will be conveyed underneath the bridge structure. The bridge will be sized to meet specific design criteria for stream flow while accommodating pedestrian and wildlife connectivity. BES staff have secured permits with the Department of State Lands, the Corps, and Bureau of Development Services. Thank you.
 BES staff have also conducted extensive public involvement and outreach to property owners and partners such as Metro, Oregon Park and Regional District, Portland Parks and Recreation, PBOT, Southwest Trails, and Neighborhood Associations.
 I included this slide to illustrate the number of partners we have and also our composition of our advisory committee members. These are working partners. These partners are agencies, community groups, and property owners.
 For the project budget and schedule, Metro has awarded a grant for the bridge design with underpass for maximum fish, wildlife, and pedestrian passage. Total estimated project costs for BES was $6.4 million. Oregon Parks and Regional District contributed $30,000. And then the Metro grant...
 was $650,000, as mentioned before. Our anticipated construction is to start in January 2019. Is that $6 million? Is that the project cost, the construction cost? That's the total design, total life budget, including construction. Okay. What kind of fish is that? I don't know.
 i knew you're going to answer it so um it's a juvenile salmon possibly coho i had an expert try to let me know thank you first my cap when we need it yeah the ordinance before you is the amendment of the of the city's contract with berger abeam city managed the design contract and berger abeam completed design and brought plans and specifications to a 90 design level
 The amendment retains Berger ABAM to complete the engineering design plans to include water utility design work and for any necessary construction services in the year of 2019 and 2020, assuring that our design engineer has oversight and input into the construction process.
 This amendment will increase the contract by $316,000 and provide approximately 20% of total contract dollars to certified minority women and emerging small business sub-consultants. In this slide, the total life budget for the project is $6.4 million. The construction is $4.6 million and is included in a $6.4 million total contract.
 The pie chart shows the drivers for change to the scope and budget over the five years to secure partnerships, grants, and refine the design. The original budget assumed the design of an open-bottom culvert. The scope increase wedge is due to selecting a bridge alternative. After alternative analysis had been conducted between an open-bottom culvert and a bridge, it was determined that the advisory committee and community wanted a bridge since the bridge scored higher on enhanced fish passage revenue
 pedestrian wildlife connectivity, and riparian zone and wetland values. The other blue wedge includes city staff coordination efforts with permitting and public involvement. These additional costs also include the mitigation of contaminated media that we encountered on site, whether it was going to be a culvert or a bridge. The escalation wedge is the five years it took to secure partnerships, grants, and refine the design process.
 We are very excited to be completing our design phase of this project and would like to thank our partners for working with us to achieve this milestone. And with that, we're happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you very much. Looks great. Thank you. Thank you. Any public testimony on this item? Four people signed up to testify. Very good. Please come up, three at a time. Terry Prigsby, Al Iverson, Hans Stooch.
 Gentlemen, if you can. I just want to take a seat. Thanks. Good presentation. Thank you. Good morning. Good afternoon. Well, it is that. Thank you for reminding me. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Terry Pree Grigsby. I'm the Executive Director of the Triune Creek Worship Council, and I'm also Zone 5 Director and Board Chair of the West Multnomah Soil and Water Conservation District. So on behalf of both of those organizations, I urge you to vote in favor of this amendment. Thank you.
 We've been working for decades to enhance and protect our watershed, and we consider this to be really the most important project going on in our watershed right now. As Amin mentioned, we are also actively pursuing the replacement of the culvert at Route 43, and so with the replacement of both of those culverts, we will open up the system again to native fish species. Thank you.
 I'd also like to highlight the benefits to pedestrians. The connectivity that will be gained through this project will really bring more access to a part of the city that just doesn't have a lot of safe pedestrian access. We lack a lot of infrastructure there, so...
 The benefits to the fish and wildlife and water quality and also to our human neighbors are both really important.
 I'd also like to thank BES for being so inclusive in the process. I've been with the Warranty Council for 17 years now, and we've been hearing about this project. I've been hearing about it for that entire time, and it's been something that we've all wanted to accomplish. And as Amin said, for the last at least five years, there's been a really concerted effort to involve the community and learn what is the most important...
 best solution for not only fish and wildlife, but for the community. So that's it. Thank you very much for your strong partnership. Oh, yeah, my pleasure. Good afternoon. Okay. Good afternoon. My name is Al Iverson. I came here today because I'm on the Citizen Advisory Committee for the Boone's Ferry Road Culvert Replacement Project, and I support this ordinance.
 By profession, I'm a civil and environmental engineer. I retired from BES six years ago. This CAC began meeting a little over four years ago when the project started. The committee included affected property owners and individuals from various organizations. The organizations represented are the Arnold Creek Neighborhood Association, Southwest Trails, Friends of Tryon Creek State Park, Tryon Creek Watershed Council, and Sweeney Neighborhoods Incorporated. I mean Southwest Neighborhoods Incorporated, Sweeney.
 I represent Sweeney on the committee. Our earlier discussions were about how to replace the existing culvert and meet a variety of goals, from improving fish passage to pedestrian safety. It became clear that replacing the existing culvert with a new one would, at best, only marginally meet the various goals. So we asked staff to look at a bridge option rather than just replace the culvert.
 We were told by staff that this would increase cost and cause a delay of at least a year in the project. But after further discussion, we thought it was worth the delay and extra cost to have a project that met the stated goals. At the last CAC meeting, about a year and a half ago, the preliminary plans for the bridge were shown and described to us. We discussed what we were shown and enthusiastically approved the plan.
 I came here today to urge you to approve the ordinance for additional funding for this project, and I look forward to further CAC involvement as the project moves forward. Thank you. Thank you both. And then the last two hands, Stooge and Doug Rogers. Welcome, gentlemen. Thank you. Good afternoon. Afternoon. I'm Doug Rogers, and I am the president of Southwest Trails.
 And we are a group of citizen volunteers. A lot of us wear gray hair, retired, have time to walk the hills of Southwest and enjoy the outdoors. And we're volunteers from the neighborhood associations and from all over. And we're very anxious that this project move ahead. We supported it from the beginning. And we've, as a group, we've been involved for over 20 years. And the key issue here is safe connectivity, both for the fish...
 and for the people. So that's why this is a winner for us all. And Hans is a local neighborhood resident, and he has the details. Yeah, hi, my name is Hans Stoick. I live in southwest Portland, fairly close to where the Boone's Ferry culvert replacement project will take place. I pass that location, the intersection of Boone's Ferry Road and Arnold Street, frequently, both on foot and by car.
 I am a volunteer with Southwest Trails and it's mainly as such that I'm before you today. We work on the trail system in Southwest Portland, including Trail 6. Trail 6 starts at Goose Hollow downtown, goes south from there and ends in Triant Creek State Natural Area. On its way, it passes through Marshall Park and Boone's Ferry and the Boone's Ferry Culvert Replacement Project area.
 Trail 6 is also part of a regional trail, number 24, as designated by Metro, also called the Hillsdale to Lake Oswego Trail. Southwest Trails have been active on the Boonswary Colvert Replacement Project Advisory Committee, the CAC, as Al referred to it. And in advocating for this project, we support the overarching environmental goals
 of the project of making improvement for fish and wildlife. Our main interest is for the subsidiary project goal of improving pedestrian connectivity between the city-owned Marshall Park and the state-owned Triang Creek Natural Area. Connectivity currently exists, but you have to cross Busy Boone's Ferry Road and walk on a narrow curb for a tenth of a mile on the road to get to Triang Creek State Park.
 The culvert replacement project will eliminate these drawbacks by providing pedestrian passage under the roadway, stairs to the roadway, and a widened shoulder on the eastern side of Boones Ferry Road to the nearest trailhead, North Creek, in Triumph Creek State Natural Area.
 This promises to be a much safer and attractive connection for pedestrians to move between parklands north and west of the Boones Ferry-Roe-Donald Street intersection and Triant Creek State Natural Area. So I urge you to also adopt this motion. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, both of you. Does that conclude our public testimony, Sue?
 Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Fritz? It's a non-emergency ordinance, so we'll be voting on it next week. I just wanted to thank Amin Wahab, who was one of the original members of the Triumf Creek Watershed Council back in 1994. Your service to the city over decades is really appreciated. Thank you, Terry Prick-Rixby, who was the volunteer chair of the Watershed Council for a very long time before she got to be executive.
 its director. And thank you to those who sat through several hours of other stuff this morning in order to be able to give you support for the project. We usually get people staying if they want to oppose something. So it's really nice that you took the time to stay and comment in support of this. I'm really excited. Commissioner Fish, we serve citywide and I had absolutely nothing to do with this. But I have to say, if I had a pet project, this would be one of them. So thank you very much. I'm really excited to see it happening. Thank you for your kind words.
 Very good. Thank you, everybody, and thanks for your testimony. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 281. Item 281, authorize the Portland Water Bureau to purchase property at 40730 Southeast Otago Lane, Sandy, Oregon.
 for $425,000 to protect easements for conduits from the Bull Run water supply and authorize a portion of the property for disposition. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, we're joined by the Director, Mike Stewart, today, Director of the Portland Water Bureau, and he has a very brief presentation for us.
 Here's the background. During routine maintenance, the Portland Water Bureau became aware of a house listed for sale at 40730 Southeast Latigo Lane that encroaches in the Water Bureau's easement near its conduits from Bull Run Lake. The Water Bureau has negotiated with the property owner, the Standard family, to purchase the property to protect the Water Bureau's easement and conduits.
 This ordinance, if approved, would allow the Water Bureau to purchase the property for $425,000. The purchase price is based on the appraised price of $450,000 minus the Water Bureau's administrative and inspection costs of $25,000. A standard family has indicated they would be willing to accept this offer. After purchasing the property, the Water Bureau intends to remove the encroachments, secure its facilities, and sell the remaining property with additional easement restrictions.
 City disposition policy waived by council action. That's actually interesting. That's not a complete sentence. We'll have to ask Mike what he meant by that. Will be. Love it when that happens. Yeah. It's late. Let's just skim right over that section and hope no one's paying attention. The total cost of the project is $450,000 with some of the costs being offset with the proceeds from the property sale.
 Funding is available as part of the Conduits Transmission Water Program, which has a budget of $3.6 million for fiscal year 2017-2018. No change in the forecast water rates is anticipated to complete the purchase, nor are there any additional operations and maintenance expenses anticipated. Director Stewart. So, Commissioner Fish, I'm Mike Stewart. I'm the Director of the Water Bureau. I'm joined by Tom Klutz, our Property Manager here.
 I'll just clarify a few things. If you look at the picture, my little arrow is circling the house in question. It's a little bit difficult to see, but the corner of the house and a big retaining wall right here are sitting literally on top of Conduit 4. The house was built in 1974. It was not built by the current owners.
 We have gone and checked with other bureaus. This house is roughly 30 miles from here It's maybe a mile or two from Dodge Park kind of out in the boonies It's horse property none of the other bureaus were interested what the commissioner is referring to on Yeah, it's amazing
 What the Commissioner was referring to about waiving the Council policy, normally we would have to go through a process of checking with everybody formally, toting it up.
 and then making the property available for sale. What we're really asking in this ordinance is two things, authority to buy the property for $425,000, and when we have dealt with the encroachment, basically demolish the house, turn right around and sell it. And this ordinance authorizes both things. The buyer or the owner of the property is willing to,
 something we're actually helping them. We have a willing buyer willing seller situation and that's basically all I have. Pending your questions? Commissioner Fritz. When it's sold the new owner will be able to build another home just not right where that one is. Is that correct? Yes ma'am. We hope not and now that we know we'll keep an eye on it. We are going to expand the easement that's on the property make it a little bit wider and
 If we were going to do work on Conduit 4 or it broke right there, this would be kind of a disaster waiting to happen. But presumably would give them an easement so that they could have a driveway across the conduit. Absolutely. Yes, ma'am. Just like that one is, it allows them to do normal things, just not build a house on top. Very good. Thank you, Mike. Is there any public testimony on this item? Shedrick Wilkins wanted to say a few words. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and I have a – I hear he's came back a little – a lot. Okay, I'm Shedrick Wilkins. Is this the ideal location for a UV filtration plant? Is this where most of the water comes in? This is not where we're planning to do our –
 So on the issue of water, I'm not too sure people want to have their water filtered. But given the February 2017 situation where we got into the Columbia Wells, I think we need to speed up some sort of ultraviolet light to make up for the fact that we don't draw water
 water from the reservoirs and people made arguments that the light from the sun filters the water. So I think we need to speed that up. And I'm not sure that Oregon or Portland will ever filter the water. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate it. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 282.
 282, authorize an agreement with Sound Transit and purchase agreement with Brookville Equipment Corporation for the purchase of streetcar vehicles using a sole source procurement in an amount not to exceed $10 million. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. As Portland continues to grow, the Portland Bureau of Transportation is focused on strategies and projects that will help accommodate that growth and maintain Portland's quality of life.
 and improving the reliability of public transit is one of the best ways to reduce automobile congestion and that we are all dealing with today. And approval of this council item will go a long way in that regard. Since opening in 2001, Portland Streetcar has seen its service and ridership grow exponentially, and that growth has been directly attributed to housing production in the central city, and we need to make sure that this continues. Therefore, our great partner, TriMet and Portland Streetcar, Inc.,
 have identified a need to acquire additional streetcars to support ridership and continued frequent service. And Catherine Levine from PBOT is here to walk us through this purchasing proposal. Thank you very much for your consideration today. I can go into more detail, but I'll move very quickly to begin. In February, as we told you during the annual report, we highlighted the need to have additional vehicles to support reliable frequent transit service.
 Previously, we had discussed the most cost-effective means to increase the fleet by five vehicles. It was looking at purchasing two new vehicles and three used vehicles. Today, this action is focused on the purchase of the two new vehicles.
 In 2017, Tacoma, our sister streetcar city to the north, ran an open competitive procurement process for streetcar vehicles. And they included within that the option for Portland to purchase vehicles.
 In July of last year, we brought to you a cooperative procurement agreement with Sound Transit so that if the council approved, we could use that procurement as a means of purchasing the cars.
 The purpose of this ordinance is to execute an assignment agreement, basically accepting the options from Sound Transit, and to authorize a contract with Brookville. It is listed as a sole source, however we have obviously worked in partnership with Sound Transit to get to this point.
 I did want to let you know procedurally procurement did post a notice, as they're required to do, that we intended to enter into this contract with Brookville and that no protests were received. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, any further questions? Brookville is in Pennsylvania? That's correct. This is our opportunity to purchase American-made cars. Public test run? Shedrick Wilkins. Coming up, sir.
 Yeah, my view was when they made light rail, this is kind of an east-west thing. But when they started the loop, they got involved with the north-south thing. And I remember when 2012, before that, there was an argument that traffic would hit the streetcars. It did not happen as far as I know. There's like, they're going this way. I think in Portland there's a big issue about southeast Portland and a little bit into Sandy Boulevard. My father...
 I went to Nabisco, five miles away, and my first job was not in – I was raised in 70th and Sandy. My first job was downtown. And there really isn't a job market, but there's a lot of housing in southeast Portland. So I really would think we need to expand and do experiments about putting streetcars down 82nd.
 I don't know if they'd be elevated or not, or 39th Street. So you're getting into southeast Portland. They don't work there, but they go somewhere. Maybe they could take. And then, of course, the streetcars would intersect with light rail, and then they would go downtown. Thanks, Senator. That's the thing. Southeast Portland is a real residential area. There's no jobs, and they work other places, and they need to get there. Very good. Thank you, sir. Please call the roll. Fritz. Yes.
 Thank you for your work. I think the streetcar is... We heard earlier that transit ridership has gone down, but yours, streetcars, has not. It's gone up. 32% of the riders earn less than $30,000 a year, so the myth that it's just a...
 train toy for rich people is absolutely not true and most people are using it to get to and from home and work so it's a really splendid example of not only a development tool but also a transportation mechanism that is working for a lot of people thank you very much for your work on it Fish, I thank you Catherine and also thanks to Dan Bauer the CEO of Portland Street Car Inc I the ordinance is adopted thank you next item 283
 283, authorized contracts as required with 23 service firms for architecture and engineering services in support of Portland Bureau of Transportation Capital Improvement Program. Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks, Mayor. I'll just turn it over to procurement. Very good. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. Nope, nope. That train left a long time ago. Definitely afternoon.
 Okay. Don't tease us. Well, you know, when you're taking a nap out here, you lose track. Your moment to shine. Larry, thanks very much. Larry, your time is up. I move the item there. Oh, no, he's not. Okay, let's start with this. Happy second day of spring. How does that sound? That's awesome. That's awesome. Thank you.
 Okay. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Larry Palat from Procurement Services. You have before you the ordinance that through a procurement report recommended 23 price agreements to be awarded to 12 separate firms for a total amount, a lot, $26,875,000. This is a small point of clarification. The actual ordinance piece said 23 firms, but we're
 There was actually, there's 12 firms, some of them getting more than one contract in different areas of work. So just a little piece of clarification. These price agreements for a three-year period will be utilized as the needs are presented and specific projects are identified in PBOT's budget. And the price agreements range in total value from half a million to two and a half million, with task orders within those agreements limited to between $175,000 on some and up to $500,000 on some others.
 On September 6, 2017, the Chief Procurement Officer advertised RFP number 69948 proposals and eight categories of work were received and opened October 2nd. All proposals were deemed responsive to the requirements of solicitation. The proposals were evaluated in smaller groups based on different work areas by three different evaluation teams. All the evaluation teams had at least one community member, an individual through the Minority Evaluator Program.
 I'm just calling out there was a lot of hard work in the evaluations on this. There was a lot of stuff to read. So it's just kind of an extra thank you to all the members of the evaluation teams, especially the committee members through the MEP program. The city issued a notice of intent to award the price agreements on December 18th. No protests were received.
 This procurement has a particularly interesting story behind it. The entire procurement process is the result of a variation on our standard solicitation process, which was piloted by the Bureau of Transportation a little over a year ago. The standard methodology requires consultants to propose what their utilization of certified firms will be in their actual proposal.
 What we moved forward with the pilot thought process is not to have them identify specific certified firms because under these types of agreements, the work itself is not identified. Projects come and go through the budget process, so you don't really know what it is. So what PBOT decided and worked with us, you know, it's kind of a very, very good joint effort,
 a couple years ago was having the firms propose what their thought process is relative to inclusion. Tell us about some of the people you traditionally use. How do you plan to move this procurement stuff, the participation stuff, forward when we're not really telling you exactly what work you're going to do? It's a difficult process. So what we did is we said we'll take –
 your thought process, then when we get the price agreements together, we start issuing task orders against these price agreements, that's when we come back and the PBOT has, then they know what the work is, the project is identified, and they can hold the consultants responsible to a much higher level of participation. That's interesting. On the pilot project, the first one that they did, their setup was to achieve the city's,
 goal of 20%. That was their driver. They actually got to just shy of 28% by having additional negotiation. The negotiations for each task order were,
 There's a huge focus on participation in that. And if PBOT doesn't think that the particular vendor is doing enough, they can ask them to do more. They can say, we can't quite get there with this one. We're going to go to the next vendor. So is that where you're getting the eight –
 Yeah, it is. If we utilize the full value of the contracts, a little over $26 million, and we get to the 30 percent, that's the big piece with this one. PBOT raised the goal from 20 percent to 30 percent participation. So if we use the whole thing, get the 30 percent, it's over $8 million that go to certified firms. And what sort of –
 enforcement mechanism is not exactly the right word, but how do you ensure that you're going to get that $8.62 million? What the process is, then, when they issue a task order, they have a specific project. So they know there are certified firms who can do pieces of that project, and that's when they negotiate with the prime vendor on, okay.
 You're saying you're going to self-perform this piece of work, but we know there are certified firms out there who can do that. We would like you to include them in this task order. Okay. So would you say that $8 million is a guaranteed deliverable?
 How would you characterize it? No, it's an aspirational goal. Okay. It is backed up by the negotiation. There was one more little interesting piece to this solicitation process. All of the proposers had to sign an agreement that said they know about the 30% goal and they agreed to utilize all possible means to reach or exceed that goal. So it's not a surprise to them.
 When they walk into this, they know they're going to be held at that 30%. Now, because we don't have a diversity study that lets us set hard goals, these are aspirational goals, but everybody's very aware of how important this is to you as council members and the city as a whole to get to this participation level. As I said, on the last one, they started out with a goal of 20 and got to 28 by virtue of hard work and negotiating with the vendors and telling the vendors, hey,
 This is what we need you to do. And it's very successful.
 Some of the other utility bureaus are moving forward on the same type of thought process, the newer methodology. We don't have enough data to say, wow, this is super successful. Everything we've got so far says it is. And if everything works, and it's mostly a lot of hard work on the part of transportation, but if everything works, this should become the new methodology to get us on these types of price agreements. This should get us much, much better participation. Okay.
 Thank you. Okay. So that's the back story. Really quickly, I don't want to be accused of blowing the quorum here, but I have to go. So I don't know if you have the requisite votes. We, I believe we. I am essentially done. We're asking for approval here. I'm good. Good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Commissioner Fritz, any further comments? No, I just need Commissioner Fish for the last item. Call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Salzman? Thank you. Aye. Udalli? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. That leaves us with two consent-enhanced items, 273. 273, authorize an additional position under the Open and Accountable Elections Program within the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. Who pulled this, please, Sue? Marianne Schwab and Lightning. Thank you.
 And neither of them are here. Does anybody want to testify on this? Okay, this says an additional position, but it's actually the first position to be hired for the program. Normally this would be done through the budget or the budget monitoring process, but we're a year behind where we want it to be. It's urgent that we get this position created and filled as quickly as possible. I can't wait until the spring bump to do this.
 The position has been created in the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement because the Open and Accountable Elections Fund is still in the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement until it is moved to special appropriations as part of the budget process. And that will also happen in the spring budgeting monitoring process.
 The success of program implementation in time for the 2020 election is in question. Every day of delay makes it more difficult to complete the work that is necessary for successful implementation of this adopted council program. I urge your support, colleagues. And the individuals who signed up for public testimony are no longer here. Commissioner Saltzman, do you have a question? So the total staffing is two for the opening council? It will be, yes. This is the first position. The first position. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 2-7-5. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. 2-7-5. Authorize a sole source contract with Go Lloyd to fund transportation projects and programs in the Lloyd district. This was pulled by Commissioner Saltzman's office to be referred to his office. Yes, if you could refer that back to my office, please. Very good. Unless I missed something, that's it.
 We are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thanks, everybody. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the March 21, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udallie. Here. Wheeler. Here. And now a message from our sponsor.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in a City Council meeting, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. And please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of the testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. Sue, would you please read the first two items, 284 and 285? Thank you.
 Item 284, amend the transportation system plan consistent with the 2035 comprehensive plan and in compliance with the regional transportation plan. Amend River District Master Street plan. Add proposals for automated vehicles. Adopt findings of compliance. Adopt corrections. Amend transportation and parking demand management code to clarify requirements.
 And 285, amend the Transportation System Plan to update introduction, modal plans, implementation strategies, and glossary. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. I'm pleased to introduce the hearing for the third and final stage of the update to Portland's 2035 Transportation System Plan, or TSP. The TSP is the 20-year guide for how we maintain and expand our transportation system
 to accommodate future growth. This update comes at a particularly important time as our population is growing and we continue to experience strong job growth. With new people and new economic activity, there comes increasing demands on our transportation system. At the same time, we are seeing new technologies and new mobility options, which offer new opportunities as well as new challenges.
 All of this highlights the need for the city policies and strategies to guide our transportation decisions, both today and in the years to come. Transportation touches so many aspects of our city, and the development of the TSP reflects this. With input from community members and business groups, and coordination with bureaus like fire and parks and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, the TSP has been comprehensively developed to be a guiding document for our city.
 And I'd now like to introduce Courtney Duke with PBOT to provide us with an overview of the third stage of the Transportation System Plan. She'll be joined by some others. Right. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Courtney Duke from the Bureau of Transportation. I've been the project manager and lead of the Transportation System Plan and the city's comprehensive plan for transportation for the last eight to ten years, depending upon your...
 where you want to measure that. I'm here with Bob Kellett, a planner in our group, and Peter Hurley, another planner, to go through where we are right now for the Stage 3 TSP. So Bob's going to run the presentation, which should be up. Oh, there it is. OK.
 So again, we also wanted to introduce that most of the TSP team is here, those who are still working with us. They're here to answer questions, but also to be recognized as working quite hard on this project as well, because we do think that this might be one of the last times we see you related to the TSP this round. Thank you.
 So, again, the TSP is a part of a larger transportation and land use plan process that goes all the way up to the state. I know that three of you have been here for the duration of our comp plan and TSP update, but we have two new commissioners, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udaly. So we thought we'd do a little bit of background to make sure that we know where we all are.
 So again, our first slide just sort of gives an idea of how we fit in to the statewide planning rules, the transportation planning rule, which was a direction from the state to help implement those goals. We have a regional transportation plan that is actually underway right now, and actually both of the people here at the table with me are working on that as well. And then again, we're a part of the comprehensive plan. There are also components, and most of what you're going to see today are components that are outside of that comprehensive plan.
 component, but we also have some changes to that, and then we have some things that we just need to update to have one cohesive document. So components of the transportation system plan, you can see on this slide, pretty big document. Right now it's in about four big binders, but again, we have some staff here later that are going to give some previews of how that's going to be streamlined into a more web document. Okay.
 so we'll go to the next slide to talk about where we have come to you before so stage one of the tsp was a part of the comprehensive plan update that you saw as a part of the city's periodic review order that came down from the state there were a number of tasks that were required by us and we worked closely with the bureau planning sustainability and eric engstrom who's also here
 So what's highlighted were the things that were adopted by City Council in June of 2016. So those were the main goals and policies for transportation, which is Chapter 9. But there's also goals and policies related to transportation and the right-of-way in Chapters 2, which is the public involvement chapter, Chapter 3, 4, 8, and then, of course, Chapter 9 is the main component, but we have...
 sections throughout. We also had the transportation major projects and programs, and then we had a project evaluation to get to that, and then a financial plan to help pay for all of that. And those, again, were required as a part of the state periodic review and were adopted by council in 2016, and I believe have just been upheld by the state, even though parts of it were appealed, but we were happy to say that no transportation-related things were appealed.
 And then we had stage two, which is in the orangish color on your screen, I hope. So then we did some updates related to the introduction, because it was a fairly static document at that time, and the glossary, again, to be in compliance with the updated comprehensive plan. We made some changes to our community involvement chapter and to the bicycle objectives to be in alignment with the bicycle plan that had been adopted in 2010.
 And we made some adjustments to our street classification policies. There's seven policies related to street classifications. And we updated the bicycle ones to be in compliance with the plan, as well as our street design classifications. And this was in direct response to changes to the comprehensive plan related to the centers and corridor strategy.
 We also updated our refinement plans and studies chapter because we had done a lot of those plans and studies. And then we also had some updates to our master street plans. And we made some changes to the street vacation code and have added that to the code as a part of that. We made some changes to transportation demand management and some commercial parking in the codes. Again, those were adopted in December of 16 and are at the state and have been approved at the state level.
 So now we are in stage three, our final stage, which is in green. So we're making some additional changes to the introduction and glossary. Just since the last couple years, there's been a few terms that we wanted to make sure that were included. We have actually deleted the objectives, and Bob's going to talk a little bit about this more when he talks, to be in compliance with the comprehensive plan and the 2035 Central City Plan.
 We made changes to street classifications for transit, emergency response, and traffic. We needed to do a minor update to the river district. We have a reference to our modal and management plans. We have some implementation strategies, especially related to codes and standards. And then we made some policy changes related to automated vehicles and our performance measures, partly in relation to some direction from Planning Commission.
 So then we also, as a part of all that, obviously had public participation. The discussion draft, we had a discussion and proposed draft as we've done for all of our components. We had, as you can see, over 120 comments and outreached over 30 events. And we heard from our West Hills citizens as well as some folks in Southeast, and we made some changes in the document related to that, which we'll talk about.
 And then the proposed draft came out, and we had sent out additional public involvement and had comments around that as well, as well as planning commission testimony. All right. So today's council actions are an ordinance to update the comprehensive plan components. So those are the geographic policies, again, the objectives, the
 Street classifications, performance measures, the connected and automated vehicles, master street plan, some code chapter changes, some errata, which are basically some typos. And then we have a resolution related to the introduction, the modal plans, the glossary and implementation strategies. And then now Bob and Peter will go through a little more detail on those sections. Thank you.
 Thank you, Courtney. As Courtney mentioned, a lot of what we've done has been working in conjunction with the comprehensive plan. So back in our current TSP that was written in 2007, we had a geographic policy that was based on the seven districts. As you may know, with the comprehensive plan, they've adopted a five-pattern area. So we've taken our geographic policies and made those into the pattern areas. Okay.
 With the objectives, in the 2007 TSP, we had goals, policies, and underneath those were objectives. To make consistency with the comprehensive plan and Central City 2035, which do not have objectives, we went through all the objectives. Some of them we achieved, and so we were able to delete those. Some were elevated to sub-policies, and then some we identified as being more of an implementation strategy, so we moved those to our implementation section.
 As Courtney mentioned, this stage three, we've updated some of our street classifications. These provide policy guidance for the desired function of the street, so how we want the street to function. In this stage, we've updated the traffic, transit, and emergency response.
 street classifications. In the stage two, we did the bicycle and street design. And coming to you in the future will be our pedestrian classifications. That's right now part of the PED PDX master plan that is being updated, as well as potentially a freight master plan update sometime in the near future. So the street classifications, we've
 We've made some changes to emphasize our policies around Vision Zero to make sure that we have safety goals as our top priority. We've also clarified that some of the traffic calming tools that we can use, we've used on local streets, and now we can use on neighborhood collectors, things like speed bumps.
 With the transit, we worked closely with TriMet. As you may know, TriMet does a service enhancement planning where they're projecting out future transit service. And so we worked closely with them to update our transit street classifications, as well as emphasize not only the lines that will be serving us in the future, but also access to transit. We know how important it is for people to be able to get safely to their bus stops.
 And also, once they're on the bus, we have some policies related to priority treatments along those transit lines so that transit can move quicker where it needs to go.
 We work closely with the Fire and Rescue Bureau on the emergency response street classifications. One of the big changes we've made is add a secondary response classification. So this is important when a primary response route is blocked for whatever reason, traffic or it's closed for construction. The secondary emergency routes allow the fire and rescue to get where they're going. And also we've worked closely with them to identify ways in which we can
 have both our priorities of quick response but also traffic calming so we've worked with the fire bureau to develop fire friendly speed bumps and things like that we have worked closely with prosper portland on the post office site so we've added a little bit of connectivity to the river district master street plan to facilitate that redevelopment in the future
 And as Courtney mentioned, we continue to make some updates to what we're calling the supporting sections, the introduction, the glossary. The modal master plans is a reference to the master plans that we have adopted, the bike master plan, pedestrian plan, and the implementation strategies.
 We did make one recommended change to Code Chapter 17.107. As part of Stage 2, Council adopted this in the commercial mixed-use zones for the transportation, parking, and demand management.
 So we're just clarifying within the code that the fees that will be charged are going to be part of an annual fee. This allows us also to look at ways in which we can have one rate for market rate dwellings and one for affordable rate. With TriMet adopting a new low-income fare, this might provide an opportunity to achieve both our transit goals and also our affordable housing goals. And now Peter will talk about performance measures.
 Good afternoon, Councilmembers. Peter Hurley, Portland Bureau of Transportation. Section 7 of the document covers performance measures. Transportation system plans are required to have performance measures, and measures in our plan are the North Star for what we want to achieve on safety, on equity, on climate, and on congestion.
 PBOT, along with the Planning and Sustainability Commission, are recommending performance measures that will require strong actions to achieve. Achieving those measures will be a significant stretch. Council adopted several measures in December 2016. The changes before you today are refinements that emphasize a 70% non-single-occupant vehicle mode share for all trips and for commute trips.
 We also make explicit a 30% or less target for commute trips and establish a new work-at-home target of 10%. We're also suggesting adding a new congestion target of not increasing the total number of non-freight trips, which is particularly important for addressing congestion. May I please ask a question about this? So is the 10% work-at-home target, is that for the...
 city of Portland, capital city of Portland, or is that for all of the city of Portland? Very good question. It is for all employers in the city of Portland. So it would include private sector as well as public sector. Okay. So when you say performance measure, because obviously you don't drive that decision. I mean, there's employment policies and everything else.
 And you say this is a performance measure. Is it a performance measure for PBOT or a performance measure for the program? Whose performance measure is this?
 We're saying, and as part of a transportation system plan, the region and the state say set performance targets so that we can manage the system as a whole. We're establishing that as a city target in order to effectively manage the system as a whole. We do have some tools to work with both public sector and private sector employers, incentive programs,
 Even improving transit, improving bicycle and pedestrian connections helps people to make that choice. And as Bob just mentioned, we do have a transportation demand management program as well where we work with both developers and employers to encourage people to use alternative modes, including working at home. And I'm sorry, what is the current –
 current percentage? I believe it's just over 7%. It's over 7%. That one is not a huge stretch to get up to 10%. No, it doesn't seem like it would be. And with our age-friendly system,
 city desires obviously. We're trying to be more flexible in the work day and how people do work and that could have obviously encouraged some older adults to stay engaged in the workforce as well. So that just caught my attention and I appreciate your clarification. Commissioner Fritz? Well I think there's certainly an opportunity for us as a city employing 6,000 people. Obviously the parks technicians need to be in the parks but some of the staff could work from home one or two days a week and that's something we can do by leadership.
 I also am kind of concerned that we're not proposing to improve our walking bicycle or transit percentages, and why is that?
 So the percentages that were established by the council in December 2016, such as 25% for transit and 25% for bicycling, are very aggressive measures and will require a significant set of both policy and investment decisions in order to achieve those. The current projections are less than that we would not achieve those without significant policy changes and investment changes.
 But we're going to keep them the same in stage two and stage three just to keep reaching for the top? Is that the thinking? One of the things, we had some conversation at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and Commissioner Smith can perhaps speak to this, but certainly the message that we heard and the message that we wanted to send is that we believe that establishing
 realistically aggressive targets or significant stretch targets, sends the appropriate message. Given the adoptions that we have for Vision Zero, for our climate action plan, for our equity standards within the city, helping people to make it easier for them to travel affordably,
 to travel using transit, walking and bicycling, it's appropriate to have those significant measures. And it does in many ways, if actions follow words, we'll be bringing to you a series of decisions that could up those percentages. But our will be significant decisions. Thank you.
 Thank you. What is the – how do you define the 10 percent or the 12.5 percent of carpool? Is that of trips that are taken as part of a carpool? 12.5 percent of what? So if there were 100 commute trips that were taken by individuals within the city –
 12 and a half, yeah, of the total number of individuals would have chosen carpooling. So 25 out of 200, et cetera. And carpooling, there's the traditional carpooling, which is individuals choosing to share a ride to get to work. But it can also include the new technologies, so a shared –
 TNC trip, a shared Uber Lyft trip, for example, could count as a carpool. Not if it's just the driver and one passenger. It would require two or more passengers as well. And one of the reasons that even though carpooling has been stagnant or declining over the last several years because of the increase in access to
 transportation network company trips, Uber, Lyft, and others, we are seeing a significant increase in people using those options. And we would like to see more of those in the future shared, and those would count as carpool trips. Great. Great. Thank you. That seems like one of the obvious solutions to reducing congestion that costs a lot less than infrastructure.
 As we move into the automated and connected vehicle policy, one of the things that we are recommending along with the Planning and Sustainability Commission is that we take actions to advance shared trips. If we have a lot of zero-occupant and single-occupant trips, we are not going to achieve our targets. Can I ask a question? Because you mentioned TNCs and they're not part of this.
 So if we have TNCs operating without a cap, and in my neighborhood the streets are absolutely clogged with TNCs, how do we actually make progress on our goals here if we're not somehow cross-referencing the impact that they are having on congestion?
 And Commissioner, if you will, the next section is actually the automated and connected vehicle policy. And I believe as I go through that, I can speak specifically to your question. Okay. And when you talked to me yesterday, you pointed out that you count those in single occupancy vehicles. Yes, in zero occupancy vehicles. And if they are not shared...
 So the next section, Section 8 of the TSP, establishes a new connected and automated vehicle policy. It's important to recognize we currently do not have one, and therefore one of the reasons that we're proposing one is to get ahead of the changes which are occurring.
 On Monday, a pedestrian crossing a road was killed by an Uber self-driving vehicle in Tempe, Arizona. That death reinforces the need for Portland to adopt a strong connected and automated vehicle policy with a clear priority on Vision Zero. Can I ask you a question about that? Because that obviously got global press. There was actually a driver behind the wheel, was there not? Yes. And they didn't stop either.
 So what else do we know about that? That's three days old now. So I've read a number of reports. I'm probably not the best person to be commenting on it, but I think perhaps where...
 A question in my mind and perhaps in yours as well is, would it have made any difference if it were a driverless vehicle? We do know that there are nearly 40,000 people killed a year in the United States. But to be clear, it was not a driverless vehicle. It was reported as being a driverless vehicle. It was an automated vehicle with a driver in the seat. With the guy sitting behind the wheel. Correct. Perhaps not paying as much attention as he should have been. And that's part of the question. Yes. Yes.
 And so one of the things that because we are prioritizing Vision Zero as part of the automated and connected vehicle policy and because we are prioritizing a phased approach, testing first before deployment, one of the big questions that we have is how to assure a safe level of operation in the city.
 Obviously, the existing conditions are fairly dangerous, particularly for vulnerable road users, because of the high level of death and injury that we currently experience. As we move to a new technology, set of technologies, we're going to make certain that those are safe for the full range of users. I think we're once again at risk of putting the cart before the horse.
 Because when you say that, it sounds like, well, we're going to test to see whether drag racing up Burnside makes sense in NASCAR vehicles. I think we first have to ask whether we want NASCAR vehicles on our streets. So –
 I've raised this a dozen times every time we have this conversation, and what I don't want us to do is back into a policy without the council saying that we're going to green light the policy. And the council has not yet taken a position on connected and automated vehicles, and you're already talking about testing. So what have I missed?
 As part of the Smart Automated Vehicles Initiative, we have been prioritizing a very slow step-by-step approach that involves, because there are already, at this point in time, there are no rules that the City of Portland has that would prevent an automated vehicle company from coming in and operating on our streets. By putting in place a strong policy that says, yes,
 Here is how we would like the technology, here is how you would need to operate within the City of Portland, starting with a testing approach.
 We're getting ahead of the technology in preventing the type of problems we could have if we didn't have either a policy or an admin rule. In interim policy, it says that we prohibit this activity, and then we figure out the rules. Why are we backing into this? I couldn't help but jump in. So Art Pierce, I manage transmission planning here for the Bureau.
 Well, we're having a discussion of today, specifically what you're talking about, is the recommendations for Policy 9.6, which is articulating how autonomous vehicles will fit into our modal hierarchy, not authorizing their function in the street.
 So what you're specifically talking about, and we're emphasizing very specifically, if I go to the next slide, is when we are considering the inclusion of autonomous vehicles, how do we prioritize their inclusion versus other modes? So we're explicitly saying that walking and biking in transit are more prioritized than the inclusion of the autonomous vehicles. And so that is very explicitly trying to address the importance of inclusion
 people-first modes and those modes that address our overall mobility and health strategies as the place to begin the conversation.
 Well, that's helpful for me, Art. But, again, and I'm agnostic on the outcome. What I'm simply saying is the council can't start adopting policies without first making a choice and making an informed choice at the front end. And what we're at risk of doing is piecemeal putting in place a regulatory structure.
 that sort of says, well, this is inevitable, versus the threshold conversation about, A, do we want this to occur in our city? B, under what rules? C, what are we going to prioritize in terms of funding? Because this comes with a big price tag in terms of building out a grid that we have to maintain and could come at the expense of other transportation investments. I just want to be sure that we don't sort of –
 piecemeal get into a position where we say, oh, you know, the train's left the station, we've got all this in works. Because I think council first has to tackle the threshold question. Sure, and I don't believe that what's in front of you today is the train leaving the station. It is instead trying to place where autonomous vehicles will fit into our overall transportation strategy. We do have the Smart Autonomous Vehicle Initiative that did come before council where you gave us direction to not authorize,
 the operation of autonomous vehicles before coming back to council. And so that's a very explicit direction. That is not changing. That's very helpful. Yeah, so this is really trying to make sure. And I think we will be one of the first cities, if not the first city in the country, to place autonomous vehicles within the overall transportation strategy for a city. So this is actually – we think this is actually a very aggressive policy-first perspective. Commissioner Fritz. So all you asking us today to –
 except the policies in Section 8 on connected and autonomous vehicles? Correct. Automated vehicles, okay. So when you get to the end of your presentation, I have a couple of amendments. We knew you would, yes. Thank you. I have one more question. I'll just put it on the table. I don't know the answer to this. This is hearsay and speculation. I'm told that some Teslas already have
 the capacity to drive down the street with the driver behind the wheel, but they already have the capacity to do what the car in Phoenix was doing. Am I wrong? Not quite what the car in Phoenix can do. So they have the ability for some level of disengagement from the driver. The vehicle in Phoenix was actually doing its entire trip in automated mode. Got it. Okay. Thank you. I vaguely remember a Tesla going under a truck,
 Yeah. Under similar circumstances. There was a previous fatality that was a Tesla driver, I think, thinking more of what their vehicle could do than it was capable of. Yeah. Reading a magazine or something. I think so. Right. Or taking a nap or something. Yeah. Okay. And as we move to the connected and automated vehicle policy, one –
 I think the concerns that you've expressed are ones that we share, and it's a primary reason that we are putting forward a policy at this point in time is we want to have a strong basis that council feels comfortable with, saying that you're prioritizing Vision Zero and other components so that we are prepared. On Monday, as I mentioned, Portland's policy and our Smart Automated Vehicle Initiative both strongly mandate a phased approach.
 starting with testing and controlled environments such as Portland International Raceway. We're also concerned that without strong standards we could experience more congestion from zero occupant AB trips.
 That's why the policy and SAVI prioritize fleet automated vehicles that are electric, shared, and shared, also known as FAVES, the acronym Fleet Automated Vehicles that are Electric and Shared, which gets at the question you had previously asked, Commissioner, about congestion and the potential for congestion.
 One of the policy components here is to say that we are prioritizing or giving direction to the city to prioritize fleet automated vehicles that are electric and shared. We believe that could reduce parking demand and parking impacts as well as to decrease the number of vehicles and therefore congestion. Do you happen to know whether any insurance companies are underwriting policies for automated vehicles?
 So insurance is one of the areas that the state task force that was established by a bill that was just passed in the legislature is going to be looking into. I don't know whether the current vehicles on the road are self-insured by the companies that are testing them or are independently insured. Okay, thank you.
 And then finally, in the last slide, as Art alluded to a moment ago, the policy includes an update to the people-moving strategy adopted by the Council in December 2016. We feel that this is particularly important because while we're maintaining walking, bicycling, and transit as the top priorities, we're also saying that amongst the vehicle, the passenger-carrying vehicle,
 options that fleet automated vehicles that are electric and shared are a top priority for affordability, for congestion, and for our climate goals, the electric component. So we're proposing to amend, along with the Planning and Sustainability Commission, to amend the people moving strategy to reflect that prioritization. That's all that I have on connected and automated vehicles.
 Should I introduce my amendments now or wait? I think I'd wait. Is that okay? All right, thanks. Okay, so Bob and Peter are going to step back until there's more questions, and we're going to bring up Nicholas Wise, who's a consultant with us, and Kevin Donahue. I'm going to move over so you guys can get there. Kevin Donahue is an associate planner with us. They are working together on a digital document for us, and also we'll be having a...
 written document with everything included. So we want to just give a quick preview to show you what it will look like and some of the components. This is very much supposed to be a public-facing document and make it much easier for people to use. As I mentioned before, at least the one on my desk is four notebooks full of...
 printed documentation and so many of our folks aren't doing that anymore. So Nicholas is here from Nicholas Wise and Kevin Donohue. Welcome, thanks for being here. Thank you. Like Courtney said, my name is Nicholas Wise. I'm a consultant with the Portland Bureau of Transportation from my own independent practice called Department. This is the digital web document of the Portland System Transportation Plan, Transportation System Plan.
 Our main focus with this project was to make it more egalitarian and more open and accessible to the broader public, both private citizens who are concerned about the street construction in their neighborhood or bicyclist advocates or even specialist interests like developer groups who need to have a clear understanding of what the city's policy is to do things. Oh, you're good.
 So this is that gigantic document that exists on a desk, but just on the internet. And this gives us a lot of things that we can do, which includes disseminating the document as downloads, as well as creating an easily searchable index of the entire document. So we can do a thing like search for...
 Live demos are always a joy and a pleasure. The entire document is searchable, so we can find results throughout the entire document that are apropos to interest. And then the other thing about the document is it is tying the textual adoptive plan to all of the GIS data in the city. And we think this is really important because it...
 makes it more accessible for people who are saying, yes, I can read about all these plans, I know what they mean, but what's happening on my street? What's happening around the corner? So here we're gonna zoom into Deacom and we have all of the transportation system projects and programs, which Kevin can talk a little bit more about. The programs are in different phases right now. PedPDX is being updated, there'll be project lists that comes out of those. So as the data becomes available, we'll make those different programs selectable
 For example, here we have the bikeway network completion and the neighborhood greenways plans for this neighborhood. We also have the street classifications, so we can see the bicycle, transit, or design classifications. And then we can cross-reference these across each other by saying, let's look at the bicycle plan versus the neighborhood greenways, so they're composable. We also have a selection of reference layers, for example, zoning codes
 and project plan centers and corridors. Can I ask you, which map are you using? I've noticed there's some subtle differences in different maps that you can access, Portland Map, Google Map.
 Actually, some surprising differences when you drill down. What are you using on this? The base map that we're putting this data upon, I believe, is the base map provided by the PortlandMaps.com. I believe that is the case. If it's not, we're using a standard base map issued by ESRI, the GIS service provider. I'm pretty sure we're using the Portland Maps one, though.
 And as for the geographic data, we are rendering all of these plans from the Portland Bureau of Transportation's own GIS. Thank you. We just want to give you a good preview of that. Thank you both. Okay, so the next steps, I think Bob's going to get us there, but I'll go ahead and go. So today we have our council hearing.
 On April 11th, if Council needs any deliberations related to TSP, that would be on April 11th. On May 9th, we would have any Council amendments or substitutions, again, if needed or proposed. On May 24th, we'd have a final reading and vote. And then we'd have an effective date of June 25th.
 If there are no changes or deliberations needed, you could propose to have a first reading today and then your second and final reading on May 24th. So again, the requested council action to just refresh your memory of all the things we just talked about. And then I just wanted to acknowledge the TSP team that's been working on this. Some of us for a long time, some of us just joined the team this week.
 So anyway, so some of them are here today, again, if they have questions. But everyone's worked really hard to make this a great document, and we will continue to work on it as we move through any amendments and then through the final document in this summer.
 So we're open to questions. I also wanted to make sure Chris Smith from the Planning and Sustainability Commission is here to testify. I think he got signed up second rather than first, but he's here on behalf of the Planning Commission. And, again, we have staff here to answer any questions you may have. Thank you.
 Chris, for the record, as the city attorney was reading that statement of admonishment, I think you were the only member of the public in the room at the time, so I hope you don't take offense at that. So before Chris speaks, I'd like to pass out my amendment. Okay.
 So these are hastily prepared amendments, and I'm glad to hear that we might get another shot at it in a couple of weeks. But this is in Section 8 of the recommended plan that we've been given, which is on connected and autonomous vehicles. It might be helpful to turn to that because I didn't have time to write out what else is there.
 So it's 8.1, unfortunately. The document is in sections rather than with numbers. We're getting there. So if you turn to page 8.1 of your document. So I share Commissioner Fisher's concerns. In fact, Commissioner, I've...
 Pretty much, but a very, well, I would like to say it was a similar speech since it was the end of last Wednesday. I was a bit fried, so I would say it was more of a rant than your very careful and measured speech with concerns about autonomous vehicles. There was a discussion at the Metro Policy Advisory Committee meeting that I was frankly appalled by because there was the,
 kind of gleeful assumption that everybody would be using autonomous vehicles where previously we've been trying to get folks, especially in some of the outlined jurisdictions, onto transit and indeed to provide transit. So I'm very concerned that metros jurisdictions are
 going to embrace automated vehicles and therefore adding a huge number of single vehicles. We know that there were 9 million Uber and Lyft trips last year in Portland, which is a huge number, and it's no wonder that transit is going down. So knowing the challenges that we have had with the transportation network companies, I want to make sure that we have policies in place that make sure we don't make the same mistakes again.
 So for policy 9XA, which states in the draft, ensure all levels of automated vehicles advance vision zero by operating safely for all users, especially for vulnerable road users. I will add a second sentence, ensure adequate insurance coverage for operators, customers and the public at large by providers of autonomous vehicles.
 And I would also state, just in reference to the discussion on the tragedy in Arizona, that vehicle was speeding. And so I would like to see a policy that automated vehicles are not allowed to speed, that they are set for the speed limit maximum. But that's, I think, included in the first sentence. The second addition would be in the following policy, which is in this, it's 9X, capital A, lowercase b.
 about ensure that connected and automated vehicles improve travel time reliability and system efficiency, there are set three existing policies, and I would like to add supporting and encouraging use of public transportation. It was explained to me by the Metro Planner that they are hoping that they could use autonomous vehicles to get people from their home to the transit area.
 station or bus stop rather than all the way in a single occupancy vehicle from point A to point B. And so if these kinds of technologies are going to be used to augment and support the public transit system, that's a good thing. If they're going to compete with it, that's a bad thing. And I think we need to state that very clearly in the policy. And then my final correction for right now is under, on the next page,
 under Policy X9AD, which is make the benefits of automated mobility available on an equitable basis. Long sentence that continues, and then I would like to add, this includes people with disabilities as well as communities of colour, women, and geographically underserved communities. I think we could also actually add non-English speaking people, that we want to make sure that...
 We know that people have not shared equally in the transportation network companies because there's a lot of people who can't afford to use them, and they haven't helped with transit.
 or anything else that would make the whole system more equitable. So those are three of the things that I think are the most urgent for us to add to this policy. Are you offering this as a package? Yes. Second. So Commissioner Fritz moves amendments to Section 8, under Connected and Autonomous Vehicles, per the document we all have, and Commissioner Fish seconds the package. I know. That's on the table. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm Chris Smith, and what I'm sure is a pleasant change of pace for all of us, I am not going to harangue you about freeways today. I am here in my capacity as Vice Chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission to convey the PSC recommendation. We've had the opportunity to journey through all three stages of the TSP with Courtney and the PBOT team, and I'd like to thank the staff for that whole process. It's been great from my point of view and appreciate it.
 their support through the process. Let me say first of all that the PSC endorses TSP Stage 3 and encourages you to adopt it. I want to spend a minute talking about AVs and some other next steps that the PSC would urge Council and PBOT to take.
 AVs are an interesting opportunity and challenge at the same time. As you've heard, there's the potential that AVs increase the amount of vehicle miles traveled in Portland. On the other hand, we think it could significantly reduce parking demand, which would be a good thing. And also, at the end point of the revolution, and obviously we are on a path, they should be much safer than human drivers. I mean, yes, there was a tragedy in Tempe, but –
 That shouldn't distract from the fact that human drivers killed 50 Portlanders on our streets last year.
 there is a point where where av should be much safer and i look forward to that end point now we may not be there yet the statistical evidence uh has multiple interpretations uh but i think the bigger policy challenge that we face is what kind of av future we have mayor you helped kick off the urbanism next conference last week which i attended uh you
 very much a painting of two pictures there, a heaven and a hell for AVs, and I believe the policy that PBOT has included in TSP Stage 3 is very much pushing us towards the heaven scenario, but it will take some heavy lifting to get there. I mean, the
 The worst case you could imagine is a privately owned AV that follows you around through the day, and every time you get out to do something, just circles waiting to pick you up again, right? That would be horrendous. The PBOT policy wisely points towards shared fleets, so there will be AVs out there that we all share and use rather than owning them individually. Right?
 but it will take, I'm sure, inducements from government to get us down that path. I think you should also be careful. It might be tempting to say we won't let AVs operate on the streets of Portland until some set of criteria are met, but you should probably be prepared for the possibility that the federal or state government will preempt that choice from you, and having policy that we can sustain and enforce to back that up would be an important thing.
 A couple of other points. I want to echo what Commissioner Fritch said, because we made a recommendation that the city should, in fact,
 through leadership, demonstrate how to be an employer that supports telecommuting. I have been on that journey myself for as long as I've lived in the city. My employer has been in Wilsonville, and for many years I reverse commuted down to Wilsonville. In 2000, I became a part-time telecommuter, and since then the curve has slowly increased until last year I finally gave up my desk in Wilsonville and work entirely from my home.
 in Portland. It's eminently possible in today's technology environment to do that and still be an effective member of a team, and I think the city should be out in front showing other employers how to make that happen. I think we could have a much greater than 10 percent work-from-home share, and we should aspire to do that, and the city should be out leading the charge. The PSC made two other specific recommendations for follow-on actions.
 One is to take that mode share chart that PBOT displayed and actually turn that into an action plan and have PBOT seek resources and make plans to cause those modal shifts to change, including setting five- and ten-year interim goals, not just a goal out in 2035, but to say what the steps are along the way that we will get there. I think if we are not very intentional about this, congestion will continue to be a big challenge for Portland
 and we're going to have to marshal our resources to stay ahead of that challenge. The other specific recommendation the PSC made was for the city to develop its own transit plan for the city, and this is not intended in any way to be a replacement for the good work that TriMet does, but rather an assistance to that. We've already started in this direction with things like the Enhanced Transit Corridors Program,
 We can work best in partnership with TriMet when we understand our needs the most, and transit is a sufficiently important part of our mobility future that we should have a very well-articulated set of goals for the city, and our own transit plan would go a long way towards doing that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. I have a question. You came all the way, so thanks for joining us. Last time I was in D.C., Chris,
 the lead story in the Washington Post was that there was a bipartisan effort to consider preemption. And what was interesting when I read it was that the Democrats were even more enthusiastic than the Republicans because of their connections to Silicon Valley and the idea of technology.
 I think it's very helpful for you to signal that that could be coming down, I won't say down the road. I want to ask your opinion on something, though. You know, I've watched the film Sully about ten times, and my takeaway from that film is that all the advances in technology in the cockpit of an airplane, plus an experienced pilot, gives us even a greater chance of having safety.
 that the combination is a winning combination. And in that film, at least the moral of that film is, if you took Sully out of the cockpit, the plane would have crashed because the technology would have made a couple of assumptions that turned out not to be true when they did the flight simulation. So if what we want is safety as a paramount virtue, why not require in autonomous vehicles that there still be an operator? Yeah.
 Isn't that getting the best of both worlds? So I'm thinking about all the market forces that will militate against that. And I think there's also – what an autonomous vehicle does is give you your time back, right? You are no longer spending your time looking out the windshield, making sure you don't hit a pedestrian. You're checking your email or you're doing work. So, you know, the people who travel –
 will want to take advantage of that time. So that's the countervailing force, right? And I think it's an extraordinarily powerful one. And I think you potentially get the best of both worlds. Sully doesn't have to be in the cockpit. He could be at a joystick 1,000 miles away connected by the Internet to that plane and perhaps provide the same judgment, right? And I think we will see...
 with level four AVs, there will probably be human remote operators that can intervene in certain situations. So the technology is going to evolve in a lot of ways, but I am way more confident of
 a robot with great infrared vision seeing me on a dark street at night on my bicycle than I am of a human operator seeing me in that same situation, or even to be able to detect the Bluetooth ping from my cell phone, which no human operator will ever perceive. So there's a lot of opportunity to introduce safety technology.
 Sure, a human is a backup, probably always a plus, although the thing that scares me the most about the Level 3 testing, which is the stage we're in now where a human operator is supposed to be able to intervene when needed, is the ability of a human to react and take over control fast enough to have a meaningful impact. And I think that will be a question in the Tempe situation. And let me ask you a follow-up question. One of the...
 that you constantly raise to us is about equity and how we distribute our resources. What do we know about the cost that the city would have to incur in order for the grid to be smart enough to accommodate AV, and does that work against some of our equity goals in terms of providing transportation infrastructure for parts of the city that lag? Sure.
 So there are probably people in PBIDO who can answer that better than I can, but I will say, you know, for my part, it is not yet clear to me where the city's value add will be in terms of, you know, vehicle-to-vehicle communications or vehicle-to-wayside communications, whether that whole set of functionality can be provided over the cellular networks, in which case it may be the private entities that bear most of the cost, and the city might be a data provider to a network. Okay.
 Whether or not we'll actually install wayside infrastructure for this or not is not clear to me. There are probably people in PBOT who have a better opinion or more informed opinion than I do. What I would say is that as we regulate, and we clearly will regulate, and to be forthright, pricing will be a big part of that regulation, there will be revenue and expense streams that we ought to carefully tailor to advance our equity goals. That's helpful. Thank you.
 I just want to add that there are some of us who can't read while driving or in the car that get motion sick. And I think that if you took a survey of people and asked whether they'd prefer to be the driver or the passenger, there's a lot of Americans who would much prefer to be the driver. So that has to be factored into how this is or isn't useful. Well, and it will be a long time before we outlaw human drivers and drivers.
 The system is going to have to be smart enough to accommodate human drivers mixed with automated vehicles, which has its own challenges. So things like platooning, where three automated vehicles can be a foot apart and use less room on the freeway, will be interrupted by the human drivers who are still out there, and we have to figure all that out. The future. Indeed. We're living it.
 All right. Does that complete your – That completes us, yes. Okay. And, Sue, is that all the people we had signed up? We have one other speaker. Very good. Terry Parker, please come up. Yes, Mr. Parker, come on up, please. Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. I really haven't had a chance to say anything about this.
 Transportation Service System Plan to the Council. The Transportation System Plan is a mirror image of the turbulence and upheaval created by the Trump administration. The car-hater mindset in which it was conceived generates bitterness, hostility, and aggression between the various transport mode users. You only need to look at the clash over Lincoln Street in southeast Portland to get a picture of the animosity.
 The city has a PBOT self-inflicted congestion problem. Road diets create more congestion, which in turn adds to fuel consumption and emissions. Enhanced transit corridor options that take away through travel lanes or add curb extensions will do the same. This TSP will only make congestion worse, causing even more confrontations.
 It doesn't make sense to create a target for congestion and then create more of it. Build more housing, more people move in and come with their cars. With self-driving cars on the horizon and transport options like Lyft and Uber already here, universal transit service may very well become an expensive dinosaur. Younger generations who traditionally ride bicycles and now want to raise their families are transitioning to cars and SUVs.
 Additional motor vehicle capacity is needed, not less. This must include fixing I-5 at the Rose Quarter, but without tolls. Instead of sanctioning environmental mafia tactics,
 Extorting motorists and attempting to dictate mode choice, possibly even discriminating as it applies to income, the city needs to establish equity by requiring alternative mode users, including freeloading bicyclists, to pay their fair share for the specific and specialized bicycle infrastructure they utilize.
 Modes at the top of the privilege hierarchy need to pay more than those at the bottom. Additionally, if the city expects people to transition from petroleum-powered vehicles to electric vehicles, the city needs to require adequate off-street parking for all new residential development that includes adjacent electric vehicles.
 connectivity for overnight charging. This is far better than running extension cords across sidewalks or down the block to cars stored on the street. Finally, the political leadership here and elsewhere needs to start talking about the real issue associated with both the creation of congestion and maintaining the sustainability of the planet, that being continued population growth.
 The TSP needs some changes that reflect a reality that cars are not going away. And two additional things, any SOV targets must also apply to the city's fleet of cars, which are almost exclusively used as SOV vehicles. And I can't read what my other thought was. I apologize. I had another thought about automated vehicles, but I wrote it so fast.
 Anyway, thank you. Yeah, and Terry, we have your written testimony as well here, so thank you for that. Yes, thank you. Thanks for coming. That's a really interesting point about electric vehicles and having to have somewhere for them to recharge if we want to encourage that. I think so, but if you're not going to supply parking, where are they going to recharge them? I mean, they need a place to plug them in, and so you need a parking space for at least most residences. Good point. Thank you. Thank you. I think that's it.
 Very good. And that concludes both 284 and 285 as far as your presentation. Colleagues, any further questions? This is the first time in recorded history that someone has asked for a one hour for an item that's as complicated as this. And by my watch and the clock, we have just come in under one hour.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. It's an inspiration for the rest of us. Okay, thanks. Indeed it is. So item number 284, this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. I'm sorry. We need to actually vote on Commissioner Fritz's amendments first. What I was going to propose is if we could have that conversation at the April 11th deliberations, because I think we would like to –
 read them and just make sure we understand them and where they would go and have conversations. And there will be some refinement that you would like to suggest. Right, right. And then that's why we had the April 11th time set aside. Okay. And those are for the amendments to 285 or to 284? 285.
 The ordinance, which is 284. But we would like to keep it as a package. So what we will do then is we'll move it to second reading. Yeah. And we'll keep the amendments open, and we'll have the opportunity to vote on the amendments at the second reading. Does that work for you, Commissioner? That works, yeah. Very good. So, Don. Thank you. With regard to 285, that is a resolution. I think you said you want it as a package. We'd like to keep it together. You want to keep them both together. Okay. We will continue, then, item number 285. And we'll move on.
 And they'll remain joined. Can you remind the date and time certain that you're continuing it to? April 11th. And I don't know the time certain. And that time is 3.30 PM. April 11th, 3.30, Portland City Hall. Be there. And I don't know if we need to say it, but I believe that written testimony is open until 5 o'clock on Friday.
 The front? Yeah, the 23rd. Very good. So written testimony will remain open until this Friday, which is March 23rd. Yeah. Very good. Okay, thank you. Nice job. Thank you. All right, next item, please, 286 and 287. Please read those together. Item 286, amend zoning regulations to implement the 2035 comprehensive plan through the code reconciliation project.
 Colleagues, we're here today to be briefed by staff and hear public testimony on the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Code Reconciliation Project.
 The project amends Title 33, the zoning code, as well as Title 11, trees, Title 18, noise, Title 32, signs, and related regulations. This is being presented to us as two ordinances, but it is in actuality just one project.
 We will hear public testimony today. On April 11th, the Council will deliberate and vote on the amendments that were the subject of the public hearing today, which is March 21st. We have BPS staff, Eric Engstrom and Barry Manning, to come up and introduce the hearing. Welcome, and thanks for being here.
 Thank you, Mayor Wheeler. Commissioners, my name is Eric Kingston. I manage the Comprehensive Planning Program at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm sorry. Can I interrupt you? I'm sorry I'm not tracking as well as I should. It's been a long day. Sue, did you read all the way through? I did. She vanished. You read all the way through 291? No, that's tomorrow. Tomorrow.
 It's 286 and 287. You're right, 286 and 287. Ignore me. Continue. Eric, welcome. Thank you. With me is Barry Manning, who's been the project manager on this code reconciliation project. After I finish introducing, he'll go through some of the details before you take public testimony. Just a reminder of the context, this is the third of three meetings
 projects that are moving through council this month to help tie up loose ends and ensure a successful implementation of the codes associated with the new comprehensive plan. You heard last week the map refinement project.
 And had a hearing on that earlier just a moment ago. You heard the transportation system plan, third phase. And today we're bringing you the zoning code and other city code elements that have been traveling along with these three projects.
 So this is primarily focused on code amendments that tie up those loose ends, which Barry will go over. All of these projects, just as a reminder, we're trying to orchestrate them so that you get them done and make a final vote on May 24th, which is the day that the new comprehensive plan goes into effect.
 Um, last week we had good news from the state, uh, Land Conservation and Development Commission, which upheld appeals, uh, upheld the plan and rejected appeals against the plan. Uh, there's still a possibility for further, uh, appeals up to the Court of Appeals, but, uh, the LCDC action is certainly good news. Um...
 So, again, we're trying to make sure that all these different moving parts land on May 24th and can be voted on. It's important that you adopt the amendments to the new plan, actually, when the plan is in effect for a variety of reasons. And so that's why it's all aiming for that day. And just one reminder.
 that this is different than the Central City Plan, which you're going to hear. But I think you have another hearing on tomorrow, so just to make that clear. Can I ask you a question, Eric? So last time we had a hearing, we had a lot of folks who came and testified about very specific requests. A father-daughter that had an issue with respect to a house they wanted to build. I and my colleagues put forth some amendments. All of that will be taken up on May 24th?
 No, we're going to come back on, I think that was held over until April, was it 4th? Yeah, I think so. All right. Sorry, I'm just trying to keep track of this. You held it over to a point of deliberation, which I think is in early April. And then you'll take your actions there in terms of amendments, and then it'll go to the final reading. Okay. All right. And the second question I had is, if it's April 4th or whenever when we come back, are you going to bring us a cheat sheet on that day? Okay.
 Yeah, or before. For the hearing you had last week, Marty Stockton, who's the project manager there, will be delivering a summary of the testimony with our recommendations for what you do with that. Okay. And then we'll ask you to decide on which ones you want to take forward in terms of amendments, and that deliberation would occur on the 4th. And we'll also vote on the amendments that members of the council have put forth. Correct.
 Yeah, and so today I think we're looking at deliberation on the 11th for the same day as the project you just heard about. So Barry will describe the contents of what's in this package. Great. Thanks, Eric. Barry Manning, planning staff, project manager for the project. And thanks for hearing this this afternoon. Sure.
 That's a little slower than I expected it to be. So the Code Reconciliation Project is a large document. You've seen that, some 600-odd pages. And the purpose of it is really to reconcile zoning and other city codes with our newly adopted 2035 Comprehensive Plan Implementation Package, as Eric just mentioned, which takes place on the 24th.
 And the reason we're doing this is, as many of you will recall, as part of the 2035 Comp Plan, we adopted new commercial mixed use zones. There are all new zones that will go into effect into the commercial areas around town outside of the central city.
 And so those zones need to line up with other code references within the zoning code. We also adopted new campus institutional zones that don't exist right now, and those will go into effect. We need to line the codes up with that. And then we did some amendments to employment and industrial zones, and there are some relationships in the code that probably need to be addressed there as well.
 Again, we are cleaning up redundancies, fixing craw for references and fine tuning. It's largely a technical package, but I would note that because the new zones, particularly the commercial mixed use zones, are not direct replacements for the existing commercial zones, that we do have some situations where development allowances can change and we have different things that are going on there because they're not direct replacements.
 We tried to keep it as technical as possible. Our working mode of operation was to try to maintain the regulations and the allowances to the extent possible while applying the new zones in the context. So, again, why are we doing the project? A couple of other things happened at the end of 2016. The council adopted the inclusionary housing policy.
 as well as the Comprehensive Plan Implementation Code Amendments at the same time, late in 2016. Those were the Comprehensive Plan as a new set of codes that are going into effect in May, and the Inclusionary Housing was a set of regulations that applied on the existing zoning, and the two didn't quite meet up in terms of their application.
 how they would be structured in the code. So this package is trying to marry those two things as well. So we're taking the new codes, which didn't include inclusionary housing. They included some different forms of bonuses and incentives for affordable housing and marry them to the inclusionary housing package so that it all works well together in the long run moving forward. So that's one of the key things. And then we're going to be –
 As this notes, the slide notes, we're going to be monitoring and making potential further calibration adjustments to inclusionary housing moving forward. That will be brought back to council at a later date. This one right here is just implementing what we have on the books right now into the new code. So I guess I just have to ask, given statements I made earlier this morning, or this morning, you say adjustments to the inclusionary housing program if warranted. Who's deciding if warranted?
 I'd probably defer to Eric on that. I think that's a conversation the Bureau, leadership, and council are having. Yeah, I think that both the Housing Bureau and BPS are working together to monitor what's happening under the new program, and ultimately council gets to decide if it's warranted. We're going to bring information about that eventually to council. And, again, this would be just implementing what we have on the books right now and moving forward with that.
 What's affected, as the mayor noted, we're amending Title 33 most significantly, about 90% of what you have in front of you is zoning code amendments. But we are also amending Title 11, which is the tree title, Title 18, noise control, and Title 32, signs and related regulations. And the reason for that is all of those reference zoning designations within those titles.
 A few prior review bodies reviewed this work before it was presented to Council today. The Planning and Sustainability Commission has purview over Title 33, Title 11, and Title 32, and they had a hearing and several work sessions on that before making their recommendations to you here today. The Urban Forestry Commission also has purview over Title 11, and they...
 We had several work sessions with them as well as a hearing with them before they made their recommendations. And we also presented to the Noise Review Board on Title 18 noise code amendments. So in terms of Title 33 amendments, we have multiple chapters that have minor technical corrections. Really, they're intended to provide consistency throughout the zoning code. And I'm going to recap some of the most significant amendments that might have effects on development or you might hear testimony about today.
 So in the multi-dwellings chapter of our zoning code, we're amending the chapter to conform with the inclusionary housing bonus approach. We are deleting the institutional residential IR zone, which is being moved to the campus institutional zones chapter. And we're amending some maps that designate the 4-1 FAR in the RH zone. And that's related to the map refinement project, which you heard about last week.
 In the new commercial mixed-use zones chapter, we are amending, again, the affordable housing bonus that exists now to be consistent with the IAH approach. So we'll be implementing that with this. And projects that trigger IAH or voluntarily comply would be allowed to utilize the maximum floor area ratios and height allowed through the bonuses, which was what was intended in the way the mixed-use zones were originally designed.
 We're also removing the reduced rent requirement from the affordable commercial bonus, which is still in the mixed-use zones, and specifying participation in a Prosper Portland program. I might make note of that in that Prosper Portland is working on administrative rules to implement the affordable commercial bonus. They're underway with that right now. They'll be returning to Planning and Sustainability Commission on the 27th of March for a briefing, and we expect the
 the Commission would probably send a follow-up letter to the Council with their recommendations on that program as well. Another item of note is we're reestablishing design review for self-service storage uses in the commercial employment CE zone. That was not included in the original package, and through conversations with other bureaus and stakeholders, it was determined that it was appropriate to apply design review in that zone as well as the other ones where that use is allowed.
 in the employment and industrial zones. Again, we're amending to conform with the IAH bonus approach. And we're changing setbacks for buildings and outdoor activities adjacent to residential zones in order to reduce impacts. These are linked to removal of the buffer overlay zone, which I think you had some testimony on and some discussion about at the map refinement project hearing. We'll talk about that more today, and I expect you'll probably hear testimony about that as well. We also...
 have a memo that outlines some of the issues associated with that and be happy to pass that out to the council. We've made it available to the public as well. In the campus institutional zones, we're essentially, if men need to conform to the IH approach again, in the CI2 zone.
 A few more to go through here. There's a lot in this package. Self-service storage. We've had a significant amount of development in the self-service storage use category around town over the last two to three years. And there's been a significant amount of testimony that was expressed at Planning and Sustainability Commission about those facilities and their impacts on the pedestrian environment, particularly in Main Street and transit-oriented locations.
 As a result of the testimony and deliberations at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, we're updating those. Not only are we applying design guidelines that are specific to a particular design district if one is built in a design district, we are also updating the codes to require active uses at the ground floor when one of these facilities is built in a pedestrian or significantly transit-oriented location. And the idea here is that rather than having a completely –
 inactive space at the ground floor that might include just storage units, we'd like to activate that space so that it better serves the community. So a portion of that ground floor area would need to be some kind of an active use, whether it was a retail use or maybe an office use or something else like that. We can't just ban self-storage in the central city? Additional self-storage? Yes.
 Well, I will – I won't speak to what can happen in the central city. You're going to be hearing about that, I think, in tomorrow's hearing. This is outside of the central city where these particular regulations would apply. Oh, I see. This is outside of – Okay. I should mention most of the codes that we're talking about today are applying outside of the central city. We're dealing with the central city regulations as part of Central City 2035 more exclusively. Okay.
 This one, there was some discussion about banning this use outright in locations outside of the central city and ultimately this compromise was settled on as a mid-ground point.
 The buffer overlay, again, I think you'll hear testimony about that today and you may have questions about it. We're applying new setback in landscaping standards in the employment and industrial zones. They are similar to what we did in the commercial mixed-use zones, which when we adopted the 2035 comp plan amendments, we applied new buffer overlay.
 type standards in the base zones and removed the buffer overlay on those commercial zones. We're taking the same approach with employment and industrial zones. And so we're applying those new base zones, removing the buffer overlay from the map and code. Barry, I want to just, because this is likely to be the one thing you hear most about in testimony, I want to just stress this point that
 Basically, this deals with landscaping and setback standards where industrial and residential properties abut. And under the old code, we had a special overlay map that came with some sets of standards that governed that interaction. The problem with the old system is that it wasn't mapped consistently in all the places where those two zones touch each other.
 So we're eliminating that map and instead we're putting similar standards in the basic text of the zoning code and eliminating that map. And you're going to hear testimony concerns about the elimination of that map. But I want to stress that we're not eliminating the concept that there should be landscaping or setbacks where those two zones touch. We're just structurally changing the way we accomplish that.
 One of the places where we've heard a lot of testimony is in the Malamite Heights neighborhood. And in that particular situation, we also have the presence of the environmental overlay, which is really a much stronger set of regulations that will have a bigger effect on the situation there. And we're not changing that regulation at all through this package.
 Only a few more to go here. We are amending several plan districts throughout the city. Plan districts, as you may be aware, regulate development in specific areas of town that have a special character or have a plan adopted for them. Central City is an example of that. Outside of the central city, there's a plan district in Hollywood. There's one in St. John's. There's one in Gateway, et cetera. And most of those plan districts...
 were based on the old zoning framework, and whether they had bonuses for housing or other allowances, those were based on a framework that didn't include the calculation, oftentimes of floor area in residential developments.
 And that has changed as part of the new zoning framework. We're now looking at floor area as part of residential developments and calculating the whole thing. So what we've done is gone through all those plan districts and tried to update and have updated them to bring them into conformance with the new system where there were zones that did not have an offset, for instance, for inclusionary housing as the base zones do. We've included an offset for those inclusionary housing projects. Okay.
 where a planned district may have had a bonus for housing. We've generally conserved those bonuses to an inclusionary housing bonus. So if you meet the inclusionary housing, you're eligible for that housing bonus. And we've adjusted the floor area ratios to conform to the new system. And overall, we've maintained the height limits that were allowed in those planned districts. Most planned districts allowed more generous height limits than the base zones do. Some of them have reduced height limits, and we've maintained those
 throughout those. So we've really just adjusted the floor area ratios to adapt it to the IH program. There's a couple of other small changes within those plan districts. We've changed some retail size allowances to conform with the new employment and industrial zones. That's primarily in the Columbia corridor area.
 We've amended references throughout, as we have throughout the code, to conform with the new commercial mixed-use zones, the C slash MU. And we've revised maps to conform to recently adopted zoning or lot line changes that happened as part of that process. And those are the planned districts shown there where they're happening. So you can see they're kind of scattered all around town.
 The conditional use chapter, it's a large chapter, has several provisions for conditional use approvals. And throughout that chapter, we've amended it to reflect the citywide change in the way we look at transportation approval criteria for similar types of reviews. It places a further emphasis on evaluation factors such as safety and de-emphasizes level of service as one of the particular criteria.
 Offsetting measures there and evaluation measures. It's really looking to look towards a multimodal system in transportation evaluation criteria. And that's several chapters and sections within 33A15. Okay.
 I mentioned Title 11 earlier. We are amending it to remove tree preservation and tree density exemptions that exist now that apply to the CS and CM zones. Those zones will no longer exist in the new zoning framework. They've been replaced by CM1, CM2, CM3 and CE.
 There aren't really direct replacement zones. CS and CM were two zones of a group that allowed 100% lot coverage and did not require any landscaping, and that was one of the criterias for zones exemptions in the...
 tree code which would relieve them from tree preservation and tree density requirements the new commercial mixed use zones all require some degree of landscaping or an alternative to that landscaping and in deliberations and discussions with the urban forestry commission and the planning and sustainability commission we determined that just removing the references was the appropriate solution here such that no zone would be exempt from the tree regulations
 But the tree code still has a provision that if you have very dense development with lot coverages of 85% or greater, you have either exemptions or reduced tree density requirements. So for very dense development, we still have some opportunity for exemption. Otherwise, we would need to look at trees in those. Title 32 signs reshuffles the way the zones apply to the new sign code, or to the existing sign code. I've summarized here the
 that CM1 zones are assigned to the smaller sign allowances. CM2, which is the medium-sized commercial mixed-use zones, are assigned to the medium-sized allowances, so that equates to the existing CS and CM zones that you may be familiar with. CM3, which is the largest-scale mixed-use zone, equates to the larger-sized sign allowances. That's very similar to the EX zone that exists now. Okay.
 CR, which is the commercial residential zone, is applied in very limited situations in residential areas. And the CI1 zone, which is a campus institutional 1 zone, which is applied also in residential situations, would have standards that relate more to the residential zones because of the residential context of those zones placement. The one thing I'd note here about the sign regulation is that the general commercial zone
 ended up being rezoned to several different zones in the comp plan process. It went to CE, commercial employment. Some of them went to CM2 or CM3. Some of them went to CM1. Depending on where your existing CG zone was located, you might have been assigned a different zone in the comprehensive plan, and that would have implications on the sign allowances for that zone. In the future, there might be some changes. Existing signs would be grandfathered.
 I think I've got two more slides and we'll wrap up here. Title 18, noise regulations. The proposal does not change the noise regulations at all. All it does is reassign the zones to the categories within the code. The most noteworthy of the reassignments are that the CM3 zone is assigned to a commercial use category. CM3 replaces EX, and EX had been assigned to an industrial use category noise level. So this is a...
 essentially a reduction in allowed noise to the CM3 zone compared to what the EX zone has now. And it also assigns CR and the CM1 zones to the residential use category, just as we had talked about in signs.
 So some issues you might hear about today in testimony, we've already talked about the buffer overlay. We may hear a little bit about self-service storage. Again, that was a new issue that came up out of Planning and Sustainability Commission. I mentioned the affordable commercial space bonus and the Planning and Sustainability Commission review of that. I don't expect that you'll hear testimony today, but we will be coming back with that at a later date with their recommendations if they have any further.
 We are creating an administrative rule for energy efficient buildings that would be applied in one of our existing bonuses. I don't expect to hear testimony on that, but you may hear some information about that over the coming months while you're deliberating on this. And again, tree, sign, and noise code, we may hear some testimony on that. We haven't heard a significant amount of testimony to date. So with that, I'll answer any questions you have. Commissioner Daly.
 In regards to the buffer removal, we heard hours of testimony. I'm in a time warp right now. Last week, the week before, at least a dozen of which were people concerned about this buffer overlay zone being changed or eliminated. So you're telling me that that is not going to change at all on the ground? It's just a map?
 It's a strategy of how we're implementing the landscaping and setback standards in the code. In the case of the testimony you heard, most of which was from Willamette Heights, in that location there's another zoning overlay, the environmental conservation zone, that has a much broader set of regulations that will serve to –
 that existing hillside and govern the development there. I guess I'm not quite done yet. I'm in favor of people coming here to testify for or against things we are actually doing, having people take time out of their day and take time off work and extend these extraordinarily long days.
 meetings to testify against things that we actually aren't going to do is frustrating. And I'm just wondering where in the process did that miscommunication happen or where was the missed opportunity for that neighborhood to actually get informed about what was really happening? I think this is something that there's been some communication throughout the project, including at the planning commission level. Yeah.
 I would say this is a sufficiently complex and thick package that there's room for misinterpretation. And so we've tried to correct any misunderstandings about the effect. There is a code change, so I think the bottom line may be that people are just concerned that they don't know how it could change. But shouldn't there be...
 somewhere for them to get that information instead of coming to council to sign up to give testimony which is not actually pertinent to what's
 going to happen. Yes, and we've tried to provide information and our planner who, our district planning group who is more daily engaged with folks who are calling in, we have a helpline that was published in the public notice and we've had a lot of phone conversations. I would love to help you promote that helpline through my office and through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I am both
 self-interested in this matter. But really, I don't want community members taking time out of their day and time off of work to come downtown and not having a meaningful experience. Thank you. I'm not criticizing anyone. I just wanted to know, like, it just seemed like they should have been able to.
 get their questions answered. Commissioner, I have not yet had my questions answered, so we're still pending a memo on that that staff will be providing us before the next hearing, since we did have the testimony last time. We asked and were promised that we would get a side-by-side comparison of what's in the old code, what the protections will be now with the setbacks, etc. For the buffer overlay? Correct. But they have an environmental overlay, which...
 That was stated last week. However, there are other regulations in the buffer zones which this packet proposes to delete, and I'm not yet – it could well be that I will be, but I don't have that information yet. Okay. All right. If I can add to that just to follow on. Hopeless is basically – We're still in the process is the point.
 We do have a memo that we'd like to share with council, so we can share that with you either now or later, maybe after testimony. We've made it available to the public, so the folks have had an opportunity to look that over. Why don't you pass it out? Sure, we can pass that out right now. Why didn't we get it? I've got it in my stuff. It's brand new. While you're handing that out, Eric, can I ask you another question? Just to make sure I'm not missing something. So why don't you give it to Carla? I'm sorry, not Carla. Okay.
 Sue. Sue, excuse me. Creature of habit. Eric, you mentioned the affordable commercial space bonus, and I might have been out of the room when you talked about it. So can you just remind me? There's a lot of pieces here that we're taking up.
 to address that issue. PDC is proposing to do some work because they actually own some commercial space and they're also looking to, within urban renewal districts, provide some resources. There's a bunch of other things. Would you just remind me, and again, I'm sorry if you've already gone over this,
 Could you give me a quick primer on the affordable commercial space bonus? Yeah. Well, this came up during the rewrite of the commercial mixed-use zones, and we gave the biggest bonuses for inclusionary housing because that was the overall priority that everyone kind of agreed was the public good that we were trying to get out of bonuses. But we did include a bonus for commercial space. We called it the affordable commercial space bonus, and this was worked out because –
 We got some testimony that it would be nice to have a clear path for small businesses, emerging businesses, minority businesses that have a harder time breaking into being in the ground floor of brand new buildings. And so when we have substantial redevelopment like we saw in Williams Avenue or on Division, that sometimes that completely changes the character of the retail environment because the smaller businesses really don't have access to that kind of development. Yeah.
 So we did a lot of work with Prosper Portland and other stakeholders to figure out if there was a viable way for us to
 Give a small increment of additional entitlement in exchange for an affordable commercial program dedicated on the, on as part of the ground floor. And the general answer was we think something is viable. And so we prosper Portland had a process over last summer to, to dig into that and figure out what that kind of program would look like. And it is, you're right. They already do the, a form of this with buildings they're involved with in urban rural districts. So it seemed like a natural extension of that.
 to allow essentially to buy into that program or something similar to it through a bonus outside of urban renewal districts. Right. And I'm sorry, maybe this is laboring the obvious, but it does or does not compete with inclusionary zoning. It is. We tried to make it not compete with inclusionary zoning by making inclusionary zoning the only avenue where you could get the full
 bonus. So this does not earn you the full bonus. So if you want to get the full bonus, you effectively still have to do inclusionary housing. But for commercial-only projects that maybe are not going to do housing, this would be one of the few ways.
 to do a bonus that would have a direct community benefit on the ground. And for which we'd give them a little extra height. Exactly. And floor area as well. Right. So PROSPER has been working on the detailed programmatic rules of how this would work, and they're presenting that to the Planning Commission later this month. Okay. Thank you.
 If I can go back to the buffer overlay for just a moment, just to elaborate, I think I want to be clear that the standards in the new base zones are not direct replacements of what was in the buffer overlay. We tried to evaluate what was appropriate given what we had done in the commercial mixed-use zones and setting up buffers in those zones, and we looked towards that to emulate standards in the industrial and employment zones. There are kind of a blend between the buffer overlay –
 the existing zoning and what we did in the commercial mixed use zones. And we can go into more detail about that if you'd like to, maybe after other questions or maybe after testimony if you'd prefer it.
 Commissioner Fritz. I think just from looking through this memo, I'm going to need a much more detailed explanation because it says here the buffer, I mean, one of the reasons to standardize it, as we discussed last time, but it says currently the widths range from 25 feet to over 300 feet. If we're exchanging a 300-foot buffer for a 10-foot buffer, I could understand why the neighborhood would be quite upset. So how are you going to walk us through that area by area? Well,
 It's tricky because it's very situational. On balance, we believe we've come up with a package that achieves the same intent, but...
 On a case-by-case basis, you're right, there may be properties that didn't have any regulation of this topic before who are now subject to setbacks in landscaping. Or conversely, there could be properties under the old buffer overlay had a wider landscaping requirement than they will now.
 So in particular, with limits heights, since, as Commissioner Eudaly said, we did get such a lot of testimony on that. Yeah, and in Wollongong Heights, again, our analysis is that that doesn't matter because it's really the environmental conservation zone that's going to have the controlling effect here. I would beg to differ, having seen quite a number of environmental reviews where things have been allowed that I would prefer not to have been allowed. And it depends to me on what is their buffer zone now.
 what is the width of that in comparison with what is the width of the environmental zone. So I'd like some more details on that when we come back next time. We'll come back with more for that. Thank you. We can give you more detail on that. Thank you. Very good. So that concludes your presentation on the staff amendments. Obviously, you would like a motion and a second to put those on the table. Is that correct? Okay.
 Actually, Mayor Wheeler, I think we have an amendment package that we gave to you. The March 21st amendment. Correct, yes. And we haven't addressed that quite yet. Okay, do you want to go through that unless anybody has any questions first? Okay, why don't we go through that because I know people are patiently waiting to testify. I don't think council has received this yet, so let me have Sue pass that out to you. Okay.
 You may have received it by email, but you don't have a hard time. Great. And I promise folks we'll get to the public testimony right after this piece. So what is being referred to now for the benefit of the audience is the staff proposed a package of small additional amendments that are on top of the –
 Planning Commission's recommendation. Let's work through them quickly because they're not the audience. They're my employers. Right. I've got two quick slides here. Most of these, again, are technical amendments clarifying things such as the types of pedestrian connections and the residential and the commercial mixed-use zone chapters to clarify that those are not public connections. Okay.
 There's some amendments to the drive-through allowances in the CE zone to talk about when a drive-through is considered discontinued. The ones that are highlighted on this sheet and the next sheet are the ones that are really the most significant.
 33-130-292, it moves, there's a regulation in the commercial mixed-use zones for pedestrian connections on large sites. We've moved the location of that reference to the section that I've indicated, 292, and we've elaborated on that to clarify it. So that's a fairly significant amendment.
 The upshot of it is that there's really no change in the intent of what was intended in the commercial mixed-use zones, but it's been rephrased.
 33-266-110 is highlighted here. That's in our parking chapter. We are updating those parking regulations to be in the commercial mixed-use zones, the Task 5 project, to be consistent with what was adopted when the council adopted inclusionary housing. So we're making the future code consistent with the most recently adopted current code, if you follow my logic on that. So ultimately that...
 change is not significant. It's really implementing today's code there. I'm going to skip down to 33-270-200. We're clarifying that in the
 planned development bonus areas and commercial mixed use zones that community design standards can be used for buildings that meet the allowable size and use limits so buildings that are typically 55 feet or five stories or less in height can use community design standards wasn't clear that in this particular bonus one could use that so we're clarifying that you can
 On the second page, starting at Chapter 420, really just correcting some code references. We're making some changes to maps in the Gateway Plan District and in the Laurelhurst Plan District to just correct some boundaries due to some zoning changes that happened in the comprehensive plan and map amendments.
 We're making a change in the northwest plan district to clarify that the maximum allowed floor area in a particular set of bonuses within that plan district is three to one overall. And the reason we're doing that is that the way the code had been written, again, it's one of those situations where it referenced...
 The existing zones, with the new zones counting floor area differently, if we had left the code alone, we would have allowed much more floor area than was expected to be developed in that area. So this corrects that. Map 575.1 is, again, just a correction of a map title. 852 are a couple of...
 Code change is requested by PBOT. One is that it makes the application requirements for transportation demand management consistent with the approval criteria, so it reduces the burden on applicants to demonstrate that they're meeting the criteria, and it corrects a code reference.
 And then finally, in our definition section in 33.9.10, we're amending the definition of floor area ratio to sync up that definition with the practical application of the way we measure that.
 and that was something that we discussed extensively with BDS to move forward. Very good. So you would characterize most of these as being technical amendments, and they're brought to you in consultation with other bureaus, BDS, PBOT, et cetera? Correct. Very good. I move the technical amendments. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. We'll keep that open. All right, folks.
 Public testimony time. So the public testimony that we're taking today is specific to the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Code Reconciliation Project, and any of today's amendments that you heard about. When you come up, it's helpful if you could let us know, if possible,
 about which city title and code provisions you're testifying about. If you don't know, that's fine, don't worry. But if you happen to know it, that's also helpful just because it helps us hone in on the particular amendments that you're discussing. Thank you.
 We always have a tradition here if there are people with young children or people with disabilities or other needs who'd like to come up sooner rather than later, please let Sue know and she will accommodate you. And with that, we'll take the first three. How many do we have today? We have eight. Very good. Three minutes, just name for the record. We don't need your specific address. Will the first three come up, please? Silas Beebe, Stu Smucker, Sabina Wolf-Byler.
 and they'll be followed by Sam Beebe, Alison Reynolds, and Shane Kwiatkowski. Good for you. Yeah, she got that. Obviously not the usual thing. Is there a process for handouts? Yeah, just hand them to Sue, and then she'll get them to all of us. Big ones for Ted Wheeler. My skull's a little thicker, so it's good they're a little thicker for me. You can move.
 Very good. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm here to discuss, I guess it's issue number 33. It's the 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road. So... Could you give us your name, please? I want to first state that... Could you give us your name, please? My name is Silas Beebe. Thank you. First, I wanted to say that Joan Fredrickson, the West District Liaison for...
 BPS has been very helpful and Steve Koontz also. And they organized a meeting for the neighbors at Friendly House that I helped to organize. And it was very helpful and informational. And this latest memo that we just saw today would have been great to have at that meeting a month ago. We had the meeting in February, and it was a chance for neighbors to ask questions and learn about this issue.
 One of the things we learned was this chart that shows the differences between the current buffer overlay and the proposed. And with the removal of buffer overlay, the setbacks dropped from 10 to 20 feet to as little as 0 feet from the rear lines and 5 feet from the side lines of a residence. That's a pretty big change. It also would allow...
 Removing the buffer overlay would allow exterior work activities and exterior display and storage as little as five feet from residential homes. So we could have a billboard five feet from residential homes and exterior work activities like a lumber yard or things like that by removing the buffer overlay.
 Yes, there's a conservation overlay, but to the neighbors it's not very reassuring that we're just an environmental review away from developing this land so closely adjacent to family homes.
 I went around the neighborhood and canvassed and knocked on doors and quite quickly and easily got a petition that simply says, I'm a resident of Willamette Heights. I'm in favor of retaining the buffer B zone overlay on the property 2425 north of St. Helen Roads. So I got six pages filled up pretty quickly, and I could double that in short order because there's a lot of streets I didn't even know.
 hit. And by knocking on those doors I also learned that a lot of neighbors along the perimeter, up on Thurman in particular, never received notice. They never actually learned that this was happening and had no idea. The handout I'm handing out is showing that there's two properties whose property directly abuts the southwestern corner of this lot
 And both of those houses are condemned, abandoned, red-tagged as uninhabitable because of landslides. And the stories, the news stories about this say that...
 What actually happened was heavy rains reactivated an existing landslide. So what we're concerned about is we're just environmental review away from developing this site with a history of landslides, and then that provides a lot of benefit for the neighbors as a buffer between the industrial area. So we asked for an amendment, an easement, a conservation additional overlay, some kind of –
 If we don't have a chance to retain the buffer overlay, please ask for some other way to protect this site and keep it from being developed because we don't want... Yeah, that's very compelling testimony, and I think you may have heard from our conversation up here that we were very sympathetic to that, and we're not making any decisions today. And so this is obviously going to continue to be a very live conversation for us. But I'll just say today, your testimony is very compelling.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. And thanks to OpenSignal, I could see on the monitor that I don't have what you have there in terms of comparing the old. So, staff, can I get a copy of what he has? Do you know what he has? It's – Yes. I'm seeing a nod. They're going to get it for me. Okay, great. Thank you very much. Okay. I agree. That's what we need to see. Cool. Thank you. Thank you for coming in. Thanks for your patience. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Stu Smucker. I'm from Willamette Heights, and I'm here to testify about Title 33 and Title 32, which relates to signs. I own and live at a residential lot that borders the industrial lot at 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road. The draft recommendation of the BPS is to remove the buffer from that industrial lot, and I oppose that.
 BPS is recommending that sections 33.410.010 and .030 of the Portland Zoning Code be deleted. Those sections set forth the purpose of a buffer, how it is achieved, and where it is most important.
 is to be used between non-residential and residential zones when the base zone standards do not provide adequate separation between residential and non-residential uses. The separation is achieved by restricting motor vehicle access, increasing setbacks, requiring additional landscaping,
 restricting signs and in some cases by requiring additional information and proof of mitigation for uses that may cause offsite impacts and nuisances is to be applied primarily along the edge of a non-residential zone abutting a residential one. Eleven of us own residential property along the edge of the industrial St. Helens property. It is my understanding that the buffer was originally placed on the St. Helens property because the city
 had determined that the base zone standards by themselves did not provide adequate separation between the industrial property and the residential neighbors. It is my understanding that this stemmed at least in part from hearings and testimony in 1991.
 Removing the buffer may provide greater consistency in citywide mapping, but it does not address the underlying reason that the buffer was placed on the property in the first place or how, going forward, adequate separation is achieved. The BPS also recommends deleting or reducing development standards in what up to now has been buffer zones. The standards cover setbacks in landscaping,
 structures and exterior activities, motor vehicle access, and radio frequency transmission facilities. The BPS is also recommending deletion of the code section 33410.080 that makes a buffer zone subject to off-site impact regulations of 33.262. Under current code section...
 3234.020 signs are prohibited in the buffer overlay zone. BPS is recommending deletion of the sign prohibition. From the point of view of residential neighbors, these recommendations are not mere technical changes. The buffer and the city code sections regulating separation.
 development standards, motor vehicle access, off-site oversight, billboards, and radio frequency transmission towers were put in place for a reason. I submit that those reasons are just...
 as important today as they were when the buffer was first placed on the property. I request that the buffer-related prohibitions on sign motor vehicle access and radio frequency towers be retained. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Sabina Woolfiler, and I've lived at 2125 Northwest 33rd Avenue since 1987.
 The last time I provided testimony before city council was almost 30 years ago when Bud Clark was the mayor.
 And interestingly enough, that testimony was about the same issue and the same property, the buffer zone on 2425 Northwest St. Helens Road. I'm here today to make three requests of the members of the council. First, I ask you to become familiar with the extensive history of this property and its importance as the only separation between our residential zone and the industrial sanctuary below us.
 Second, I ask you to honor the hard work of your predecessors, who in the late 80s and early 90s crafted a solution that has served all of us well for decades. And they worked hard. It was like a three-year onslaught of meetings and everything. And third, I ask you to make an exception to the map refinement project and retain this buffer designation. I understand that Portland is changing.
 Priorities shift and politicians change, but the geologic composition of this slope does not.
 Two geologists, Roger A. Redfern and John McDonald, have extensive documentation on file dating from October 24, 1988 to November 22, 1989, in which they both agree, and here I'm quoting, this site is geologically complex, the reasons being its geologic history, past landslides, and stream erosion."
 Bud Clark and his city council listened to us and voted to retain the buffer and put in place an environmental overlay as additional protection. And I understand you're keeping that.
 But this is a geologically unstable hillside and must not have vegetation removed or the toe of the hillside excavated, which was done back in those times. At 7 feet and 11 feet, there are layers of silt which turn to liquid during an earthquake. Our neighborhood has had extensive earthquake preparedness training sessions. Removing protection provided by this buffer puts us all in more jeopardy.
 Downgrading the zoning by removing the buffer classifications gives owners of property in the industrial sanctuary a distinct advantage over the needs of Willamette Heights residents for clean air, noise abatement, and visual separation from industry. I have a copy of that same thing that Silas has, and...
 According to today's rules, new development and ground disturbance, there needs to be an environmental review within the resource area of the overlay. It calls for avoid, minimize, mitigate impacts to natural resources. The proposed plan, no requirements beyond setbacks. So we're losing out here.
 Nobody ever refers to the term residential sanctuary. It's always industrial sanctuary. Robert Putnam, who spoke at Portland City Club some years ago, wrote a book in 2003 called Better Together, Restoring the American Community. He devoted an entire chapter to Portland and our impressive civic involvement. The Portland of today is changing in many ways, but the ability to listen to the people should be retained. Thank you.
 Thank you for listening. Can I ask you a question? This is sort of a historic moment. It's 30 years since you've been here. I was doing the math on how many mayors since then and thinking, wow. Mayor Wheeler and I the other day were up in his office looking at some pictures of the old chambers before the big renovation. I'm just curious, when you testified before Bud, how were we configured? Sure.
 Do you remember? No, it was the other way. They were sitting over there. Yeah. So the council was over there. That's not that long, Krishna. You know, I was so nervous, I barely remember that. Well, how do you like the upgrade? It's lovely. It's lovely.
 Yeah, they have the windows all blocked up too. Thank you very much. And I think you made a really good point about community involvement. And it's people like you who have the capacity to come down on a Wednesday afternoon at 2 o'clock to highlight the issues with this site that perhaps are speaking for other sites whose neighbors are not able to pay as much attention. And so I'm certainly going to be asking staff, you know, what's the policy reason for removing the buffer? Is it...
 Should we be looking at this citywide and if maybe it's a different project? So thank you very much, all of you. Thank you for listening. We appreciate your testimony, all of you. We'll see you in 30 years. She might be back if we don't do what she asks. Next three, please. Next three, please. Please come up. Sam Beebe, Alison Reynolds, and Shane. All right. Welcome. Thank you. I think we have a quorum of the Beebe family here today. We do. Good afternoon. My name is Sam Beebe.
 Thank you for hearing our testimony. I would like to talk about Title 33, give feedback on Title 33, and particularly oppose the removal of the Buffer B. I'll speak quickly because I think my friends, family, and neighbors already pointed out the points, as well as Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Sam. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Allison Reynolds. I'm here on behalf of Killian Specific. And we're asking for a new amendment today to Title 33. It would be a change to Map 120-7, which is the RH Zone 4-1 mapping.
 And essentially what happened is that this is an alternative fix for a property that we are proposing that we tried to fix through the map refinement project. Talked with Marty Stockton after you guys considered those changes last week and she suggested that we provide this testimony as sort of an alternative solution for this project.
 Killian owns a property at 2525 Northwest Lovejoy, and that property is currently improved with a 90,000 square foot, give or take medical office building
 And the site is currently zoned RH. We had previously, probably about three or four years ago, asked all the various boards that considered the comp plan to change that site zoning to make that office building a conforming use and a conforming development by either zoning it CM1 or sorry, CM2 or CM3.
 That change was proposed as a CM1 change under the map refinement project. That would not actually cure either of those issues, and so we continued asking for the higher zoned CM options. The neighborhood also did not like the idea of rezoning that site from residential to another option.
 So today we are proposing to essentially let the use issue go and instead just deal with the size of the development. And as you probably know, under the code, the RH zoning has sort of two different FAR and heights that can apply. Certain areas are mapped for a 2-to-1 RH, where it's essentially a lower density RH version, and others are mapped at 4-to-1 FAR.
 it would make the development size on this current site conforming if we were to map it for 4 to 1 FAR and 75 feet in height. And so that's the change that we're asking for this property. Just leave it zoned RH, since that seemed to be what...
 what might work better here for the neighborhood interests, but still allow the size of the development that's built there to be allowed to be a conforming development through this change. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Do you know if the neighborhood supports that?
 I actually do not know if they support that. I'm not sure that we realized that that was an option until I think last week, but we're hoping since the development there is roughly the same size and it's currently medical office, we think that their main concerns were traffic, and we assume that if it were a residential development instead, that that would probably include less traffic than is currently there.
 Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Good afternoon. Hello, my name is Shane Kwiatkowski. This is the first time I've ever been in the room. And so I don't know the specific name of the code, but there's an opportunity for different kinds of businesses to be able to be on the ground. What is it, PSC? What was that?
 you talked about it earlier. Affordable commercial space bonus. Awesome, great. I wanted to speak directly to that. First, just a little bit of context of my own experience. I don't currently live in Portland. I live in Vancouver. I used to live on Mississippi Avenue, but unfortunately I just got priced out. And so when I'm looking at the changes as far as national and international business investment when it comes to Portland versus Vancouver, something that
 I think we're not diversifying nearly enough and part of the gentrification aspect that we don't talk about is that many local companies do not pay good wages. Their wages have not increased for dozens if not 20 or 30 years and what I know as someone who's been raised here for 29 years is that it's very frustrating when you don't feel you have the same opportunity of the neighborhood or the local vibe and it kind of gets to the
 point, which I'll now bring to an example. I worked at a bakery in North Portland, and it's a shop that says, shop local, shop local, shop local. I developed anorexia in the two years following. I lost 65 pounds because my baristas did not tip me. I made 300 or 400 loaves of cookies or whatever, but I was a minimum wage, and
 between the run of my place and where I worked, I found it very disturbing that I became so food insecure. And I also was just right above the limit to get food stamps, right? So here I was living in Mississippi, seeing 900 units be developed in a year and a half with people whose incomes dwarfed mine by four to five times. They get to enjoy the oyster bar. They get to enjoy the coffee.
 but how many people here do. So then that's context for why I think it's important. I know Pike Place, by the time I researched this in 2007 or 2009, they did a study that all state and federal funds for the development of Pike Place Market was met within three years. All the businesses within there achieved...
 operating in the block and the fish market that's on the corner, if you only measure the fiscal solvency of an organization, not compared to digital space, because digital space is not physical space, the ones that throw the fish. By 2009, they were grossing on average $45 million a year with an employment base of 43.
 if you know how to divide 45 by 43 equally, you know what that profit share is, right? And so I bring that up because...
 I envision not rich cafeterias in Portland like the one on, it's like four blocks that way, I don't even know what to call it. But it's just, I think there are ways to make, even in the lobbies and the businesses of hotels and larger infrastructure, essentially that whole cafeteria style. If we focus on 10 to 20 foot or 40 foot square stalls of stuff with secured locks,
 and the overhead was only $50 to $75 a month, you might see a lot of people have been historically pushed out of Portland that directly make the craftsmanship and the entrepreneurial activities that draw investment here in the first place. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next three, please. Jane Beebe, Richard Schwartz, and Paul Martin. Please come up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It's good to see you again. Hello. So you've heard...
 Jane Beebe, and you've heard from a lot of Beebes. And I would just say that my son Silas said it all for me. I dumbly didn't understand when I signed it that I was signing up to speak. Okay.
 It happens to me all the time. Yeah. Let me just hope you – Yeah, thanks for being here. None of us knew what we were saying. Yeah, we appreciate it. Thank you. Mr. Schwartz. My name is Richard Schwartz. That's without a T in the last name. And I'm a resident of Willamette Heights on Northwest Vaughan. I, at the outset, have to say I apologize for being late to the party on this issue, but –
 I've tried to get myself as much up to speed in the last 48 hours as possible. And after reviewing the testimony online of the people who spoke before me and those who are here today, I say I'm in.
 firm belief in the positions they've taken in opposition to the elimination of the buffer zone. Many have spoken already about this and I can appreciate the interest in the city and its applicable departments to bring some conformity to provisions of the
 code, which by the way is I'm not fluent in building code. I'm less fluent than I am in French and I don't even speak French. But the issue to which I'm speaking I believe is 33.410.010 at sequential. But I'd like to...
 reinforce the notion about the stability of the air, first on the conformance and then the issue, and then the environmental stability of the area with respect to landslides and land stability. I can appreciate the notion of conformance, but it's always surprised me that conformance seems to be to the lowest common denominator or the lowest level and rarely to the higher level. I'm not suggesting that the higher level is the optimal or the best level,
 But it's concerning to me that the lower one, and you've heard earlier today about reduction of the setback standards from 10 to 0 feet, and we're talking about a residential area and abutting a...
 an industrial area. I heard in a testimony from staff that they were trying to, if I understood it correctly, trying to make some conformity between commercial standards for buffer areas and industrial, but I think there is a qualitative and substantial difference between commercial properties in neighborhoods or in or around neighborhoods in industrial areas. This part of Olamide Heights is,
 is above an area that's often cited in earthquake vulnerability studies. It's right above the strip of land that has most of the petroleum repositories subject to liquefaction, which is area which can affect our area as well with three streams running through previous landslides, houses that are red-tacked now because of landslide vulnerability.
 And I think the removal of the buffer, while there's an assertion that the environmental overlay will
 the suggestion was prevent expansion in that or development in that area. I see it as only a regulation for determined developers to overcome rather than the equivalent of a buffer. A buffer is a barrier. Environmental requirements are not necessarily a barrier and may be overcome by assertions and other tactics on a future basis. So
 So those are my concerns, and I endorse and embrace wholeheartedly those comments of my neighbors who have spoken in opposition to this. Very good. Thank you, sir. And for my colleagues, I want to acknowledge you, Richard, for your service as the vice chair of the Oregon Retirement Savings Program. And that was a mere vision at the time you were the vice chair of that committee and vice.
 What became of that vision was it became the first state-sponsored retirement savings plan in the United States. And so I want to call out your leadership on that and thank you for it. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for hearing me. My name is Paul Martin. I'm a humble physician, not used to these legal proceedings. And first I wanted to thank my neighbors for their eloquent testimony and thoughtful consideration. And I wanted to...
 Jump on the bandwagon and certainly wholeheartedly agree that the buffer should be retained. From a physician standpoint, we're a family of asthmatics. I would not have moved to Portland from New York and Philly to a house right next to an industrial area if it didn't have that green buffer. When I several times, many, many times, when I drive home from work, as I'm passing through the Alphabet District on Thurman Street,
 Noticed foul air. That's had a lot of investigations, as you well know. But I noticed often when I come into my own house in my own neighborhood, that green buffer seems to have repeatedly dissipated to the point I don't even notice it. So losing that would certainly negatively affect myself personally and as well as my children who have been hospitalized with asthma. And it could affect.
 quite potentially force us to leave in that regard. And I don't think we'd be the only people with that consideration. Other than that, I'd like to reiterate that ours is a historic neighborhood over 100 years old. And I think removing that buffer zone would also cause a substantial shift to the character of our community, which would not be unfelt by a great many people and communities.
 To the enrichment of relatively few. Thank you for hearing me. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you. Next three, please. That's all. Very good. Colleagues, that concludes our hearing on the 2035 Comprehensive Plan, the Code Reconciliation Project. The oral record is now closed. However, the written record will remain open until Friday, March 23rd at 5 p.m.,
 I would ask my fellow commissioners to propose any other amendments that they may have based on today's conversation by April 4th, 2018. We'll come back, as stated previously, on Wednesday, April 11th, to deliberate and vote on any additional amendments. Commissioner Fritz. Could I just ask a question on the record so that we all have the benefit of hearing your answer?
 Come on up. We have heard a lot on the buffer issue on a particular site, but now I'm more concerned about it in general. What's the comprehensive plan policy that this is intended to implement? There are policies related to...
 buffering between different uses. So in general the buffer overlay or the substitute regulations would be implementing those. It's generally policy that we have some kind of effort to buffer those uses when they're abutting. So if you could, when you give me the memo that compares that Mr. Beebe had that
 showed what's now, what's proposed. If you could also give me a summary of what are the comprehensive plan policies that we're implementing because clearly the zoning code is intended to implement the comprehensive plan so we need to know what both of those are. And then I would also like some guidance as to is there an option of just saying don't do anything on buffers, leave them all there? Yeah.
 Yeah, I mean, clearly, you know, we gave you quite a few pages of code, and this particular issue is the enduring issue. So we obviously have not resolved that or done enough to resolve that. So I think going forward, we will obviously try to provide some more information. Options beyond that, I think you could choose to modify the –
 the regulations that we've proposed further, or we could decide to set aside the buffer question and come back to it at another time. So all those are our options. Because one of the options is just to leave it as is, right, leave it as mapped. Correct. Thank you very much, I appreciate the clarification. Very good, so, um,
 I'd like to remind everybody that this particular project, what we discussed today, is one of several actions we're taking this month to ensure a smooth transition to the comprehensive plan. It's important that this go into effect in May as scheduled. The plan provides the entitlements needed to support new housing and jobs.
 and there are projects waiting to take advantage of the new zoning, and our actions help provide more certainty for private investments, especially projects that will add to the housing supply. Barry, do you want to come up and tell us about next steps, and then we're done? Great. Thanks, Mayor Wheeler.
 I don't have my cheat sheet with me, but we're going to do this from memory, and I think we'll be pretty much on target. So as was discussed before, we're asking for council members that want to propose amendments to do so by the 4th of April so that we get those in the record and have a chance to work with you, and we offer to work with you on crafting those if you have questions about any of them that you want to work with us on. I believe we're coming back on the 11th of April, and I'm not sure. I'm looking over at Sue if we have a time certain on that already. Okay.
 We have 3.30 scheduled for both the transportation system plan and the code reconciliation. Okay. So we'll be back at 3.30 on April 11th. And then I believe we have another session to put together a substitute ordinance with all of the amendments in it towards the end of April. I believe the date of that is April 25th. And then we will be coming back in May for your –
 Your second reading of this ordinance, I think it's on May 24th. No, it's on May 9th, and it could move to a final reading on the 24th. Thank you. As I said, I don't have my cheat sheet with me. No worries. I've got it here. So that's the lineup of what we see coming forward, and we will get you more information on buffer options over the coming couple weeks. Fantastic. Colleagues, anything else? Thank you very much. Believe it or not, we are adjourned.
 Until tomorrow. Until tomorrow.