All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the 27th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Colleagues, pursuant to PCC 3.02.025, Commissioner Saltzman is participating by telephone due to an illness.
 It is in the public interest to have participation of all council members on these items today. Do any of the council members who are physically present object to having Commissioner Saltzman participate by telephone? There are no objections. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Commissioner Saltzman. Can you hear us? Yeah. Go ahead. We'll try it again. I'm having a hard time hearing. Oh. Okay.
 Okay, you're on. Okay. Now I can hear. Very good. Thank you. Udallie. Here. Wheeler. Here. So we're back today to continue our work on the Central City 2035 plan. Sue, can you please announce the items? If you could please read all of the items, 288 through 291, please. Mayor, before you begin, this is from the other side, do you want me to read the conduct? Yes.
 Why don't you do that? You've become very good at that, so please do. Well, it's my first time, so I'm kind of excited about it. Great. Let's hear it. Welcome to the City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 I've got to say Shakespeare would have been proud of that rendition. Well done. Sue, could you please read 288 through 291? 288, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan, Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic. Amend the Portland Zoning Map and Portland Zoning Codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones. 289, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan. Amend the Comprehensive Plan. Comprehensive map.
 Transportation System Plan, Willamette Greenway Plan, Willamette River Greenway Inventory, Scenic Resources Protection Plan, Zoning Map, and Title 33. Repeal and replace prior city central plans and documents. 290, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan Action Charts, Performance Targets, and Urban Design Diagrams. 291, adopt the Central City 2035 Plan Green Loop Concept Report.
 Very good. Thank you. Sally, could you introduce yourself, please, and then introduce the hearing today?
 Yes, Sally Edmonds, Planning and Sustainability. Thank you, commissioners. We're here for another session on Central City 2035. So today's agenda is in three parts. Part one is to look at some new amendments that you received in your packet. We have three new amendments, two related to school use and one related to height.
 And if I could direct your attention to this lavender sheet. This lavender sheet is the updated voting guide for today. And attached to that is the map that goes with the amended C in part 1C that's on that.
 So the first part will be to introduce, move and second those amendments, and then hold a public hearing. We recommend closing the written record for the school uses at the end of the hearing and leaving it open for the height amendments. And then voting on the school amendments, and then coming back –
 for a vote on the height amendments on either April 5th or 6th, and we'll get you the final date on that later in the session here. Then we'll move on to the second part, which is to vote on amendments that were part of public hearings on either March 7th or January 18th. There's a package of minor and technical and then a variety of other items.
 Commissioner Fritz just for your, so some of the ones in this section are on I-84 the view from Upper Hall Top of Bank and then part three, we understand that Commissioner Udaly is going to introduce an amendment to reconsider River Place and so if that passes then you'd move on to vote on the height and the tower orientation
 Very good. So let's start with the two amendments related to the Central City Public Schools. We're going to move them and second them separately, but I'm hoping that, Rachel, you can come up and go over those with the council. And I know that prior to voting on those, we're going to have some testimony on them as well. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. These amendments were brought to our attention as Lincoln High School is in their school redevelopment process.
 These amendments apply more generally to public school uses and are not limited to just Lincoln. So this first amendment allows up to 100 surface parking spaces. This picture that is on the screen here, this shows the site. I'm using Lincoln High School as the example since they're in their redevelopment process. As the school has gone through this process, they've found,
 requested to maintain some existing surface parking. They do have approximately 140-plus surface parking spaces now and are requesting to maintain what they have as they rebuild the school and the associated facilities. To be clear, they're the only public school in the Central City Plan. Is that correct? Yes.
 That's correct. Well, high school, public high school. Okay. And is the parking currently in that location? That's a good question. I'm going to turn to a colleague.
 So maybe you're planning to give us more information. Yeah, I can. Yeah, and PPS is here. That's correct. They can maybe respond to those questions. I believe it's in a different location at this point, though. Yeah, because all I have is just basically the amendment request. I don't have any other information about it.
 Could I have the question repeated? I was answering another question. Location of the parking. Tell us who you are. As it exists today. As it exists today. Name for the record, please. There's a Detroit Office of Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, senior planner. It's spread out throughout the campus, as it turns out. There's some located towards 14th Street. There's some that's located towards 18th, underneath the bleachers. So the proposal for the current one would be to consolidate parking, as opposed to having it kind of spread out throughout the campus. Okay.
 Does it consolidate in that location? In the proposal it is.
 Very good. So I'd like to move Amendment A, the surface parking for central city public school uses. We will hear testimony on this. Do I have a second? Second. We have a second from Commissioner Fish. Thank you. Let's move on to the next item, and that is about access on public school sites. Rachel, could you please describe this amendment? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. This next amendment is proposing to exempt the public school uses from superblock regulations. And what this is...
 These regulations are intended to link walkways and plazas within a site to public sidewalks and to improve circulation through a site. The intent of this exemption is to allow PPS to design their school with open space access ways in a manner that addresses their programming needs, including safety and security.
 One thing I would like to point out that PPS is in the process in talking with the city, specifically PBOT, about providing public access easements in the future. At this time, as they're working through the redevelopment process, they need a little more time to figure out where that will be, but I think that the interest is there for sure of providing public access at certain times in the future.
 Thank you, Rachel. I'd like to move Amendment B, Exemption from Superblock Regulations for Central City Public School Uses. It's extremely important that we allow schools to have the flexibility during the design and programming of their facilities in a way that addresses safety and security needs.
 And I also think that Lincoln High School will be a great redevelopment opportunity for the entirety of the community. And, again, we're going to hear testimony on this. Do I have a second? Second. We have a motion from the mayor, second from Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Is the super block requirement adjustable or subject to modification through design review? Yes, it is. So why is this exemption necessary? Okay.
 My understanding is that the process that PBOT currently follows for public access easements, it's a very specific process with timing of having those access ways open.
 And it's part of the agreements that they currently use. So I think that this is in part providing an effort to allow more flexibility in how those agreements would be negotiated, and the times would probably be different from what they normally require. Okay. I'll want to hear from the Bureau of Transportation and the
 whether this would affect their ability to get the right thing to happen from the public transportation perspective. Because if there's already a way to get a change to it, I don't quite understand why it's necessary. Rachel, would it be possible for us to organize during the public testimony to have somebody from PBOT be here to be able to answer some of Commissioner Fritz's questions? Could we do that? Yes. Great. Fabulous. Thanks.
 Next up is the Height in the Old Town Chinatown Historic District. Rachel and or Brandon, it's my understanding that you're going to describe this for us.
 Certainly. So this amendment request is to increase height on the half block of block 33 in Chinatown, Japantown Historic District. And as you see on the slide here, on the left is the recommended draft proposal. Increase the height from 100 feet to 125 feet on the full block. The amendment increases the height on the half block adjacent to Fifth Avenue to 160 feet.
 and the other half of the block would remain at 125 feet on 4th Avenue.
 Very good. I'd like to move Amendment C to increase the height on the western half of Block 33 to 160 feet. I believe that a project on what has been a long, vacant parcel could be a catalyst for revitalization in this part of Old Town, Chinatown, and Japantown. This is consistent with the height that the Council just approved for the northern part of the district.
 Personally, I'm comfortable with this height limit because it's on the western edge away from the heart of the district on the 4th Avenue side. Do I have a second? Second. Second. I have a second from Commissioner Udaly. And Commissioner Saltzman, if you have any troubles hearing, just let us know. A clarifying question. Commissioner Fritz. Is this considered in the rest of the plan? Have we already discussed this? Yes.
 In the rest of the plan, this site has been discussed throughout the quadrant plans and this plan. And the approach to the site has been to give it this split height increase, so the 125-100, I believe it is today.
 And with a prerequisite that we get the new design guidelines in place. So we have the new design guidelines in place. So this change is just an alteration of what those two heights are. But the split height principle is still there. It's still in the historic district. It's still subject to the new design guidelines. And does it affect any of the view corridors? It does not affect the view corridor. Thank you. Mayor? Commissioner Daly? Yes.
 I want to support this height increase because we don't need a surface parking lot. We need more housing there. My only concern is with the stability of the historic district, and I understand that this height may still make it vulnerable. So my question is, number one, is that true, and can I get some kind of proof of that? Because right now all I have is...
 nod really. Oh. And number two is are there is there anything this property owner could do to mitigate that potentially negative impact on the historic district by adding more of the kind of required components or? So the the increase of heights over what has been established and was
 approved through the creation of the district does create a risk that the district could be decertified. We learned this, and we went through this when we did a project a few years ago in looking at heights in the Skidmore Old Town District.
 And so that's the documentation I have today, but we can get updated documentation for you. But these are historic districts that the state, SHPO, the State Historic Preservation Office, could weigh in and have an opinion on as well as the National Park Service. Both of those at the staff level have informed us that this kind of thing erodes the quality of the district, but neither one are able to tell us, like, how far is too far.
 And on this district, we've updated the design guidelines. So when you ask about what could be done to mitigate it, really the trick for any success, possible success here at all, is to really nail the design guidelines in a way
 that can satisfy the concerns of the Historic Landmarks Review Board because this is in the historic district, and it's going to go through Landmarks Review, and they're going to apply the guidelines, and that's how what we are creating really is the opportunity to try to design a building that works in this circumstance. And would they weigh in prior to development of this block or after development?
 The building exists. Which part is it? The historic. Oh, they went in last year? The guidelines. Yeah.
 So if I understand your question, Commissioner, and Brandon Spencer-Hart, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, for the record, your question is whether or not the state or federal agencies would comment before or after a development. And I think it could be either. One thing I will say is it's unlikely for the historic district to be delisted without a change. So if your question is,
 Would the district be delisted just at the threat of a new building that doesn't fit the guidelines? That's not my concern. Probably not.
 But in terms of advice, they could give us advice at any stage of the process. Okay. But it wouldn't be as part of the approval criteria. They wouldn't have to get approval from the state or the federal government before getting approval. Has the Historic Landmarks Commission considered this request? My understanding is that there are two commissioners here today to provide testimony on this amendment. Thank you. Joe, can I ask you a fairness question? Sure.
 There's a property a couple blocks to the north that under the proposal before us, the longtime property owner is going to see a significant down zoning of the site. And I think the compromise that is currently before us is something around 160. But it's a substantial reduction from what was the original allowed height. And here we have a relatively new property owner,
 who is coming in and getting at the last minute an adjustment of additional height. I just want to pose this as a fairness question and have you offer a perspective as to how to reconcile that.
 They're very different situations, just to be clear. The property to the north is taking a significant decrease in height. It's taking that because when we created the district, we didn't act to right-size the heights in the district. So that's a bit of a city help create that situation. 160 is the height that we felt we could responsibly get to on that site to the north and still respond to what...
 Commissioner Udailey was raising about the integrity of the district. So here on this site, the 160 is in part sticking with that datum that we've set, and we've got objective reasons for it. Situations on this site is that it's been 100 feet maximum height for a long time.
 And it's also been a struggle, a site that is a full block parking lot, so no demolitions related to the redevelopment of it, in Old Town Chinatown, in a location that we've been trying to catalyze development for decades, and especially market rate mixed use development.
 So, I remember what Wajimaya was once being And all of those projects over the years have bumped up against Haidt. So in part, that's why we made this move. We were convinced by all that experience that we needed to
 open up the height limits here, but only in return for the design review guidelines meeting those guidelines. And so this is a gradient shift, but it's a very different situation. This one's more being argued for the benefit of the district for a longstanding property that's been difficult to get off the ground. That's helpful for me to hear. And what's the underlying zoning here? Rachel? This is CX zoning. So just to be clear, and I'm going to say this when we take up River Place here,
 We're going to start saying that one of the benefits here is housing, but under CX we may not get housing. We could get commercial. We could get retail. We could get some institutional use. We could get anything but housing, correct? That's correct. So just so that we're clear. Thank you.
 So can I make sure I understand what you were describing earlier, Joe? So the property owner adjacent, the Commissioner Fish, referenced. My recollection from our prior hearings was that was originally a 300-foot height limit. Was that correct? Correct, Mayor. And then it's been lowered to 160. And the new property under consideration, Block 33, that is currently a surface parking lot, you have also –
 put the limit at 160 there. Well, this amendment that you would be considering today would do that. What was on the table that was forwarded from the Planning and Sustainability Commission
 was 125 feet along Fifth Avenue side, 100, right? The whole site, it was 100. The whole site going to 125. But that site has always been 100. The developer, I understand, had asked for 200, but you, in the interest of keeping it consistent with what was happening adjacent, put it at,
 Yeah. Is that a fair statement? It's the datum. We've set this new sort of top line based on the circumstance and the rest of the district related to the property to the north of the Menashe property. Very good. That's helpful to me. Thank you. So this is our favorite time of the hearing. This is the public testimony. Thank you.
 part, and we are going to take testimony about the three new amendments that have just been moved and seconded. When you come up to testify, please state your name and also begin each comment with the amendment letter, since we're only taking testimony on the three amendments that we just moved and seconded.
 We already heard testimony about other portions of the Central City 2035 plan during three days in September and in January and again this month. I'd like to take this opportunity, as is tradition, to invite any appointed officials representing their commission and any elected officials to come up first.
 And we also encourage people, if you have small children or if you have disabilities or special needs, please do let Sue over here in the blue sweater know that, and she will make every effort to accommodate you up front. You have three minutes to testify. Name for the record, please be done when the red light comes on. Don't make me have to intervene.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners. My name is Amy Constam. I'm here representing the Board of Education for Portland Public Schools. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to testify on these amendments that pertain to the Central City Plan and for public use that you're considering today. With me also is Eric Gerding, who is our project manager for the rebuild of Lincoln High School, and Becca Cavell of Bora Architects, the designers for Lincoln.
 We appreciate very much the council's consideration of these amendments as they will support the modernization of Lincoln High School. We're also very appreciative of staff's efforts to develop these proposed amendments. PPS is very excited about the possibilities of a new Lincoln High School. This project was made possible by our taxpayers, who voted for our bond to modernize three more schools for safe...
 And for safe 21st century high schools, New Lincoln High School's plan to open in 2022 and design is well underway.
 PPS has been working with community members through an advisory group for the design of the new school. We also have begun conversations with the city regarding the design review that will be required for the project and have become aware of existing and proposed central city plan district regulations that you've referenced that will make necessary campus security difficult to achieve as well as negatively affect the livability of the surrounding neighborhood.
 We believe the proposed prohibition of surface parking and required public access onto the site, the topics of the two amendments, will bring unintended consequences for the new campus and its relationship with the surrounding neighborhood. I'd like to bring these consequences to your attention and ask for your approval of the proposed amendments that support the new Lincoln School design and surrounding community livability.
 The First Amendment would allow up to 100 parking spaces for public schools in the Central City Plan District. This is approximately the number of parking spaces currently at Lincoln High School. This amendment keeps needed parking for staff, visitors, and events on campus and off surrounding public streets and allows bond resources to be focused on the programmatic needs of Lincoln High School students and staff.
 The second amendment concerns the superblock requirements that require public access through sites and the installation of plaza areas for public use 24 hours a day. We understand the need for connectivity through large sites such as the Lincoln campus and we welcome the community use of our school grounds outside of school hours.
 However, requiring unrestricted public access through the Lincoln campus, even during school hours, would pose a significant security risk. Student security is critical for all school districts and PPS must be able to restrict public access if and when needed to protect students and property. We therefore ask for counsel on this amendment to exempt public K-12 schools from the superblock requirements.
 Our conversations with the Lincoln High School Design Advisory Group and other community organizations, including the Stadium District Business Association, Multnomah Athletic Club, have indicated support for the proposed amendments before you today. I believe each organization has submitted those letters of support.
 Again, thank you for your consideration of these amendments and for the staff's quick preparation and responsiveness as these needs have arisen during our design process. We encourage your adoption. We're happy to answer any questions you may have. Thank you. Thank you very much. Colleagues, any questions? Commissioner Fritz. Have you had any discussions with the Timbers Committee?
 organization as to doing shed? We have, and I'd like to call Eric Erding up, our project manager, to assist me. We did go through a process with the Timbers, the Multnomah Athletic Club two plus years ago to determine whether there would be interest in developing joint parking in conjunction with the Lincoln High School site, and the conclusion of that was that there was no interest in partnership. Do you want to add anything to that? No.
 Sure. My name is Eric Girding, Senior Project Manager with Portland Public Schools. Do the mic on? Yeah, I don't think it's on. Can you poke the button there on the bottom? There we go. There we go. Thanks. Hi. My name is Eric Girding. And folks, when you leave the mics, just leave them on when you leave. That's okay if they're turned on. Okay. My name is Eric Girding. I'm the Senior Project Manager with Portland Public Schools Office of School Modernization.
 We've been in a process of master planning the Lincoln site over the last two years, and at the start of our master planning process had conversations with both the Timbers organization and the Multnomah Athletic Club about the potential joint development of a parking facility on the Lincoln site.
 We knew from the school district's position that school bond improvement funds could not be used for a parking structure that was not in support of the educational program. And so there was interest from those neighbors to potentially develop on the Lincoln site to help their parking needs for events with the Timbers and the Mac Club.
 after initial conversations, both of those potential partners declined to participate in any joint development on the Lincoln site as they had their own development plans in the works, as we see now with the redeveloping of the timber stadium and the MAC having other plans, perhaps for other properties. So through our master plan process then, I
 Our master plan that was presented to voters for the bond measure just included the budget and planning for limited parking for the school staff only and not any kind of public or public-private partnership. So that's where we are today with the surface parking need that we have just to support the school use. Thank you.
 You might be worth asking again because I don't know when we said no to the Multnomah Athletic Club as far as their parking expansion, but it continues to be a conversation with both of those entities. And then my second question is about the public access easement. Are you proposing to close the campus so that there wouldn't be...
 No, we're in conversation about how to maintain connectivity, how to have the campus open at times to the public to come through. However, it's my understanding that the existing requirements call for completely unfettered 24-hour public access through the campus. So I think it's the...
 the main point is that the district needs to have some ability to regulate that access. I guess my question is then, none of the other Portland public schools have that kind of a restriction on them. Yes.
 Actually, it is district policy to allow community use of our school sites after school hours. So that is a district-wide policy. We just don't necessarily have the facilities at all of our sites to effectively regulate and control access. But as we are modernizing our school sites through the bond measures,
 We are providing additional security for students and staff so that we can regulate public access during school hours. But it is posted on all of our sites that these facilities are for the sole use of PPS during school hours. Very good. And you will find currently and in the future that the Lincoln Camp is heavily used by the community outside of school hours.
 Yeah, and I'd also like to add that in our master plan, we have open space. There's plaza space. There's landscaped area. There are open spaces that will be accessible by the public, but it's just during our off hours. So we do want to provide that connectivity and public use.
 Can I just ask you a question? Is it your plan to continue to have Lincoln function as a high school during this redevelopment, or are portions of the school being relocated to another site? Yes. So the students would stay in the existing building during the entire construction period. So the new school is being built at the west end of the campus, the west end of the existing football field up against 18th Avenue. Okay.
 So the athletic field would be out of use during construction. Kids would stay there and then once the building is complete, kids would move to the new building and we would demolish the old building and begin construction of athletic facilities on the east end up against 405. And have you identified an alternative athletic field space?
 No, we would love to continue to engage in those conversations with our friends at the Park Bureau. Good. Thank you. Thank you both. Appreciate it very much. Thanks, Amy. I understand we have a couple of commissioners here as well. Very good. Come on up. Kristen, how are you? Thank you so much, Mayor and City Council, for having us as an invited testimony. I'm the Vice Chair of the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission, so we're here to address Amendment 1C.
 And your name for the record, please. My name? Yeah. Kristen Miner, sorry. I skipped over that part. Let me start by saying that we all want to see development on surface parking lots, especially in a historic district. This has really been a blight and one that we'd like to see filled. The height amendment, though...
 It is reduced on the half block, but it is still out of scale with the historic contributing buildings. So the tallest historic contributing building in the district is the Mason-Ehrman, which is seven stories high, and it's approximately 90 feet. I don't know exactly how tall that is. The idea that...
 The 160 on the west half of the block offers a transition is really not appropriate. What we'd like to see in the historic district is for taller development to actually define the edge of the district, to keep that it's only two blocks wide. So again, we're talking about a historic district that is 10 blocks. It's very tiny.
 And it is, as Commissioner Udailey mentioned, it is threatened. I do have a couple of letters from the National Park Service in regards to previous development in Skidmore Old Town, just about inappropriate heights. They date from 2008, so I'm not going to necessarily use them as a comparison.
 kind of, you know, to introduce them into the record, but what I'd like to do is contact SHPO and ask them if they would be willing to write a letter to the city council within the two weeks that we have here for this amendment. That would be very helpful. Um...
 In terms of looking at review of new development on a lot in a historic district, we do have a process. The process has specific criteria, and those criteria always include compatibility. And you definitely can't exclude height and form from discussions of compatibility. Now, the second thing I'd like to...
 draw your attention to is a map, which I hope you all have in front of you. This is a very simple screenshot map. I didn't spend a whole lot of time compiling it, but it shows part of Central City. In fact, it is from the river, which is at the very far
 left-hand edge of the page, and it shows the northern edge. So everything you see on this map is part of Central City, and Central City, of course, extends further to the east and to the south. There are a lot of undeveloped surface parking lots on this map, as I think you can tell just from a cursory glance. So I would love to invite...
 the developer who, um, so dearly would like to develop on a block in a historic district to instead look at all these developments are these undeveloped sites on the East side within our own central city that we would all really appreciate the money and attention and design talents that they could bring to one of these lots. Um,
 Lastly, I'd like to just briefly address the idea that the development could be not only spot zoned, but exempted from discretionary review. I find that idea offensive, as does the rest of the Landmarks Commission. It does erode public trust in the system.
 and it erodes our perception of your integrity. So we are very glad that that part of the amendment did not make it to consideration today. I thank you very much for that.
 and I'll turn it over to my colleague. Could I ask a question? And I appreciate your testimony, and thank you for clarifying the Landmark, Historic Landmark Commission view on this. But as you heard city staff say, there have been attempts over a period of decades to develop the surface parking lot, and it's really clear that none of those projects panned out. They just don't pencil out.
 And we're getting towards the long-tooth end of this development cycle, which has been one of the most robust development cycles in the history of this city, and still nothing has happened there. So what would you say to counter the argument made by staff that the reality is we may just be grandfathering in a large block-wide surface parking lot if we choose to do nothing? Okay.
 I guess I would say that the Landmarks Commission would certainly try to fit in as much height as we could find compatible, you know, within our criteria and the guidelines that we have to work with. I am not sure 160 feet would fit within that.
 And if it seems in the end that the historic district should be jettisoned, there's actually a process for that. And maybe as a city, we should look at that instead of kind of eroding it until somebody else has to step in and say, you don't have a district anymore. Let's give certainty to all those owners who are relying on this
 they get historic tax credits, tax freeze benefits from being a contributing building. And without that, they wouldn't have those funds. Right. And I think that's Commissioner Udaly's point as well. We're trying to find that.
 sweet spot, if you will, between encouraging development on that site. I mean, the surface parking lot in the middle of Old Town, Chinatown, technically under state statute, it is blight. So we have had a blighted city block in the center of a district that should be thriving and vibrant and
 this is standing in the way, and yet we obviously don't want to jeopardize those tax exemptions and tax advantages that are already there in the historic district. So that's really the balancing act we're trying to conduct here, is trying to figure out where is that right balance. Sure. Great. I appreciate your testimony. Commissioner Fritz. I appreciate it because you have supported the increase that's on the table already.
 So I would suggest now that we should see how that works. But so then my other question is, some people will say that the Historic Landmarks Commission can say no that's not compatible at 160 feet and that you therefore can't develop. What's your response to that? I would say that there is a process for that. If in fact that we as a commission make findings that a development at a certain height is not compatible,
 The applicant has the ability to come in front of city council and make their case. I guess my question is, if it's allowed to be 160 feet, will you have the confidence that if you say no, it's not compatible, that it would then come to council and that we would agree with you?
 Of course we have the confidence because it is, you know, we do have specific criteria. So we'll be debating these issues. It's not an easy call. Is it possible to develop at 160 feet and be compatible? Probably not.
 If I may, that is a tension that we're running into constantly with the development rights of property owners that don't actually look at the guidelines. And so we introduced this kind of tension that...
 leads to conflicts of expectations and ultimately... You should say your name. My name is Matthew Roman, Landmarks Commission. I do have a statement I'd like to read. Go ahead. If that's all right. My name is Matthew Roman. I'm here today as a representative of the Portland Landmarks Commission, but moreover, as a passionate environmentalist. The environment in danger today is the built or urban environment. The importance of the built environment is not always appreciated as it should be.
 Having an urban growth boundary to maintain natural landscape does not excuse an anything-goes attitude inside that boundary. People have seen dramatic change in this city over the last 25 years or so. Thankfully, Portland is blessed with an array of important historic landmarks and districts, all of which tell a story about our past, both the good and the bad. And those points remain a constant cultural touchstone for our collective memories.
 You are faced today with deciding the outcome of what I would describe as an endangered species. If you think that's hyperbole, then I doubt you understand the gravity of the situation before you.
 Few, if any, of our historic districts represent an ethnic culture the way Chinatown, Japantown does, and none are so close to extinction as this one. We have a district with nearly 50% of the buildings being non-contributing. We are at a tipping point where passive intervention or leave-no-trace strategies are not going to save the last of its kind.
 As I sit here before you today, a white middle-aged man having voted in every election for representatives like you to represent my interests, I want to acknowledge the history of my race not always treating Japanese or Chinese immigrants well. In fact, it's been deplorable. I think we have an opportunity to turn a page for the better with something positive. So the question before you, or the questions before you, do we clear-cut Chinatown, Japantown for new monoculture, or...
 Do we take a restorative approach where we nurture the environment back to health? If we take that approach, then we do more than just restore buildings and places. We give a potential Chinese, Japanese immigrant, not even born yet, something positive in our history to be a point of pride. And then we restore our own relationships to the minority communities that are so fundamental to what our city and state are about.
 Previous councils have recognized the restorative approach is more in keeping with our overall values than the clear-cut approach. That was demonstrated with the investment the city made developing and adopting the design guidelines. If you now change direction, consider the honest approach is to go through the process of demolition review and declare the district dead. That is the de facto result of this proposed amendment. I believe the viability of the district will be called into question if this site is not treated appropriately.
 More than anything on this site, we need wholly compatible design. What that means is laid out entirely in the guidelines you approved, and an appropriate developer with a good architect can make a wonderful building work on that site within the 125-foot limit.
 Finally, while I very much doubt this is some kind of political deal, keep in mind how it can appear that way to the public. The idea of equal protection under the law runs contrary to spot zoning individual properties. Take caution the road you're going down will only bring more requests in the future and the potential for corruption can be avoided altogether if we just say no to the concept in general.
 So let's honor the Chinese and Japanese contribution to the health of our built environment by investing in the future of this place. Think big, figuratively, not literally. You have the power to create something that can be looked back on with great pride 100 years from now, and our children's children can say this moment represents a positive chapter in the history of ethnic relationships in our country. It's about time we give something back.
 Thank you in advance for doing the right thing here. Thank you. Could I ask you the same question because perhaps you have a different perspective. Would you agree with me that a surface parking lot does not honor diversity in the city of Portland? I would agree, but I would also agree that you could condemn that lot and turn it into a public plaza and then it wouldn't have cars parked on it. It would be a festival place. When you say do nothing, you forget that you have the power to –
 Take that lot and do whatever you want with it. And that's fair. I'll just make the comment I made earlier. I do agree. I've come in and I've watched that sit there for decades with no activity at all. And so here we have an opportunity to potentially address additional issues.
 while maintaining that balance and preserving the integrity of the historic district. So I'm not convinced it's an all-or-nothing proposition. That's all I'm saying. No, and in fairness, part of the reason that that site has had a hard time is because they keep coming up with the most incompatible designs that you've ever seen. They don't look anything like any of the patterns in the district.
 If you look at the guidelines and looked at their last proposal, there's no way I could vote in good conscience and uphold my oath as a commissioner to apply those standards objectively. I mean, I couldn't do it. Right. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Maya Foti, Commissioner Foti. Commissioner is set on. My glass is flushed.
 Yeah, just leave the mics on. Sorry, I didn't turn them off. No worries. I second everything my fellow commissioners said. I'm the newest commissioner, so I've only been on the commission for 10 months, and I'll just take a different angle of all this. They were quite articulate about the importance of the district. And I would say so far everything that I've seen as far as the whole process has been very deliberate. There's various code amendments being vetted, three various ones right now.
 a lot of thought, a lot of public input. So when all of a sudden this amendment came up,
 I couldn't wrap my head around it. I wasn't quite sure. I'm like, wait a minute. They can do that? Like in two weeks, they can just make a decision like that, which has a tremendously long-term impact. Because these districts, we're not just looking at five years, 10 years. I mean, we're looking at the shape of Portland. I mean, if we think of Pike Place Market and Grand Central Station and these great development plans that had to happen immediately. And then you look back now and you're like, oh, thank God, we didn't do it. So I'm just asking.
 I understand completely. I bike all the time, and I sort of avoid many of the areas in Chinatown because it's not pleasant to go through. So I understand the need to develop it and the need to develop it appropriately, and I'm just asking for...
 Just more thought and how is that done instead of a knee jerk. Yeah, let's do it now and get it done. Thank you. Can I just offer a comment? And, Beth, I thank you all for your testimony and for coming here. And I'm glad you're testifying at the front of the hearing because sometimes you end up having to wait a long time. And you have other – you're already giving a lot of your time to the city. So I appreciate your testimony. You know, this is one of those decisions where we're sort of on the horns of a dilemma.
 I mean, it is going to be a difficult judgment call. I'm just reviewing the letter we got from the Old Town Community Association, which has supported this amendment. And in it, they talk about, you know, catalytic investment. Who can be against that? They talk about maybe the window closing on the construction cycle. I mean, we're hearing that there is going to be a slowdown for which –
 We'll likely be blamed, but I think it's called the natural cycle of things. And there's a big reference to, you know, capitalizing on inclusionary housing, which, of course, in a CX zone, there's absolutely no guarantee we'll get any affordable housing at this site. It could be many things. So the one thing that I just want to – that I'm going to consider as I digest the testimony, and I guess we're going to vote on this in a couple weeks –
 is I'm actually not smart enough to understand what is the spark that causes development. I don't know. It may be the availability of capital.
 It may be that someone has run out of space and this space becomes just the last place to build something. It may be an irrational desire to build somewhere. I don't know what is the ultimate decision, in fact. But I do know that while we're talking about the fact that this site has not been successful for a long time, it is adjacent to a site that also was blighted for a very long time and has now not only been redeveloped, the Grove Hotel,
 but has been sold to a British company because it's such a hot location. So it is ironic that we're talking about sort of, you know, trying to divine market forces when immediately adjacent we have actually a big success story. There was a redevelopment of a historic property. It's now been sold to another company, and it's about to become a marquee thing in our community. So that's...
 I would actually argue that that's a pretty good indicator of what's happening in that area. And so for me, maybe the burden of proof on needing the extra height goes up a little higher to establish that that's really the but-for need here. So I'll consider your testimony carefully.
 Thank you so much. I think you're on to something there, Commissioner, with that comparison, because that development went nine stories, and I feel like that can certainly be something that the 125 feet could accommodate. So I'm not sure why the false choice of only being able to do 160 has been offered to you. Please. Okay.
 Sorry, I just lost my train of thought. I do that all the time. Thank you very much. Thanks to all three of you. We appreciate your testimony. Were there any other elected officials or commissioners? Very good. Sue, next three, please.
 We have 17 total. It appears that they're all speaking on Amendment C. Okay. So let me suggest this. If you hear testimony that sounds a lot like the testimony you're going to give, feel free just to say, my position is X. You've heard testimony on that. I agree. Thank you very much. It'll be duly registered. Otherwise, name for the record. You have three minutes to testify. When the red light goes off, that means your time is done.
 The first three, please. Tim Ramos, Daniel Kaven, Tom Brenneke. They'll be followed by Brianna Murtaugh, Joseph Schaefer, and Helen Ying. Good afternoon. Why don't you start us off, sir? All right. Thank you. For your record, Tim Ramos. I'm a lawyer, and I'm here on behalf of Guardian Real Estate Services, the owner of Block 33.
 here today to join with the Neighborhood Association in support of 1C, the amendments offered by the mayor, but with some adjustments that would reflect the specific proposal that came from the owner and the Neighborhood Association. The proposal is the product of the confluence of a number of factors, one of which is the openness of the council to hear from neighborhoods about what's required to make their neighborhoods a better place,
 The second is the openness of the property owner to take risks that are unnecessary, given that the conservative choice might be to simply collect rent from parking, and his willingness to engage with the neighborhood to find a solution.
 And finally, the sad recognition that there is an urgency here to take action in Chinatown to improve conditions. And for those of you who are patrons of businesses and restaurants there, who are there in the evening hours, you know from personal experience what's happening. The goals of the proposal are first to prove wrong the prediction of the appraiser who worked on this project that the highest and best used economically of this property in the future is surface parking.
 That is something we're trying to defeat. The second goal is to create more housing, more people who are committed residents of the neighborhood, with the benefits that will bring to personal safety on the streets and the viability of businesses in the neighborhood. There are three elements that are critical to the proposal. One is height, which we've discussed. And the height there that's sought on the western side is 200 feet. You'll hear more testimony on that.
 Second is an increase in FAR because an increase in height without related FAR doesn't produce any more housing, as you know. Finally, the proposal asks that all the new design guidelines apply, but that they not be used to undercut the allowed height in FAR. And the reason is this. First of all, from a policy standpoint, that's the recommendation of your DOZA study, which you accepted.
 and have asked for the implementation of. So it's not an outlandish policy to ask for that. This is a good policy basis. More importantly, Landmarks has authorized a written declaration, which I believe was sent to council members stating for the record that it would not approve any project on Block 33 if it exceeded 125 feet.
 So the project that we've been talking with the community about would simply not be approvable, and they've announced that ahead of time without seeing the project, without talking to the neighborhood association or the property owner. So it would be, I think, a useless exercise for us to go through that process. It would simply end up in appeal here.
 The reasoning provided by Landmarks is largely unsupportable. And let me respond to Commissioner Udaly's question about the likelihood of the property being taken out of historic status by simply the application that we're talking about. Is that a question you're asking, Commissioner Udaly? Yes.
 That is my main concern. I wouldn't feel comfortable voting to raise heights here to benefit one property owner, knowing that I could be basically punishing every other property owner with a contributing building in the district.
 I understand that. No offense. No, your specific question about whether it would lead to the unwinding of the district, I would commend your attention to the actual application for designation for this property, for this district. When that was filed, they were required to describe the zoning, and that zoning description includes high-rise buildings in the area and FAR of 9 to 1.
 So it seems to me a fallacious argument to say that if development happened that's consistent with the application that was made for the designation, that that would lead to the unraveling of the designation. Tim, what is being proposed for this site? Maybe I'm missing something, but what is in very brief summary, what is the proposal and what guarantee can you give us that there will be housing? The proposal is in two parts.
 The ground floor of both parts would be retail. The western portion would be a residential tower, and you'll hear more discussion of that and more description of it. The property owner is committed to doing residential development on the western half of the block.
 The eastern half of the block is an open question. I'll let the developer speak to that. It could be office, it could be hotel, it could be housing. So I'm confused. This is about the height. This is not a development application. So we can't condition any decision that we make based on a particular development. The letters we've gotten from some of the supporters that are in the record
 specifically say that their support is conditioned on this being affordable housing subject to inclusionary housing. If that was partly how this was sold, I think it's fair to ask the developer what they're contemplating with the additional height. But there's no way to enforce that? No, there is a way to enforce it. We can deny the amendment.
 Or you can condition it. I just want to know what we're talking about. We want to be clear about it, and we will do that in our presentation. But let's be clear also that if you have the power to grant a zone change, you have the power to grant something slightly less than a zone change, which would be conditional. So you do have the tools to make this happen, and we'd be happy to work with your staff on that. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Daniel? I can go first. Tom Brenneke, thank you. Thank you.
 My company owns Block 33, a full city block located between 4th and 5th, Cooch and Davis, in the Chinatown, Japantown historic district. The property is presently operated as public parking. It's a great parking lot. It serves the neighborhood well and returns a reasonable profit on the equity invested. After withdrawing our land use application a couple months ago and facing a variety of challenges, I went to the neighborhood again and collaborated on a potential solution for advancing development on the site.
 The proposed amendment came out of that effort. It will provide for flexibility, improved financial feasibility, and much higher odds that a high-density, mixed-use, transit-oriented development project will be built in the near term. We have worked closely with the neighborhood and understand their expectations. The Old Town Community Association is fully supportive and excited about a potential housing development on Block 33.
 I want to acknowledge the hard work and constructive input of Board Chair Helen Ying, Jesse Burke, Vice Chair, and other board members, Dan Lenzen, David Lichen, along with the Land Use Committee Chair, Zach Fruitengarden. We came together. We created a reasonable solution that's being brought to you today. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, for your support and sponsorship of the amendment.
 Despite the ongoing deterioration of the neighborhood, crime, and homelessness issues, we believe we can deliver on the community's vision. We're a successful Portland-based housing operator and developer who is willing to make over a $250 million investment in Old Town Chinatown. It's a catalyst development which we expect will be a big step forward in revitalizing this neighborhood. Our ask is simple.
 Straightforward. Approve our proposed amendment as originally written and proposed to the neighborhood and agreed upon. An additional height of 75 feet up to 200 feet on one half of the block, along with the additional FAR, which will create a feasible project. If we're granted the amendment, it is important that it not be subject to further adjustment so we will have the certainty needed to proceed. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Thank you for having me. My name is Daniel Kaven. I'm providing testimony for 1C. I'm a partner at William Kaven Architecture, a co-owner of Block 33, and an advocate and activist for dense urban living and affordable housing. If you get on your phone or you jump on a computer and search for Portland, the app will drop a pin 300 feet from Block 33. Not only is the block a central piece of historic Portland, but it continues to be the modern center of Portland.
 Renewed vitality in this recently struggling neighborhood is critical to not only those that currently live and work there, but to the entire metropolitan area. Portland's collective brand and reputation to the world at large is dependent on the success of this historic neighborhood. Over the last three years, we have worked hard to understand from our community what is important to them and bring a project to fruition today.
 that is representative of those desires. This is what we have learned along the way and our current design and the changes being requested is a reflection of this ongoing discussion. The block west of this street to the west of our property is zoned for heights up to 460 feet at 9 to 1 FAR. It is the community's desire to taper the height down to 4th Avenue from the 460 foot potential on 5th Avenue.
 Housing requires slender building profiles in order for increased access to light and air. As such, we have conceptually masked the building in a tapered manner. We need to be able to build to 200 feet on the west side of the site and a minimum of 125 on the east side of the block.
 It is our desire and the neighborhood's to bring as much housing to the neighborhood as the market will bear. In order to make the project work financially, we need both expanded height and FAR. Regardless of the economics of the project, the numbers of units is staggering between 200 feet and 160 feet at a loss of 72 units, 15 of which would be affordable. At only 125 feet, we would lose 144 units, 29 of which would be affordable. Yeah.
 We recently withdrew our land use application and submitted prior to the creation of the design guidelines, and we are committed to working with Landmarks Commission to realize a design that works within the guidelines. We do need from Council surety that your vested decision on height and scale of the buildings is not going to be second-guessed by the Landmarks Commission.
 Before we spend a tremendous amount of money on the design of the building, we need to know for sure that our discussion with Landmarks is limited to the contextual conditions of the materials of the building and not how many housing units we are able to build on the property.
 Ultimately, it is my belief that your goals and our goals are mutually aligned. We are a part of a larger team that is tasked with executing the mission of not only council's goals, but the entire community's to solve a housing crisis. But we need to be equipped with the right tools to get the job done. Just as the police force needs more boots on the ground and PDOT needs more asphalt for potholes,
 We need the tools to get the job done in our community. Thank you. And they are a reasonable amount of height on our block, 200 feet on the west of the block, 125 on the east, the same FAR that is across the street from us, 9 to 1, and surety that we can build to those standards prior to getting started. Thanks for your time. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. I have a couple of visuals, if they're helpful also, of the massing. That would be helpful. Okay.
 So that's the massing diagram. Could you speak into the microphone, please? Because we're on the record. Thanks. One of the things I wanted to bring attention to is that in regards to what Tim was mentioning about the application for the historic district and there being tall buildings in the application, the other thing is historically the north part of the historic district has been zoned to 350 feet and 9 to 1 FAR.
 That's been the case for a long time and still is until the comp plan is in place. And the Department of Interior knew that, I assume, when they made the application. And so this shows you our property and what we're talking about in line with the other buildings here. The Pacific Tower is almost as tall and it already exists and has so for a long time. Is this at 200 feet, the scale you've drawn? Yes. Okay.
 That's very helpful, but Tim, before we lose you, now I'm a little confused. The mayor has placed an amendment on the table to increase the height to 160. The testimony that we've just received is that you need 200 feet, so I'm a little confused. Do you support the mayor's amendment?
 As I said initially, we support the amendment with adjustments, and the adjustments are the three things that the neighborhood and the property owner requested, which is 200 feet on the west side of the block, higher FAR to match the additional height, and a clear message to Landmarks Commission that this is the outline of the development. It is not to be reduced by land.
 A discretionary process. Look, I'm not the brightest bulb up here, but what you just said is that you don't support the mayor's amendment. Yes, that was a no. So that's a no. I just want to give you an opportunity to be as clear as you want. To be clear, I don't think we have... To be clear that we would support it with amendment. We don't have the right to change land use decision-making processes like that. Like what? Like telling the Landmarks Commission that they can't consider various things. Well, respectfully...
 You have commissioned a report which came back and recommended exactly that policy to you. You have the authority to do that because you have the authority to write the rules. It's well within your prerogative to do so. We'd have to rewrite the rules. Okay, good. I mean, the problem we're all facing, all of us that work in design review and support it, is that the state legislature, when it comes to housing, has made design review illegal throughout most of the state.
 What is preserved is design review in the central city and design review in historic districts. But if that proves to be a policy that leads to the loss of housing opportunity, I suspect the statute will change again and we'll lose the ability to apply design review. It's an important, I think, consideration for all of us. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Next three, please.
 Brianna Murtaugh, Joseph Schaefer, Helen Ying. They'll be followed by Jesse Burke, Tom Clark, and David Lyken. Hi, my name is Brianna Murtaugh. I'm the project manager with Guardian for Block 33. Nearly two years have passed since we acquired Block 33. In that time, construction projects in Portland have seen cost escalation between 8% and 15%. Interest rates have climbed by 130 basis points, and inclusionary housing has been implemented. Thank you.
 The 2035 plan adjusted the height on block 33 to 125 feet instead of the 150 that was originally supported by the neighborhood. Construction costs and interest rate increases are something developers regularly have to contend with, but I think it's important to mention the impact of inclusionary housing specifically. Inclusionary housing permanently reduces the value of the project somewhere between $17 and $25 million, depending on which affordability option is selected.
 This makes the project increasingly difficult to finance as institutional equity can invest anywhere in the country and not incur that type of valuation impairment. Block 33 has specific fixed costs and challenges. Subterranean parking is a critical concern of the neighborhood. Future development of parking in the area is limited due to the contributing buildings in the rest of the historic district.
 There are additional excavation costs on our site because we're directly adjacent to the MAX line on 5th, and increased dewatering costs due to the proximity to the river. The purchase price was a fixed cost set by an appraisal. As Tim mentioned, the value is based on its value as a parking lot. Why can't we build a shorter and smaller building?
 Wood frame construction would certainly be cheaper, but it's limited to 85 feet, about seven stories. This would knock several residential floors off the building and make the project totally infeasible due to the fixed costs that I've mentioned. To build over 85 feet, steel and concrete framing is required. Steel and concrete is about 30% more expensive than wood framing.
 On a total project basis, this translates to about a 15% cost increase. So by adding an eighth floor to the project, you're increasing the cost of the entire development by 15% or more. To balance this cost increase, you obviously need to add more than just one additional story. Each additional floor adds rentable square footage that incrementally helps to offset the overall cost increase to that base building cost.
 The implementation of inclusionary housing reduces the impact of this offset, requiring additional rentable square footage to make the project pencil. 125 feet simply doesn't get us there. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Joseph Schaefer. I'm a land use planner here on behalf of Guardian and the ownership group. And I would like to respond to a couple questions that have been raised in the earlier testimony. First, to follow up on Commissioner Udaly's questions about the status of the historic district.
 The city council decides if the historic district is going to be de-designated. So I want people to understand that this is not something that's likely to be pulled out from underneath you unknowingly. That's not my understanding. We don't say whether it gets in. I don't think we say whether it goes out. Yeah.
 Well, that's not my understanding. Thank you. Okay. And then the second comment I'd like to make is questions have come up regarding why the tapered height, why taller on the west side, why lower on the east side of the block. And when we saw the proposal for the north end of the district to be at 160 feet, you know, we talked about that. And our thought and Daniel's thought as the architect was rather than have a uniform area,
 across the block when we have 460 feet across the street on one side and just 100 feet across the street on the other side, that it would be better to come to the city and ask for a tapered. If you have 200 on half the block and 125 on half the block, you're at about 160 overall. So that's our design thinking about that.
 The last comment I'd like to make is in response to Commissioner Fish's questions about what we're proposing. So I'm going to run off some numbers and I'll get them in the record for you before you vote. The proposal that you saw on the board here from Daniel has 342 apartments in it.
 80% of mean family income, that would mean 68 affordable apartments. If we went to the 60% of mean family income, that would be 34 affordable apartments. And this, of course, is the math under the inclusionary housing. That's at a 12 to 1 floor area ratio. At 9 to 1 floor area ratio, the overall number of apartments drops to 198.
 The number of affordable apartments at 80% drops to 39, and at 60% of mean family income drops to 19.
 Under the current 6-to-1 FAR, if the retail and the commercial tower on the east remain, we're down to just 54 apartments. So we ask you to support housing, support an FAR increase in addition to a height increase that actually allows the units to get built. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners.
 So I'm going to come with two different hats on today. First, as my name is Helen Ying, by the way. Thank you. First, as the chair of the Old Town Community Association. And then I'm just going to make a few comments after I read this letter to you as a Chinese American in the community. So first, I'm going to just read this letter from our community association letter.
 Block 33, located between Northwest 4th and Northwest 5th avenues and Northwest Cooch and North Davis Street, represents a potentially catalytic development site for our neighborhood. The community has been discussing the significance of this block for over a decade and have had several potential starts and stops with previous property owners and developers.
 The last real opportunity for this flock was the sighting of Uwajimaya. It was clear that the success of this potential development was dependent on receiving additional height of the currently zoned height limit of 100 feet.
 All of the preliminary designs, drawings, had a potential height of 165 feet across the entire block to make this project financially feasible. Unfortunately, due to the timing of the project along the downsizing of Uwajimaya, this project never materialized.
 Understanding the significance of this block, the community association fought for additional height and FAR during the Central City 2035 West Quadrant process.
 which we knew were key to ensuring its success. We were clear that in exchange for this additional height and FAR, the developer needed to provide much-needed market rate and middle-income housing units and ensure that the development helped protect preservation of the historic resources in a new Chinatown-Japantown historic district.
 We felt so strongly about this that we tied our support to additional height and FAR to development and implementation of design guidelines for the district. The district now has adopted new design guidelines and the final draft Central City 2535 plan gives this block a height limit of 125 feet with base FAR of 6 to 1 and available bonuses of 3 to 1 FAR.
 Tom Breneke, the developer and property owner of Block 33, recently approached the community association to discuss a request for an amendment to the Central City 2035 plan. That would greatly increase his odds of creating an economically viable mixed-use housing development in the near term.
 In our discussion with Mr. Brenneke and his design team, we've come to appreciate that rising construction costs, coupled with inclusionary housing requirements, have created a set of circumstances that have once again rendered a potential development of Block 33 economically infeasible.
 Mr. Braneke and his team have proposed an amendment to the Central City 2035 plan that would provide for additional height on a portion of the block and additional FAR for the entire block. Thank you.
 that's allowed to hide on the east half block. So, Helen, I'm sorry to interrupt. I don't want to be rude, but I notice you're halfway through the letter and your three minutes has expired. Is somebody else going to read the second half, or will you just trust that we will read the letter? So I am just going to stop where I am there on the letter and just want to ask that you would consider providing the tools for the development of this block. And I was going to make a really quick few comments as a Chinese-American in the community.
 That is, you know, I am involved in this community because I value and treasure the history of this neighborhood and what it represents in my own history during the time when my grandfather was in this country. And, you know, the dark side of that part of this history and how we need to look at, you know,
 I think one of the landmark commissioners mentioned it earlier, how to
 allowed people in the Chinese and Japanese community to feel valued. But at this time, the way Chinatown and Japantown sits, even my own children, they have a hard time wanting to come into the area. That does not help to pay respect to the community. We need to find a way to make this area thrive and economically viable for the Chinese businesses that are there. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your leadership.
 Could I ask a question? Yes, Commissioner Saltzman. So, Helen? Yes. Is the Old Town Chinatown Community Association supporting the modification suggested by Mr. Ramis? I apologize. I didn't quite hear everything you said. Are you supportive? Is the Old Town Chinatown Community Association...
 Supporting the modifications to the amendment that Mr. Ramos has suggested. Yes, I personally support it, and the Old Town Chinatown Community Association also supports it. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 I'm sorry to be the microphone police folks, but we have lots of people signed up to testify, and I want to make sure that everybody's voice gets heard. Next three, please. Next three, Jesse Burke, Tom Clark, David Lichen. They'll be followed by Dan Lenzen, Doug Klotz, and Peter Englander. Good afternoon. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Jessie Burke. I'm here with the Old Town Community Association, but also the Society Hotel, as many of you know. So on behalf of the Old Town Community Association, I wanted to reiterate maybe what many of my colleagues are going to say, which is we do care about preservation and the historic neighborhood and the integrity of these old buildings. I can assure you I've restored one, and it is a painful process, but we did it.
 However, as it stands now and our policies stand now, we are failing in Old Town. This is in part because development is incredibly expensive now. It wasn't necessarily when I started my project, but those costs have increased drastically. And in part because of the restrictions we put on properties and districts that
 We have entire blocks, entire, with empty storefronts in Old Town. I know you've seen it on walks with us. In our block, where the Society Hotel is, the entire rest of the block is empty. If you go to 4th Avenue between Davis and Everett, almost the entire block face is vacant. So, yeah.
 We have empty storefronts, unsafe structures, and even our current small property owners, just individuals, cannot afford to improve their buildings because of the cost of constructions and restrictions placed on them. The reason you need to have more height or more space is because you need square footage to generate revenue to pay for the debt that you just incurred to improve your building.
 Old Town buildings are blighting, businesses are struggling, and because there are so few residents, and know that our current residents are begging for more market rate housing. We currently have 59 units in all of the Chinatown, Japantown area. Old Town is larger, so know that there are not that many, a lot of extremely affordable housing areas.
 Old Town is better known for lawless behavior than our rich history. In short, we're finding that our attempt at perfection is becoming the enemy of good. As the owner of the Society Hotel, I'm also a small business owner in the neighborhood. I have a coffee shop in the Kenton neighborhood in North Portland, too, which I've seen several of you there before. And we're in the middle of a residential area. We're busy all the time because people live there. In contrast, in Old Town, our coffee shop is somewhat busy during the work week and dead on weekends and in evenings.
 Old Town's business community talks constantly about every day that more residents don't live there, we have to work extra hard to make our businesses a destination. This project would provide a great number of residents with enough disposable income to patronize our businesses on a regular basis because it's their neighborhood spot.
 If we truly care about preservation and housing and economic vitality, I ask that the city get a little more creative. We can't predict the future. We don't know what pitfalls may arise with any of these decisions, but being purists isn't working in this neighborhood.
 These businesses are struggling. This district has been dying for years. So I implore you to take a chance and help this neighborhood make this project happen by approving this amendment and whatever else they may be proposing. But the business community and the community association really support this project because we're dying. Mm-hmm.
 Thank you. Good timing. Thanks. Slightly depressing, but good timing. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Tom Clark. I am a neighbor of this project in two ways. I'm a partner in a firm that is in the building at 333 Northwest 5th with Clark Chose Architects. I'm an architect. I'm also a building owner. I own that same building, or I co-own it.
 I'm active in the Old Town Chinatown Community Association, particularly on the Land Use Committee. And I also participated in the updating of the design guidelines for the Historic District. I want to just say that we, as property owners in the district two blocks away, support this height increase, the full 200, on Fifth Avenue, which is where we also exist.
 And we support it because we really need to create a more active cultural district. We need to have activity on the streets. As Jesse just pointed out, there are dead zones in our neighborhood. This is one of them, and there are a few other ones. And what happens with the dead zones is those unoccupied areas are collection points and backwaters for people to collect, undesirable people. And in particular, I'm referring to drug dealers.
 and campers and others who really distract and turn away people who would be supporting businesses and coming into the district. This is no secret, you all know about this. This project could really bring life to our streets and it could be, as it's been mentioned, a real catalyst.
 to bring life to the streets, put people in the neighborhood, to support the neighborhood, and it would catalyze other things to happen afterwards. So I think this old town is really at a crossroads right now, as you're hearing. This could be a real game changer for us. So I'm going to talk also a little bit about the height. The height is not a problem if it's designed correctly, and you will get –
 plenty of chances to look at the design of this building through landmarks and through design review. Design is how it can be made to be compatible. Having been involved with the guidelines, the design guidelines, the object is to be respectful of the neighborhood, not to imitate it, not to copy it, not to pretend we're back in the 19th century, but actually to simply be compatible.
 And there are many ways that the building will be able to be compatible, through scaling elements at the sidewalk, through use of materials that are compatible, rhythms of window openings, cornice lines, all kinds of things. So we strongly support this project and encourage you to support it to the full 200 feet of height on 5th.
 And like I say, we'll have plenty of opportunity to make it right as it goes forward. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Mr. Clark, is your building a historic building or a contributing building? I'm sorry. I didn't hear you. Is the building that you co-own, is it a historic building or one that contributes? It is not. It is not. Built in 1925. Thank you both. Next three, please. Dan Lenson, Doug Klotz, Peter Englander. They'll be followed by Caitlin Weber,
 Jackie Peterson-Lumas and Simon Jaworski. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Hello. My name is Dan Linson. I'm an employer, property owner, and developer in Old Town and four other states over the last 30 years. So I speak from some experience with where this project's going. So I'm going to speak to an anecdotal situation that we had in historic Lower Denver.
 If you're familiar with that development near the train station, it's historic. It was embattled. It went through the same processes on height. Ultimately, the area eventually got scraped. The trains and buses, transportation was put underground. My restaurant was the first to go into that neighborhood under a temporary certificate of occupancy in the building. So if that gives you an idea, there's nobody in the neighborhood
 So the business was pretty slow. Once people moved in, business went up. So the anecdote to this is this is what's going to happen. People will come to our neighborhood. They will live in our neighborhood, and it will thrive. So I'm a proponent of the amendment.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Doug Klotz. Um, speaking on amendment one C, um, I do support the amendment. Uh, I think the, the way the height changes is designed is, is, is a wise move. The, the, the block to the West has a much higher height. And so it makes sense for this to be a step up. Uh, the additional height will allow the, the bulk of the building to be shifted to the West and respect the local buildings on fourth Avenue. Um,
 Going into a couple other issues, there was a discussion previously about what are the council add conditions, subtract conditions. It seems to me that council went through a lot of this on the 12th and Ankeny building where it was appealed to you from planning commission. I don't know if that makes a difference, but the council crafted...
 design, basically, on that. So I don't think it's unprecedented for the council to put conditions on an approval or send the applicant back to come back with changes. That said, we're once again running up against the
 the tension between the height and FAR that's allowed and the Landmarks Commission's charge to make it compatible. I note, it's interesting that Commissioner...
 Minor mentioned the Grove Hotel. My understanding is that what happened on the Grove Hotel is the Landmarks Commission was saying it has to be much lower, and the applicant said, okay, we're done here. I'm going to take it to council. We can just stop this hearing right now.
 And after that, then there was a change in the tenor and the extra height at the Grove Hotel got approved. I may be a little inaccurate on that, but I think that's the gist of what happened there. And this is the same situation we are facing here, and I think that's what Mr. Ramos was referring to, is trying to get ahead of that dynamic and say, okay, let's just see what the
 the council feels because ultimately the council will be the decision maker if it gets referred here. So that's what you've got before you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Peter Englander. I am on the board of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association and I do that as representative of Deadstock Coffee. Deadstock Coffee is right across from the subject block.
 I'm full support of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association letter as it's been submitted to you, so I'm not going to reread it or reiterate the issues. And I've been raising my thumb, and so I want to make a few more points as well. The points that have been made about the surface parking lot, I just want to emphasize that a little bit more because I want you all to know that this is one
 one of the most profitable, if not the most profitable, surface parking lots in the city. Why? Because of this gentleman and his colleagues and the businesses that they run on the weekends. And so that full surface parking lot does a great business on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday night, as well as completely during the day. So when you've heard comments about, I can just hang on to this as a surface parking lot, I want you to strongly, strongly consider that.
 You've heard about the historic guidelines, which you've recently adopted. You've heard about threats to the historic district. In all of that, I encourage you to also look into how many districts have been delisted nationwide. And I also want you to consider that because you have these guidelines. And I don't know the status of the guidelines in Skidmore, but I'm sure you're doing those as well –
 You didn't have those before. So there's a level of certainty that those guidelines provide, and you've got a Landmarks Commission to maintain them. Commissioner Fish, you made a comment about the Grove Hotel and its ability to be able to exist.
 are to develop and do very well and sell for a lot of money. It's selling for a lot of money because it's a hotel, it's a high-end hotel. We're talking about housing on this block that will include inclusionary housing, and this is also a neighborhood with one of the highest, if not the most highest, concentrations of low-income housing in the neighborhood, which we love and embrace. I want to speak to the data and fairness issue that was discussed at the beginning.
 The other block is right across the street from the Chinese Garden. This one is not. So although I can understand that idea, you have other considerations with something next to a very important asset to our city. Okay.
 Those are the major points I wanted to make. The last thing I wanted to do is read you a quote from the guidelines, from the historic guidelines for this district. Because I think it's important, and as I understand the guidelines, they don't address height very specifically, but they do say this in the vision statement, and I think it's a great vision statement. It's only a sentence.
 New buildings have the traditional base level that blends well with older buildings. Base level. That doesn't mean the entire building. It doesn't mean the entire height. But it does mean at the base level. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next three, please, Sue. Caitlin Weber, Jackie Peterson-Lumas, Simon Jaworski, and then our final speaker will be Lincoln Tukow.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilman. My name is Jackie Peterson-Lumas. I'm the Executive Director of the soon-to-open Portland Chinatown Museum, which we hope will also be a very important resource for the neighborhood. I don't know if Fred Wong is still here, but this is a thriving community from a different perspective. There are still 11 Chinese property owners in the neighborhood and two Chinese groups who are buying two more.
 Most of them never even understood that they had potential tax credits from the historic district. All of the non-Chinese property owners who owned north of Everett, where they got, the city gave them very high heights, they took their tax credits and they're about, or have expired. Okay.
 So I am willing to support potentially the 60-foot height, but in my heart I think that it's injurious and I think it's unfair. At the very least, even to see that this would be even considered when you haven't seen a design, you haven't seen renderings, you have not seen any kind of elevations.
 This is unheard of. I mean, this is stunning to me. I mean, because they could take this and run and say, I'm going to sell this building because now I've got 160 foot or 200 foot height. You've now quadrupled the value of the property. And we have been promised nothing. Nothing.
 And so I don't even understand this. But let me just say that a whole bunch of other things here that come to mind. This is not, it is true that the Old Town Chinatown Community Association and the Old Town Business Association want this. Well, they're one and the same. This is no longer part of ONI. This is not a neighborhood association. This is one of Portland's four or five business associations. So, of course, they're concerned with business.
 I have a theory about dead zones. I want you to think about Big Pink and think about Pacific Towers and tell me how they revitalized their neighborhoods. Instead, they created a dead zone at the bottom, and they're still there.
 I don't see, frankly, you look at the Pearl. They developed kind of like this. At first, the developers, they took old buildings, they renovated them, people wanted to live there. Then people, they got businesses to support the residents. Then they built up and they can tolerate it. I don't see how a tall building here is going to do anything other than create another dead zone at the base of it. And then we will have destroyed the sight lines altogether. The buildings on Fifth Avenue on the other side are gorgeous. They're part of this district. I mean, I just...
 I want to be supportive, but I want to say to you that having worked with the Chinese community for the last 20 years and the Japanese community as well, that this is part of the city's legacy, and this is your opportunity, as Matthew said so eloquently before, this is your opportunity to leave a legacy.
 for future generations in this city about the earliest and largest ethnic community coming to Portland and living here and succeeding without any opportunity for citizenship or property rights for 80 years. I think you owe it to them. Please save this district. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Caitlin Weber. I'm here representing Restore Oregon and I'm speaking on Amendment 1C. I'm delivering this testimony on behalf of our Executive Director, Peggy Moretti, who couldn't be here today. Restore Oregon strongly urges City Council to reject the proposed zoning amendments for Block 33 in Portland's new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District.
 As an organization whose mission is to save historic places that for many years was housed near the district and also served on the committee that created the district's design guidelines, we believe both the city and the neighborhood have been sold a bogus bill of goods.
 Claims that the developer cannot make money at the current 125-foot height lacks credibility. Numerous other projects have been able to pencil out at even lower heights, such as Goodman's project about to break ground a few blocks away, a project that was enthusiastically supported by the Landmarks Commission at 75 feet, and includes significant numbers of affordable and market-rate housing.
 Even at 125 feet, designing a building that is compatible with the district and tells its story will be very challenging. This is a tiny district, basically just two blocks by five blocks. At 125 feet, Block 33 will overshadow historic buildings. To go even taller will swallow them whole. It's not possible to design a 160-foot or 200-foot building to be compatible with two- and three-story historic buildings or to incorporate design elements that reflect the district's cultural identity.
 The very proposition that the city would circumvent the Landmarks Commission and our well-established proven system of review is a travesty and would set a horrible precedent. The property owner displayed great disrespect by claiming that the Chinatown Japanatown is being treated as a special class of one. It's being treated the same way we treat all our historic districts, as unique and irreplaceable assets that are worthy of protection and stewardship.
 If Council were to set aside our historic review process and undermine the authority of the Landmarks Commission in this case, it will open the doors to many more. Finally, why would we sacrifice our standards when we have absolutely no guarantee of what would be built, how it would look, and nothing to prevent the sale of the property for a quick profit thanks to its special entitlements?
 We appreciate how desperately the neighborhood needs market rate housing, but this claim that it's 200 feet or nothing is disingenuous at best when there are so many examples to the contrary. Restore Oregon encourages council to look for other ways to stimulate development on this site that will provide housing, while also maintaining the integrity of Portland's only historic district honoring ethnic history.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Simon Jaworski. I'm a longtime resident of Portland, Oregon, and a former PCC student. I just got my general studies degree. And I totally disagree with this amendment. I mean...
 It seems like all these developers are trying to do is crown more and more people downtown, and we've got bad enough congestion as it is. And I agree with the other two speakers. I really don't think it's going to help the business very much anyways. Port downtown is a prime business district. I don't think we need more housing. We need more business, like it's always been in the past 100 years ago.
 If the developers are so worried about cost, why don't they just build a little bit farther outside of town? There's a lot of prime real estate out in the suburbs. Along the Max line, it would be an excellent place to build. There's a lot of vacant lots there. It would be cheap. They'd be able to hop right on the Max and come right downtown. That would be much more economic sense. If they're trying to save money, build farther out. They could save the money and build a much nicer building
 more taller and have many of these coffee shops out there and grocery stores and restaurants. I've seen it. Beaverton Round is one example. They have a fitness center right across from that. The Max just stops right in front of it. I don't agree with...
 Building taller buildings is just, you know, it wrecks the historic view of Portland. You know, if you're living or even if you're just looking downtown, you know, if you're surrounded by buildings, you don't see the beautiful mountains around or the scenery that Portland seems to be famous for. So I don't agree that we should, you know, be building taller and taller buildings. You know, I'm totally against this amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 Next three, please. Our last speaker is Lincoln Tukau. Last but certainly not least. Good afternoon, Mayor and city council members. My name is Lincoln Tuchel with the Architectural Heritage Center. I'm also a real estate agent here in town. I don't have a beautifully elaborate planned-out speech.
 prepared, but I would like to just say that I am opposed to the amendment to increase the height limits to 165 feet for part of the block, 33.
 When you look at a Google view of this block from above, and when you do the street view, and when you walk it, you see that it's really in the heart of Chinatown and the historic district. And you see, surrounded on all sides, you see two- and three-story brick, stone buildings, historic buildings, buildings.
 And when I saw the first rendering by the architects, which has since been pulled back, but of this giant glass and steel tower that was towering above the rest of the neighborhood, I thought, wow, that's incredibly out of character with the neighborhood, both historically, culturally. And I realize we're not talking about that today, but I just think that
 Obviously, the developer needs, it has to be able to turn a profit. The development has to be viable financially, and nobody wants to deny them that right. But in so doing, we want something that is historically contextual to the neighborhood. I think everybody would like that, whether that be incorporating brick, stone, wrought iron, other things like that.
 So there is one building that's nearby. Again, not a perfect building, but the Fifth Avenue Court Apartments, if you know them, they're a kitty corner to that. They have brick on the ground level. They have some stone work on the corners. There's some hand railings of like iron type stone.
 I think a building can be built there that will both fulfill the historic nature of the neighborhood, provide housing on the upper floors, retail on the main, and could help revitalize the neighborhood. And I don't think it has to be an either-or thing. I think we can have a win here for everybody. But I think a giant 165-foot glass and steel tower...
 With only market rate apartments above, it's probably not the answer. So thank you very much, and I appreciate the ability to testify before you today. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. So that concludes our oral hearing on these particular amendments. Colleagues, I don't know if you wanted staff to come up now. Commissioner Fritz? Yeah, I have some questions. Commissioner Fritz?
 Fish as well, please. Mayor, is it still your intent to take a vote on A and B and to set over C? That is correct. We're going to take votes on A and B, which pertain to the public school issues, and C has already been scheduled for the April 4th hearing, and I'll make that announcement in a few minutes. Thank you. I have a question. Oh, sorry. Commissioner Saltzman. Just procedurally, if we want to move an amendment to your amendment on Block 33,
 Does that need to happen today? Hang on, Dan. We're looking at legal counsel for a minute.
 That's really a question for council. I mean, it can happen today, whether it needs to happen today. If it doesn't happen today, you're likely to have the April 4th and then another hearing after, another continuance after that. I had a hard time hearing the last part of your statement. I'm sorry. I think it's really up to you, Commissioner Saltzman. If you have something that you want to put on the table for people to testify about, because there's a two-week open testimony period, it may be a good idea to...
 put it out there so people can respond to it, but it's really up to council whether you want amendments to the amendments. Well, council, in effect, we've already had testimony in support of that quote amendment. That was some of the confusion because we've had people saying that they support the amendment, but they actually meant 200 feet, not as written. So
 You could say that putting that amendment on the table conforms to the evidence we've already heard and presents, gives the council two options. I don't know that I support the amendment, but we already have had testimony in support of the amendment in effect. I'm not going to presume I know what Commissioner Saltzman's amendment is. Well, my amendment would be to increase the height to 200 feet, increase the FAR.
 and to limit the discretionary review to contextual issues. So basically what Mr. Ramis suggested would be my proposed amendment. So I have a question about the proposed amendment, and I'm looking at legal counsel.
 I do not want to take my amendment off the table. So this would be a separate amendment. It is not an amendment of my amendment. This would be a separate amendment. Yes, it sounds as if you're not treating that as a friendly amendment to your amendment. I would like to keep mine live. I want to keep my options open. So Commissioner Saltzman has moved. Is there a second? I'll move for discussion purposes. I'll second that. I would simply say that...
 i was persuaded i mean i think it's pretty unusual for the landmarks commission to sort of announce ahead of time that they would not approve a proposal that reflect higher height and i think that i'm persuaded by the testimony that in order to maximize the number of affordable housing units in this proposal 200 feet does that and i think it does provide a good taper down from the 460 feet north of the proposal to 200 feet
 is then 125 feet. So I think that makes a lot of sense. But I do think the additional height and FAR are necessary to maximize the affordable housing units that will be developed under this proposal. We're not voting on the amendments today. No, that is correct. Just so I can keep this clear, my understanding now, since you seconded it, is that when we come back to vote on C, we'll have
 Two amendments before us, let's call them C-1, which is the Wheeler Amendment, and C-2, which is the Solve Amendment. Joe, is that correct? Okay. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 And to be clear, just for the record, I still like my amendment, and I'm seconding Commissioner Saltzman's amendment for discussion purposes. Commissioner Fritz, do you have questions of staff? I do too. I'd like to follow you. Thank you. So I understand that the Mayor's amendment was just put on the table yesterday at 1.30. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yes, we just published the amendment yesterday. So, and I had been getting testimony on it, but I didn't know there was an amendment, so I was frankly bemused and thought perhaps that the Block 33 discussion was for something else. I'm wondering, have the property owners in the historic district, both the historic buildings and the contributing buildings, have they been notified of this amendment? Yes.
 We did not send out any special notice to property owners. We did send to our Central City 2035 mailing list, but we did send notices at the beginning of this process, and so if they were following along, they...
 I think an argument could be made that this is a Measure 65 issue, that potentially their properties could be diminished in value if the historic district goes away. So I think that that's something that we'll need to get clarity on before the next hearing. I also have – did you have questions on this, on the height issue? I see, yes. Go ahead then. Okay, thank you. Joe, I have a question for you. Sure.
 And I guess I just want to know the lay of the land on this. Mr. Ramis, in his testimony, toward the end of his testimony, seemed to suggest or imply that we could put some conditions on this. So what is the scope of our authority to put any conditions on this? Thank you.
 You know, I think the conditions language, when I heard that testimony, I think it's conflating quasi-judicial and legislative, but we can construct code provisions that, for instance, function in some way like a condition, but conditioning of an approval is a quasi-judicial thing typically. A good example, though, of how it might work in a case like this is that
 If the interest was to make sure that the benefit of the additional height and additional FAR was linked to housing, you could make it a bonus and have the trigger for the bonus be the provision of inclusionary housing, a program like that. That's a more legislative tool to condition something, but it doesn't –
 So between now and when we come back, could you send me some more information on that? Sure. About how it could be constructed as a bonus or alternative option? I'd like to have a better understanding of that. And the conditions that you're interested in mostly are assuring residential development as part of the project. Right.
 I'm interested in understanding that question and making sure that if there is a majority support on the council that we actually get housing. So I'm interested in that mechanism. I haven't made up my mind on the amendment. I would like to know about that tool. I actually think this has been one of the most interesting hearings we've had in a long time.
 And this is a very complicated question. I mean, this is a, this is, but I thought the testimony and the record before us, I'm going to actually reread the record because I think it's so interesting before I make any decision. But let's go over a couple things. If we agree to the Mayor's amendment, let's say, then we will be increasing the value of the property, correct?
 In other words, it will be entitled for greater height, so it has Arguably, yes. Yes. Don't ask me to put a value on that. But generally when we give people property Greater allowances should allow more development should have greater value. There is no guarantee in the matter that's before us that it will actually be developed, correct? Correct. There is no guarantee that there will be any housing on this site, correct?
 And if the developer chooses to develop this site because it's in a CX zone, the developer would have all those options that a CX zone allows. Correct. And what is the precedent that you can think of of us under these circumstances bypassing the Landmarks Commission? Sure.
 And actually having a request that we codify that as part of our action? You know, that is the biggest change that we're discussing here and goes to sort of the essence and essential element of how we are regulating historic properties in the city.
 which is that the Landmarks Commission has this discretion over reviewing the design of the building for compatibility and application of the standards, and that in that discussion, the way our code is written, they have the leeway to disagree with design that –
 could call for a building not to meet its full height allowance or full FAR allowance. That's the way our system is designed right now. So to usurp that kind of goes to the core of the landmark system, as the landmarks commissioners were talking about. Could I follow up on that? Yeah. Do we have a precedent for a commission announcing before they have a proposal before them that it's unapprovable? It wasn't the question, and that wasn't what they said.
 I thought that's what the testimony was. And I haven't seen the letter, so I'm at a disadvantage. But I thought that's what the testimony was. I don't know the answer to your question, whether or not that's what happened. And for sure, I'm not aware of any precedent for that. Okay, well, if you could educate us on that between now and when we vote. I think there has been discussion in the past that we need to set heights that are realistic, that could possibly meet the design guidelines. Because if we were to say it could be 500 feet, is that,
 feasible or not. It has to be, that's what we're talking about here is providing some level of certainty for everybody that what is zoned and the height that's given might be approvable through design review. So if I can just add to this, the way that we've addressed this issue and that way we're even discussing it in the DoSA project, the design overlay project, is
 is, you know, we have two sort of paths. One's just design review, and then Landmarks Commission is for historic districts. Our desire is to clarify that leeway to do design review in a way that would put it on the table for city council, but clarify that height and FAR are not really so much on the table for a design review piece, but we've left it on the table for historic landmarks review.
 And why would that be? Well, the case of the Menashe property and the case of what we've done with this entire process in the central city speaks to, we designed a system that never calibrated our historic district's heights tightly. Like if you were really to go through and do a case-by-case, building-by-building analysis about answering preemptively what that question is, what's the right height to make everything fit? That's not the way we've done it. We've done it by getting in the ballpark.
 based on our historical analysis and also developing guidelines and going through design review process. So it allows both sides of the equation here more flexibility. And in some cases, we never went around and right-sized the heights, which is the issue in the northern part of Chinatown, Japantown.
 So in this process, that's why you've seen these heights being lowered in Central City Historic Districts. But we still brought them down to not a magic number that is so rigorous that it's not worth having
 design commission look at it. We left leeway for developers to make, and part of it was the history of this district, make a pitch to try and try to do through design, deliver a project that can work because we're not prejudging that that cannot happen, but
 We're counting on the Landmarks Commission to be our arbiter of it, and then eventually City Council. And so the same sort of policy decision that you're struggling with today could end up back in front of you on appeal, but that's how our system is designed to work. But that's the check and the balance. Right. No, that's actually how our system works, and that's a good thing. I mean, by the same logic, let's say that this Council started having a well-documented view on some aspect of the zoning code.
 Are we going to get to a point where an applicant comes before us and says, we'll dispense with city council review and we'll just go to Luba? I mean, it may be an imperfect system, but there are checks and balances. And the other day I was walking by the Jupiter Hotel, and I saw that building that they're constructing, which is their, I guess, convention center.
 You remember we had a very robust debate about that when it came from design review because the design review commission had concerns about using roof tiles on the side of a building. Well, I was with a couple of people, and they looked up, and they just loved it. Now, it may not work. One of the questions the design review commission had was it may not be a durable product.
 I'm not sure it's going to end up being the preferred siding of every building in Portland, but in that building, it actually is quite distinctive. The city council disagreed with design review commission on that, and our system allows for that. We wanted to give a developer a chance to try a one-off on this. I am concerned, though, about changing the rules just because we're anticipating a decision by a citizen body that the applicant may not agree with. I think that's a dangerous precedent.
 I want to second what Commissioner Fish said about this being one of the more interesting conversations we've had in here. I want to be very clear. I respect what the Historic Landmarks Commission is wanting to do here in terms of the Old Town Chinatown area, but
 But I just want to put my own view on the table in terms of why I proposed the amendment I provided. It is not out of disrespect for that process or for their vision. But my belief is you cannot put these districts under glass.
 and call it good. And the reality is, I was thinking about the last individual who testified. He gave really good, thoughtful testimony, and I've been letting it percolate through my feeble mind. If there was an opportunity for a developer to have made a profit on block 33, why hasn't it happened?
 over all of these decades. And it could be that we have set the standards so tightly in that particular area that it does not account for the economic realities faced by people who are developing housing or hotels or any other types of projects in that area. And I'm thinking about economic factors like interest rate increases. I'm thinking about the increase in costs of construction. I would prefer to have development there than not.
 I think the worst use of that property is as a surface parking lot. I think it is inconsistent with the historic district. I think it is inconsistent with the city's overall objectives around 2035. So the balancing act is trying to figure out where to draw the line, and we've heard in a few minutes of testimony everything from don't do anything to,
 to 160 sounds about right, to 200 better be it. So this is a very, very complicated process, but I think we have the wherewithal to do the balancing act and do it well.
 Commissioner Fritz. Can I just clarify? It's raised the height to 125. The current is 100. So it's not do nothing. It's do what we've discussed in the process versus go to 165 or 200. That's a fair correction. Thank you. And from my perspective, one of the options that could be happening here is that this property is currently generalised.
 generating income through surface parking, and that in my experience with this area, there have been developers or property owners who have just been sitting on their properties waiting to see how sweet of a deal they could get before redeveloping them. And so that's also a possibility rather than that it's just not redevelopable. I mean, if you think about 100 feet, 125 feet, white stag building on –
 NATO is 75 feet, and it's beautifully restored and very compatible. So 75 feet, and then you're going to double the White Stag Building and put that next to a historic district. That just doesn't seem reasonable to me, that that could possibly be in context. Commissioner Fish? Commissioner Udali? Great, thank you. So that concludes our oral hearing on these. No.
 Commissioner Fritz? That was on Amendment C. I have questions on that. Thank you. A and B, please. Sorry. That's all right. So on the Lincoln High School property, I was wanting to hear from Kurt Kruger from transportation. I'd like to know what are the parking regulations in the area, what's the rules on allowing parking immediately adjacent to a transit street,
 and just what the discussions have been as far as the pedestrian access through the site. I'm going to let Rachel jump in on the parking if I missed that. Kurt Kruger with Transportation. The proposal before the amendments was there would be no more parking allowed in the central city for a surface parking lot. So this amendment tries to preserve some of the existing parking that Lincoln High School has today. Not all of what they have, but some amount of what they have today.
 As far as the connectivity, the super blocks actually look to go reestablish some connections through what was formerly vacated rights away. And there were three rights away on the Lincoln High School property, 15th, 16th, and 17th. Recognizing that Portland Public Schools has a significant security issue that's different than any other development site, we sat down and been working with BPS over the last two weeks and PPS to
 And we think we have the ability to do certain connectivity with the design team and BDS through Title 17 code requirements.
 flushed out far enough to bring to you today is a memo of understanding that we're currently working with. It's in the city attorney's office helping us to then bring to PPS to memorialize the public access that is inherent on all public schools across the city, but put that in a more formal memo that might become an IGA, an intergovernmental agreement that allows the public to access it, but also retain
 security issues and needs that this school district has. But that's not done yet. And if we exempt them from the super block regulations, does that affect the ability to get to that agreement?
 We still have code authority within transportation code, Title 17, that allows us to ask for street connectivity. So we still have that tool. I think the MOU broadens it from the Lincoln High School piece. So this helps us in future redevelopments as we see PPS working through their bond measures and other school sites around the city. So would it be helpful if we defer voting on that particular element until the MOU is done? It certainly would help.
 nudge that process along a little bit. Okay. And then if they're not... Sorry, Commissioner. Yeah, just to clarify, too, the provisions in the superblock require an easement, so in a bit it ties Kurt's hands in terms of the options, this more alternative way of getting connectivity that he's working on through the MOU. That would not be sufficient for the superblock requirements.
 requirements. So that's why we have said, that's not the approach, but we're going to seek it through the MOU. Right, we could do them concurrently though, right? And then going back to the surface parking, what would be the options if we were to not grant this exemption?
 options, and I'm putting words in PPS's mouth, so I apologize for that. One would be for a structured parking facility. The other would be to not allow the parking altogether. I believe the testimony we've got would not allow them to fund a structured parking. So it's a theoretical option, but they just can't pay for it. Correct. And does the code allow them to put the parking lot along 18th?
 Not 18th. Yes, it's 18th. I think it was. Like, right suggestion to the transit street. Not currently as proposed in the 2035 plan. Is there a further comment on that, Mauricio? The Central City 2035 plan. Identify yourself, please. Can you hear me? Yeah, you have to say who you are then. Then you have to turn on the mic. Yeah, there you go. And now your time is up. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 My best performance yet. The code also allows sharing of parking. So another thing that you can do is just to rent parking throughout the district. That's a policy that's also allowed in the central city. Okay. So you can, you know, on-site, off-site via renting. That's allowable. Structure and surface. And as far as if we do allow the surface lot, I'm a little concerned that it's right along the transit street. So is that allowed? Yes.
 access, you know, the driveways would not, but I think there's no on-street parking available on 18th. So I'm... Where is it? 18th? The street, the main street that the transit goes on, I'm not quite sure what number that is. Yeah, it's 18th. 18th? It's basically one lane, and then you have the rail, so you would not be able to put on-street parking there, nor would you be able to provide a driveway through it. You'd take the current metered parking away? Yeah.
 But you are allowed to put the surface parking lot immediately adjacent to the transit street. So the current code would, I don't believe that the current code would allow a surface parking lot to be proposed. The new code wouldn't allow a surface parking lot to be proposed. This amendment would allow them 100 spaces on their site. And my question is, is this okay in the location that they showed it? Yes.
 So the location of it is not adjacent to 18th. So if we look at the, I think Sally is trying to pull up the, if you have on your screen, their proposal shows it to the south there. On the east-west streets.
 So, yes, it's running parallel to Salmon on the opposite side of the property. I see. So that's where the bleachers are now. Okay. Thank you. Okay. So, Mayor, are we going to take a vote on A and B? So, first of all, let's close the written record.
 for the public school amendments so that we can vote today. And we're going to leave the written record open for the two amendments that have been proposed with regard to the height in Old Town, Chinatown, Japantown until April. You want that at April 5th or April 4th, legal counsel? April 4th. April 4th at 2 p.m. time certain. So now we will vote on...
 amendments A and B pertaining to the schools. Sue, will you please call the roll on item A? Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz.
 Udallie? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendments? Commissioner Fritz? Sorry, I thought that Kurt said it might be helpful if we don't vote on B until they've got the MOU done. Very good. Amendment A is adopted. It's your recommendation to us to keep B open until April 4th. Is that correct? Yes.
 I think it'll help keep both parties at the table in getting the MOU put together. Yeah, and I don't see any urgency to that. So Amendment B with regard to access will remain open. Do we want to keep the written record open? No. That's necessary. The written record will remain closed then on Item B. So now we're voting on the amendments for March 7, 2018, and the amendments that were held over from January 18, 2018.
 So this is part two of the meeting. Thank you to those of you who have stuck around for this. The first item is to vote on the packet of minor and technical amendments that were the subject of the public hearing, which was held on March 7th. I'd like to call a vote on items F through J and item L, unless someone would like to pull one of these off the agenda for a separate discussion and vote. Good? Thank you.
 All right. Hearing none, let's vote on the minor and technical package F through J and L. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye.
 Fish? Aye. Sausman? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. The amendment package is adopted. Next, let's move on to height and FAR at Big Pink, Wells Fargo, and PacWest. I understand that there are two amendments that we should take as a package. Rachel, can you help us work through this, please?
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. This amendment, which you previously saw in the amendments report related to Big Pink, Wells Fargo, and PacWest, was to provide these buildings with the heights that they have today as constructed. The reason this is before you, again, is the FAR at the Wells Fargo building, the owners of the building were taking a closer look.
 at that and realized they had not calculated the FAR correctly. And the FAR is actually at 19 to 1, not 18 to 1. So we needed to have you vote on the two of these together so that we actually could show that. No changes to the other buildings. Those stand as exists in the amendment report. That makes sense. Council, any discussion on this matter?
 Very good. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The package of amendments are adopted. Next, let's move on to the view from I-84. Mindy, can you please remind us about these two items? Yes, thank you. Mindy Brooks, Planning and Sustainability. Thank you.
 So these, again, this is two amendments that are grouped together, and this is to finalize the location of the viewpoint on the new bike and pedestrian bridge crossing I-84. This is a view of downtown.
 And PBOT now has a final alignment that connects 7th Avenue north to south, and this viewpoint now can be located and finalized there. Very good. And I think it's great that the new overpass is moving through into the design phase and that we're able to create a new view site. Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. I'd like to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their work on this amendment. Aye. Aye.
 Udallie? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Next, let's move on to the view of Matt Adams from Upper Hall. I understand that there are two amendments to consider as a package, and Mindy, could you go ahead and remind us about this package as well? Absolutely. Thank you. Yeah, so again, it's a combination amendment, and this amendment would remove protections for the view of Matt Adams from Southwest Upper Hall and restore existing heights to some of the properties within the view corridor, as shown on the map.
 The views of the city skyline, Mount St. Helens, and Mount Hood will remain protected. Please call the roll. Fritz. So I appreciate, first of all, Mindy Brooks, for all of your work on view corridors and for going over the entire central city map with me lot by lot to examine the concern that was raised by the community that citizen advisory committee members had nefariously requested height increases on their own.
 properties and I did not find that to be the case. All of them were in line with putting the height near transit, decreasing the height along scenic view corridors. This amendment was at least done transparently in that one of the property owners asked the mayor to propose it and it's also done by giving everybody else the height increase that the one property owner proposed. I still think it would be better to keep the view of Mount Adams. No. No.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. Next, we're talking about top of bank. Mindy, could you walk us through this one? This is an amendment that was brought at the request of the Port of Portland, and I have a couple of questions about it. Why don't you walk us through it? Okay. This amendment would remove a section of the proposed code and a figure that describes how to measure top of bank when there is a structure over the riverbank.
 By removing this subsection of the code, the applicant and Bureau of Development Services would use the new top of bank definition to determine on a case-by-case basis how to measure around those structures. So I would like to move the vote on this to April 4th, and here's why. My understanding is that two city bureaus oppose this amendment, and...
 BDS, Bureau of Development Services, has made a compelling argument that they already do this functionally anyway, and therefore an amendment is not necessary. And while we want to be good partners with the Port of Portland and be responsive to their requests, I don't have the confidence I need today to be able to make a vote and say with a straight face that this amendment actually functionally does anything.
 And given that we have two city bureaus that are expressing concern about it, unless one of my colleagues strenuously objects, I'd like to move this vote to April 4th so I can do a little more fact-finding.
 Are there any objections? I couldn't quite hear what your amendment is, Mayor. It was really good. It was really good. You were for it. No, I just proposed we move the vote to April 4th, and I have some more questions on this. Okay. Is that okay? And is that in anticipation of you potentially withdrawing the amendment? That is correct. I need a little more time to digest this and talk to our partners at the port.
 Just to be clear, I agree with removing the amendment and also with removing the comments, which I think complicate things. Very good. So the next item on my list here is Amendment M, the trail commentary. Sally, can you remind us about this amendment? I understand the commentary is not something that the council typically votes on.
 separately at the end of a project, but several council members wanted the opportunity to discuss this particular item, Amendment M? Yes. This amendment is just to point out that the Maritime Transportation Security Act
 allows facilities that they regulate along the Willamette River, in particular here, to have some flexibility in how they design their sites and their security plans to protect the sites from various threat levels. And so when the city enters into an easement for a trail, that easement can allow for reasonable trail closures or limits when it's necessary to close.
 address those threat levels. So it doesn't change the code. It just puts this into the commentary just to acknowledge. To add this. So no vote is required. No vote is required. I don't think we should add it. I think this actually complicates things. We don't usually reference state and federal regulations and putting it in the commentary when it's not in the code. I don't think it makes it any clearer.
 So this, and correct me if I'm wrong, this was put in after discussions with an individual, a business owner, who came in and testified extensively on this particular subject. And I felt that staff did a really good job of explaining that this really does not need to be in the 2035 plan or in the code or anything that the council said.
 voted on, but he wanted us to reflect what he saw as being the reality of federal law superseding local law on these matters of potential national security. And so that's why it's here. But we don't want it perpetually in the commentary. Okay.
 Mayor, what he's effectively done is flagged the issue. If we cluttered the commentary with every possible state or federal preemption on every conceivable issue, it would look like a phone book. I would prefer to keep it out of the commentary as well, but it has been made a part of the record. Is there any objection then to withdrawing this as part of the commentary? No.
 Very good. And you are correct, Commissioner Fish, it is part of the record, and we'll refer back to this often over many decades to come. Commissioner Udaly would like to reconsider her vote on River Place. So, Mayor, I'm going to sign off at this point because I'm recusing myself from these votes. All right. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. We appreciate your attending by phone. Get well soon, please. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. Yes. Thank you, Mayor.
 First, I'd like to thank my colleagues for bearing with me while I explored this issue. My original intent had been to vote yes on this amendment, but Commissioner Fritz raised issues that I hadn't considered and didn't feel well-informed enough on to cast an affirmative vote, so I hit the pause button.
 It's rare that I feel unprepared on the dais due to the great work of my office and city staff, but this was one of those days. Sometimes you don't know what you don't know, and I'm not embarrassed to admit when I need more time or information in order to make an informed decision.
 There's been a lot of misinformation and misunderstanding around this item in the public. To be clear, as it stands, raising the heights in River Place does not increase the FAR or number of potential units, affordable or otherwise, on the site. Furthermore, the drawing by famed Japanese architect Kengo Kuma is not a proposal, it's a concept. A concept that is very unlikely to ever be realized.
 What it does do is reveal the potential of the River Place site, and that is what today's vote is really about, unleashing the potential of the site. The potential of raising the heights include, but are not limited to, and do not guarantee, a more significant architectural work
 A greater likelihood that the site will be fully developed, which it is not currently, creating much needed density in the central city. The possibility of better sight lines that taller, slimmer buildings provide and more variety and liveliness on our waterfront.
 As commissioners were charged with looking out for the best interests of our city and its residents, cautionary tales abound in our cityscape that lead me to be skeptical of promises made by private developers. I needed to be assured that we stood to gain as much as we were giving on this site. Portlanders expect to have a strong voice in our process, especially around planning. Initially, the voices I heard were overwhelmingly in opposition of this amendment.
 Since my vote, I've heard from many more constituents who support it. I've also had a deeper briefing on the site from BPS and talked to my colleagues as well as experts in the field. So today I move to reconsider council's March 7th vote not to approve amendment number seven and number ten of the January 2018 amendments report. These amendments address River Place bonus height and special tower orientation standards.
 I would also like to add that due to the fact that the state will go through a master planning process and design review, I do not believe that Amendment No. 10 is necessary or even desirable. I'm bringing it back for reconsideration for the sake of discussion. So I move to reconsider.
 Amendment number seven and number 10. I second that motion, and I thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your thoughtful remarks and your decision to reconsider your vote on River Pace amendments. Any further discussion? Sue, please call the roll. Fritz. No. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted.
 Now, there are two items that we need to do related. Let's start by reconsidering the height amendment. Rachel, can you come up and... Are you already here? Can you please summarize this for us? Yes, so...
 Amendment number seven, this is the amendment that adds two height opportunity areas on the River Place site. And those are in red, as you see them in the PowerPoint. And the bonus height would be up to 325 feet. The base height remains at 125.
 And with this requirement, going up to a height of 325 would require narrower towers in an effort to preserve public views and light and air through the site. Other heights on the site would step down as you approach the river from 325 to 250 and 150 at the eastern edge of the site. I have a question for Mr. Zender. Sure.
 Joe, in most of the correspondence I've received and in the commentary that I've reviewed, this has been referred to as an opportunity for us to put some residential housing in a desirable location. And I've seen the number of something like 2,000 units that are potentially could be developed here. Is that correct? It's in that order of magnitude, yes. Okay. Okay.
 Now, the mayor has proposed, and I agree with him, that whatever is planned for this particular part of town would be subject to a master planning process, which ultimately would come back to council. Is that correct? It would come back to council on appeal, correct? That's right. It's a permit. On appeal. Yes. It goes through design review, though, Commissioner. So building on the comments of Commissioner Udaly –
 And assuming that I continue to have the honor of serving on this body, don't be presumptuous, I just want to explain that while I'm going to support the amendment, if in the master planning process we learn that this site, that the developer intends to develop this site for some purpose other than housing,
 then I reserve my right, if it comes to us on appeal, to turn down the master plan. In other words, it is the expectation of, I think, everyone who's been part of this debate that this opportunity is around housing.
 not something else that's allowable as a right under a CX zone. And so just to be clear, and the only power I have to essentially condition my vote is to announce that I expect through the master planning process that an intent is followed. And if it doesn't and comes back to us on appeal, it is unlikely that it will gain my support. Very good. Any further discussion? Sue, please call the roll. Do we need a motion and a second?
 It's an amendment. No. I think since we're reconsidering motions that were already on the table, I think... Ah, thank you. Thank you. Fritz? So if you look at this map...
 The heights behind here are 75 feet and 125 feet. Even with the bonus, it's 75 feet and 250 feet, and 125 feet and 200 feet. So this is against our adopted central city plan policy of step down to the river, which was discussed at huge length under the comprehensive plan process in the West Quadrant process. It is abhorrent policy.
 And unlike the Goodman Amendment, which I just referenced for the upper hall view, this one doesn't make everybody else home. This is spot zoning. And what we saw today, earlier today, is what happens when we do spot zoning for particular developments. It's that everybody else is going to want their goodies too. And so I am very, very concerned and disappointed that this benefits one property owner at the detriment of everybody else. No. Fish. All right.
 You, Daley. I took the issue of the step down to the river very seriously and dug into it with planning staff and with community members with a lot of experience in planning. And the step down to the river is not a hard and fast rule, even in the original language, which I believe the language is going to somewhat change in the 2035 plan.
 It suggests a step down, but also suggests locating the highest densities along potential and existing transit corridors, which we have in this location. And the step down sounds like a noble tenet, but my understanding is that it was really intended to preserve views of mostly commercial buildings...
 from the bus mall forward. And I have to say that I don't think our past policies of the last 30 years have resulted in a vibrant waterfront. It's a dead zone as far as the buildings along NATO Parkway and along the waterfront, which is why I support this and vote aye.
 Wheeler. So I just want to reiterate a couple of the comments I already made on March 7th. I believe the 325-foot height is appropriate as long as it comes with requirements to provide public benefits, which it does, including open space, access to the river, views.
 and requirements to allow visual permeability. In addition, the increased height will allow for more flexibility in design and hopefully achieve some of the public benefits we desperately need in the downtown area, including more affordable housing, open space, and access to the river. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. So next, let's discuss the tower spacing amendment. Rachel, can you walk us through that, please? Sure.
 Sure. So this additional amendment is, it is a set of amendments that is similar to what we use in South Waterfront for some of the towers that we have there. And it does add more space between the buildings as well as the orientation. Orients them on kind of an east-west as opposed to a north-south so that you do have some visual, more visual permeability through the site.
 So this proposes to adopt simply the South Waterfront tower spacing? It is, yes, it is those, it is the South Waterfront, same spacing regulations, that's correct. So, the master, and is there another amendment on the master plan? Did we already decide to do the master plan? We did that last time. So is there a possibility of at least doing the tower standards through the master plan rather than adopting what has not worked in South Waterfront? You talk about dead space.
 And I would say there are, through the master plan, we did add approval criteria that I believe would get you a
 a very similar result. We did add approval criteria for visual permeability through the site and light and air. It's not as specific. It's not as specific to talk about the orientation of the buildings. But between the master plan and the design guidelines, the design commission could probably get to the same place. I think they asked us not to. And you said that the master plan's already been done? The code provisions have been done.
 The code provisions for a River Place master plan have been done. Yes. We voted on that one item and then voted down the other two. But I thought there was going to be a master planning process.
 There will be. Oh, it's the code requirement for a master planning process is in the package already. So that you've already voted on. The process hasn't been started. Right. And once this is the code for them to pull a permit, they're going through a master plan process with all of us. So they have to go through the master plan anyway until they can pull a permit? Or can they pull a permit as soon as this is adopted?
 They have to go through a master plan process. So do we need this amendment? I'm hearing two things, and I want to just make sure I understand. So this amendment provides for spacing and permeability and orientation. Are you telling me that the master plan will do the same thing, in which case we don't need the amendment? I'm just trying to figure out what the right strategy is here. We really have two ways to get there. It's a little bit like the discussion we had with Kurt Kruger about the –
 It just gives us a little more leverage. I mean, even this tower orientation regulations are amendable, right? Yes. So it can work without this requirement. It just makes it more clear that that's what we're about. I believe the design commission asked us not to just do south waterfronts, to have specific for this site. And that's what I just heard my colleagues say.
 saying that. Yeah, I believe that it was their testimony as well. Commissioner E. Daly. So in my conversations with BPS and taking into consideration what Commissioner Fritz shared with me about South Waterfront, I think there seemed to be consensus in the room that while this amendment was introduced with good intentions, which was to give some preliminary guidance to the developers and maybe simplify issues for the design commission, that
 because we are going to have a master plan process that it's not really necessary. Yeah, I'm hearing that it's duplicative and unnecessary. So with that, unless there's any objection, I'll withdraw the amendment. It doesn't seem necessary. Thank you. I appreciate that. And does the master plan come back to Council, as Commissioner Fish was saying? No.
 Master plan is the first permit that any development on the site must go through. It's sort of like a master site planning permit. If it goes through design review commission and gets approved and is acceptable, that's it. It moves on. Otherwise, on appeal, it would come back to the city council.
 Okay, thank you. Very good. So that is that. Sally, could you tell us a little bit about next steps? Just before you leave that, Mayor, there's been a lot of rhetoric in the community about the different heights, and that height automatically leads to more units and, therefore, more affordable units. And if anybody wants to see what's actually been built, I've posted on the blog of my city website, PortlandOnline.com, and go to my website to the blog.
 what's actually been built. Thank you, Rachel Hoyt, for giving us this information. So there's almost no correlation between height, FAR, and units. It's all about what does the developer want to build. So I just wanted to put that on the record in case people are wondering, doesn't height automatically mean more building? The answer is, based on the developments that have happened recently, the answer is no.
 Very good. Sally, what's up next? Yes. So the screen that you have in front of you is not totally up to date. Our next session here will be April 4th at 2 p.m., and we'll take up the height, the Block 33 height, top of bank, and that Amendment B for the Portland Public Schools.
 Then we have May 24th at 2.30 p.m. time certain, which will be the vote on the entire Central City 2035 package. No testimony at that session. And then we will come back tentatively on June 6th because there are a few administrative rules that we would like council to adopt related to low-carbon buildings and bird-safe glazing. These are...
 minor details that will be necessary to implement the code that you will be adopting, but it's something that may change over time. There may be a different option for a low-carbon building system.
 or a new form of bird safe glazing that the city might want to be considering. So that's what those are. Those are minor. And then finally, July 9th, we anticipate an effective date for Central City 2035. Commissioner Fish. I just observed that in the last few weeks at the end of these hearings, we carry notebooks back to our office that look like the old Manhattan phone book. And-
 I'm actually scheduled for some back surgery just to correct for some things that have happened by sitting in this chair for eight hours at a time and carrying all this heavy weight. And we do owe a big debt of gratitude, Sally, to you and Joe and the whole team from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. This is really complicated stuff. You give us great briefings. You give us materials before the hearing. You give us cheat sheets that allow us to follow along and discuss.
 I don't think we can thank you adequately enough for the work that you do to prepare us to be able to have these kinds of discussions. Thank you. So thank you. Yeah, thank you all. And with that, we are adjourned. We made it. We made it.