yes meeting of the portland city council would you please call the roll ritz here
 here fish saltzman novick here here welcome everybody we have some uh communications items up front and we'll get those folks up momentarily following that we've got some time certain uh council calendar items uh as well as a four-fifths item which is something that the council can do by mutual agreement and that is we've added an item to the council calendar today which is the resolution
 about the human rights developments in North Carolina. That will take up last at the end of our agenda following all the regular council calendar items. If you're here to speak on a calendar item, just let our clerk know, and she'll make sure that you're included in those that are signed up to speak. We typically allow three minutes to testify on items before the council.
 And if you're representing an organization, let us know that, please. We try to practice the rules of decorum in this chamber. Obviously, there have been exceptions to that, which we have to deal with. But we ask that we support our fellow citizens with a smile or a wave of the hand or a thumbs up.
 And if you feel compelled to show disagreement with someone, a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture is okay. But we don't have applause and demonstration in this chamber with the exception of visiting dignitaries and school children. So if you're one of those, you might get some applause from your fellow Portlanders this morning. So students, not just children, students and dignitaries get special treatment. We discriminate that way and will continue until further notice. So with that, let's please take communications items 287.
 Request of Mary Pevito to address council regarding the latest Portland air toxics. Good morning, Mary. Come on up. I know there's several people that want to speak on the same topic today, so if any of you want to come up together, that's fine. But individually is fine, too. Good morning. Good morning. So thank you for this opportunity. My name is Mary Pevito, and I'm president of Neighbors for Clean Air.
 Neighbors for Clean Air is a grassroots member organization that works to protect the health of Oregonians from toxic air pollution. So while many people in Portland woke up to the problem of toxic air February 3rd, this news was no surprise to our members. Recent news coverage has focused on the time lag between when DEQ first learned about the U.S. Forestry Service's moss study in May 2015 and February 2016 when the public did.
 But the real delay by the agency to address toxic air pollution should be measured not in months, but in years and even decades. This is not a new problem, just a newly popular one.
 There were strong activists in the 90s, like Sharon Janassi, fighting industrial pollution in my own neighborhood. There was Jerry Williams Jimenez, who was founding member of the environmental justice action group, now OPAL, who worked to reduce heavy diesel emissions in North Portland, estimated by EPA and DQ to be some of the highest in the state. The citizens of North Portland that she was fighting to protect were also found to have the highest rates of respiratory ailments that exceed statewide and national averages.
 In 2009, six years after Oregon's air quality rules were amended to purportedly address the dangerous air toxics that Federal Clean Air Act doesn't, I stumbled on a national study showing that Chapman Elementary School, school that my three children attend or attended, ranks among the worst 2% in the nation.
 Since then, NCA has taken on pollution battles that our state regulators would not in what has been an ongoing David versus Goliath battle. Without state-level accountability, we've been left with do-it-yourself air emissions regulations relying on hard-won good neighbor agreements and odor regulations to make headway.
 We've been successful in winning small battles against big polluters like ESCO, Vigor, and Intel. And we're proud of these, but they don't come easy, and they aren't far enough because they leave too many people behind. We know still that the highest levels of air pollution are in neighborhoods with higher percentages of African-American peoples of color and poor, and most of these victories have been won by, hard won, by white homeowners.
 I specifically learned about Portland's elevated levels of cadmium and arsenic, along with diesel particulates and a dozen other toxics that exceeded the established health thresholds over five years ago as a member of the DAQ's Portland Air Toxic Solutions Advisory Committee.
 The problem is not that the agency charged with oversight of our state air quality didn't know about the pollution in the air. The problem is that they didn't do anything about it. I've submitted two documents with my testimony, one from 2011, a North Portland cadmium memo, and a second one, which is the air monitoring report from 2005, which clearly show regulators knew but failed to act to protect our health, which is one of the key missions.
 So why I'm here today to talk to you and the rest of the folks here that will speak to you is that we have been working for a long time to deal with this at the state level, and we just can't. The regulatory captivity, the stranglehold that industry lobbyists have on state legislators make it impossible. So it's time. I think we're going to have some questions for you about that. So we're here to ask that you join us.
 All the city commissioners join Mayor Hales in aggressively seeking more solutions at the local level and to aggressively support Multnomah County and other jurisdictions in looking at local air quality district management. Thank you. Thank you for your advocacy. Appreciate that. I want to hear from the other folks on the same subject, and then we might actually want to discuss it for a moment because this is kind of an unusual situation to have a whole bunch of people on the same topic. So I appreciate you coming. So who's next? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Mark Rizkidal. I'm the Executive Director of NEDC, the Northwest Environmental Defense Center, based up at Lewis and Clark Law School here in Portland. Major flaws in Oregon's air quality regulatory system have recently sparked significant controversy. Last month, the federal congressional delegation representing the Portland metro area even declared with a unified voice that Portland is in the midst of a public health emergency. Portland's air, it turns out, is filled with toxic hotspots.
 Moving forward out of this morass will require thoughtful reductions in pollution associated with harmful diesel particulate and residential wood burning, but it will also importantly require reductions in hazardous air pollutant emissions from industrial sources. The Oregon State Legislature expressly mandated that the program for the control of air pollution in this state shall be undertaken in a, quote, progressive manner. Oregon's lawmakers clearly did not intend for us to get mired in outmoded, ineffective, gap-filled air quality oversight.
 The all too frequently occurring loop of inadequate regulatory oversight by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality, DEQ, significant emerging air pollution problems, finger pointing at DEQ, demanding that the agency fix the problem, and then hearing the agency respond that it doesn't have the resources and is unable to muster the will to address the problem, is simply broken.
 The agency's recent vague commitment to embark on time-intensive, formal toxic hotspot rulemaking at some indeterminate point in the future in which industry inevitably dominates the conversation and predetermines the outcome, or to simply revisit the agency's multi-year, multi-million dollar Portland Air Toxic Solutions Geographic Program, a program that utterly failed to identify and craft solutions last time around for the problems that have garnered recent headlines, are not enough.
 DEQ has pre-existing legal authority under Oregon's state air toxics program to immediately establish and implement aggressive toxic hotspot assessment and control strategies, particularly for specific source categories such as glass manufacturing. It apparently lacks the regulatory will to implement those strategies.
 The Oregon Legislature and the Oregon Environmental Quality Commission have pressed Oregon DQ for years to do more to reduce the threats of harm to public health and the environment posed by air toxics, and have provided the agency with ample authority and regulatory discretion to do just that. Yet the agency has failed and continues to fail. It's time for a new path forward.
 If Oregon DEQ continues to fail to adequately respond, a growing chorus of concerned citizens and voices within Portland local government have recently expressed the interest and intent to assert local control over Portland's air pollution problem. And in furtherance of that objective, the state legislature has already provided a clear avenue for the creation of regional air control authorities.
 Old Guard industrial polluters will, of course, kick and scream that more government isn't the solution, but we're not just talking about simply adding another superfluously or government. We're talking about crafting a local solution to a local problem. Air quality regulation of, by, and for Portlanders. The concept of a local air district or local air pollution control authority is well established in other states. Even just between our West Coast neighbors, there is 35 air districts in California and 10 in Washington.
 This is a solution that with strong local leadership, we can move forward. Thanks for your time. I appreciate it. Paul Van Orden Thank you. Good morning. Paul Van Orden Good morning. Mayor, members of council, my name is Paul Van Orden. I've taken a day off work today to address you on this issue. Why is New Jersey 30 plus years ahead of Oregon on air pollution?
 For five to six years of my 25-year career in environmental law enforcement, I worked in Newark, New Jersey, on air pollution enforcement and contaminant registration. When I moved to Oregon 20 years ago from New Jersey, Portland was at that time 20 years behind the logical process of identifying, registering, and enforcing air pollution regulations used by the Essex Regional Health Commission in New Jersey. Essex Regional was the first air pollution agency in the United States and existed before the EPA, the Environmental Protection Agency.
 It is a regional air authority. Today, sadly, Oregon is at least 30-plus years behind the state of New Jersey in identifying, managing, and managing hazardous air pollutants. New Jersey has an organized air pollution regulatory system of using routine inspections, registration, cataloging hazardous and toxic contaminants at a given location, regulation of substance, monitoring for releases and contaminants, and taking legal enforcement action on behalf of their children, families, and individuals. .
 Essex Regional Health, a regional government structure much like Metro, responds to a single air pollution odor complaint. DEQ has more or less a test system for odor response right now that requires many, many complaints to potentially even take action.
 Portland children, my own two kids under five years of age, should have at least as many environmental safeguards as people are offered in North New Jersey. I would hope that this might be compelling for the mayor to be part of his legacy in his last months in city council.
 State air pollution regulation needs more funding, needs to be more robustly funded. There's been a lot written in the last few months about making improvements to the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to rush to formulate emergency rulemaking to address two single source locations that make glass. The approach to make improvements is not simply a matter of adding more air pollution monitoring equipment and sampling to solve the growing issue of air pollution in Portland and the disparity of the communities that are impacted by the toxins. Thank you.
 A few changes to the State Department of Environmental Quality do not address the heart of the issue at hand. We need to be moving forward in a thoughtful and calculated local, regional, and statewide fashion to develop a more regional and local authority to address community issues related to air pollution. New Jersey has done that for 40-plus years. We can stop living off the laurels of Tom McCall.
 In 1991, then-Governor Barbara Roberts was in a tough fiscal position and started the slippery slope of gutting entire environmental enforcement programs that the community relied on and that could have helped us prepare our state as it became more dense. We can no longer place our environment, the leading reason why many of us live here, at the bottom of the fiscal ledger. I'm going to skip this.
 additional comments on a regional authority and just say, locally, we have city options to start making change immediately, directly in the Portland City Code. This is contrary to the perspectives of local enforcement officials saying this is solely an issue for the state DEQ. In Portland City Code Title 33, we actually have a piece of air pollution enforcement regulation. Hmm. Already? Yeah.
 And that's in Title 33 relative to odors in the community. It's very poorly written and could be rewritten. Yeah. Well, I want to thank the three of you. I know there are two more that want to talk on this subject, but I think this might be – we might want to take a few minutes just to discuss this. I mean, let me tell you sort of the status of my thinking on this issue. And as you know, we did sign – I signed a letter along with Chair Kofori and have met with the DEQ and have said, you know,
 get on with it um we have this ability in both state law and actually paul i was unaware of the city code to to create a local air authority if the state isn't performing um but let me sort of voice again sort of uh work in progress here and um and a frustration um the city often finds itself in a position of having to do uh work or perform functions that actually are
 fundamentally the responsibility of another government. And it's the old, it sounds a little bit like it's not my department, but bear with me for a moment. Depending on where you are in the city of Portland, where we happen to be sitting right now, I think there are nine governments that have some responsibility for law and enforcement and public services. You know, federal, state, metro, tri-med, city, school district, ESD, you know, add them up. There's somewhere between eight and ten, depending on where you are in the city.
 We find ourselves, over the long span of time, the city has often ended up performing or assisting those other governments' functions. We've helped fund schools in their hours of need. We have helped fund a unity center that will provide psychiatric emergency care in the Lloyd District for people that are in a psychiatric crisis in our city, even though we are not the public health authority or the state mental health agency.
 So the city often finds itself in this position of our citizens want a higher level of effort or a higher level of regulatory rigor than we're receiving from some other government. And, you know, our resources aren't infinite, and we also want to maintain good neighborly relations with all these other governments that have their jobs to do. So that's the only reticence that I feel on this issue. I don't think this council is responsible.
 This council is certainly willing to regulate business and industry. We do it all the time. We're certainly willing to stand up for the environment. We do it all the time. But I think our only caution here is that we actually have public agencies that are supposed to be doing this work, and our first choice is for them to do that. So that's sort of the status of my thinking on the issue. We signed the letter. We basically are sort of holding our gavel saying we can do this state. We can create a local air authority, but...
 Is that our first choice? Not sure. Mayor, can I just add something, and I appreciate the Mayor's comments. What I want to add to the conversation is a plea that we broaden the lens a little bit, and I'll tell you why. The question of toxins in the air is the issue of the moment because of recent history.
 And the apparent failures of some of the regulatory systems has now been made very clear. But I think we have to be clear that this is just one of a number of public health issues that we're facing right now. The largest public health issue facing our community today is Superfund. And the EPA is about to come out with a proposed plan. It could have a price tag of something between $1.5 and $2 billion. Right.
 with the laudable goal of cleaning up the relamit. But then as a community, we're going to have to figure out how to pay for it with all of our partners. In light of Flint, Michigan and Newark and this broader national conversation like the lead and copper rule, EPA is looking at revising those rules and changing the landscape and optimizing compliance. Well, to the mayor's point, that may, from a public health point of view, may be very laudable. But who's then going to pay?
 for the fallout. You could have a rule at the federal level that causes us to no longer be able, for example, to have a variance from treating our water. You could have a new set of dictates that then produce several hundred million dollars of new obligations locally. So the two things I just want to mention is, one, I think we need to broaden the lens to include an array of public health issues. And two, I think we need to broaden the lens to include an array of public health issues.
 We have to hold the federal government accountable for being a partner. And once upon a time, there was money that flowed our way.
 Most of the major investments we've made on public health issues in the last 20 years we've had to pay for locally, just in our utilities, about $2 billion. Then, of course, people complain about rising rates and how we pay for it. So broader lens and then bringing our congressional delegation into the conversation and insisting that Washington become a stronger partner, particularly in providing some relief for us if we are going to step up,
 and tackle some of these things, we need funds. And right now, Congress is not supporting a number of these efforts, and there is a limit to what we can do with our local tax base to respond. So I think your point is very well taken. Broaden the lens, and then I think we have to find some additional funding to actually address this problem.
 I had one comment and two questions. The comment is that you're absolutely right, Oregon is way behind. And in fact, when I worked for the Federal Justice Department in the late 80s and early 90s representing EPA, Oregon environmental law enforcement was rather a joke within EPA. I mean, I remember people saying that environmental enforcement stops at the Columbia River because Washington State took environmental enforcement more seriously than Oregon did. And unfortunately, that has not changed.
 Following up on the comment Commissioner Fish just made, I am curious as to how the local air authorities in other states are funded. How have they come up with the money to fund those authorities? The other question I had is there was an op-ed in the Oregonian a few weeks ago reminding me of something I once knew but had forgotten, which is that –
 Eugene passed a toxic right to know law requiring emitters of toxic pollutants to keep track of them and report them and then the legislature passed a preemption language that makes it virtually impossible for any other jurisdiction to do the same thing. I was curious as to whether you thought that Eugene law even though it's just a reporting law has an effect and is it worth our lobbying the legislature to get them to overturn that preemption among all the other preemptions they've imposed on local governments. Yeah, thoughts about that?
 Sure. Well, I think that the right-to-know piece first, responding to that question, is that transparency is a really critical part of what is a concern, I think, foremost in Portlanders' minds. People just don't have a sense of what's going into the air, what's happening in their neighborhood. So that right-to-know piece, you know, that lends some transparency to that equation. But it doesn't, that system down in Eugene doesn't require any specific reductions or,
 any actions. So the reporting piece is useful, but it's just sort of an informational piece. A lot of that information is already available through the toxic release inventory and other mechanisms.
 So on the question of funding, in New Jersey, one of the interesting things that's not happening in Oregon and is actually an issue across the board, not just for air pollution but also for fire response, if we have an earthquake, is I would go into facilities when I did environmental law enforcement in New Jersey, and even a teeny facility, I would register all their contaminants and toxins. And we're not doing that.
 and we would have that registered. So if there was an issue like we're seeing currently with the glass manufacturers, we'd be able to go into a database and say it could be these four folks, and we'd have a starting point. That contaminant registration fee helps to fund a major chunk of work that goes on in that arena. So it's a way to recognize if you choose to use these contaminants, there's a fee for it, it's a reasonable fee, and it's been in existence for quite some time.
 Thank you. Could I? Please. I think I would be remiss not to mention that, well, funding is obviously a really important question. The cost is.
 is also an incredibly important issue to highlight. And that we know that Multnomah County, for example, which I understand is broader than Portland, but we understand that our proportion of the cost of diesel pollution alone is upwards of $2 billion in public health and the loss of life
 loss of productivity, and all the related health concerns that are related just to the diesel pollution alone. And we know that we have the highest concentration of the emissions. I will also say that there are federal dollars that do come into our state through a mechanism called CMAQ, which is the Congestion Medication Air Quality Fund. And that money, a congressional report in 2012 recommended, did not require, because the federal government –
 did not want to dictate how the money is spent. But the recommendation from the Congressional 2012 report was that money was recommended to prioritize diesel emission reductions.
 And we in our state have not used a dime of our money on diesel reductions. And I will tell you that if you have the dirtiest diesel trucks and the dirtiest fleet in the country running through your city, it doesn't matter if you're reducing congestion because the number of trucks, the amount of diesel pollution does not change. And that we need to prioritize the reduction of the most deadly pollution that we have, which is diesel. Where does that money go?
 It goes into transportation budgets that are metro, overseas, the regional transportation budget. So metro has the ability to send some of it towards diesel emissions? They respond to the requests of the municipalities who apply for the money. Mary, I'm sorry, but...
 Isn't it that rather than spending public money to facilitate diesel emission reduction, shouldn't we just pass a law saying that diesel vehicles are subject to the same rules as in Washington and California? Yes. As an advocacy point, that is my clearest advocacy point, is I believe that we should pass a diesel standard today, which our state has the authority to do with no needed mandated action. I was responding to Commissioner Fish's issue on funding specifically, but yes, I agree. Thank you.
 And you've been pushing for that for many legislative sessions. Yes, we have. So we need to continue to add it to our list. In the meantime, we can ask Metro to give some of the dollars that they have authority over to this issue.
 Should Metro be the regional air authority, Multnomah County, Portland, if we have to do it at the local level? I think the boundaries that Metro represents represents municipalities that probably should all be in partnership on this. I will not try and speak to the organizational –
 construct at this point. I really appreciate that what Mayor Hales and Commissioner Khafre have asked for is a strong feasibility study of what a local air management district would look like.
 Could you talk about that, Mayor? Yeah. Why don't we let the next two folks speak, and then we'll spend a little more time in discussion. We're kind of deviating from our procedure, but this is a big deal. This issue is a big deal. And maybe we could ask Mary Pivadot to stay since she's been such a leader on this. Yeah, you would. Thank you both. Mary, do stick around. Let's hear from the other two folks and then have a little more discussion and get back to our discussion. 290 and 291, Sarah Livingstone to address council regarding the latest Portland air toxics crisis.
 and Teresa Kishisoto to address council regarding challenges with our Portland air.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and council members. My name is Sarah Livingstone, and my husband, 16-month-old baby girl, and I live in southeast Portland, five blocks from Bullseye Glass, which is within the half-mile radius of where the Oregon Health Authority told residents that it was not safe to eat out of our gardens. This past January, I had three trips to the ER for not being able to breathe and severe chest pain. I was diagnosed with pneumonia and pleural effusion, which is fluid between the linings of the lungs.
 I am normally a very healthy person, and this came on very suddenly. At the time, I did not know about bullseye glass heavily polluting our neighborhood five blocks from our house with cadmium, arsenic, chromium, and other toxic heavy metals for decades. The story had not broken yet, and they had not suspended using heavy metals.
 I'm not the only one whose health is possibly affected by toxic air pollution. Numerous people in my southeast neighborhood who live very close to Bullseye have contacted me telling me they've had very similar health problems.
 A few women wrote to me that they had pleurisy, inflammation of the linings of their lungs, after they moved to this neighborhood that adversely affected them for six months. They live within two blocks of me. Another young mother who ate out of her garden all last summer while pregnant had a baby with an unexplainable hole in her lung and partial collapse.
 An eight-month pregnant mother named April who lives a block from me and four blocks from Bullseye Received her heavy metal tests and has arsenic levels that are 59 ug and they should be between 0 to 29 How does one calm the mind of a pregnant mother who is due in one month and who has heavy metals two to three times? What is considered normal some heavy metals passed to the unborn baby and can cause birth defects? Unfortunately, there are many more stories
 Like this. I moved back to Portland to start and raise a family, like many people have done in the past and are currently doing. This is not the Portland that I thought I knew, and I feel like we have all been betrayed.
 The beautiful green city that we all love is not so green. Quite the contrary. It has been going on for many years. I feel like the rug has been pulled out from under my feet. Toxic heavy metal poisoning is not only a short-term health problem, but also a long-term one, unfortunately. It can take up to a decade to show itself. Are we to worry that in five or ten years from now, our 16-month-old daughter will develop cancer or a behavioral disease caused by heavy metals, or that my husband's or my life will be shortened? No.
 How does one not worry daily about this moving forward? The DEQ and Portland City officials have known about these toxic and carcinogenic chemicals in our air for over a decade. The EPA has recognized the one-size-fits-all approach is outdated. The state and the city should dismiss this one-size-fits-all approach in fixing our toxic air crisis, as California has.
 Children are not smaller versions of adults. Children have developing immune, nerve, and bone systems much different than adults. Chemicals such as cadmium and lead can cross the placenta negatively, impacting fetal development milestone processes. Chemicals can also be found in breast milk, which is concerning to me as a breastfeeding mother.
 The community of Portland and I will not stop fighting and mobilizing until air quality regulations have been improved to protect the public health before polluter profits. Groups such as our Eastside Portland Air Coalition and Neighbors for Clean Air are leading this charge. Let's return Portland to being an environmental leader in this country. Oregonians deserve to breathe air that does not make us sick. Please help make this right. Good morning. Hello. Let me see if you like it.
 Buenos dias, Mayor Hales and City Council members, Mr. Novick, Ms. Fritz, Mr. Fish, and Mr. Salzman. May the day be going well for all of you.
 I am Teresa Keishi Soto, and I am here as a member of Organizing People, Activating Leaders, Environmental Justice Oregon, to talk about my struggles with breathing in outer southeast Portland. Long before I joined OPAL in 2010, OPAL was already calling attention to Portland's poor air quality, especially in the southeast. Thank you.
 As you know, because I come talk to you a lot, I live off of Powell Boulevard at the end of Southeast 125th Place. My apartment door, number one, is 200 feet from the bus stop on Powell. When I first moved to Powell Court Villa in the fall of 2003, I lived in apartment number 10. Number 10 is about 100 feet from apartment number one, where I now live.
 I did not have problems with breathing in that apartment. It's further back from Powell Boulevard.
 In 2007, I moved into apartment number one, and by 2011, I found that I could no longer sleep in the bedroom. The smell of fumes and my struggle with breathing under those conditions would wake me up and force me to abandon the bedroom. I did try two different kinds of air purifiers. They didn't help. I have been sleeping on the floor of the living room since 2012. At first, I thought that I would be spared the foul, indescribable taste of fumes and the smell of fumes.
 and the feeling that something heavy is coating my throat by sleeping on the floor in a different room. No, many times I am awakened between 2.30 a.m. and 5.30 a.m. by the same conditions that force me out of the bedroom. I have coughed so hard that I am no longer able to sing. I love to sing.
 I sang with the East Oregon Symphony Chorale for almost the whole 11 years that I lived in eastern Oregon. If I have a night of normal breathing, I feel great in the morning. This usually happens when we have had wind during the day and the evening. I make it a point to ask drivers to stop idling their engines.
 While a person is writing out a check for the rent, while someone is waiting for a prescription at the drive-thru at Walgreens at the corner of Southeast 122nd and Powell,
 or while cleaning the laundromat. The lady cleaning the laundromat was actually going to let the engine of her van idle the whole time she was cleaning our apartment until I spoke to her and explained to her what was going on. In closing, I'd like to complain about the fact that DEQ disconnected the air monitor at the corner of Southeast 122nd and Powell Boulevard in 2004.
 Thank you, council members and Mayor Hales, for holding DEQ accountable, for addressing the health issues that are a result of diesel combustion. Thank you for supporting public transportation. And thank you for promoting a Don't Idle Your Car Engine movement in our beautiful city.
 When it comes to air quality in Portland, we must all work together to keep our city beautiful and livable. And I love Portland. And thank you all. Gracias. Thank you very much. Well, I want to thank all of you for coming this morning. Again, it's a little bit unusual to take a topic and actually get into it a little bit. But this is really a critical issue in the community. And it's been something of a bilateral conversation, if you will, between organizations,
 Everybody important that cares about this you a lot of citizens in these neighborhoods Cherokee for me all of us and the state But we've also sort of filed this point that hey We can create a local air authority and we will if we need to So I think that it really now has risen to the level where we probably ought to have something of a work session perhaps between the county and the City Council and
 to get into this issue in further depth, call on some of you as resource people. I realize Mr. Van Orden was here on his own time, but he's kind of a unique resource for us in that both he's had this experience of being an environmental regulator earlier in his career, but now he runs our noise enforcement function in the city, so he understands how to operate a regulatory program that the city is taking the leadership for.
 for. So it seems to me this has gotten to the point where we need to have a longer version of the discussion that we've just had this morning and perhaps also with county leadership because frankly as a government person I don't particularly care whether we have an effective regulatory program at the state or the county or the city. I just want one.
 And if the required – in order to get one, if we have to form one locally, we need to determine is that a joint venture? Is it a regional thing? Again, there's lots of mechanics to figure out. But the principle that we ought to have an effective environmental regulator making sure that the city that we think is green actually is, is something that I think there's huge agreement for, not just here in this room, but in the community at large. Mayor, just a comment. Thank you.
 We're a couple months away from completing the heavy lifting on the budget and the comp plan, which are taking up a lot of the bandwidth here. And so heading into late spring, early summer.
 If you were to give instructions to the bureaus that were frontline bureaus as to doing some research, if we've had government relations come in with some of the legislative things, and we structured it somewhat like the way we did the Superfund briefing, which is a chance for the public and the council to get briefed on all the dimensions of the issue ahead of time.
 Thinking through the policy implications, I would applaud that. I would welcome that. Yeah, I think that's right, and I think that's the right timing, too, in that we are doing this feasibility study. I'm not exactly sure when those results come back, but they ought to be by then. So then we'll have a little more research behind our options. Do we need a budget placeholder, though? No.
 It's not going to be free. It's not going to be free, so that's a very good question. And again, the timing is good because we are working on our budget right now as well as on the comp plan. So I think that sounds sensible to me that in the next couple of months we'll line that up, call on some of you again as resources come.
 to take this discussion to the next level. But we really appreciate you highlighting it here by signing up this morning. It is a critical issue in Portland, and a lot of people are scared, and they should be because we think we do live in a green city, and we have a right to. One other question since we have the panel here.
 One of the complications of our form of government is there are five of us, and the mayor has taken the lead, but obviously you want to make sure that all five of us are informed on the issue. So any thoughts about best ways for us to access the materials that you want us to sort of do our homework on ahead of any broader discussion?
 I'm very happy to email you some supporting materials and would certainly make myself available. And anybody else that you would like to speak with individually, we'd be happy to avail ourselves. Zach Klonoski in my office, who's my point person on this issue, I'll make sure that he's coordinating with all the council offices as well. And I think it's very important that citizens have a telephone number that they can call in.
 and report situations like mine, I'm sure my situation is not the only one. I think it's really important that it get out there that there is a number that people can call.
 Thank you. I'd just suggest that we also include some of the folks from the Department of Environmental Quality. There are a lot of really good people trying really hard and who know what some of the barriers are and what has been tried and hasn't worked. So let's make sure that we include the state as partners to the extent possible. Exactly right. And we've had good discussions with them. We're pushing them, but there are certainly good people there that are interested in making a difference. So that's a fair point there.
 Thank you all so much. This has been a very helpful discussion. Thank you very much for the time this morning to discuss this. Thank you. Okay. Let's take up our consent calendar briefly and then go to the time certains. I do have one request to pull something from the consent calendar to the regular calendar, and that's item 301. Are there any others? Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on the balance of the consent calendar.
 Fritz. Aye. Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, let's take item 292. 292, Office of Equity and Human Rights 2015 Annual Report to Council. Well, good morning. Dante James is going to lead off this presentation this morning about how we as a city are acting on living and institutionalizing our values. Thank you.
 And is there a PowerPoint? Okay. I will whisper the incantations necessary to make our AV system work. Here we go. Maybe use the mouse. Just scroll it or click this one. I'll go back up. I'll go back up. There we go. Okay. Do you want to introduce our visitors while we're working on our? Please. Good morning. Welcome to the world. Hello.
 Okay, how are we doing on technology here? Are we ready to roll? I think we are. All right, good morning. Thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, commissioners. My name is Dante James. I'm the director of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, and it is my privilege this morning to be able to present to you the annual report of the Office of Equity and Human Rights for 2015-16.
 And interestingly, I think it's very powerful that we have followed the previous presentation on essentially an environmental justice issue, which more often than not is a racial justice, a social justice issue. So it's absolutely an equity issue in having these conversations about air quality and where and who is impacted by that. So I appreciate your taking that up and moving that forward. Before I begin, I'd really like to first – where did I go?
 I would first like to really thank my staff for their passion, their commitment, their patience, their perseverance, and their expertise in doing this work. I would ask them to stand or wave so that they can be publicly appreciated for the work that they do. Good morning. Thank you all. This work would not happen without this phenomenal staff. And they put in...
 truly blood, sweat, and tears in doing this work because they believe in it. It is their passion, and it is their calling, and they don't consider this a nine-to-five. It's what they do all the time, so I really do want to thank them for that. I also want to specifically recognize Jeff Selby for his continued excellent work in the preparation of the annual report document that you have before you. We always get comments on how well it's done, and I think you have each commented and or tried to steal Jeff to do some of your work, so I appreciate that.
 I also want to thank Judith Mowry, who has been acting as the interim director while I'm in Portland. I'll be in Portland all of the month of April, finishing our intercity agreement, so she's not done yet. And she's actually ill today, which hopefully doesn't reflect the level of difficulty in doing this work. And I also want to acknowledge the growing number of city staff and city leaders who have supported our work by making it theirs.
 and taking it upon themselves to move this work forward in their bureaus or their departments. We have had a busy year. It's a year full of success as well as a year of moments with frustration and challenge. The office has expanded the depth and the breadth of its work, but also sometimes had to fight to be included in discussions where an equity perspective would bring valuable insight and improved outcomes for Portland residents of color and Portlanders with a disability.
 This year we have watched this world, this country, and this city struggle with issues of race, while also seeing city staff and bureaus become more engaged about addressing institutional racism and how they can work to be part of change that dismantles it. We have celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disability Act, while seeing the difficulty many have in addressing those with physical and mental challenges and the institutional barriers that exist, both in physical and programmatic ways. The office has just celebrated its fourth birthday,
 March 12, 2012 was the first day of the office. In that relatively short period of time, the office has become a national model of equity work. You can see on the slide anyway several jurisdictions with whom we have worked
 We get phone calls every week from jurisdictions around this country asking how the office works, how we set it up, how does it engage with the governmental aspects of the city, how do we engage with the bureaucracy, how have we done what we've done. So we truly have become a national model in offering advice and assistance to other public and private entities on a regular basis.
 Just two weeks ago, the Deputy Mayor of New Orleans came with a staff member to spend two days with my office, learning how we have accomplished what we have and how we continue to do our work. We have truly tried to stay true to the Portland Plan and the many five-year action items within it. Specifically, we have, in terms of the heading areas of the Portland Plan, we have closed the gaps, we have engaged the community.
 We have built partnerships. We have launched a racial justice initiative. We have increased focus on disability equity. And we have increased internal accountability. And so just what has been our work this past year. And so we've highlighted a number of things in the plan that you have. Obviously, we can't fit all of our work inside a document that you really spend any time reading. We really wanted to highlight some of the specific areas that we've done. So in general, we have continued to conduct and facilitate equity training.
 Our training curriculum and approach is a sought-after model because it is designed to offer concrete understanding and approaches to equity work. And if you look on page 4, some of the results of specific surveys that we have invited people to complete. Overall satisfaction with our training from all who have completed it is 92%. Satisfaction with facilitation has been 91.6%. The understanding of equity after the training has been 91.6%.
 And I think most telling is this that's not in the document, that 75% of all who have participated in the training walked away and said they have an immediate ability with a practical takeaway to perform equity in the job that they do. I just think that's a huge statistic. And as we have, and I'll say this, as we have now made the training mandatory for all employees,
 We may see those numbers slip a little bit. The training that was originally, not originally done, but that was done prior to it being mandatory, people would sign up on their own or bureaus would specifically invite us to come and perform training. Now, I think we will see both sides of the spectrum of those who are really supportive, those who are, in the political term, persuadables, and those who just will never leave.
 like doing this work. And so those, I guess I would just suggest maybe in the next year, some of those statistics may slip a little bit. I have a question on that. In the previous slide, the 91% believed that they have an understanding of equity after the training. Is there any kind of test? Do we agree that they have a better understanding? No.
 There's no test. Self-reporting. It's self-reporting, right? It's self-reporting because what I suggest, in the training, what we talk about is they should be able to walk out and explain to someone what equity is and the philosophy of the city and why it does it. Whether they agree or not, can they explain it if somebody says, what is this equity stuff? And this is their answer. We might want to consider having a post-test just on that particular issue because clearly if the evaluation says equity,
 unless you really hated the training per se and are willing to say so, obviously the answer to that question is supposed to be yes. And we have a lot of intelligent city employees who are going to take yes. So I think it might be worth looking at some kind of qualitative evaluation, as you say, or even just specifically, can you recite the chapter and verse as to what the city's equity understanding is? Provide an example or explanation.
 Description or definition, absolutely. And just to be clear, all of these are anonymous, so there's no expectation that they're going to be called out because of whatever their answers are on the evaluation. But that's a good point. Thank you. We have added and improved the training capacity of our staff by adding the responsibility of being on the training team for additional members of our staff.
 They are each passionate about this and they wanted to become a part of our training team in addition to their other expected work. We often get requests to offer training to outside entities, but have been very selective as we are stewards of our time and the budget you have given to us. We have, however, provided our training to entities such as the senior leadership of both the University of Oregon and Portland State University as we consider how and what we are teaching the next generation. We have also provided training to Senator Merkley's staff.
 We have also allowed other jurisdictions or nonprofits that provide services on behalf of or in contract with the city to attend our trainings. We have continued to provide technical assistance to city staff and city leadership.
 It's not my intention this morning to go through a list of all that support that we've provided. Of all the accomplishments that we've achieved, I really would like to spend most of the time allowing our guests, who will be invited after my remarks, to offer their thoughts, answer any questions that you may have, and to offer a glimpse of the future of this office and its work. I do, however, want to highlight a few pieces of this year's work. So, first,
 Under the leadership of the Commission on Disability, and with the assistance of human resources, we have a better snapshot based on surveys that were completed, two surveys actually were completed, of those employees in the city who identify as having a disability. If we are actually going to be a model employer of people with disability, we need to know if we are improving our hiring and how we are doing in creating a welcoming environment.
 We have provided support to the commissioner's staff as we work through regulating Uber and requirements of their providing wheelchair-accessible vehicles in their services. We created the newest taxi cab company, PDX Yellow Cab, a Somali-owned and operated company as it has become a reality. And I believe several of the drivers are here this morning to offer their support. So if you are, please wave a hand. We continue to provide assistance with police equity training in the advanced academies and during regular in-service trainings.
 We also provided assistance to the personnel division as they changed the oral board questions to better understand who the applicants are as individuals who understand who they are as members of the largest society and the communities that they serve. Our engagement in the budgeting process that we are all in the middle of with the budget equity tool and the office's engagement with council and the budget office and the budget hearings never fails to get oohs and ahhs around the country for its innovation and equity engagement.
 We provided each of you the opportunity to vote on and support the new citywide racial equity goals and strategies. They represent a model of leadership that is envied and is being copied around the country. So as you can see, and you are very well aware of these particular goals and strategies, they have provided a goalpost for the bureaus as they prepare their racial equity plans. The roadmaps and the plans essentially lead to a racial equity strategic plan for the next five years.
 All of the bureaus have completed their assessments, internal assessments, and some of the bureaus have completed their plans. The rest are in the final stages of completion, and I'd like to share an example of just one of those that I thought was very well done. This is not the complete plan by any means. It's a couple of examples from the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 And it really reflects the good internal work that they've done in bringing all of their staff together to determine how they can better do equity internally and as they provide services from an external point of view. So in creating both action items, metrics, time frames and timetables, as well as who's going to be accountable and responsible for ensuring the work gets done.
 One of their action items is they're going to partner with regional high schools and colleges and expand internships and other opportunities for students who are underrepresented in the Bureau. The director's office is responsible for that. Their metrics is the number of high school internships that are completed for students from disadvantaged communities. Another is, did I just do that? Yes.
 I'm sorry. And similarly, to partner with high schools and colleges, provide short-term shadowing opportunities so students can come from those underrepresented or underprivileged communities and shadow within the Bureau so they can get a better sense of the work opportunities that may be available to them and provide some sense of greater awareness of what the Bureau actually does. And additionally, track...
 and have a goalpost for the number of youth-focused career demonstrations or field trips that are engaged in, they are engaged in with underrepresented high schools and underrepresented communities. I thought this was interesting.
 important, since I always say that if you want to know what's important to an entity, follow the money. The Bureau has its own equity and diversity committee and they are establishing a specific budget for that committee to assist in ongoing training, possibly bringing an outside capacity to continue the conversation so that the idea of equity is just not a one-off, but it's a continuing conversation within that Bureau and they are actually going to resource that with dollars.
 This also is important. They are going to ensure that there are equity metrics in employment or in annual performance evaluations. So by the end of next year, they will have performance evaluation criteria within all performance evaluations based on equity and inclusion. We have Black Male Achievement is still going strong. The BMA will be co-sponsoring, along with the county, a Black Men and Boys Healing Summit this summer.
 This past summer, the city of Portland, through the BMA, hosted seven other BMA cities in a two-day national convening, which culminated in the hip-hop concert in City Hall. This summer, it will once again be placing a group of young men in the Summer Works program. We'll also be leading a project to address an issue they see that is specific to their community. So moving forward, our goal is to continue to institutionalize and infuse
 this work in the city government and in the way that we do business. I believe, however, that we're in the most difficult phase of this work. Beginning this work is easy because everybody just says, I don't know how to do this. I don't know what this is. It's easy for you to say. Yeah, that's true. Easier for maybe us as we try to expect people to listen to what we have to say when they will acknowledge they don't know. So that's why I say it's a little easier in the beginning to do this work.
 But we are, again, truly a national model. But we still have work to do. We are now at the place where many staff believe that they, quote, unquote, get it. Unfortunately for some, there is not yet the depth of understanding of the root causes that are continuing to create the disparities that exist or in the opportunities that we can create to better benefit everyone. So if I can use an analogy based on my over 40 years of doing martial arts.
 Some of the most dangerous folks are those who are just before black belt, brown belt, red belt, because they know little to be dangerous and hurt themselves as well as others. But they are not yet the expert in their ability to control what they do and how they do it and understand the depth of what they do. And so I would suggest now that we have a lot of brown belts and red belts running around the city who are not yet ready to be black belts. We have reorganized our office this year to be more efficient and effective to ensure the continued best equity work for the city.
 Our next goal for the office is to look at a CBO type model, where we provide expertise to bureaus by staff who are able to become more knowledgeable about the specific work of bureaus that they have in a particular portfolio. Bureaus use a human resource consultant even if they think they understand employment issues. Bureaus need a budget analyst to assist with their budget. I'm a licensed attorney, but I'm still expected to, and I need to, use the city attorney's office, especially in areas that are not of my expertise.
 The idea of an equity analyst with a portfolio of bureaus is analogous to each of these. More that we're doing. DEEP, the Diverse and Empowered Employees of Portland, which is under the umbrella of the office, will be moving forward with their leadership project, specifically for people of color and women. The goal is to build capacity and opportunity for people of color and women to move into the leadership pipelines that exist both explicitly and implicitly in this city.
 In the last two years, we have improved the overall number of people of color who work for the city from 18% to 21%, while the overall number of people of color in management or supervisory positions has remained about 5% to 6%. So this program will provide mentoring and networking, helping to address that number. We plan on enlarging our engagement on the issue of disability. Portland can become a leader in disability work, equity work, in the same way it has become a leader in racial equity.
 That will require a citywide commitment of resources, a commitment to resource the Bureau of Human Resources as they lead on making the city truly a model employer of people with disability, a commitment to resourcing our office as we lead on disability equity and Title II. This will require your commitment individually and collectively, not just to be supporters, but to be advocates for this work.
 Beginning in late spring, when I finally returned from Oakland, our office is planning on going through a strategic planning exercise to map out the next three to five years of the office. We purposefully did not do that in the first couple of years of the office as we continue to create and evaluate the programs and practices that move equity work forward. And, you know, we talk about riding or building the bike as we ride it. We essentially were...
 number three in the country, really, to begin having an office in this way. Seattle was first, then King County, and then Portland. And so we are the OGs in this work. We're the old guard in doing this work. And so I won't call us old gangsters. We're the old guard in doing this work. And so as we began this, we were still really creating. And so at this point now, we're ready to really sink into a concrete three- to five-year strategic plan.
 One of my favorite sayings in training is that organizations move in the direction of the questions they ask. So we are constantly asking questions of our colleagues, and we do not shy away from asking ourselves similar questions about what works best and how we can improve. Our goal is and always has been to be transformational and not purely transactional. It is our intention to continue to embed this work, this conversation, and this way of doing business in our city government through our city staff.
 As I close, I want to thank you, commissioners, for your advocacy, for your commitment to this office, for engaging this office in your work, and expecting your bureaus to do the same. I want to specifically thank the mayor, who has become a full and complete supporter, not only of this office, but of the need for this work. He has included equity and expectations for budget and other city functions, and regularly raises awareness about institutional racism and institutional barriers when making presentations.
 Without the support of each of you, we would not be as far along as we are now. I'm often asked how we internally move this work forward to create change. I usually say that it is about building relationships with directors and staff more so than electeds, because electeds may come and go while directors impact their bureaus on a daily basis. That said, this office has been blessed with a city council that supports this work.
 And even if we disagree sometimes, you continue to speak to and consider the importance of equity as it benefits all the residents of this city. I can honestly say that when I began this work in Portland four years ago, I did not expect to be able to use Portland as a role model for equity. I and my staff now proudly do so around this country. As I hope you've heard, Portland is leading the way, and you are leading the way, in moving racial and disability equity forward in this conversation.
 And I just want to share a conversation I actually had with Andrew Scott, the budget director, yesterday. Because when we first started doing the budget equity process, the budget equity tool use, and having the conversation with the budget office three years ago, he told me that the conversation that he had had with his staff
 elicited the comments of, we just do numbers. Why do we have to worry about equity? That's not our role. Why is that our role? We just evaluate the dollars and the cents and that kind of thing. And now, I mean, you've seen the budget analysis by many, many members of the budget office, and I would suggest that it's 180 degrees different.
 that there is now a specific equity analysis in each and every one of those budget analyses that are done by the analysts. And I think it's made a huge difference. I think you've seen specific recommendations to do something differently based on an equity analysis. We're going to recommend the capital improvement project go over here first, as opposed to over here, based on equity. Funding this, not funding this, because it did not really address equity in the way it should –
 It's just, I think, a very complete difference from what it's been in the past. In Oakland and other places that I've been, people ask me, how do I know this work is how it's working? How are we making change? And my answer is that the conversation now has become normalized in the same way now we talk about sustainability or talk about anything else, recycling. I mean, when we started recycling,
 I got to separate my trash? I don't want to separate my trash. How do I do that? And now people get mad because you don't have extra receptacles to do your recycling. So now it's a normal conversation. I would suggest that is where the conversation about equity is in the bureaus and within the city government, is that now it's a part of the normal conversation that we ask, who are we impacting? What communities are being impacted by what we do and how we do it?
 How do we mitigate for specific issues? How do we mitigate for detrimental impacts to folks? That conversation is happening in a way it did not happen three or four years ago. So I hope that you are also proud of this work and are proud of the office and the city as it moves forward leading in the next phase of enhancing equity in this city. We're not done. We don't always do it well. We don't even always do it right. But I believe that we do our work with the best interests of all residents in mind.
 understanding the extra issues that face people of color and people with a disability every day. And we have significantly moved the needle and normalized this conversation. Before I bring up invited speakers, where's my slide? There it is. We have something, we have a gift for you. The clerk has it now, she's going to offer them to you, I think. We have some cards for you that hopefully you can keep at your desk.
 that will allow you to consider equity in all you do in knowing how to start and what kind of questions to ask in how you're evaluating whatever comes before you. Is my implicit bias impacting how I think about this issue? How will this issue impact communities of color? How will this issue impact people with disability? Is there an opportunity to mitigate any disparities? So when we talk about an equity lens,
 You know, that's the buzzword. Everybody wants to get their equity lens so they can know how to do this. And I've seen them that they're so big that it takes a Ph.D. to use. It shouldn't be. It should be a simple set of questions that you can easily run through your mind and evaluate what you're doing and how you're doing it. So we just offer this to you. Hopefully you tape it to your desk and use it on a regular basis. So those are my remarks. I have some invited guests that I would love to add to this conversation. Phillip Wolfe, who's a member of the city's Commission on Disability,
 Tracy Reeve, who is Portland City's attorney, and Raphis Vietoro, who is the grassroots giving director at MRG Foundation. And after their remarks, I'm happy to take any questions you may have or go through this document a little bit more closely. Great. Thank you very much, Dante. Why don't we go ahead and bring them up and then have you back. Thank you very much. Okay. Come on up, please. Let's make sure we have you on camera here. I think we still may be in. Is it? First. Okay.
 All right. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Tracy Reeve. I'm the Portland City Attorney. And I'm here to appreciate the partnership that the Office of Equity and Human Rights has shown our office as we seek to achieve our own strategic goals.
 When I became city attorney a couple of years ago, we adopted four new strategic goals to guide our work. And one of them is to support and advance the city's objective of achieving equity in all of its programs, services, and activities. And the Office of Equity and Human Rights has really stepped up to assist us in doing that. Last year, we asked...
 the office if they could provide training for all of our attorneys and staff in Equity 101, and they did that and tailored it for us. This past year, they've also provided training for our office lawyers and staff on microaggressions and facilitated a discussion on those topics.
 This year in particular, I want to appreciate the work that the Office of Equity and Human Rights did to partner with us and the Governing Alliance for Racial Equity to put on a two-day conference that was a convening of equity for government lawyers. And...
 Dante's staff, and in particular Judith Mowry and others from the office, did a lot of work organizing that. We were able to piggyback on Professor John Powell being up here for some other work that he was doing. He's a Berkeley Law professor and the proponent of targeted universalism and a known scholar in these areas.
 And we were able to have all of the lawyers from our office, as well as lawyers from other local government offices and lawyers from offices around the country, participate for two days to talk about how, as government lawyers, we can support and advance equity in the work that our clients do. And it was just an excellent opportunity to collaborate.
 learn from the best, and also to share information with our colleagues locally and nationally. And we would not have been able to do that without the Office of Equity and Human Rights and our city's membership and participation in GARE, the Governing Alliance for Racial Equity.
 We also were able to use that to the city's benefit. Our office was able to get that two-day conference certified for 10.5 hours of Oregon CLE credit. So all of our lawyers received that credit, as did the other local lawyers who participated. So as we strive in our offices' work to advance the city's objective of achieving equity, we have just found the Office of Equity and Human Rights to be an outstanding partner.
 good morning uh morning uh mayor commissioners um i wanted to start off by apologizing if i'm really jittery um have a newborn and just had a ton of coffee this morning so if i jump out of my seat um but uh congratulations yeah congratulations thank you thank you sleep deprivation will eventually be less of an issue it's a little hazy today i'm uh
 really cognizant um that i'm not the first nor am i the last for members of the public to testify on equity and i think there's a general fear uh or in the community about equity just being a buzzword uh equity being a flavor of the month or the year just like we feel like has been for diversity and inclusion in the past uh these aren't just mere uh buzzwords for us um
 what we're really talking about is addressing remnants of institutional racism and implicit bias. And I think EHR and the city have done much to advance how the city sees equity and tries to address equity. But I think there is still challenges ahead that have been brought up today or have been alluded to. From what I've heard from the community,
 When we're talking about the equity in contracting purchasing commission, we're talking about community benefit agreements around development projects. When we're talking about the Portland building and the 1%, folks are talking about equity. And when they mean by equity, they're talking about the bedrocks of accountability and transparency. The same thing we're talking about today, about how the oversight around our air quality is no different from air quality to what we're talking about –
 for equity and inclusion within the city in our workforce. Transparency and accountability, again, are the themes of today, which is how can we move to where we are now? We're talking about creating, developing tools and lenses to see equity and having an equity lens to actually holding ourselves accountable to our equity goals.
 I think a true bedrock to reaching that is partnerships with community groups. I think it's a good first step internally to think about these things. But we have expertise and people outside the community. I'm talking about the groups like Urban League, Verde, who have worked on equity, who can bring a level of expertise to the city as it oversees its implementation of equity goals. I think it's a value-added opportunity.
 for the city to take that step of true partnership with community partners as we implement our workforce equity goals. This could be done via an advisory commission or an oversight commission, having expertise to review and revise our equity strategies, to review and revise what our bureau directors are implementing, but to make transparent our data
 to make sure their data is being reported in a timely manner. I think steps have been taken, but I think that's an area of improvement where community partners can review and create a standard of how data is being reported. If the data is not reported accurately to community groups or in a timely manner, it inhibits our ability as community partners to effectively provide feedback for the city on its implementation of its equity goals.
 So today I asked the commission to recommit to equity, to recommit to community partners who have demanded equity in the past, not just in the areas of this commission, which we're here to testify, but even in areas around contracting and purchasing, around CBAs, around the Portland building. Recently, community partners have recommended equity.
 partnered with OHR to present a resolution to bring in more oversight, but what I would call really a stronger partnership between community groups and the city to bring in a tool really to review and revise and give advice
 on how to implement its workforce equity goals. And until we have that mechanism built in place, I feel like the public just believes that equity is just a buzzword. And really, I think it's time, I think we're at the moment and juncture where community groups need to take ownership of equity. Equity cannot be co-opted. And if this is truly a priority, if equity truly matters, we truly want to address
 history of racism within the city, then we must not go after transactional relationships. We must go after transformational change. And I think the ask for transparency and timeliness and accountability are really easy steps. So I'd be happy to talk more about this
 I know there are other community partners who have been talking about this before me for several years who continue to, who are ready and willing and able to continue to come back to the table with the city and with the Office of Equity and Human Rights to put some more teeth, if you will, on how we implement our workforce equity goals within the city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for your comments. I'd just like to respond. The focus of the office intentionally was internal, and the community, when it was set up, agreed with that. We have made progress. This has been...
 in this annual summary. We still haven't trained all of our internal folks yet. We've increased the number of people of color from 18% to 21% in the city's workforce in the last two years, which is progress. It's not yet reflective of the community as a whole. So I think that that's probably a conversation that needs to happen with the new mayor as to when it becomes...
 The office starts working more intentionally with the community and inviting the community in to do more oversight. What we heard very strongly from the community when we set it up, which was surprising to me, I wasn't expecting to hear it, was first put your own house in order. And I think we've made a lot of progress towards that.
 How we re-engage with the community is a very valid point, and I'm going to be asking the council to look at the New Portlanders Council and expanding that into a commission. I think that that conversation will inform what you're suggesting in terms of an oversight commission or how does the Human Rights Commission work,
 interact the Commission on Disability. There's a number of, we're not done yet. And I think that was your point is that with this a lot more to do and I absolutely agree. Could I respond? You know, I do, thank you for those feedback. I think, you know, from just to echo what we heard earlier today in Dante's presentation, I think those relationships need to be built outside of elected officials. I think it's between the Bureau directors
 and those community partners. There is no reason why we can't get this done. This is a low-cost, efficient way of working. We have groups who have expertise who are willing and able to provide that. There is no reason why that work can't happen now.
 We do not have to wait for a new mayor for this relationship, these conversations to start happening. I think we have, I would like to believe that we have the leadership now, the urgency of now to begin taking these steps. You know, we've had these conversations, you know, months ago, back in August, you know, with the mayor's office. You know, I think...
 I think that, again, I think there is no reason, you know, calling back again to the urgency of now. Now is a great moment to continue these conversations, to develop these strategies. But, and sorry, in terms of, you know, and also with the implementation of these work for equity numbers,
 There's still no transparency on what levels and what job areas are we seeing these numbers improvement. Is it just in one department? Is it in multiple departments? But these are just questions I think the community and the public has. Thank you very much. Good morning. My name is Philip Wolfe. Thank you for having me here today. It's good to see you all again, commissioners and mayor. I took a day off from work to be here today and provide a few comments that I want to share.
 I serve on the commission, PCOD, since 2013. I've traveled from different cities, New York, D.C., L.A., San Francisco. I even learned gestural signs in France, and now I'm here in Portland. And with my experience and my experiences in different communities, Portland really shines here.
 It's not just about equity. It's about inclusion and the environment and the people and the opportunities that are here to address the thoughts and experiences and philosophies that are out there. People here, they work hard.
 in regards to equity. And I think there's a great opportunity that's been started. And now that I've been involved with PCOD and the process there and understanding how OEHR supports
 the agencies and supports because I understand their role more now that I've been involved. And I'm really impressed with the office and I'm grateful to have Dante and James be our director, Dante James be the director and support our work. And it's a big office and actually to go in and see the pictures on the wall and get to know him better and interact with him has been a great opportunity. And so I feel like I'm really getting understanding and understanding. I'm proud to be here.
 and to be on the advisory board. A big success that we recently had is in regards to the captioning that was passed because of you and the work that you did, and you took a bold risk to support that bill, and you heard us, so I want to thank you again for doing that. Okay, so to wrap up, Dante talked about equity, and I want to point out about—make a point about equity. It's not just a political statement.
 or just until the House of Oppression comes down, it should be a normalized conversation, as he was talking about, because we are all human.
 And so as a model, the OEHR and the work they've done, I think that other cities can follow the work that we've done and emulate those results and will create change, and that will create impact. And there are several other states now that are asking me how we can adopt some of the stuff that we've done here in their cities. And so we're closing those gaps, and we're creating bridges between the deaf community and other communities with disability communities
 that have been overlooked in the past. And Portland has limited resources, but I'm here. I'm here as a resource to collaborate with the members and the stakeholders involved. So I'm really proud to say that I'm looking forward
 to the model that we're creating and the more successes that we're going to have uh you know we've looked over the review i've reviewed the budget and i ask you to continue your support with the ohe oehr and their work and their work with us and i'm looking forward to continuing to be here and working with you so if you have any questions feel free to ask thank you all very much appreciate your presentations and appreciate your work on this priority for us as a city thank you so much
 So anyone else want to speak on this report before we bring Dante back up for any final comments and discussion? I have three people signed up. Joe Walsh, Dawood Muhammad, and Muhammad Dahir. Please, come on up. Maybe others had to leave. So go ahead, please, Mr. Walsh. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice, and we take no money from city, county, or state funds. We like the brochure.
 Rochera's very impressive. One of the questions that was asked is that if we're dealing with equity, we have a problem right now with about 15 candidates running for mayor. And these forums that are being set up by nonprofits are excluding most of them. There's only about two or three or four or sometimes six that are invited. And they have these arbitrary rules.
 decision-making processes that have nothing to do with equity at all. So when we pat ourselves on the back and we do really nice brochures with pictures of lots of people smiling, we have a problem because we can't get citizen representatives in front of the public because they don't raise $10,000. Think about that. What we're fed is the shills for the corporations because they got the money.
 They can raise $10,000, snap of a finger, Mr. Wheeler, Mr. Bailey, even Sarah. So when you say equity, what does that mean? Does that mean that we are going to treat people equally? No. It's a very closed loop. Look at this brochure. It's a closed loop. Congratulations. You're all doing a good job.
 This is not a critic of them. It's a critic of the system. The system is wrong. You cannot have equity and then turn around and say, we are not going to let you speak. We're not even going to let you on the bus, never mind telling you to get in the back of the bus. And that's what exclusion is. It's not getting on the bus. So when you do this stuff,
 And you make these brochures, and you're all good people, and you're giving your time. And I praise staff, and I praise volunteers. But I really get angry with you. Dante, please come on back up. So any questions?
 concerns to raise with our great director here. I just have one. In a previous report, you asked each of the council to commit to dedicating 10 hours of staff time within each of our bureaus for the staff to attend the citywide racial equity committee. That has now transitioned. Do you have a new ask for us since that committee is no longer meeting? The ask would be the same. The transitional
 entity tentatively is called the Fellowship for Racial Equity. And so it will be a cohort of individuals from not all, but a significant population of the bureaus so that we can have essentially a fellowship for 9 to 12 months where they can become very specifically focused on
 depth and breadth of equity work so that they can be in some sense the
 The next entity that begins to spread this work throughout the city, so it is not yet in in final phases But that would be the ask is that those individuals who are part of that? Fellowship be allowed the same sense of ten hours per month of equity work with from within their bureaus. Thank you It's the same amount of commitment. Yes. Yes, I
 Great. Anything you want to add to close this discussion? Not really. I mean, I think, you know, just to make it clear that, as we've said, that the focus of the work is essentially internal, but that is so that communities will benefit from improved services.
 ways that the city does its work, improved ways that the bureaucrats and the city employees do their work so that the city residents, all the residents, will benefit much more specifically because of how the internal aspects are rethinking about how to focus and how to do their work. So I just want to be very clear about that. Our goal isn't just...
 to stay focused on just city employees, but because the end user of all of the work that the city employees do are the residents of the city, and that's really why we do this work. Thank you very much. Okay, I think a motion is in order to accept the report. So moved. Second. Second.
 And let's take a vote, please. Thank you for your work. I am pleased with how it's going. I want to be very clear with the community and with city employees that our work is not done. We have definitely made a good start, and equity has started to become something that many more city employees and people in the community understand, embrace, and care passionately about and do feel the urgency. There are still a lot.
 from whom some or none of those is the case, and we must continue to intentionally engage people
 Next, Mayor, I want to share your alluding of Mayor Hales and your leadership, Mayor Hales, of this Bureau over the last four years. It has come a long way, and there is still a long way to go. But one of the concerns when the community was engaging in 2010, 11, and 12 was that it would be like every other diversity and inclusion work that the city has done over the past 10, 20, 50 years.
 that it would come and go and there wouldn't be any outcomes. And we are starting to see outcomes even this early. We have established the office, funded the office through the recession and through the recovery from the recession and will continue to do so. So it is becoming institutionalized equity.
 starting to take over from institutionalized racism. I'm also especially pleased with the decision that we made to include disability as a secondary focus, and the work that the Commission on Disability has done, that your staff have done, and that everybody in the city has also embraced also, and the work that's being done in the bureaus to work on the transition plan and the specific physical things that need to be fixed.
 And while we're doing the moral imperatives and the philosophical and other discussions, which are not so easy to quantify, it's very satisfying to be able to check off and say, yes, at least we have changed the way the door handle works or whatever. And I thank all of your staff and all the city bureaus who...
 take those steps and then engage on the also difficult work of figuring out how do we become a model employer of people with disability, how do we work on all of the other issues that we need to do with a very small number of staff, so then it does require engagement of everybody in the city. So I thank you for your work, and yes, there's more to do. Hi. Yes. Director James, thank you for an excellent report. I'm going to...
 hand this out to all my bureaus and all the folks that I have oversight of and say, the next time we do an annual report, I'd like it to look like this. And I should also say I apologize for poaching one of your team members. Thank you. And she's here, too, so I want to. But that's equity in action. Yes. Equity is also a ladder and a ladder of opportunity. So thank you for your work. And I
 I've had a chance to participate in a number of forums that you've convened where you've brought community members together, and it's very powerful. We're all learning, and we're doing it in a collaborative way. I love the stories in this report. I love the human component, the people piece. As Commissioner Fritz said, we have a lot more work to do, but we are becoming more intentional. There's another piece that we can do, which is,
 through the relationship with our bureau directors, we can put very clear expectations in our annual letters. And that, in turn, translates to working with your bureau on implementation plans and then action plans. So I thank you for your good work, and I just also want to acknowledge that there was great skepticism about this enterprise, but there was a fierce champion in Commissioner Fritz that helped us initially with Mayor Adams launch this thing.
 and I appreciate the leadership of Mayor Hales as the commissioner in charge, and I fully would expect that the next mayor, whoever he or she is, picks this up and takes us to the next level. So thank you, sir. Hi. No, thank you.
 Thank you, Director James. Thanks for all the work your office does. I'm always particularly appreciative of the input in the budget process. And as you pointed out, the budget is how we express our values. So the work of the office and the budget process is critically important. I also want to thank you for
 this equity lens. And I think you said that, you know, you don't want an equity lens to be about, you know, a thousand pound monocle. You want it to be something we can actually use. So this, I think, is great to have and I'm going to keep it here on my desk permanently. Thank you very, very much. Hi. Thank you. Well,
 Well, Dante, thank you. I first want to thank my colleague, Commissioner Fritz, for her leadership on this work because that's why we're here. And to you and your professional staff are first rate. And the fact that we're national leaders is perhaps in part due to policy at the council level, but it takes really effective people and leadership in the bureaus that has achieved what you've achieved so far. And that's great, and I'm proud of the work that you and your team are doing.
 I also want to thank the volunteers that serve in so many different ways. The Portland Commission on Disabilities, the Human Rights Commission, our diverse and empowered employees at Portland who give of their time to support this work.
 the Black Male Achievement Steering Committee, where we've recruited this amazing group of civic leaders from across the city to support the work. So like a lot of things in Portland that become institutionalized, like sustainability, it requires leadership at the council. It requires an effective bureau. But then it requires a lot of people in the community that are backing and supporting and enlivening that work. And that's exactly what we have going on with these amazing volunteers.
 So that's you're really adding a lot of value and let me mention just three ways I think this this work is adding value to the city one. We're learning and
 it's a process and each of us as city employees have had the opportunity or are having the opportunity to learn about equity thanks to the training and the work that you do i've learned as a privileged white male i've learned that i am although perhaps not to blame for racism i am responsible for it and that that's true of all of us that we have the chance to learn where we fit
 in the work of equity. And I've learned a lot from you and from your team, and I appreciate that. Secondly, it's empowering change. You mentioned the change in the consciousness of the budget office. I'm proud of the change in the culture and consciousness of the police bureau, which you've helped support. Also a work in progress. But when you see Chief O'Day and his leadership and the approach they take and the
 and the work that they're doing in both the community and in the Bureau to make that change, you understand that equity is becoming real in a place that it must become real. The most dire thing that we do, police our city.
 And then third and most pleasant is I get to see how this affects individual people in their careers and their opportunities. Ariel, I talked about Stefan Hartley last week, as well as Ariel, the people that I've seen, young people that have had their careers and their opportunities enhanced
 through the work of this city and through the opportunities that we create, to have a young man in the community come forward, as Khalid Bombeck did, and say, I've got this basketball team. I need a place to play and have that lead to what we've done in the community centers. That, to me, is one of the greatest pleasures of leadership, is just seeing people grow and develop and exercise leadership
 on their own and so if we become a more equitable city we create more places where people can lead that way as citizens and that's good work as well so thank you all for work well done much more to do hi thank you all what great report thank you let's let's suspend the rules and thank you very much okay uh all right let's we're going to take um
 We're going to take one item out of order here, which is the item we pulled from consent, because I think we have somebody here from the Bureau who can be around for a minute to explain it, but not much longer. So let's take item 301, please.
 amend floating structures code to add administrative appeal provisions, revise external appeal board provisions to conform to the state building codes, add term limits to boards, delete obsolete provisions, and make other technical changes. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for taking this out of order. I have a demolition committee meeting at 1230. Yes, you can. I'll take that to the office. So basically –
 This ordinance is similar to what I brought forth with all of the other ordinances that BDS has.
 you know, administers, it's adding a, it's codifying the existing provisions for appeals. It's, floating structures was a little bit different from the others because it had two separate appeal boards. And so with the work of the River Community Advisory Committee, we're just combining those two into one. They've never met anyway, but it just, it didn't make any sense. It was
 almost the exact same players in both of those boards. And so it just, you know, is consolidating those. And then there's a couple of other, you know, technical changes that the river community and our inspection staff put in there. Any questions for Nancy? I know we had someone who wanted to speak on this item, so that's the primary reason I got involved. So I just wanted to have a quick explanation, which you've given us. Thank you. Why don't you stand by in case we have any others after we hear from people. Thank you. Thank you very much. So who wanted to speak on this item?
 come on up please good morning good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx one of the reasons why i pulled this item is i don't think we've stressed enough some of the issues on these floating homes and when we want to move these in several locations one of the concerns i have and i want to have this addressed and what's very close is that when you move these floating homes say if it's in a current marina i want to make sure that these
 plumbing sewer connections are watched very closely. Also, when you disconnect the electrical and you move the floating home within a marina, I also want to have a licensed electrician hooking these back up. I want to make it very clear, I do not like to see when you don't want to have certain permits pulled to be able to do this. I think it's imperative because we're talking, again, environmental concerns.
 If we're not hooking up the sewer connections properly, and again, we're talking electrical, which isn't just the fact that the floating homes do move on the water, and those connections can bust loose if they're not put on properly. And again, when that happens, if those lines drop into the water, anybody swimming in that general location has the ability to get electrocuted. It is imperative that...
 that when these are moved, that the proper inspectors come and inspect these floating homes. In this current agreement, you're saying that is not necessary. You're saying that they will have exemptions and not have to do that.
 I absolutely disagree with your ordinance this time due to the environmental concerns, due to the safety concerns on proper electrical hookups, and due to the fact that if anybody is swimming near these floating homes and those lines do become disconnected, it poses a risk to shock the swimmers in the water. It is absolutely necessary to have the proper permits provided,
 the proper inspections, and I want to start seeing that these floating homes are inspected on a regular basis by harbor masters. I want to see the reports in place. I want to make sure that all sewer systems are hooked up properly, all pumps are tested, all tanks are looked at, and to have an understanding where they're having these tanks pumped, if they're having them pumped, or if they're using pumps
 traditional sewer lines going up into the sewer system. It's imperative to understand these floating homes should be inspected more aggressively than a home on land. And that's my position. Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Why don't you come back up for a second. So the concern I think Mr. Lange has raised is about this provision that says the certificate of compliance is not required
 when you move a structure from one slip to another in the same orage. So is that the loophole that we're concerned about here? I guess that's what he's addressing. But they still always have to comply with all of the requirements for the electrical and the plumbing code. Those are – Still have to get an electrical permit to connect to the electrical system? Yeah. I mean, you can't.
 You just don't have to get a specific certificate of compliance to move it. They were trying to distinguish between moving from one slip to another versus one mortgage to another.
 But no matter what, if you disconnect a floating home from an electrical service and then you reconnect it to an electrical service, an electrical inspection is going to be required, right? That's my understanding. Okay, same thing with plumbing? Yeah, that's my understanding. Let's make sure of that. This comes back for a second reading next week, so why don't you verify that for us? Okay, I will do that. That's a very legitimate concern. Okay, sure. Any other questions? Okay, thank you. Sure, sure, come on up. Thank you.
 For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. One of our concerns is we have homeless people living on the river. Does this include this group of people that are on boats? No. This is about floating structures, which are under the state building code. Okay. So the people that are on the river living on boats, because they have no other place to go, are not going to be affected by anything in this ordinance? No, I don't believe that.
 That's good news. That makes me smile. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Okay, this passes to second reading. Why don't you get back to us on that technical question. And then let's move on to our other time certain item, please, 293. And do you want 294 read together with that? Not necessarily? Okay. Well, actually, yes, although then they get asked to have 294 postponed until next week. Okay. Well, let's read 293 again.
 293, create a local transportation infrastructure charge to fund improvements to unimproved streets. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, I am excited as all get out about this little item, so I'm going to hold forth a little longer than I normally will. There's a lot of people in this country who think that government could mess up a one-car parade, that the government is always wasteful, inefficient, and silly.
 And I and all of us here are not in that camp. We believe the government normally does a pretty darn good job with limited resources. But those of us who defend government, I think, have a special obligation to, when we see something government's doing that actually is silly, to correct it. For a number of years, we have been doing something silly when there is a new development on a street without a curb. In too many cases, we choose between two unsavory options.
 We might tell the developer, you have to build a curb and a sidewalk in front of this new house, even though it will be an orphan sidewalk with no prospect that there will ever be an additional curb or sidewalk along the rest of the street.
 or we say to the developer you know what you've convinced us this will be an orphan sidewalk so we're not going to make you pay anything we left you off the hook entirely except that we'll put in a provision that if there is ever a move to form an lid along this street your property will be treated as voting for the lid which in the vast majority of cases is utterly meaningless because people don't form lids very often
 And usually the person who actually buys the home might see something in the disclosure forms but doesn't know that they're committed to vote for an LID. So three years ago, I think actually even before I was given the privilege of being assigned to PBOT, I had a conversation about this issue with folks interested in it, including folks at PBOT. And the folks at PBOT said, we know that this is silly and we would like to do something about it.
 And the logical thing to do is to have the developer pay a fee that goes into a pot that's been saved and used for community priorities in the area. Improvements that people really think can be done and should be done. Now, there's a perfect example of this phenomenon within about two blocks of my own house. I live on 36, the quiet residential street in Southwest that frankly gets along just fine without a sidewalk.
 But two blocks away, there's a new little development with a strip of curb and sidewalk in front of it that leads to nowhere. Now, a block east of us is 35th, which is a major street which connects the village with Vermont, which then goes down to Hillsdale, which is a busy street. And I see kids walking along it, and it worries me that they're walking in a ditch, and there should be a sidewalk there.
 So in a logical world, the money spent to build this tiny piece of floating sidewalk on my quiet residential street should have been put into a pot to save the day when we could build sidewalks along 35th. So...
 I thought that this was a big deal when I heard about it. And PBOT folks explained to me that they wanted to work on it, but it would take some resources and some time to come up with a proposal that would be legally and economically and politically defensible. And PBOT had not previously had the political commitment from folks like us to really do the work that needed to be done on this process.
 So once I was assigned PBOT, I said, okay, well, let's do it. Let's devote the time and the resources to coming up with something. So we have come up with something. It's a beginning. It's not an end, but it's something significant. What we have here is a proposal that in circumstances like this, developers will pay a fee that goes into a pot for future significant improvements. Okay.
 And that means that we will stop doing the silly thing that we've been doing today, which is choosing between floating sidewalks and letting developers off the hook.
 there's a lot of questions remain to be answered such as what is the geographic limitation going to be on how far away from the original development the money can be spent should it be in that neighborhood association in that neighborhood coalition within half a mile regardless of what neighborhood is involved that's something that we haven't worked out yet another thing we want to work out is
 what other sources of revenue, public or private, do we expect might ordinarily be used to supplement the money for this B to build specific projects? That we haven't worked out either.
 There's a bunch of stuff we haven't worked out, which is why we propose to engage Eco Northwest, which has been working with us lo these many months, to continue doing that kind of work, which will involve a significant amount of public outreach. And that's what item 294 is, which we're going to save for next week. But we want to keep the emergency clause on it because the work needs to go forward. What 293 is is basically a proposal with buy-in from a large number of stakeholders to stop doing the silly things.
 We will figure out how smart we can be in future months. Right now, what I propose is that we simply stop being silly. And I want to thank our stakeholder work group, which is a virtual hall of fame among stakeholders in the city. Marianne Fitzgerald, Mary Helen Kincaid of DRAC, Jacob Sherman of the Brentwood Darlington Neighborhood Association, Dan Mazzini, former LID administrator,
 Justin Wood of Fish Construction, Vic Remmers, Neil Fernando of Everett Homes and MBO Design, respectively, Jane Leo of the Portland Metropolitan Association of Realtors, Christine Leone of PBOT, Kurt Kruger of PBOT, and Sue Williams of BES. So with that introduction, I'm going to... Oh, maybe I should mention, we are going to have an amendment that I think this is Commissioner Fritz's suggestion, that the money that we collect under this fee...
 before we figured out exactly how, another thing we haven't figured out is exactly what the prioritization process will be like for projects the money is used for, won't be spent until we've figured out these other items. It will go into, as Daryl Hammond mimicking Al Gore would have said on Saturday Night Live in 2000 during the presidential election, the money will go into a lockbox. So we have a lockbox amendment to propose. Okay.
 With that, I will turn it over to Christine and Kurt. Good morning. Wow, good morning. Good introduction. I don't think I need to say anything after that. That was excellent. So good morning. My name is Christine Leon, and I'm the Development Permitting and Transit Group Manager for PBOT. And with me today is Kurt Kruger, who is our Development Review Manager. And then you will be joined later by our ECHO Northwest Consulting Team.
 So I'm very, very pleased to offer you today two items that are related to our new concept, which is our local transportation infrastructure charge. So this is a new option for developers on certain types of...
 roads that will be available to them it's a simple predictable option that has the support of our stakeholders group has a support of our development review advisory committee some of which will be here today test testifying in support but
 But essentially this new LTIC is what we're calling it, is available to a small but mighty group of developers. So you have to be a single-family infill development, a new development of that type, on a local service road. And it has to be on one of our problem streets. And our problem streets are classified as those that are unimproved, without pavement, without curbs.
 So we have established this as, again, a very simple, straightforward method to get to development for housing quicker and faster. It was asked for for a number of years, but it took a long time to get here due to the complexity of the issues. And I want to just say that with the support of the mayor and Commissioner Novick, we are able to reach this milestone today.
 But also recognize that in 2012, Commissioners Fritz and Salzman and Fish gave us overwhelming support and encouragement through the Street by Street project and projects like the Cully Plan to continue to look at alternatives to get development to happen quickly and effectively and encouraged us to come up with a fee then.
 So this will build on a process also that council has heard through the Tryon Stevens project of determining what type of street standards apply where and when. So our stakeholders group has been in partnership with the Bureau of Environmental Services, the city attorney's office, and the members that Commissioner Novick has mentioned. So I'm not going to continue on that piece anymore. Okay.
 I will mention, though, that our resources for improving residential streets from PBOT is very, very constrained. And in most circumstances, the adjacent property owner is funding the bulk of the improvements on these streets. Yes.
 Our grants generally don't cover these from ODOT or the PEDS. So this is a new option that also has the support and endorsement of the City Budget Office Director, Andrew Scott, who's here today in case you want to hear any more about our budget constraints. I would also like to add that the chief...
 The Director for the Water Bureau, Mike Sturr, who has been a longstanding member of the Public Works Appeal Board, is fully in support of this option as well.
 The second item that we have on the agenda is a contract modification to allow ECHO Northwest to engage in a very, very robust process with the community to come up with the answers on where the LTIC money should be spent, how and where it should be spent.
 And this process will be going through a consideration of what do we do with these existing 10,000 or more waivers that we have recorded against properties. So where the street standards apply to which streets, where the money should be spent and prioritized and how the neighborhood streets in general are going to be funded with our limited resources.
 So now I would like to turn it over to Kurt Kruger. He's going to illustrate the problem, and then he will be followed by Terry Moore and Nick Popanuk from ECHO Northwest, who are going to get into more details about the fee. There's also, I guess I should mention, there's a handout that Carla has that addressed some of the comments that we had from an earlier meeting from Commissioner Prince. I'm not sure if that was handed out. Yep.
 separate from the amendment it's a oh sorry we don't have monitor capacity this morning so I don't know if you have handouts of what you're showing to everybody else but we can't see it it's not working there we go okay so I'm not sure if you would like me to read the amendment that's proposed yes all right so the proposed amendment is in addition to what's written
 Item Sub B, PBOT shall keep funds collected by this charge in a separate fund and not spent until the completion of the next phase of the project and the results are presented to City Council. Okay. So Commissioner Novick moves that amendment. Is there a second? Second. I'd like to propose an amendment to the amendment. Okay.
 First of all, it's interesting that it's in the code rather than somewhere else, but I would strike the results are presented to and change that to the allocation methodology is approved by the city council. You regard that as a friendly amendment? Not necessarily. Dean, what do you think?
 I was just going to make a clarification. The ordinance has the subsection A as the code modification. This would not be a code change. This is just a council directs. Okay, good. Okay.
 so i'm changing it i don't want more than just the results are presented and i accept the report i'd like the allocation methodology specifically to be approved by the city council yes i think that's that's fine we intend to come back with that yeah thank you i would regard that as a friendly amendment commissioner novick because i think under state stc law we probably have to do that so
 But it's not a SDC. It's not a SDC. It's not a SDC. You look worried. I'm good. Okay. All right. Smile, smile. Okay. All right. Did you have anything else, Commissioner Fritz? Yes. We had also discussed when I got the briefing from staff on Monday or yesterday, whenever it was, about continuing to have waivers of remonstrance.
 okay but what in terms of the amendment this well this is another amendment though so okay let's vote on this amendment first amendment uh as as modified uh by commissioner for its suggestion um discussion of accepting that amendment let's take a roll call on that please hi hi saltsman hi novi hi hi okay and did you have another suggestion
 Well, there's the issue of waivers of remonstrance. I see that Southwest Neighborhoods has a request to amend the wood zone to insert our issue to waiver of remonstrance. There is also, I believe that even though this fee is being paid, if the street ever is improved, those homes should be wavered. Well, I had that question too, so you may want to take testimony on that point, but I...
 By doing this, are we going to stop requiring waivers? The intent was. So this was part of our stakeholders group debate as to whether or not we should continue or stop with the waivers. And after meeting with Commissioner Fritz, we went back and considered the impact of it. And there is...
 There is not an issue with continuing to do waivers because it's a two- Not a problem, let's see what you mean. Yeah. Yeah. So we would propose to require the payment of the fee in addition to a waiver of remonstrance be recorded against the property.
 consistent with what our current practice is if the frontage is not brought up to standard. Because if a local improvement district is formed, and this is something that we're going to sort through in the Phase 3, that waiver really obligates that property to not remonstrate formally against the formation of an LID.
 LID assessment methodology is the second piece of an LID where we would be considering what the LTIC was paid by this developer. Because again, it's a developer fee, but
 We don't have any intent of double-dipping on these properties. So, yes, we can certainly continue to require the waivers of remonstrance. So financially, in that approach, financially they would get credit for having paid the LTIC, but they would be counted as a vote in favor of the LID if it was going through the process of being voted on.
 That's certainly, yes, Mayor, one way that it would be able to play out. That sounds like a topic we ought to hear. I mean, we're here for people anyway, but I'd like to hear testimony on that as well. And we'll need, I presume, an amendment on that if you could also specifically look at the requested language from Southwest Neighborhoods to see when you come back next week with new language, if we can incorporate that too. All right. So, Kurt, do you want to proceed with anything else, sir?
 I'm just thinking procedurally, if we think we might consider such an amendment, would we – and we don't have the language until next week, will we need to put off the final vote for two weeks? Or can we put that conceptual amendment on the table today without the language? Or what should we do to be most efficient? Well –
 I guess it depends on the speed at which you want to act on this. Knowing that this problem has been around for decades, I'm not sure that another week is going to make a difference, but I understand the desire to get things done. So, suggestion? I think it's better to go ahead and have the event on the air. Okay. So maybe later in this morning's discussion, if somebody has language, we can put that on the table and accept it.
 Mayor, could I ask you just a scheduling issue? Yeah, we're out of time. We have a lot before us, and we have a lot of staff that just need to get a heads up. And my hope is that you're going to have us continue through about 1 o'clock. That's my thought, that we will break at 1. And then whatever is left, we'll pick up at 2. If anything left, we'll take it up at 2. Okay, thank you, sir. Okay, carry on.
 Good morning, Mayor Hill's Council. Kurt Kruger with PBOT. Before I get going, I'll be brief. It just feels a little awkward being here describing a process that we've been doing that's called silly. So it feels a little strange. It's okay. Carl, excuse me. We lost our PowerPoint again. Okay.
 As you are aware, development patterns have changed in the last 30 to 40 years, and I want to leave this slide up for a minute just to kind of recognize that change has been occurring in our city. Large subdivision developments have been replaced by smaller-scale infill, particularly in the areas annexed into the city with under or unimproved roadways.
 As infill development has started to occur more frequently, a number of years ago, a regulatory tool was established through the use of requiring a developer to sign a waiver of remonstrance and record with the county to run with the property. This waiver of remonstrance was essentially a vote of support from the property for the formation of a local improvement district.
 The waiver of remonstrance wasn't a waiver of development requirements, but a deferral until a majority of waivers were collected and an LID could be formed to design and construct an entire street segment at one time. The waiver of remonstrance was a great tool to allow infill development and then allow the city and residents to more efficiently design, build, and pay for improvements, particularly because there were improvement programs such as community block grants to help subsidize those improvement costs.
 as these subsidies disappeared the city was left with few options to approve the many miles of unimproved roads pivott moved to require more half street improvements as info projects relying on a piecemeal approach to complete our street networks were physically and legally possible while not perfect by any stretch an expectation was established that development would construct the improvements and over time the system would be completed while this approach has worked in larger commercial and industrial areas of the city
 With much greater street frontages, it has become increasingly more difficult to develop full street improvements once residential development at the time. Additional regulations, including changes to stormwater requirements in the early 2000s and more challenging and constitutional rulings from the high courts, have further hampered our ability to require these improvements. Additionally, our public works permitting processes were developed to review and permit much larger scale street improvements and have made permitting small infill projects increasingly more expensive.
 In 2009, we overhauled our permitting processes and created a more robust public works appeals process to deal with the challenges associated with infill improvements. This has unfortunately added delays, costs, and frustrations for many. This frustration has been reported on over the years as both residents and developers have approached the media.
 What we were recommending is the adoption of a fee program that has had support of many infill builders that have simply been asking to write a check to the city and let the city figure out how and where best to make those improvements. For those who have been close to this issue for a while now, this is the third and most exhaustive attempt to develop a program that you are going to hear more about in greater detail from our consulting team.
 I want to acknowledge that this is not a complete and final solution, and it will not solve every infill development street need, but it is a monumental step in the right direction, and if approved, will provide us with a tool that we have needed in our toolbox for many, many years. I want to thank Commissioner Novick for his support of this effort, and I want to thank you to the thoughtful and dedicated stakeholder members that have been helpful in guiding us along the way in this effort. Thank you. Thank you. Questions?
 Christina Curt. Okay, thank you very much. I know you have some invited testimony. We do. Actually, may I ask a question related to this amendment concept? And I'm making this up on the fly, which is dangerous, but I'm wondering, looking at the ordinance, Exhibit A, would the appropriate thing to do be under Section B, where now the language says, the payment of a local transportation infrastructure charge will satisfy the requirements of this subsection,
 Should we amend that to say the payment of local transportation of the search charge and a commitment to waive the right of remonstrance for a future LID? Would that be where you'd put that in? I think – I don't think that much you can say that. All right. Yeah. Think about that when we listen to a good other way. Okay. So Terry Moore and Nick Popinuk are going to come up next from Echo Northwest. Okay. Great. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, I'm Terry Moore at Echo Northwest. I'm one of the –
 founding, three founding principals. We're a Portland-based consulting firm in economics and finance planning. We've been around for about 40 years. Working with us on this project were Communitas, Deb Myhoff, who did the work with the stakeholder engagement, and Kittleson Associates that did the work on some of the transportation cost estimating.
 Let me move on to my part of the presentation here. Kirk gets credit for that one. So here, Nick and I, I'm here with Nick Popinuk. We're going to do four things. First, give you a broad overview of the problem, which I think has already been covered pretty well by the previous speakers. Then talk about how this charge that we're talking about fits in. Then Nick will go into the details of that charge and...
 I will talk at the end about what the next phase of the work would be. So start with what are problem streets. Lots of ways to define it, but a couple of things to start with. We're talking about only local streets, so we're not talking about arterials collectors or what you might refer to as busy streets. It's neighborhood-type streets.
 So when we talk about the problem, we're not talking about congestion as a problem typically. We're talking about the state of repair and certain things that come from that as a set of the problems. The local streets are, by our estimates, about 45% of all your streets. So that's the base that we're working from. What makes a street a problem? Well, the first thing is that they are unpaved.
 And about 2% of the city streets are unpaved. That's about 40 miles of streets.
 Another way that they can be – we've classified them in the problem – is that they are without curbs, which creates drainage problems. And it doesn't mean that they just don't have curbs. It means that they don't have the drainage system that the curbs are taking the water into. So that's about 12 percent of all your streets or another 250 miles. About half of those streets are in poor condition and the other half are in fair condition.
 In our definition, it's still a problem street even if the pavement is in fair condition if it does not have a curb. We do not include in the definition the paved with a curb. So that means regardless of the condition of the curb or the pavement. So if it's got a curb, we're assuming drainage and the charge would not apply to that.
 When we sum all that up, this is a diagram of what we've got. The part on the right are what we're calling the local streets, and of those local streets, you can see the ones that we're calling unimproved or problem streets. That's about 14% of all the city's streets, or roughly 285 miles of streets.
 The problem with problem streets is there are four categories. First, you've got physical problems. It makes travel difficult.
 slower, more difficult. There's potential safety issues. There's wear and tear issues. Drainage and amenity issues put sidewalk in that category. The second problem is the scope of the fix. The money that you have to fix those from existing sources is small, very
 very small relative to the size of the problem. And as Nick will point out, this charge that we're talking about is still a small part of the problem. We'll still address a small part of the problem.
 The third problem Kurt's already talked about well, administrative issues relating to permitting waivers and how development moves along. And the fourth problem is a political one. This is a longstanding issue. As Commissioner Novick noted, this has been around not for weeks or months or years, but really for decades. And it creates problems for the neighborhoods, both residents and property owners, and for the city council.
 The problem is widespread. It is not, as one might have assumed, I did before we started, an eastern problem. It is pretty much evenly dispersed on the east side and the west side. We've done estimates of subareas, census tract data by income. It's spread out across income classes. So it affects everything.
 It's a pretty ecumenical Catholic problem. It gets everybody. Trying to solve the problem, it's a long road. And we're taking a first step forward.
 With almost 300 miles of roads to deal with, by our estimates, it's over a billion dollars of improvements to just deal with those roads. So there are lots of tradeoffs and choices here about roads.
 What improvements do you do first? What standards do you use? Under what conditions? All that is not resolved yet. We've taken the first step, as Commissioner Novick said, to stop something silly and see if we can at least get to
 some charge. And that's the second part of the presentation that I want to go to then is, you know, how does this charge fit in? We call it the, for short, the LTIC, the local transportation improvement charge charge.
 So there are four things there that it addresses. First is the fairness issue. There's now new development that goes in and pays nothing, goes through a waiver process on these streets, and some development actually puts in the improvements. If you go farther, there are developments outside of these areas that are being required to put in improvements, so developers are treated differently here.
 That's a fairness issue. There are funding issues. Depending on the economy, this fee will generate on the order of a million or two million, maybe more dollars per year based on the kind of development that's been happening in recent years. So now there's money to start to do something. There's an efficiency issue. The big efficiency issue is the one already pointed out,
 Building these disconnected improvements is not really a good use of funds. There's more – it's inefficient for developers in many cases with the process that they go through and the appeals process and not knowing how things are going to work out. There's a lack of clarity and certainty, and that reflects on staff time trying to deal with those issues as well.
 And finally, why start with the LTIC is a momentum issue. This is a big problem. We couldn't deal with everything at once. We decided with Commissioner Novick's advice and blessing to try to bite off one piece and see if we could get somewhere, and that was getting this charge taken care of.
 So that's where we are right now. And now Nick will explain the charge to you. Actually, Terry, I may just correct you. I remember we talked about this a few weeks ago. And I said, but what about this? And what about that? What about the other thing? And you said, I thought that your priority was to stop doing the silly thing first. And I said, you're right. Let's do that. Okay. All right.
 Council, my name is Nick Popanuk. I'm with Echo Northwest. I will try to move quickly through the details of the local transportation infrastructure charge. Commissioner Novick, Christine, Curt, and Terry have all explained why this is a problem, why we need the LTIC. I'm here to tell you how it would work. So first, very briefly,
 just to restate this is there are existing improvements that development already has that says that they need to Improve the frontage of their property what we are in proposing is not a new requirement but a different way of satisfying that existing requirement and This new option the LTIC is only available to a small slice of development that happens in the city we're talking about new construction of single-family homes and
 And again, this would be optional. The developers, the fee applies to everyone, but if you make the decision as a developer that you would rather build improvements on your property, you put it into the code. And now you have the street and sidewalk and curb built to code, then the LTIC is no longer applying to you. Folks have talked all about stakeholder input.
 Folks have talked all about stakeholder input. I won't belabor that point. I will say that we did have outreach efforts to the individual neighborhood associations and coalitions that are particularly affected by these types of problem streets. We had representatives of our team meet with the Sweeney Land Use Commission, the East Portland Land Use Committee, the North Portland Land Use Committee,
 as well as the Home Builders Association infill developer group. We also extended invitations to meet with other groups, such as the East Portland Neighborhood Office, Central Northeast Neighbors, and Southeast Uplift. Some of those groups didn't take us up on the invitation to meet with them, largely because they're more interested in the next phase of this project, where we're actually discussing, okay, what now? There is a pot of money that's being generated. Where should we spend that money? What kind of streets? Okay.
 and what other funding sources can be brought to bear to really start to make tangible improvements in our communities.
 So where the LTIC would apply, again, we are talking about single-family zones, local service streets, and unimproved streets, which we have defined as any street that does not already have a curb in place. There was a very sort of large discussion about what we want to define as unimproved streets. Do we want to have a sliding scale where we have a certain fee for just unpaved roads? Do we want to have another fee if it's paved but doesn't have a curb? What if it's paved and has a curb but no sidewalk? Right.
 At the end of the day, after consulting with the stakeholder work group, the city attorney's office, and key stakeholders, it was decided that this approach, this simple, clear approach, one fee that applies to everybody who's on an unimproved street defined as not having a curb, was the best way forward.
 Again, this doesn't solve all of our problems on all streets, but we do think this is an important first step on these streets. But it has to be all three of those, right? Yes, it has to be no curb, single-family residential zone, and a local service street. When the LTIC applies, the simple answer is a building permit for a new single-family home or a permit for a land division. There are a couple of caveats that I want to note.
 First, when we talk about some fees and charges that happen on development, if there's a demolition of a home and then a replacement of that home, sometimes they don't
 pay the fee because of the impacts that are being assessed. That's not the case with the LTIC. This is a charge. It's a charge on development. If you're building a home, regardless of what used to be on that site, you are still going to be charged the LTIC. An exception to that would be if it's a disaster replacement. If someone has their home burned down in a fire and they're just replacing that home, we are not wanting to place any additional hardships on them in that situation.
 Additionally, accessory dwelling units, the administrative rules would propose that those are not included for the LTIC. The LTIC in many of those situations would cost as much or perhaps more than the accessory dwelling unit itself. And then one other thing to point out is alteration of existing structures. If you're remodeling or, you know, remodeling your kitchen, adding a new bedroom, we are not proposing that the LTIC would apply in those situations either. Okay.
 In terms of land division, this would not apply to subdivisions. Subdivision is defined as creating four lots or more. If you're creating a subdivision, then you would still have to go through the existing requirements of building those frontage improvements. The initial rate of the LTIC. I'm sure in the testimony today you will hear folks arguing that the initial rate should be higher and lower depending on their point of view. The rate that we have proposed is $600 per linear foot.
 We came up with this rate with the input from a transportation engineering firm, Kittleson & Associates. They reviewed all of the city's LID projects that had been built since 2004 and looked at the average cost of those projects over time. That includes the costs of street, curb, stormwater, all of the typical components of a street. They excluded LIDs.
 excessive costs that were for related projects but not the direct impact of building a street for example if you were going to go in and upsize a storm water or regular water or sanitary sewer pipe that was under the traveling through that right away and you said well since we're paving this we might as well upsize that pipe those kind of costs were excluded from the analysis
 What we found is that the average cost of those improvements when adjusted for inflation is $600 per linear foot. And the code language that you have in front of you says that the amount of the charge should be based on the average actual cost to the city to build local street improvements. So it's a mathematical calculation and not just a number that was pulled out of the air.
 The code language also allows for this amount of the charge to increase over time. The administrative rules that will be drafted will propose that there are annual adjustments based purely on inflation on the construction cost index, but that periodically, every five years or so, the city would undertake a new sort of rate study
 in which they would look at all of the new streets that had been built and see what those costs were, and they would make adjustments to the amount of the fee to ensure that it stays tracking what the actual construction costs are for these sorts of projects. One thing to point out is that the code language does allow for multiple zones of the LTIC, where each zone would have a different rate. We are proposing that we would create two zones, but that each of those zones would start off with the same initial rate.
 A lot of this conversation came from talking to some of our stakeholders who said, hang on a second, in my neighborhood, I think these streets are going to cost more to build. And we drilled down into that and said, what is it about your neighborhood that makes you think that the streets are going to be more expensive? And the answer was almost always stormwater management.
 That is something that we anticipate will be an issue. But as we looked at the historical data, there was not enough information, enough projects that had been built in these different geographic areas to clearly delineate what the cost would be in one area from another. Just not enough examples to come up with a statistically significant difference in those. Over time, as we're able to build more streets and we have more data on this issue, we do anticipate that we might see some differences in the costs in these different areas.
 and that we'd be able to distinguish the rate between them in the future. The different areas that we are proposing, we didn't want to create new custom-made zones that, you know, we're the ones saying that we think this block is going to be more expensive than that block. Instead, the city already has areas that are defined as the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System, or MS4.
 That's an EPA deal that has to do with how stormwater is treated and where it does or doesn't infiltrate into the soils. That's the map that's shown on the slide, and you can see that mostly in southwest Portland, but also parts of the east side of Portland and north Portland do have some of these MS4 areas. And so we are anticipating over time that there may be a separate rate of the LTIC that would be applied to those MS4 areas if, in fact, construction costs turn out to show a difference between those areas.
 Lastly, on the use of funds, we know this was an amendment, but it was always the intention that the improvements would be used on unimproved local streets and adjacent and related transportation facilities, but that the money would not be spent until after the next phase of the project has been completed. So I think that that amendment to the proposed ordinance is exactly in line with what the staff and the consultant team had always envisioned, which is that the money
 which is that until we finish this next phase of the project, until the public has had a chance to weigh in on exactly what their priorities are and we've looked at the different revenue sources that are available and how we might start to actually fund improvements, that the funds would be put into a lockbox to keep them safe and to keep track of who paid them and where, so that when we do have rules for where we want to spend these, we can go back and invest those into the communities where the funds came from.
 So I'll turn it over to Terry for a very quick piece on the next phase of the project. Yeah. You said we'd talk about four pieces. The fourth piece is this one, the next phase, and I'll do that in just one slide. The next part of the program has four important components to it. The technical components are the first three, which is –
 what are the standards that we're going to use, the size of this problem is such that it's almost certainly going to, if we're going to solve it even over a long period of time, 20 or 30 years, it's almost certainly going to require some sophistication about what
 what streets get treated in what different ways, because to do everything to what I'll call full typical standards is, as we pointed out, a $1 billion to $2 billion bite, which is more than what we think is appropriate. So the city has alternative standards. They're not in use much now. We're going to start with those as a place to work from. Then the question becomes, now that we know what standards might apply to
 when we've got a limited pot of funds, how do we know where do we go first? And so there's a prioritization process, which is part of our plan. We have several ideas about that that came up during the first phase of the project.
 can go into those under question later if you want to. And then where does the funding come from, not just the source that we're talking about, not just the LTIC, but what other sources of funds are going to come into that, how can they be leveraged, et cetera. All of that is roughly a little more than half of the budget for the
 project. The other 40 to 45 percent is the community involvement part. That includes a couple of random samples, statistically valid surveys, about 10 different focus groups, public events, and
 than the typical communication websites and things like that. Can I jump in and just pose a question here, Commissioner Novick? I know we're not supposed to jump ahead and talk about that next phase, but since you mentioned the word leverage, I just want to just put a marker down.
 Commissioner Novick and I, on behalf of PBOT, Bureau of Environmental Services, and the Water Bureau, have been holding meetings discussing how can we better coordinate our work. The ultimate example of leverage is making sure that one of us doesn't do a project followed by another one coming along and digging it up and doing it again and the like. And so the challenge will be
 that if you look at leverage, depending on how you define leverage, it may not meet an equity screen or it may not necessarily be viewed as fair to people that put the money in the pot or it may bump up against geographical boundaries and other things. So that's going to be a real challenge. But when you do that second phase, I really want to drill down on the leverage in terms of the coordination of city bureaus. Okay.
 We're on the cusp of doing things a little differently, and this seems like a unique opportunity to institutionalize it into whatever phase two thinking you're doing. But there's tradeoffs, and that even goes to the question of whether the money is spent proximate to the property that generated the fee, or there's more latitude to be opportunistic when you can do a bigger project with perhaps broader community benefits. So I just want to make sure that's...
 front and center on phase two. Definitely, as Commissioner, all the points that you're talking about are ones that we've talked about and part of the things that we'll be addressing. Okay, great. Questions? I'll have some questions later, but I really wanted to get to public testimony first. All right, well, let's do that. Thank you both very much. Sure, go ahead. So I guess, you know, maybe it's none of my business, but since we were given a detailed breakdown of your expenses for public involvement, why do we need two citywide polls? I mean, what...
 this is a pretty narrow issue two percent of streets
 What are we going to gain from two citywide public opinion polls for $55,000? They're not citywide. I mean, well, it depends on what you mean by that. They are focused in the areas that we're talking about that are where these fees might be charged. And the issue that we're trying to deal with, as we look back historically, of
 really study after study of real disagreement on whether
 What's the purpose of the street? Do I need a street? Have I already paid for that street? I want this standard. I want that standard. And we want the conclusion among the staff, the consultants and the stakeholder group, was that we wanted some more statistical validity than the usual and just coming back to the same people all the time and hearing from them.
 So we've got one when we're going out to go out and get clear on the definition of the problem, what people are concerned about, what types of things they'd like resolved, and then a second one to come back after we've got some ideas about prioritization standards, et cetera, to get opinions about that.
 That's the purpose, and it's certainly a debatable point about whether that would be necessary or not. I guess, as we all know, this issue has been around for decades. I don't think there's a lot of stuff that you call a typical person, and they're really going to – I think a majority are going to have no opinion or don't know.
 and i think you know we're we're poised to make some decisions here and i just it just seems excessive to me to have to do two rounds of public opinion polling but
 Commissioner, I respectfully disagree. I think that it is worthwhile asking the general public questions like, do you think that any project has to be within, you know, six blocks of where the improvement is made, or do you think that we should have a wider focus? Like, one of the questions actually that we asked in polling on the gas tax was, do you think that
 the money should be evenly divided between different neighborhoods or should it go to the neighborhoods where it's needed most, even if that means your neighborhood doesn't get its, quote, share? And I think that's the kind of question it's important to ask, because there's a limited number of people that get involved in these discussions on a regular basis, but I think that there's a wider variety of people that will care about how we resolve it. Other questions? Yes.
 Thank you very much. Do you have invited testimony, Steve, or do you have... Officially, we don't. A bunch of people. One idea that actually Kurt and Eric just suggested is we might ask the members of the stakeholder advisory group to become invited testimony and come up first. Sure. Let's do that, and then take anyone else, please. So those of you who are on the stakeholders advisory committee that want to come speak, come on up, please. Good afternoon.
 Well, hello. I'm Mary Ann Fitzgerald from Southwest Neighborhoods. And yes, I was a member of the Stakeholder Advisory Committee. Sweeney submitted a letter yesterday that I hope you all have received by now. We have in Southwest Portland the least improved street network in the city of Portland. With all the equity discussions, it's impossible to live in Southwest Portland in a wheelchair or a walker. You have no sidewalks to be able to get to what little transit service that we have.
 We know that it's expensive to build sidewalks in southwest Portland because it triggers the stormwater requirements. It can be as much as half of the cost of building sidewalks. And because it's more cost-effective to build sidewalks in other parts of the city, we frequently see the funding for sidewalk and street improvements go to elsewhere in the city and not in southwest Portland. Thank you.
 So we agree that this issue of issuing waivers of remonstrance is not working. We know that we've had a lot of infill in southwest Portland, and we've had a large portion. I don't know exactly how much, but a large portion of the waivers are in southwest Portland. Therefore, we get all the people moving in and all the cars because you can't get around on a bike or by walking because you're forced to drive a car. It just perpetuates that cycle.
 So what we have agreed to among the Sweeney Board is conditionally supporting the local transportation charge. We know that having the charge is better than the current system, but we also have a lot of concerns about this next phase. And so in our letter –
 We've suggested quite a few changes. The first one is to amend the draft city code so that those that pay the LTIC also get the waivers of remonstrance, and I know that that's already on the table.
 And then the second one is that those that get a waiver on the busy streets also pay the fee. Now, staff tells me, oh, we don't give waivers on busy streets, but we know that they do. We've seen them on Capitol Highway. We've seen them on Taylor's Ferry Road. We've seen lots of waivers on busy streets. So, in other words, you pay the LTIC, you get a waiver, you get the waiver, you pay the LTIC, hand in hand, no matter what.
 The third is a plea that the funds be spent within the area that they're generated. And we can argue about it. When I met with the other coalitions, we agreed on coalition area as a good possible geographic area. We talked about that at the stakeholder committee as well.
 And we're also playing for a lot of community involvement because, as Terry Moore just said, there is some disagreement. I like my dirt road. I like no traffic on my road. Why would I want to improve it so cars can start using it as a cut-through? And there's also the example that Commissioner Novick gave that where you have the sidewalk on a local street that's pretty walkable but not on the busy street that you can't walk on very safely.
 We are pleased with the ordinance finding number 17 that allows the funds to be used on these adjacent or related transportation facilities and not just the local streets. In southwest Portland, only one-third of our busy streets have sidewalks. That's two-thirds that are not walkable. And most of the people that I talk with agree we've got to target the funds towards some of these streets that will get you to the centers and exist on the corridors that you're going to adopt in the comprehensive plan.
 And we want to have some flexibility so we can target those improvements. And then finally, I appreciate Commissioner Fish's comments about the Bureau of Environmental Services. We know that there are very few LIDs in southwest Portland because the cost of stormwater plus the street improvements blows the cost out of the water. And most people say, no, thank you. The ones like the Texas Street LID were done because of the BES paying for the stormwater improvements.
 So we're requesting that the BES contribute and fund the stormwater management components of the street improvements that also require the stormwater improvements. In other words, continue that partnership because we know that it will benefit water quality as well as walkability in southwest Portland. So that's our Sweeney Ask List, and I'm pleased to hear about these amendments that are being proposed today, and I'll be here to answer questions if you have them.
 Thank you, Marianne. I seem to remember that Southwest Neighborhoods came up with a prioritized list of where you would like street improvements. Yes. Many years ago, Mayor Adams, I think he was Commissioner Adams at the time, talked with us about sidewalk infill on arterials. And we came up with one for every neighborhood. And we've had six of them built. We still have a list that's been sitting on the back burner. Under the Southwest Corridor Plan, we submitted priorities in our neighborhoods.
 We're still waiting to begin the SWIM Southwest in Motion project. It hasn't begun yet, but there is no shortage of prioritized lists. We send them over and over again. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Justin Wood. I'm a residential infill home builder here in the city of Portland with our company name is Fish Construction. I, again, also served on the stakeholder committee. I wanted to testify today in support of the LTIC initiative
 I have sat on all three of the committees that worked on this and took stabs at them. I remember having meetings in Mayor Adams' office, I think six or seven years ago, where we tried to come up with a solution to this. And every time we kind of got close, there was always a roadblock that came up that we couldn't get past. So I think staff in Echo Northwest has done a really good job in trying to come up with something that works for everybody. Okay.
 From a builder's perspective, for those of you who haven't heard, we can have a single lot, maybe even only a 25-foot wide lot or a 30-foot wide lot that would trigger frontage improvements that might cost thousands of dollars and on top of that also take months and could be 10 months, 12 months, a year to get through the process.
 when the building permit itself might only take six weeks to get through the process. So unfortunately, our system of asking for street improvements is designed for large-scale subdivisions. It's just not meant for single lots. And so putting this charge in place gives us an option. It is important to notice for all of us that it is still optional.
 the builder always has the right to do the improvements. And there may be some situations where they want to improve their street because it makes more sense to have it, or if you've got 150 feet of frontage, that it may be cheaper for you to actually put the improvements in. You may hear some testimony talking about the fee being either too high or too low. I will say when I took this to the group of infill builders, the initial reaction was that the fee was too high.
 But then I made the case after using the data that Kittleson provided that it actually was a fair number. It wasn't something that was just an artificially high number or an artificially no number. It was based on actual data from city fees to build streets. And it may seem that the cost per foot for somebody doing a 25-foot wide street improvement is higher than the $600 being proposed.
 But that's because when you do a long-scale project, even at city prevailing wage rates, the cost is substantially cheaper when you're doing it block at a time rather than one lot at a time. So it's a much better use of funds to do this, and hopefully it creates a better road network. I think Marianne's examples were perfect examples of why it works in places like Southwest,
 because that gives the city the discretion or the neighborhoods the discretion to actually take that money and put it in places where it makes sense rather than asking a developer one block or one lot at a time to put something in that doesn't benefit anybody. So
 One thing I will ask the council and I would ask staff to consider is I support the amendment to ask for waivers. I think if we're going to build a project in there that it's fine to ask the people who buy the homes to not be able to fight the LID if it were to come into place. But I do think there should still maintain some system, whether it's the current appeal process or not,
 for a single homeowner or builder or developer to appeal the developments in general. I can come up with one example of a case where you might have a lot that sits on a corner lot in Southwest, and you want to do a fairly large remodel to your house. If it's a large enough remodel that it could trigger improvements, and you're on a corner, let's say, that has 300 feet of street improvements,
 I'm sure you would see that homeowner here at council asking, why do I have to pay $180,000 LTIC to do a remodel on my house? And so I think that there should be a mechanism. It shouldn't be easy. It should be the default position of staff should always be you either do the improvements or you pay your LTIC. However, there should be an appeal process for you to make your case to not have to do either. Okay.
 That's what I want to say about that, and I thank you for your support. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Okay, others that were on the Stakeholders Committee that want to speak, and then anyone else that would like to speak on this item? I have six other people signed up. Okay. Please come on up. Joe Walsh, Claire Carter, and Tom Karwacki. Walsh, I think you're first. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. May I have good news? We're going to pass on this.
 We had a position before, but with the testimony that we listened to, it's made us at least confused at best and at worst, wondering how people can understand this at home. If I was at home, and I was last week because I was ill, I'd be banging my head on my cocktail table because there is so much to comprehend in this. But people keep saying it's simple.
 And I don't get the simple part. It seems to me that if a developer develops an area, that they should build the sidewalks. It just seems simple to me. Now, a single home is problematic. And what do you do with that? And I think some people have tried to answer that. But it's very confusing.
 So we're going to pass on this. We're not going to take a position on this at all because it's confusing. And normally when we get confused, we say no. We just say no because we don't understand it. And I was looking at your faces as this presentation was progressing, and I think there were points on each one of you, at least your face said, I don't have a clue what that person just said. So I'm glad you're not going to vote on it today.
 And I would ask this question, and I know we don't have back and forth, but just to answer this one question, can we keep the record open for the two weeks that you're going to hold this over so people can go back and look at this and maybe weigh in that have more expertise on this than we do? Or give us at least a few weeks to look at it and –
 maybe send an email and take a position on it. So we would request that. I don't know if that's automatic. It's certainly possible and certainly available in this case. Okay, so that's our position. Thank you. Claire, I think you're next. Thank you very much. My name is Claire Carter. I'm at 6156 Southwest Nevada Cork, Portland, Oregon. I'm here as a neighborhood representative from the Development Review Advisory Committee.
 to testify in support of the proposed local transportation improvement charge initiative. I live in Maplewood neighborhood in Southwest. It has the lowest miles of streets with sidewalks in the Southwest area and ranks in the top three lowest neighborhoods in the city for miles of sidewalks.
 We have a big investment in the LTIC fund. In the past five years, Maplewood is a mostly residential neighborhood with many older homes located on large or double lots, and we've been a prime target for infill housing over the past five years. And over the past five years, we've had about 35 houses constructed, and only two built in the past year have had sidewalk improvements in front of them.
 As a neighborhood, we are not totally committed to sidewalks on every street. We like sidewalks on the higher traffic streets, of which we don't have many in our neighborhood, but also on our safe routes to school streets, which we do have in our neighborhood. This is kind of an example of how the LTIC might have, well, I don't know, it's of how the waivers have affected neighborhoods.
 We had two houses about three years ago that were built almost across the street from Maplewood Elementary School, and
 The waivers were granted. No sidewalks were built, although this is a safe route, and it also is on the bus route, and is one of the major kind of through routes in Maplewood neighborhood. Paved shoulders were put in by the developer, which was good, except that now the homeowners park their cars on the paved shoulders, and the children are kind of forced to walk on the white line, you know, to the school, which is almost across the street from where these two new houses are built.
 We really want to see some opportunities to get some good transportation and actually pedestrian improvements funded in our neighborhood.
 And then the other piece, too, is the LTIC funds are not inconsequential when you look at the potential for leveraging more improvements in the neighborhoods. The 35 houses in Maplewood would have generated about $840,000 at the current rate.
 And that, if you wanted to go to some of the special funds that might be available for transportation improvements, could have leveraged as much as, you know, $8 million because the match for some funds is one, the local match is one to ten. Very good. So we've got an opportunity here that we just cannot afford to not go forward with.
 I have, I'm going to skip forward, I have a couple of amendments I would like to propose. The most important...
 is this one, and it is for the Phase 3 scope of work, and that is the LTIC program is not just a neighborhood street program. I would like to see this reference changed throughout the entire scope to a neighborhood transportation program, which will be much more inclusive and much more reflective of what the needs really are for these LTIC funds.
 Two, the fees need to be indexed to the cost of inflation and construction. Three, the cost for constructing transportation infrastructure is not equitable, as you've already heard a couple of times from other testimony. And that needs to be part of focus of the Phase 3 scope of work. And also, fourth, but maybe not last, is...
 We need to look at ways to achieve economic parity in the use of these funds throughout the city. You know, Little Maplewood, one of the smallest neighborhoods in the city,
 in the city could generate, because of its infill activity, as much as $840,000. There are some neighborhoods in the city which will not generate that kind of fund but still have critical active transportation infrastructure needs. And I think that part of the phase three work needs to be to figure out how to adjust that equity and the parity throughout the city in the application of the use of these funds.
 I really appreciate PBOT and the city's forward thinking on this. I think this is an absolutely great proposal that we have before us. We cannot afford to not make it go forward into Phase 3. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, Claire. Thanks very much. Tom, welcome. Thank you.
 Tom Karwocki, University Park Neighborhood Association Vice Chair and Chair of the Land Use Committee, also one of the members of the Portland Bureau of Transportation Advisory Committee. And on behalf of both of those groups, I am supporting the ordinance and the associated consulting contract. I've spoken with five different neighborhood associations and other boards and been part of this whole thing, and we've talked to a lot of the people about this. Proposed ordinance does fix a lot of the problems. That's why we need it. However.
 However, no ordinance is perfect in the first draft, and there are always separate situations where one size doesn't fit all. The first problem that has not been identified so far, but you will be hearing later from the folks from East Columbia, is the drainage districts. And on the map, it's not included in MS4 area, and it should be.
 And so the area around adjacent to the Columbia River, these drainage districts, will restrict any potential development, sidewalks, et cetera. So therefore, any payment of things will never, ever be able to be used in those areas. So there's some real concerns there. I've offered three solutions. There is a fourth one. The drainage district has some language as well.
 Number one, you can define the way, situation away, like Captain Kirk or an economist does, and just eliminate that area, the drainage district areas as being a road or anything else. You could also alternatively exempt them, and I provided language on that, to not collect the fee until the study is done so that the study can do a little bit more, look at this issue, or you could just simply tell the consultant to look at it.
 There is an insufficient cost recovery issue because of the inflation index. So, of course, having an inflation, I understand that that is going to be part of it. However, that's not in the code itself. And so that's why there's always a concern that a lawyer might argue that it's not available to have an index unless it's actually spelled out in the code. So I've added some suggestion solution number B, which may also consider inflation after actual cost.
 Some people would argue, I understand the BPOT thinks that they have the authority to do that. However, we also have a solution C, which affects Commissioner Fritz's proposal, which is the payment of a local transportation infrastructure charge and issuance of a waiver and remonstrance will satisfy the requirements of the subsection. So there's some specific language there as well. The use of the funds, quite frankly, nobody trusts BPOT.
 And so this is a major issue. I've talked about doing only 75% into the coalition. People look at me and take my head off and say it should be 100% within the coalition territory. But there's a real issue of to when these funds are going to be available and whether they're going to be – people will see things –
 So I think that it's a matter of trust that we actually do and solve the solution. And my amendment that I've suggested, and I think that Southwest Neighbors and some other groups have done as well, is found in that solution, which is that the altic must be spent within the geographic area in which they've been collected. And it spells it out. And by doing that here, rather than waiting for the study to do, is we'll solidify
 and narrow the scope of the study so that some of what Dan was talking about, but it will also provide it so that fewer people will have a problem waiting. You're going to collect the money and we'll wait and hope that we get the results out of the study. You can actually do that right now. Thank you. Thank you very much, Sean.
 Okay, we have others that want to speak on this item. Gary Clifford, Paul Grove, and Martha Johnson. Okay, and we'll take testimony on this and then have council discussion. Just to process check, we're also going to then take up next our resolution, our four-fifths resolution about North Carolina.
 then take a lunch break so anybody who's waiting for other council calendar items uh we'll come back to those at two actually mayor andrew abby says that he needs to he can't stick around until after two so he asks that the lid issue okay all right we'll do that one as well that shouldn't take long okay
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Gary Clifford. I live on Philoma Road in the East Columbia neighborhood. And what I'm presenting is a proposed amendment that has worked out between our neighborhood organization leadership and the Multnomah County Drainage District. What we're – the problem is, as most ordinances, one size doesn't always fit.
 And we're saying that because we're in a managed floodplain, the addition of impermeable surfaces such as paved sidewalks and parking lots work directly against the mission of the Multnomah County Drainage District to manage our stormwater.
 As you go through our neighborhood, you'll see the open ditches, the sloughs, the massive pumps that pump millions of gallons of water that's all paid for by our neighborhood directly to the drainage district, not the city. And what we're proposing is in consultation with the drainage district, these words as amendment.
 In that some Portland neighborhoods exist within a managed floodplain whose characteristics require immediate removal of stormwater to prevent local funding, the LTIC should be amended to exclude collection of the transportation improvement charge where it is deemed by the local drainage district to create adverse conditions on the existing drainage system. The rationale for this amendment is the requirement...
 stormwater be immediately dealt with is to prevent local flood damage. Methods of removal include absorption by permeable ground, mechanical pumping, and local containment or ponding. Adding impermeable services that collect and concentrate stormwater works against the safe and efficient management of a managed floodplain. Thus, the standard suite of
 of impermeable street improvements is unlikely ever to be made, so money for them should not be collected in advance.
 I strongly urge you to your staff to work with the drainage district and take into consideration the uniqueness of our situation. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much. Paul, I think you're next. Mayor Hells, members of the council, Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders. I will be brief. We're here to testify in support of the proposal. You heard from one of our members, Justin Wood, who served as part of the stakeholder work group. And he,
 really appreciate the work of the stakeholder workgroup to try to arrive at a very balanced and thoughtful outcome on the issue.
 Internally, we did have some very robust discussions, in particular around the cost of the fee and what the waiver would look like or not look like moving forward. And those did present concerns to our membership. However, and as has been alluded to oftentimes on this today, we're talking about trade-offs. And that cost, in terms of having a higher degree of certainty in the process and getting things through in a more timely fashion,
 was ultimately of great interest and benefit for our membership. And so recognizing that tradeoff and understanding that degree of certainty in the process moving forward was something that appealed to our folks and ultimately allowed us to arrive at that decision to be supportive of the proposal. So with that, I thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. This is not cheap, but the certainty obviously has a value, so I get it. Thank you.
 Hey, good afternoon. Welcome. Hi, Martha Johnston. This is my personal response to this proposal listed on today's agenda. Please hear my plea. I'm writing this to extend my personal grievance on our lack of understanding on the future impacts of the LTIC going before City Council today. Thank you.
 although I must admit I've had a lot of answers to questions that weren't answered before, I'm very disappointed that the Neighborhood Task Force member who was, as far as I can tell, acting as our representative for our neighborhood interest did not have –
 um an appearance to have an agenda presence with our north portland neighborhood association groups or is not elected or by or appointed by consensus by the north portland land use group or its chairs the working group did not pursue a city-wide mailing to the affected parties or a public discussion on this most cronyist proposal a done deal as i'm being told people realize that for any for the purported 17 percent of lots without sidewalks
 or even streets, this local transportation improvement charge is proposed at $600 per linear feet. So a person with an R5 corner lot with 150 foot of frontage would have to pay $90,000, not the $5,000 to $50,000 purported into this PBOT slush fund for future improvements that were not likely to be used and are, in fact, disqualified from being used on the street on which it originated.
 For the East Columbia neighborhood for which the smallest lots in our post-Vamport area would be R10, R20, RF, this could be several hundred thousand dollars. Payable on permitting. Before you can build your home, many of our citizens don't want sidewalks due to the horses, recreationalists, abundant wildlife that prefer wide, soft shoulders. Also, our stormwater drainage issues complicate the build-out of such structures. Thank you.
 And the other option would be to build without the benefit of economies of scale, that a whole street improvement can provide its owners and the benefits of an LID construction financing at a favorable rate over a 20-year period.
 Without these appropriate public benefits, this required building indeed would be an onerous burden as well. That's why 12,000 to 16,000 homeowners have appealed to the City and been awarded waiver remonstrances, which provide for a yes on participation in future financial development costs through the LID process.
 This is a rational approach which should be looked at first for any needed improvement if it is not providing the streets and sidewalks. An ordinance would quite possibly remove sustainability of all the economic value from the private properties targeted. How can it be said that by adding, say, $100,000 of development costs to a single residential lot that it will not have an effect on affordability?
 If purchasing a home from a developer, does one really think that a developer will not pass every dollar of cost and then some onto the cost of the building? It obviously will.
 If safety alone is the factor driving this horrendous confiscation of funds, then let's get busy with an elected or consensus-appointed representative from Northeast Portland to develop a full-body discussion and perhaps consensus that might have a chance at a fair say. Just to let you know, I have a corner R10 lot for sale, and I'm greatly affected by this LTIC.
 I've been saving for it all my life. My husband and I have owned it 38 years. This is our retirement. Now, whammo, we've got to have streets and sidewalks on an area that has no streets and sidewalks or very, very few. I only found out by chance, no mail-out to the 7,000 or so affected owners about to lose this important tool for street and street development, if desired by the citizens on that street. Let the citizens on that street make the choice if they want to do an LID. That's what it's all about.
 oh did i mention the issue of if your house burned down would your insurance cover the rebuild cost of this charge it's not a permit fee right i've talked to several insurance agents and they are not quite certain you better take out code uh increased code insurance increase amount of insurance because if this burns down they're willing to pay the fifty thousand thousand dollars in permit fees but will they be willing to pay a hundred and fifty thousand dollar
 Charge I think they said it doesn't count in that instance that it wouldn't be that's what I've heard today But I didn't see it in the ordinance. Please don't go the baby out there as a bad money in writing. That'd be great Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll be great some good issues. We appreciate it. Thank you all. Okay, anyone else wants to speak on this item? Okay, so Commissioner this has been a first reading we've got work to do on amendments. How would you like to proceed? Oh
 Well, we might have amendment language to present, but the city attorney's office has said that since the waiver of remonstrance amendment is a substantive amendment, they prefer us to hold on to that until next week. What I'm hoping that we can do is –
 say that this has been the hearing on every other aspect of this ordinance and that next week we'll present an amendment specifically on that language and we'll take testimony only on that amendment, not on anything else. I think that sounds reasonable to me. I think this hearing has ventilated the issue. There's obviously technical work still to do. Okay.
 And I have multiple things. So actually, given that we'll have other folks waiting to testify and it's lunchtime. So you want to, could we continue this? I'd like to just continue it. And bring staff back for a more thorough discussion. Because I have potentially another amendment. Okay.
 An issue was raised by a member of the public. Can I just clarify one thing with staff? So we had a letter from our friends at the University Park Neighborhood Association and from others about stormwater cost recovery. Could you just clarify what is contemplated within the $600 per foot proposal? Sure.
 uh for the record kruger with pivott the 600 per foot was based on an averaging of a number of projects that include all elements that go into the street improvement street trees storm water sidewalks ada ramps street lights pavement the rock below the pavement all those elements were put into the mix and average to come up with that cost okay
 Okay. So we're going to – I think it's going to be useful as we go forward to just clarify that and give folks a breakdown because it's been raised by some of our most engaged partners. So I want to make sure that's clear and that we're not, in addition, proposing shifting any new costs to BES as part of this proposal. So thank you, Kurt. Thank you.
 Yeah, so Commissioner Novick, I think because of both the hour and the complexity of this, that continuing this hearing is a good idea. I want to reassure you, though, however, that I know there might be a fear that this is going to bog down. I think quite the contrary. I think you've cut the Gordian knot of an issue that has been around for a very long time. There's work to do, and there's subsequent phases of work to do, and there are technical issues like this issue about the drainage districts that need to be addressed.
 but I think you have finally found the solution to a problem that we've been talking about for decades, and I'm very enthusiastic. Personal note, as somebody who used to wait for the bus at the corner of 35th and Vermont amongst the mud puddles, I can certainly sympathize with the need to get on with this.
 Mayor, I just want to give what you just said. I wanted to make it clear that I do not think that we're going to address every issue, including the issue relating to drainage districts, next week. Not next week, no. I mean, I think that our goal here is to pass something that stops what we're doing now and starts doing something somewhat smart and work out a lot of details later.
 I agree with that, and I understand the phased approach that you're taking. So we'll take up the amendment next week on the subject of LIDs and perhaps another amendment next week. Well, yeah, I mean, I've heard some good suggestions for amendments today, too, that I don't want to belabor them now. But I think some of Mr. Karwicki's suggestions, I am concerned about the drainage district, about an appeal process. So, yeah, I want to have the opportunity to delve into those, but not now.
 So let's continue this then for a week. Is that enough? I think that's enough time, right? Yeah. So let's continue this for a week. Council will return to the item and take up proposed amendments based on Council members' own ideas and the testimony we've heard today. Are we going to do this on a time certain, Mayor, or just a regular agenda? What's next week look like, Carla?
 We're already going to 11 o'clock with time certain. Okay. We'll have to put it on the regular agenda then. Okay. The afternoon is available. Then let's put it on the afternoon as a time certain. 2 p.m. How's that sound, Steve? Does that work? Can I just toss some rent into the plan? So next week I'm traveling to Kansas City for the Community Streetcar Coalition. Okay. So my team would be here without me if you want to delay it for a week after that.
 Do you want to do that in two weeks? I hate to do that. It's not in, so I... He doesn't want to do this by himself. All right, we're not going to do that. So two weeks from now, how does that look, Carla? We have a very, very... We have a crazy day. I would stick with next week, man. All right. We've got a very talented team here. Next person up. All right, we'll continue this for one week to 2 p.m. time certain next Wednesday.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Good work. Good work. One more week after 25 years. We're getting close.
 All right, now let's move, please, to Item 313-1. I know we have some people here to speak on this, and then we'll take up the LID after that. So 313-1, please. Declare City Council condemnation of North Carolina's Public Facilities Privacy and Securities Act and temporarily suspend city travel by a public employee to the state of North Carolina until the act is overturned.
 So we put this on the council calendar today because just as we had to a year ago when Indiana passed legislation that was contrary to the progress that we've made as a country in human rights, once again we've had a state go in the wrong direction. Right.
 And to my eye, there are really two things that are fundamentally wrong with what's happened in North Carolina. One is that we do believe that we're on a march of progress towards more understanding of human rights, more support for human rights, and more acceptance of our differences as a society. Yes, there are differences.
 places in the world and currents in the world that are going in the wrong direction. But I believe as an American that we're making progress. And when we slide backwards, that's wrong. And then secondly, once again, we have a state legislature telling a city not to do something.
 That's a fundamentally bad idea, too. Cities need to have the authority to take care of their own citizens. Cities are where a majority of people live, and a huge majority of economic activity takes place. Legislatures need to simply stop doing this. We just got our legislature to lift a preemption on –
 inclusionary housing something we should have done years ago legislatures have better things to do than to stop cities from making progress so that's my motivation behind this and I know other council members have strong feelings on the matter as well we have some folks here that like to speak so with that in mind mayor I actually have a minor amendment
 Because I do believe we need to call out the courage of the City of Charlotte, North Carolina. Yes. So my amendment is to add first, whereas the City of Charlotte, North Carolina voted on February 22, 2016, to approve a local nondiscrimination ordinance and-
 and then add after the first, be it further resolved that the Portland City Council commends the Charlotte City Council's action in approving their local non-discrimination ordinance, and Mayor Charlie Hales will contact Mayor Jennifer Roberts to express support for their leadership. Second. Very good idea. Any discussion on this amendment before we take testimony? So motion to accept the amendment. Let's take a vote, please. All right.
 yes hi salzman hi novick hi hails thank you very much aye okay well i know there's some folks over here that would like to speak on this item um come on up and we'd love to hear from you i have um martha john and jang for zini there we go there she is good afternoon good afternoon
 Thank you, Mayor Hills and City Council members. I know that this resolution comes forward today with the unanimous support of the Council and I couldn't
 could not be less surprised at your continuing leadership. Portland has led the way, both in our state and across the country, in extending human rights and in tackling tough conversations. My name is Gina Frasini. I'm the co-executive director of Basic Rights Oregon, and my testimony today is really aimed at folks in the larger community who may not understand just how dangerous this law in North Carolina is.
 So, of course, I'm here to support, to express strong support of your resolution to ban travel to North Carolina. I love that you're also encouraging businesses and other governments to follow your lead
 The law passed this last week is deeply troubling, targeting transgender people who are among the most vulnerable in our communities. More than 90% of transgender people report harassment or discrimination in the workplace, and more than 40% will attempt suicide in their lifetimes due to just this kind of dialogue happening in the community that attacks them and the lack of acceptance and the outright discrimination that they face.
 North Carolina has codified discrimination against transgender people with the passage of HB2. The law will actively hurt transgender people and others who will not be able to simply use the bathroom in libraries, public hospitals, or most airports because of fear of violence, harassment, and now arrest. Thank you.
 This law is in direct conflict with federal laws that say transgender people have the right to use restrooms that match their gender, and it'll subject schools and public facilities to expensive federal complaints and lawsuits. It also bars local protections in public accommodations on the basis of gender identity, sexual orientation, and veteran status.
 The folks who passed this law argued wrongly that transgender people endanger others. This is hurtful and wrong and feeds a culture of violence and misunderstanding that transgender people already face.
 Oregon passed legal protections for people based on their gender identity and sexual orientation in 2007, after similar ordinances had been passed here in Portland and in a dozen other cities and counties across the state. And no harm has been caused. In fact, these protections strengthen our communities and ensure dignity and respect for all who call Oregon home.
 This year, Basic Rights Oregon celebrates its 20th year. Working in partnership with government leaders, with businesses, and the community, together we've made Oregon one of the most LGBTQ-friendly states in the country. And we're so grateful to live in a city and state that values fairness and equality, a state that gives all of us the opportunity to succeed no matter who we are and who we love. Thank you for your continued leadership. Thank you for yours. Anyone else like to speak on this item? Thank you.
 Then let's please vote. Before we do, I just want to clarify that the purpose of this resolution, the effect of this resolution is that we'll be directing the chief administrative officer to identify North Carolina as a prohibited travel destination and update the city's travel procedures accordingly. Bureau directors will be responsible for ensuring compliance with this prohibition. Okay, let's vote, please.
 Oh, thank you for all of your work. And I'm glad to take this opportunity to announce that in the upgrade of the Pioneer Courthouse Square bathrooms that is being funded with the Fix Our Parks Bond Measure as well as with system development charges, we will have a gender-neutral bathroom as well as the folks can choose one side or the other. So we're putting it into practice here, and it's going to provide service to,
 for everybody, which is what we would try to do. And thank you, Mayor, for your leadership. Thank you, Rachel Wiggins, for yours in drafting this resolution. Mike. Mayor Hales, thank you for taking the lead on this and acting so swiftly. Gina in Basic Rights Oregon, thank you for taking the lead statewide on issues of concern to transgender individuals.
 And we were very proud to partner with you in December to adopt an all-user restroom policy in the city following the good work of the county and building on the expertise of your organization. So thank you. And I want to just note, Mayor, that the City of Council of Charlotte voted on February 22, 2016, to approve legislation expanding anti-discrimination protections. When the North Carolina Assembly met in an emergency session,
 to preempt the city's ordinance. Within 12 hours, a bill was introduced, debated, passed, and signed by the governor. That probably sets an all-time record for legislative efficiency.
 And for those who think that this may have been an aberration and might have been a close call, it passed in the House 82 to 26 and unanimously in the Senate 32 to 0. There was not a single dissenting voice in the Senate of the great state of North Carolina. So shame on them. And I'm very proud today to join with my colleagues in making a clear statement that we value all Oregonians and we believe in basic rights for everyone. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you, Mayor Hills, for bringing this forward. It's always surprising to me how out of touch increasingly state capitals are with the people they're elected to represent as opposed to cities. And I know Mayor Hills has made this point over and over that cities are increasingly where –
 great decisions are made, whether it's around climate change, around basic rights, other issues around equity. And this is another prima facie example of exactly that, where a state capital is completely out of touch with probably, I would guess, a majority of the citizens and residents they are elected to represent, as opposed to the city of Charlotte, which seems to have an accurate pulse of what matters to people. And so I'm very proud to stand with you to condemn
 the state legislature and the governor of North Carolina, just as we did with Indiana about a year ago, and make it hurt, make it hurt in their economic pocketbook. And that's what this will do, along with the combined actions of cities and states throughout this nation. Aye. Okay. Thank you, Mayor, for your leadership in this. Thank you, Gina, for your leadership.
 It's really sad to see what's happened to the North Carolina legislature in the past several years. I mean, North Carolina used to be like a moderately progressive southern state, and the legislature has been taken over by zealots on this and a variety of other issues.
 Nice to have this opportunity to express solidarity with the people of Charlotte and other people in that state who are living under this outrageous legislature. And we have some complaints about our legislature periodically, but I'm glad we don't live in North Carolina and hoping that state will right itself at some point. Thank you.
 You know, this summer, the United States Conference of Mayors is going to meet in Indianapolis. And I'm going to be very happy to go there because similar action was taken by cities all over the country and by people all over the country to condemn the backsliding effort of the Indiana state legislature to walk back towards the dark ages. And it worked. And they...
 repealed that law, and I congratulated Mayor Ballard and Indianapolis at that point, and of course we're all going to go to Indianapolis and celebrate the progress of that great city. And likewise, our good wishes do go out to the thoughtful leadership of the city of Charlotte. I will call Mayor Roberts this afternoon and let her know that we've taken this action and that we support the progressive public policy that that city has enacted.
 So it's something that I hope will work to their benefit soon when this wrongheaded idea is reversed just as it was in Indianapolis.
 But for the moment, the state assembly of the state of North Carolina has decided to go back to the dark ages, and we literally will not go there. So our employees will be barred from traveling to that state until such time as this terrible law is repealed. Gina, thank you for your support and leadership for good policy in our state. Aye. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 Okay, let's take up our final item of the so-called morning agenda, and then we'll take a break. And that's item number 312.
 Create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, stormwater, and sanitary sewer improvements from north of Columbia Boulevard to south of Northeast Cornfoot Road in the Northeast 47th Avenue Phase 1 local improvement district and increase project funding from Portland Bureau of Transportation System Development Charge revenue by $315,151. Commissioner Novick. Manager Abbey.
 Thank you, Commissioner. You're very kind to take this up as your final agenda item this morning. On March 2nd, Council approved a resolution of intent for Northeast 47th Avenue. We had 10 people here to testify in favor of the LID. We had 11 written letters of support. For today, we received no remonstrances against LID formation. We received a 12th letter of support from the Collier Association of Neighbors. I've passed that out to Carla, and she is handing that out to you right now.
 So the one change from the resolution phase to the ordinance phase today is that the resolution phase, we had a project budget of $5,706,291.
 The budget has increased by $516,599 for the purposes of adding a dry line sanitary sewer, which the BES Adjustment Committee approved yesterday, in an extraordinary measure of collaboration between BES and PBOT, thereby increasing the project budget to $6,222,890, with no increase in the proposed assessment to property owners.
 The only other point I wanted to make, I was just monitoring the discussion this morning, and I wanted to clarify there was a comment made there were 40 miles of unpaved streets in the city of Portland. I did want to clarify that as of June 30th of last year, there were 55.7 centerline miles of unpaved streets, so I just thought it would be worth clarifying that.
 This particular project will not improve any unpaved streets, but it will help reduce the backlog of 306.8 miles, centerline miles of paved streets without curbs. Happy to answer any questions. The reason we know that, of course, is that there are less miles of such streets because of you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Yeah, you'll be hearing more about that on April 20th. But, yeah, we actually have made some progress over the last 15 years. Not as much as we'd like, but we are slowly chipping away at that backlog.
 Okay, other questions for Andrew? Just one, Andrew. If we adopt Commissioner Novick's proposal that we discussed earlier, will that mean that you will have fewer opportunities to come before us and invoke waivers of remonstrances? Well, you know, it's funny you mention that because when I interviewed for my position, I said I wanted to get all the streets paved and put myself out of a job. So at the current rate, I think I'll live to be about 600 years old. That's a prescription for long-term. Still be working for the city.
 For the next 600. We'd like to have you have a really great 200-year life. Yeah, and I don't want to work as long as John Thurman did from South Carolina. You know, I would like to retire before then. Okay. Anyone else would like to speak on this item? It's a hearing, and if not, then we'll close the hearing, and it will come back next week. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, and we're recessed until 2 p.m. Okay. Thank you.
 Okay, good afternoon everyone and welcome to the afternoon session of the Portland City Council for March 30th. Would you please call the roll? Here. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Novick. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome everyone. We have five items left over from our morning calendar that we're going to try to power through with reasonable brevity. And then we'll get to the things that we have on the afternoon schedule. So let's begin with item 308 please. Okay.
 Accept bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Far North Nikolai Sewer Rehabilitation Project for $3,784,536. Ms. Moody, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Moore Excavation. The engineer's estimate on this project was $4,090,000. Thank you.
 on february 18 2016 five bids were received and more excavation is the low bidder at three million seven hundred and eighty four thousand five hundred and thirty six dollars which is nine point six five percent under the engineer's estimate the city identified six divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities
 MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 19%, with work being performed in traffic control, hauling, and asphalt paving. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. Okay, thank you. Questions? So yet again, with more excavation, and we have really pitiful amounts of money going out to minority and women-owned businesses, 90% of the subcontracting, but only 15%.
 84,000 out of 3.7 million. So it's late. It's early in the afternoon, but it's late in the morning. I don't need to go into this again. I'd be interested in looking at maybe in the future could we see what subcontracting pieces did they not get any bids for? Did they get bids and reject the bids?
 Are they making any progress in their own workforce in terms of increasing the diversity within the workers there? Just...
 Okay. Yes, Commissioner, we actually had somebody from the contracting agency here this morning, and because of the schedule, I kind of let them go for the day. Yeah, that's fine. We don't really have time to go into it anyway. Okay. I know that you do digital, and so you try your darndest to make sure that as many people are benefiting from these big contracts as possible. So I'm ready to support it. It just is another opportunity.
 Example of how we need to figure out some other things to do. That's correct. Appreciate you raising those issues Commissioner Okay, other questions For Christine, thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item If not a motion to accept the report Discussion roll call please Okay item 309
 Accept bid of Stettler Supply Company for the Schmier Pump Station Upgrade Project for $1,622,815. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to Stettler Supply Company.
 The engineer's estimate on this project was $1.8 million. On February 4, 2016, six bids were received, and Stettler Supply is the low bidder at $1,622,815, which is 11% under the engineer's estimate.
 the city identified six divisions of work for potential minority women and emerging small business subcontracting opportunities and the subcontracting participation on this project is at 17 with work being performed in concrete cutting landscape fencing and rebar installation i'll turn this back over to council all right similar issues here yeah so now this is pretty specialized work but
 Maybe a little more specialized than the last one, but the same problem. The contractor was here this morning, and I let him go too, but he did say that they've found additional subcontracting opportunities that they're going to be using during the project itself. That's good, because it's still 680,000 that was possible. Less than a fifth of that is actually going out to the target businesses out of 1.6 million.
 yeah i appreciate you keeping the pressure on i know you do yeah thank you very much anyone else want to speak okay vote to accept this report second roll call please hi hi novic i want to reiterate my concern that we should not be constructing pump stations out of cream cheese aye hi how did it get that name anyway um there's got to be a story there somewhere all right let's move on to item 310.
 Amend contract with OTAC, Inc. to revise the 100-year floodplain maps for Crystal Springs Creek for $85,000. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. As you know, Crystal Springs Creek in southeast Portland has some of the best salmon habitat in the city. But a series of culverts along the creek block fish passage and impede.
 impeded the stream flow for years. In the last six years, the Bureau of Environmental Services has worked with many partners to replace or remove nine of the culverts, and a project scheduled this summer will replace the last two culverts. For the first time in a generation, salmon will be able to access the entire stream. These projects have also improved stream flow to the point that the creek's floodplain has
 This ordinance would authorize a project to revise the floodplain maps according to the
 maps accordingly. Here with more information is our Science Integration Manager, Caitlin Lovell. Caitlin, welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Caitlin Lovell, the Science Integration Division Manager, here to request an amendment to OTAC's contract number 30004334 for a not-to-exceed amount of $85,000. Because the amendment is greater than 25 percent increase over cost, it requires Council approval.
 I want to give you a little bit of context. In 2008, as part of the Greater Green Initiative, Council tasked BES with replacing eight culverts for fish passage. We looked at that and decided to take the step of looking for
 measurable immediate improvements to watershed health by additionally addressing water quality, flooding risks, and habitat improvements, all issues that are core to BES's mission. We found all of that concentrated in the 2.7-mile-long Crystal Springs Creek, tributary of Johnson Creek. In the eight years since, we've been hard at work with impressive results. We have replaced six culverts and abandoned one.
 We have restored over 2,000 feet of the stream, representing nearly 15% of the entire system. We have, together with Parks and the Corps of Engineers, we reimagined a neighborhood park into a nature sanctuary that simultaneously reduced stream temperatures by 3 degrees Celsius and served as a muse for a wildly popular nature play area and annual salmon celebration.
 We have treated over an acre of impervious surface in the watershed by cleaning it and locally infiltrating it using green streets and pervious pavement. Only the second instance of pervious pavement in the city. That was just actually poured a couple of weeks ago.
 and we couldn't have done this alone we have engaged over 21 different partners from individual landowners like reed college and the brannon family to large public agencies like the corps of engineers and tri-med and i do not exaggerate when i say it took a village of city employees from bes pbot and parks to make all of this happen we have two culverts to go uh the by b culvert on the right and the i'm sorry on the left in the glenwood culvert on the right
 We are planning on doing those this summer. From the beginning, we intended to reduce floodplain impacts, and we intentionally waited until we were done with all of the projects before we did the actual modeling. We hired USGS to redo the modeling, and we hired OTAC to help us with the FEMA permits for Bybee and Glenwood.
 However, since that time, a number of requests have come to us to accelerate the floodplain analysis because of the potential benefits that it can provide in terms of ongoing projects. Multiple landowners along Southeast 22nd have been calling us, and the ODOT Highway 99 bridge replacement scheduled for 2017 would like to have the benefit of a new floodplain map.
 We can accommodate this request through a contract amendment, and it would further strengthen our ongoing partnerships and community benefits in the watershed. The amendment before you expands the scope of the OTAC contract beyond the Bybee Glenwood project to include the entirety of Crystal Springs using the modeling work already completed by USGS. Additional engineering and survey work is needed, but the goal is to submit a floodplain map revision to FEMA this year. OTAC will serve as the city's representative to FEMA.
 While we cannot say for sure that FEMA will approve any map revisions that will reduce the floodplain, we have a high degree of confidence that some landowners will see these benefits.
 And I want to just conclude with a bit of a story from the December floods. In 1996, Crystal Springs flooded, but very differently than other streams in the city of Portland. Because it's a stream-fed system, it didn't flood until June of 1996. And it entered into a near-permanent state of flooding for the next 20 months.
 BES commissioned an investigation into local flooding and found that it was due to high groundwater and to the culverts, undersized culverts. However, the homeowners in the area felt that a local aquatic plant known as Elodea was actually exacerbating the flooding by clogging the creek. The city's unwillingness to acknowledge and address the Elodea created an atmosphere of acrimony and distrust that persisted until 2008. One of our most vocal critics was a Creekside landowner, Lane Brown.
 We worked very closely with Mr. Brown and his neighbors, the Mitchoff family, to restore that relationship through the replacement of the Tacoma Street culvert. In December of 2015, we experienced rainfall and flooding that was reminiscent of 1996. By that point, though, we had completed nine of our 11 total projects in Crystal Springs. So we reached out to Mr. Brown to see how his property fared, and here's his response. He wrote, The creek has been behaving itself quite well.
 On a day a few weeks ago that we had record rainfall, the creek rose to 1.8 feet depth normal time this year. Normal this time of year is 0.7 to 0.8 feet. This did not even reach the top of bank at my house. In November of 2006, with slightly less rainfall, the depth was 2.4 feet, which reached the foundation of my house. The water also went down quickly this year. The next morning, it was down to 1.2 feet. I am very pleased with those results.
 his neighbor joe mitchoff sent us this report at the height of the flooding a quick thanks to you all for your hard work on crystal springs in the balmy and amazingly dry late afternoon i went for a run by every project you worked on
 The plan for Crystal Springs is working, and you all deserve a lot of credit for making it happen. I went up spring water, and of course we have a ways to go, but it is still important to remember that even that has gotten much better over the years. It is thrilling to see the new floodways doing their job. So with that, we have a high degree of confidence that the landowners will benefit from this floodplain mapping, and we'd like to get started on it quickly. Thank you.
 pete lynn thank you very much and colleagues um there's another little bit of serendipity here i'll just preview for you while we we cannot with absolute certainty predict the outcome of this uh flood plain remapping if our view of the world is accepted there is a retirement home for union members on the other side of the road that has been going through a rehabilitation
 that if it is no longer in a floodplain, we'll see millions of dollars in savings in costs they would otherwise have to incur in insurance and other things because they're in a floodplain. So one of the things I loved about this, again, if we're successful and based on the investments we've made, there's this downstream benefit to an affordable housing development that's in the catchment area. I thought that was neat.
 Good work. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? I just wanted to say that the work that you have done to reduce flooding and restore fish habitat in this area has just been absolutely incredible. Thank you. It's one of the, probably the top five most impressive things the city has done since I've lived here. So I just wanted to say thank you. Thank you. Yeah, it's great work. People love it. People love the park. It's always crowded, even on the rainiest day.
 Thank you. We'll have copies of the new map that's been produced and the walking tour for all of my colleagues soon. They were so popular we ran out, so we're going to have them more published, printed. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Thank you.
 Thank you very much for your work, and I am very proud of the work of Parks, Transportation, Environmental Services working together, as we so often do. And those who say otherwise just don't know how the city really works. I thank you. I'll just say amen to that. This was a fantastic partnership with the Parks Bureau and others. And, colleagues, when that last leadership bike ride was held that Mike Houck organizes every year, one of the real treats and highlights of that was –
 going to crystal springs and having caitlyn uh do the presentation and mike hauck is a is a stern task master but he gave her best in class for presentations during that we're very proud of her work thank you well i remember doing some plantings with caitlyn along crystal springs watershed and it's really great and that walking map is really nice so good work hi bravo hi
 And an even more impressive sign of his support during that bike ride, Mike Howe let Caitlin talk. That's high praise indeed. Well done. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, let's do 311. Authorize a competitive solicitation and five-year price agreement for Waterworks supplies for an estimated cost of $11 million. Some guy named...
 Mr. Kovach or something is here to present. That guy. That guy. Good afternoon, Ty. Good afternoon. This is a request from the Water Bureau to authorize us to pursue a competitive contract for the renewal of our efforts to procure the nuts and bolts of the water system effectively. All our fittings, everywhere we make a transition, everywhere we move from one
 material type to another material type from one size of pipe to another size of pipe requires us to purchase fairly specialized components, and there's over 500 of them that are part of this contract. And it's time for us to go out for a new bid for it, and we intend to do that with your support. So if you have questions... Well, you can fill up that pretty new warehouse with stuff. Well, it's a very...
 You don't have to answer that. Wonderful space. It is. It's wonderfully done. Good. Okay, questions about this big bag of parts? I appreciate you working with my staff to answer my questions. Just in case there's anybody at home who's wondering about the 5% annual increase that's built in, can you explain how we're going to try to keep annual cost increases less than 5%? So the –
 The estimate that's given here is $11 million, and that's not necessarily saying that there's going to be a cost increase each year. It's saying we're estimating that based on what we've spent over the past couple of years, we're going to spend this amount in the future. And we've given 5% as sort of the steady state of increasing costs with inflation and the price of goods and –
 It accounts for the fact that we've done an increasing amount of work each year over the past four or five years, and that also results in greater costs in this area. So the 5% isn't saying our costs are effectively and necessarily going to go up. It's saying to make our estimate as accurate as can be, given that we're trying to project over a five-year period what our usage in specific areas,
 parts that there's 510 different kinds of over that period of time, it gives us a little cushion in knowing where we're going to be in our estimate. So then what happens from here is we say, okay, potential providers of these parts, these are the parts we need. Give us your price for each, and we go with the one who provides the best prices. And that is established at the front end.
 But then what's to stop them from saying this is government work, I'm guaranteed 5% price increase every year? They declare what the prices are and how they address any theoretical increase year over year on day one. So we have predictability, they have predictability about what goes on. I presume that they...
 when they make their bid, they include all of those, all of their projections for what they think their costs are going to be going up. They don't get to come back every year and say we want 5% more. Right, but what's to stop them from in their bid saying, well, it's in right hand that we're going to have a 5% increase every year, so just calculating that in.
 We don't have to accept that bid. Right. This is not an atypical procedure for us in doing our bidding. We'd be happy to give you a further briefing on it, but it's a standard procedure for them. They will then pick the best price, best value. You're still getting supplier bids within this authorization, right? It doesn't say in here that it goes up 5% every year. I think that's communication via the people about how we arrived at the $11 million number.
 So the $11 million number is basically the Water Bureau saying, City Council, we would like authorization for the next five years to spend up to $11 million. So we get a five-year contract, and either the five years expires or the $11 million expires. And if either one of those expire, we have to come to you for additional authorization.
 So the $11 million is that number. We may not spend all of that money in the five-year period, or if we get there before the end of the five years, we have to come back. That's separate from what the contractor's piece is. I'm not worried about the board of your – I know that you do really great work. I'm worried about all of the contractors thinking because we're selling stuff to the government, we can –
 make the price go up every year? They're competing with other contractors, and whoever wins the competition wins the competition, and that is regardless of what our estimate of how much we'll spend over five years is. And is that a total for the five years that they'll be bidding on?
 or is it an initial cost no that's just what we're author so they could say it costs x say x is more than we thought it would be and say that results in us eating up the 11 million dollars sooner we have to come back to you for authorization the 11 million dollars is your authorization
 We get to decide on an ongoing and regular basis. We keep an inventory of all these parts in the warehouse. And sometimes we don't have particular events in our system that require us to use very specialized equipment that's more expensive. So we don't buy that stuff in those given years. So it's a time constraint and a monetary constraint that you're giving us. And then the competitive bid process goes out and happens.
 the decision is made based on the most competitive bid that's offered. Thank you. Good clarification. Thank you very much. Anything else for Ty? Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes to second reading next week. Thank you. Item 313. Vacate a portion of Southeast Grand Avenue between Southeast Spokane Street and Southeast Tacoma Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick.
 please proceed thank you uh carla ruda a right-of-way agent with bureau of transportation this is a uh
 ordinance for a street vacation for a small uh sliver of southeast grand avenue between spokane street and tacoma street which is fairly close to the newly opened selwood bridge this was initially proposed back in 2014 by the adjacent property owner diana richardson who owns the block to the east of this proposed vacation area
 Um, uh, Southeast Grand in this block is 80 feet wide and, uh, the vacation area is, um, for the most part of it is just about 17.6 feet wide. And so there's still a sizable chunk of Grand Avenue remaining after the street vacation, um, area.
 And so based on some discussions with city staff, PBOT asked the petitioner to adjust her original proposal to make sure that it included a retaining wall along Grand Avenue since the retaining wall holds up her property. And so generally, PBOT asks that retaining walls go into private ownership when they hold up private property, which she rejected.
 agreed to that revision. And then there's another revision that we asked her to make based on information from the county's plans for the Selwood Bridge project so that she modified her original proposal to avoid the newly constructed bike and pedestrian ramps that lead from Tacoma and curve around down to Grand Avenue which lead down to the Springwater Trail. And so that those are still...
 publicly owned. And so after those revisions were made, there were no other concerns from city bureaus or public agencies. The Neighborhood Association's SMILE originally had concerns about that connection between Grand and Tacoma and the bike ramps. And so once that revision was made, SMILE had no further objections to the proposal.
 And I'll be happy to take any questions. Is the parking that's to the east of the proposed vacation area public parking?
 There is public parking on Grand Avenue. The striping that you might see on that Grand Avenue is not – PBOT did not do that striping. And so we actually – when we were initially going through the vacation process, we noticed that striping that was there, and we talked to our parking enforcement and park
 parking management folks and they confirmed that that people did not do that striping the petitioner did not do that striping either um and um so we uh sort of handed over that issue to our parking folks and so they may at some point do some
 investigation or enforcement of that striping. But that side of the street does have public parking? Yes, it is available for public parking. Will the vacation affect the public's ability to use the eastern side of the street? No, the vacation area ends just immediately at the retaining wall. And so all the currently paved part of the street is remaining public street.
 Oh, so the street itself stays the same. The street itself is staying the same. The vacation area is just a little grassy strip and the retaining wall. It already looks like it's in private property. Yes, it does, yeah. Okay. Okay.
 So that diagonal parking there is not the city's doing? No. That's not a good idea. It's a stealth striper. Yes. There's a lot of parking there. I do not know exactly who did the stealth striping. It seems to work. Yes, actually it does. You're ahead of their time. Our parking manager was dismayed to see that there. All right.
 That's the Morch of the North, too. Did you see that? Yeah. Oh, on the other side of Spokane, yes. On the other side of Spokane, right? Your format. Okay. Other questions about this proposed vacation? All right. Thank you very much. Anyone here to speak? Is there a hearing on this proposal? Okay. Seeing none, then this passes the second reading next week.
 All right, now we're to our afternoon calendar, which is starting with items, well, consisting of items 314 and 315. I assume you want them read together. Yes, please.
 314, accept report on one-year implementation of citywide tree project. And 315, strengthen regulations for tree preservation in development situations. Ritz. Thank you, Mayor. Commissioner Saltzman and I are co-introducing this, and we've been asked by Development Services to take testimony on each of them separately, even though we had them read together.
 So we'll start with item 3114, which is the Tree Project Implementation Report. Portland is well known for its greeneries, and trees are a valued part of what makes our community special. This project started way back when I was a young community activist in southwest Portland. I got to hang out with some of the folks who helped instigate it yesterday evening at the
 Because of the Tree Policy Review Project that started in 2007, we eventually, and I say that advisedly, in 2011 adopted Title 11. And because of the recession, we were not able to implement it until this council authorized the funding. So the tree code, Title 11, went into effect on January 1, 2015.
 It consolidates the city's tree policies amongst the Bureau of Development Services, Parks and Recreation, and at the time I had the pleasure of leading both as the commissioner in charge. This afternoon we will hear reports from Parks and Development Services staff about the accomplishments, lessons learned, and challenges associated with the first year of implementation. A lot of progress has been made, and there are still many concerns. Thank you.
 We will also have an opportunity to hear from members of the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee, which I formed in 2014 to ensure strong community oversight of the tree project implementation, provide recommendations about what is working well and what needs improvement. We've also had a lot of good input from the Urban Forestry Commission in Parks and from the Development Rear Advisory Committee in Development Services. Commissioner Saltzman? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. I'd also like to thank staff for putting together the tree project implementation report that we're about to receive. It's very timely, given that we are considering potential amendments to the tree code right now, in fact, following this item. The report gives us a chance to step back and really think about the bigger picture.
 and what is happening with the tree project implementation and what we'd like to see moving forward. And so I'm looking forward to hearing about that from Directors Mike Abate and Paul Scarlett. Thank you, Commissioner and Mayor. Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. And we do greatly, Paul and I, appreciate this opportunity to report to Council on the first year of implementation of the citywide tree project.
 As you know, some of the key goals of the citywide tree project involve streamlining and consolidating tree regulations, improving customer service, improving enforcement of regulations, all for the cause of preserving and enhancing the urban forest.
 Implementation of Title XI has been a huge undertaking, involving the work of many people, and as you'll hear, the efforts so far have been greatly successful. I'd like to especially commend our city forester, Jen Cairo, from Bureau of Development Services, Stephanie Beckman, and many, many other staff who've worked hard over the past about 18 months in implementing this project.
 And so collaboration between Urban Forestry, Parks and Recreation, and Bureau of Development Services has really been remarkable, and that has been the key to this success.
 And we've also in this process, you know, ever since it was implemented, seen that there are some areas of improvement that need to be made. And I think Commissioner Fritz identifies that this is a project that started in 2007. It's nine years later. And so the code probably has to be updated, and we'll talk about one of those items shortly. Thank you.
 And so we hope to pursue focused code changes dealing with the most significant issues that have come up in the past year. We've tracked these key concerns. We'll be prioritizing them in the next few weeks and coming back to share that. So with this, I'd like to pass it over to Paul. Appreciate it.
 My name is Paul Scarlett, Bureau Development Services Director. I do want to thank you for the opportunity to provide a report on the tree project that's been occurring over the last year and a bit. I want to acknowledge staff who have worked on this project. Importantly, Mike Hayakawa, who is now retired, and Mika Keenan, who worked tirelessly in pulling all the pieces and coordinating the different bureaus and different regulations.
 into the tree code and having the report to this point. A lot of work has occurred over the period of time. The project has ramped up and the effort is major. There has been and continues to be a lot of hard work by staff and bureaus that's been identified, mostly Bureau
 Parks and Recreation and BDS. We've learned a lot about the requirements both bureaus have, and we did a lot of outreach about those requirements. This involved over 50 training sessions for city staff, customers, and other groups. We have also introduced urban forestry's expertise into private development permit process,
 Urban forestry tree inspectors do tree preservation inspections on permits and are available on call to help BDS staff with tree issues. This has worked so well that we're entering into another negotiation through IGA to have the urban forestry be expert that we can consult with on issues around tree preservation or arborist reports where there might be questions. So that's been a very helpful change.
 I do want to point out that along with the big ramp up in effort, a big part of the implementation effort has been the inter-bureaucordination at all levels. And Director Abbate spoke to a collaboration between he, myself, and
 Bureau staff in our respective bureaus, all the way to frontline staff. And I might add, and Commissioner Fritz mentioned that BDS and Parks were under her portfolio a little bit over a year ago, or less than a year ago, and
 Mike and I would meet often, and we actually continue to do so because of the, I guess, mutual investment and importance of the tree code and making sure that it continues to be processed well. Big, high-level items comes our way, and we're able to discuss those and give guidance to staff on how to resolve those issues. So I do want to share that. Of course, we look forward, I look forward to continued work
 collaboratively and efficiently and effectively on the implementation efforts, both with director and staff in the respective bureaus and of course their customers who point things out to us.
 There's also been a big effort into tracking the outcomes. Certainly one of the, you'll hear later, what has happened since the TREE code went into effect in January of 2015. And so data has been compiled to share information on what's working, what's not working. And you heard from Commissioner Sossmann.
 you know, the things around do we need to amend the current code to deal with, for example, large trees and the fees that are in place that might not be proportional to the sort of some of the, I guess, the issues. So more work to come, but this is an exciting and very critical initiative and project I
 I might add, kind of if you bear with me, testimonially, BDS works, and you hear mostly about the built environment. We have regulations to ensure that things are built safely and livability, so forth. But we also have a huge investment in the natural environment. Entries, erosions, grading, all those things are also critically important. And so, you know,
 We pride ourselves in making sure all of it contributes to the city's livability. And, of course, Portland is a beautiful place. It's unique. It's special. I was on a jog at lunch at the Waterfront Park, and the blossoms are coming out. And I've had good fortune as a...
 student athlete in college and beyond to have traveled to a lot of places. And you can see the difference. Portland is unique. It is beautiful. You've got street-lined streets. You have parks. You have neighborhoods that have large trees, small trees, shrubbery. And it's all protected. We have regulations. And Commissioner Fritz mentioned 2007.
 I happen to be one now long-standing employee. I was here prior to that, and I remember the code for trees being in like seven different places, and you had to go Delta Park, and you had to go here and there. And so we made this gallant effort that took a long time, but now it's in one code, and maybe here and there, some other places. But Title XI, you can go there and find out how is this –
 impact the neighborhood? What is required? How does BDS staff deal with that particular issue and what does urban forestry and parks do? And so, you know, I want to commit to you that at BDS, and I'm very proud of our staff, that we are in this with parks and others to ensure that the tree code contributes to the city's livability and continues to make Portland a beautiful place and a special place and a unique place.
 So with that, I'll end. Thank you very much, Paul. Thank you both. So we're going to turn it over to Jen Cairo, the city forester, and Stephanie Beckman. Oh, I just want to say, when Paul says he's jogging along, that's a euphemism because he's a famous sprinter. And I had a friend, Paul, visit the other day.
 one of his first times in Oregon, he's 57 years old, and he runs the Miracle Mile in Manhattan. And he is in the top five in his age group, and he recently ran a sub-four-minute mile at 57. Oh, that's crazy. That's good. He'll probably almost keep up with you. No, I actually really do jog now. I live off the memories. Thank you. Okay, come on up.
 Good afternoon. Thank you. I'm Stephanie Beckman, Senior Planner with Bureau of Development Services, and with me is... I'm Jen Cairo, the City Forester with Portland Parks and Recreation. And we're going to be giving the staff presentation today. Okay.
 So as you know, Title XI trees became effective on January 1st of last year. BDS and Parks Urban Forestry are the two main implementing bureaus, and we've been implementing the code for a little over a year now, and we're here to provide a report on how that's gone. Thank you.
 In the presentation today, we're going to be covering implementation activities and accomplishments over that first year, data report findings telling you a little bit about what's actually happened on the ground, some implementation challenges we have discovered, next steps, and resource needs.
 just to quickly go over what was in your packet there are a few different documents that you received the first was a report to council memo and the presentation today is basically going to be just covering the key points of what's in that memo there were three exhibits exhibit a has outreach information
 Exhibit B is the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee's Recommendations Report, and then Exhibit C was the Citywide Tree Project Data Report for the first year. And we'll be touching on a little bit of what's in all of those exhibits as we move through the presentation. So the first item I'm going to cover is Staffing Coordination and Program Development.
 This involved a big effort to get the new programs called for under the Citywide Tree Project up and running. Some of the key items was creating a single point of contact for tree-related inquiries, really responding to concerns of the public had about not having clear information about who was responsible for what aspects of tree issues. Thank you.
 bringing urban forestry staff to the 1900 building where they are more available to the public, and also responding to providing tree expertise for inspections and providing information for the development review process when tree issues come up.
 Urban forestry also established some new programs of their own to review trees on the city's capital improvement projects, providing early consultation on those. A streamlined programmatic permit for utilities and other public agencies that do routine tree work, and a streamlined online street tree pruning permit option.
 There was also a major staff training effort with over – we tracked over 30 staff training sessions, but we're sure – with six different bureaus, but we're sure there were a lot more in individual work groups. Moving on to public outreach, a lot of work went into getting the word out to the public. As Paul mentioned earlier, we held training sessions geared toward different groups, both at the city offices and out in the community for different types of groups like development customers, tree care providers, and neighborhood groups.
 We also developed and implemented an outreach plan with the help of a consultant in Viro Issues. The primary goal of the outreach plan was to let people know about the new code and where to find more information.
 A secondary goal was to provide education about the value of trees and what that does for the city as well. Information was distributed in a number of different ways that are listed on the slide here, but you may recall seeing the catchy catchphrase, call before you cut, and we put that out in neighborhood community newsletters as well as distributed at community events with a refrigerator magnet.
 I should also note that this month there was a set of targeted outreach emails and letters that were sent out as a way of getting the word out before spring yard projects started. Those went to about 450 recipients of different groups like environmental groups, neighborhood groups, and local businesses that do tree care and nurseries and that sort of thing. And as I said earlier, Exhibit A provides more details about the outreach that was done.
 BDS and Urban Forestry jointly staffed the Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee. It was a citizen group that was formed by Commissioner Fritz to provide advice on tree code implementation for the first year. They met for a year and issued a report in February, which is Exhibit B in your packet, as I mentioned earlier.
 Members of the Oversight Advisory Committee are here to present their recommendations after the staff presentation, so I'll just quickly note that the report found implementation of the code as written was generally successful. Of course, there were some bumps in the road, but that it has not met community expectations, primarily regarding preservation of large trees. Thank you.
 I should also note that the report primarily reflects the views of the final eight members. There were four additional members originally that resigned that represented development interests. They resigned near the end of the process before the report was created.
 There has been quite a bit of work done to date on code changes and clarifications. The first is the administrative rule filed in October that established specific replanting standards where the code left the requirement for replanting up to city forester discretion to provide more certainty in those situations.
 Second is the proposed amendments you're going to be hearing about. Second, next on the agenda, regarding preservation of large trees in development situations. And then lastly...
 BDS and forestry staff have been working with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to address some technical and clarification issues as part of the annual regulatory improvement code amendment package. So part of recap eight, there are a number of tree issues that are proposed to be addressed in that package. Unfortunately that has been delayed a bit because of code staff turnover and so we're expecting that package to come before council in October.
 We've also been monitoring how things are going. This includes tracking issues with the code by both bureaus, and as I just noted, some of those more technical issues have been included in the ReCap 8 work plan. This also includes tracking outcomes of the code.
 There was a lot of work done up front to get data collection processes in place so that we're able to provide you the reporting now. And that's resulted in the Citywide Tree Project Data Report, which was Exhibit C in your packet.
 And on the slide here, there's a list of the main topic areas covered by the report. And we're going to cover just a few of those in the presentation today, but there is a lot more detail in the report itself. So,
 The next few slides are data report findings, and they're a little meaty, so bear with us. I'm going to cover development permits on private property, which is the portion of the code implemented by BDS, and then hand it over to Jen to cover some additional findings and then finish out the presentation. Thank you.
 So all of the findings on this slide are for development permits on private property, so not street trees and not someone wanting to remove a tree in their yard just because they want to. It's for development permits. So for example, a building permit for a new house, apartments or commercial structures or additions or alterations to those same properties.
 Generally, what we're talking about here is tree preservation and tree density standards. When we say tree density, we're really talking about tree planting standards.
 So the first three bullets are telling us how often tree preservation and planting standards applied and to what type of permits. And we found that the code applies to actually a relatively low percent of permits overall, 15.7%, and only 3.9% of commercial permits. So that seems low to me. Is that because you're also sweeping remodels in with the term? Yes. So yeah, it's...
 It's important to keep in mind that this is all permits that BDS issues. So it's over... Remodels, tenant improvements, all that stuff is in the basket along with...
 Right. Site development stuff that actually affects trees. Yes. Okay. So it's over 7,000 permits and over half of those are alterations and those really rarely have tree preservation or planting requirements because they're internal to a building or they don't reach the dollar threshold that requires upgrades. So that's why it's low. There are also some exemptions which I'll talk about in a minute that is another reason why those numbers are low.
 So Title XI does apply at a much higher rate for residential permit subtypes, up to 63% for new construction, and then you can see for additions, 27.6%, and demolitions, 34%. The third bullet provides information about exemptions that we're able to report on.
 Sites that are less than 5,000 square feet are exempt from tree preservation requirements. So about one-fifth of residential permit sites, that's 940 sites, were exempt due to site size. They were less than 5,000 square feet. And then certain commercial employment or industrial zones are exempt from both tree preservation and planting requirements because they are higher intensity zones and they are exempt from those requirements. Okay.
 And about one-third of commercial permit sites, that's 439 sites, were exempt because of zoning. They fell into one of those exempt zones.
 So while some of these rates of applicability may seem low, it is important to note that there were no tree preservation requirements that applied in most of these situations before. So anything you're seeing apply is new added as part of Title XI. The one area we did have tree preservation requirements prior to…
 prior to Title XI was new single-family residential construction. So we did collect data from 2014 on this permit type in order to compare outcomes pre-Title XI and post, and we actually found the similar results from 2014 to 2015, and actually slightly higher rates of planting and preservation in 2014. So I'm going to move on. I have a few more points to cover for development permits on private property.
 So, in development situations, Title XI always provides an option to pay a fee in lieu of preservation or planting requirements. You always have that option. The first bullet is showing the percent of residential permits where preservation or planting standards applied that paid a fee in lieu of either preservation or planting.
 We found that the rate of payment in lieu is highest for residential demolition permits at 43%. That affected 86 permits. But overall, really, it doesn't seem to be occurring all that often. We've got 18% of new single-family residential pay-to-fee in lieu of preservation. That's 17 permits. And 2% of new single-family pay-to-fee in lieu of planting at 7 permits.
 And again, I want to emphasize that this is the percent. It's not a percent of all permits, but the percent of permits where the preservation or planting standard actually applied to the site. The last three bullets tell us about trees planted, preserved, and removed. We found that there's a relatively low percent of large canopy trees being planted on development sites. Only 13% of large canopy trees are planted.
 trees were planted, even though there's a built-in incentive in the code to plant larger trees, and that if you plant large tree, large canopy trees, you get to plant fewer trees. So we were a little surprised by that finding. Approximately 60% of inventoried trees were preserved, which is actually a pretty high rate. And I want to...
 that this includes only inventory trees, so sites that were exempt where there was no tree plan required, we wouldn't have information on those trees. So this is only for sites where we actually collected the information. And lastly, the average size of trees, both that were preserved and removed, was 17 inches in diameter. And the code, as a reminder, the code applies to trees that are 12 inches in diameter and greater. And that is...
 All that I have, I'm going to pass it on to Jen.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am going to cover non-development tree permit information and then go on to customer service, some implementation challenges that we experienced, a little bit about resources for implementation, and then some next steps. I'm experiencing a challenge. I strained my back, but not by climbing a tree. So if I get up and wander around, that's why. You can stand. I might. Mayor Hales, I think you are channeling that. For the entire day, I've had the same strain. And I...
 What triggered yours? I don't know. It must have been that budget hearing. I think we slayed both of us. You're blaming our public utility? You're blaming the public utilities for that? That's right. They get blamed for everything else. All right. Why not? Thank you, Jeff. As long as it's not trees. No, it wasn't trees. Trees are not at fault here. Let's be clear about that. Okay. Non-development tree permits. So as a reminder, non-development tree permits are, for example, when someone wants to remove a street tree or a regulated yard tree, and there is no associated development or ground disturbance.
 We saw over the course of the first year a significant permit volume and workload increase greater than we anticipated seeing actually. We saw 34% more permit applications for non-development permits and a 26% increase in just public inquiries to our trees at email address and 823-TREE, the hotline number. And in private tree removal applications specifically that increased more than four times over the previous year's volume.
 The vast majority of the non-development permits that were issued over the first year were what are referred to as a Type A, which is a little bit of code jargon. These are...
 issued as per specific standards and review factors in the code for regulated trees that are, for example, dead, dying, and dangerous or dangerous, nuisance species trees, trees within 10 feet of a building or an attached structure, or up to four non-nuisance species that are healthy private property trees and less than 20 inches diameter breast height per calendar year. Not that simple. And in these cases, for a type A permit, as per code, tree-for-tree replacement is the mitigation specified.
 There were far fewer Type B permits issued, only 51 of those total for the course of the year. And as a reminder, again, Type B permits are for healthy, non-nuisance, and private trees greater than 20 inches diameter breast height, or more than four healthy, non-nuisance trees greater than 12 inches per site per year, and are not within 10 feet of a building or an attached structure.
 As per code, mitigation for these is up to inch for inch to be determined on a case-by-case basis by the City Forester. During new code implementation, as Stephanie reminded us, mitigation in these cases was further defined by the administrative rule that was finalized in October of 2015.
 We found that for type B permits, mitigation often falls below the tree-for-tree standard of type As, which is to say that more trees are being permitted for removal in those type B situations than are required to be replaced. We also found that large-form and evergreen species are often replaced with small-form and deciduous trees. And, for example, in private tree removals, we saw a net loss of over 1,000 large canopy trees and a net gain of over 500 small canopy trees.
 This is important because large canopy and evergreen trees provide notably greater public services than others. More improvement of air quality, mitigation of summer heat, retention of stormwater instead of having it managed by expensive public systems, sequestering carbon, and providing wildlife habitat. So large and evergreen trees do more of that, and evergreens do it year-round.
 These high service trees maximize the urban forest asset. They're the most desirable to preserve and to plant in the city where we have limited space for trees. And these are also goals in the city's urban forest management plan to have larger quantities of large and evergreen trees.
 The last bullet here is about code enforcement. The first six months of code implementation focused on increasing awareness of tree regulations and doing a lot of outreach with the public. We all suspected that most folks didn't realize that there were tree regulations and wanted to spend a lot of time and energy, as much as we could muster, trying to change that.
 So in those cases, in those first six months where we did receive complaints about compliance, warnings were given and explanations and some interpretations of the code. Over the course of the year, there were 699 code compliance complaints, of which 22, only 22, were pursued as actual violations.
 Most were resolved prior to moving to a violation or fine stage. For example, in some cases, these were reported by the public, and they may have been unfounded, so actually weren't violations. Or others could be rectified without moving to the fine stage. For example, remedial pruning on something that had been done incorrectly before. Okay.
 And to date, the enforcement system for non-development permitting is not reactive. It is reactive. I'm sorry. We really base it off of complaints received about possible violations rather than doing a consistent compliance check ourselves. And this is due to staffing levels at present. I'm going to move on to customer service. This was a primary goal of the citywide tree project.
 intake staff, which are primarily our tree technicians who serve in this role, met response goals for 99% of the public inquiries, so that's a good rate. Our response goal is two business days, and this was even with an increase in this initial contact with customers of 26% over 2014 volumes. Thank you.
 And the primary means of this kind of contact is our hotline, 823-TREE, 8733, for all your tree needs in the city. Or emailing trees at PortlandOregon.gov. We also have staff at the Permit Center on the first floor in the 1900 building. Moving on to initial inspection response.
 Our tree inspectors met the goals for initial inspections on tree permits at least 60 percent of the time and as much as 86 percent of the time, depending on the type of permit. And this is similar to the standards, the levels of meeting standards in 2014, but there was a significant workload increase, as you recall from earlier slides. So that is an interesting thing to note.
 Our target response time in these cases is 10 business days, and this is from when the permit is received by the tree inspection staff to when they start working on it with the applicant. And the reason that some of the permit types are at 60% and others are at a different number, 86 or in between, is because there are different processes and time frames for different permit types. For example, our target for...
 Street tree root pruning permits is 48 hours in order to coordinate with PBOT sidewalk inspection timelines. So we prioritize the permit workload according to the permit type, and other permits, therefore, take longer to do due to the number of staff we have.
 And I'll just also note here that these same staff, our tree inspectors, with support from our tree technicians, provide 24-7 response to tree emergencies and fallen trees in city streets to keep them safe and clear the way for traffic. And this emergency work displaces and delays permit processes whenever the wind blows a lot. Last point here is we did have a customer service survey conducted by the independent consultant Enviro Issues.
 It was an internet-based survey that ran for a month, and the respondents self-selected. They chose to respond. There were about 350 respondents, and we found that they rated customer service good or outstanding 60% of the time versus 23% poor or needing improvement. A question was asked about their previous experiences related to their more recent experiences, and most said those had improved.
 And many of the responders also highlighted professionalism and helpfulness of staff, and we received more positive than negative comments. Now I'll get into some of the challenges of implementation. A key goal of the tree project was to preserve and improve the city's tree canopy, so we evaluated how the first year went in regards to the urban forest.
 And we found that, as we heard earlier from Stephanie, in the case of development. Also, in non-development situations, we see a lack of large trees being planted back. And in non-development, for some permit types, more trees are permitted for removal than required to be replanted, meaning there's a net loss of large and evergreen trees.
 So our data suggests that the trees being planted will not fully replace the tree canopy lost, resulting in long-term canopy implications. We also found that there were some questions about the ability of the current tree preservation standards to incentivize the retention of high-quality, larger trees. In development situations, for example, applicants choose whether they preserve a tree on the property or remove and pay a fee in lieu of preservation.
 And in not all cases do applicants choose to retain trees, or the type of tree they retain is up to them as well, as long as it's above the size threshold. It might not be the best tree, the healthiest tree, the largest tree, or the highest service tree on the property. I'll also mention that the present fee in lieu rate is less than the full recovery cost for planting and establishing new trees to partly compensate for those removed. And our last point here, one year of implementation provides a small data sample.
 Trees and forests show trends over longer time periods, and our methods to measure those changes are on longer time frames than one year as well. So we've got a good sample and a baseline to start with, and we've got some indications, and we'll need to continue tracking. A few more challenges to mention to you in regards to implementation.
 Some tree plans we found that are submitted as required parts of applications in development situations can be inaccurate. This is anecdotally. For example, tree health, the size of the tree or the species, we found sometimes were incorrect.
 Also, the way we're implementing it now, building inspectors are the staff who confirm tree-related information on development sites in some cases. For example, if tree planting was required, those are the folks who are the ones who are going to be out there doing the whole building inspection and trying to confirm whether the trees meet the standards that were required. Building inspectors generally have other expertise from trees, and tree permits involve tree-specific information such as
 appropriate tree protection fencing installation, were the trees planted correctly, are the species that were permitted the ones that actually ended up on the property. So that was a challenge, is a challenge. There are also some unintended incentives to removing trees during demolition phases. For example, in a demolition permit, the applicant should show the trees, but Canon sometimes removes those to not have to address them in the land use review process that might come later.
 And these last two points, compliance is largely complaint-driven in non-development, as you heard me say earlier. And some of the staff workloads, especially in parks, for non-development permitting and also city development projects, resulted in response rates that are lower than we would like to see, given the staffing levels. Ken, can I ask a question about that? Yes. Okay.
 what's the impact on your workload of the work that PBOT does with homeowners to replace or repair sidewalks? So there's a lot of that going on in my neighborhood. It seems like every street has some work going on.
 And my understanding is once it's opened up, someone has to come and verify, has to inspect it about roots and tree-related issues. How does that impact your workload? Good question. There is an impact. It is a lot more.
 lower impact I think than a lot of the other permit types we do the situation you're speaking of Commissioner fish would have come to us as a city development project in most cases if it's like a whole stretch of street that's being worked on and we assign a tree inspector to that early who works with the P bot staff directly and actually going out in the property and looking at roots as a detail of that process they do take a lot of time but they're also spread out a lot and the tree inspector does a lot of other permitting work
 in that same time span. The other thing that you could be seeing is when there is a sidewalk root conflict, or there's a smaller project that really isn't a capital improvement project. That's the root pruning permit situation. And that is a significant amount of work for staff.
 especially because we're committed to responding in 48 hours in those situations because we don't want to leave the sidewalk open for people to trip on. So would it be helpful if PBOT issued fewer of those letters requiring homeowners to repair their sidewalks? For workload, yes. For other things, perhaps not. One other question. It would also be helpful if Urban Forestry dedicated a huge public relations budget to explaining to people that they can remove tree roots that are going to break up their sidewalks.
 With the permit, yes. With the permit. And the other thing I wanted to ask you about complaints and non-development. Are you seeing any change in the amount of complaints around potentially improper or illegal pruning? No.
 I'm getting nods of no from the staff in the audience. I don't think we saw that as a distinct change in the trends we see. We do get those complaints, but they haven't increased to our knowledge. And is that because of our education and outreach efforts with the contractors making sure that they understand what our code requires that's maybe unique and different from other jurisdictions? I'd like to say yes, but we haven't really found a way to measure that yet. We do have –
 a thorough attempt at trying to communicate with contractors. We need to do more work in that area. We know that some still do work without the appropriate permits, and sometimes we know they knew they should have had them, and sometimes they don't. Well, the example, the last time you and I had a conversation about this was when I observed a company that was sort of doing this work
 through the Pearl District. And when I spoke to them, they were a California company that had just scheduled these visits of cities up and down the coast, and they did not seem to be aware of any of the unique qualities of our law. And I think you folks ended up sending them a note or something to...
 make sure they became aware. But those, it's the people doing that sort of rider work coming through our community who are low bidders, may not know our laws, and that are here quickly and gone. Those are the ones I have a concern about. MS. Yeah. And I think, Commissioner, you're right to have that concern. They're hard for us to connect with since they're not in the community. Stephanie mentioned earlier we did a whole other set.
 of emails just reminding people call before you cut and it went to our usual suspects you know those that we have on file so those from out of town that we don't know about we're really hoping they just think that a city has such regulations and would want to check if you can think of a better way to catch that before it happens we'd love to hear it doing that is the other way to get at it is to communicate with the building owners because often they're hired by the major property owners
 They go through an RFP process. They choose the low cost, and sometimes the low cost is someone from out of the community that doesn't know our rules. So I think we squarely put the burden back on the property management companies. Thank you. That's a good comment. Where was I? Did I finish? I finished. Okay. I'm going to speak a little bit about resource needs.
 Funding of Title XI implementation included establishing some new positions, and those were one permanent BDS associate planner. Council also authorized two parks urban forestry tree technicians. Those are the folks who do the 823 tree and the email, as well as the permit center. And two and a half parks tree inspectors. Those are the folks who actually have the tree expertise and handle the permits.
 We found that given the unanticipated higher workload, we had to get some additional staff during the course. I think we anticipated it. We just didn't get the staffing for it. That may be true as well. It's a frame I like that, Jim. Good job. So over the course of the year, we found ourselves needing to bring on in a temporary capacity someone who served as a tree technician and two temporary tree inspectors.
 So in terms of future needs, if we're going to retain the workload and turnaround times that we've seen this far, if our permit volumes stay at the same level that we have seen, we'll need to add some permanent positions. And we've already done so in one case and are working on another one currently, and others we're planning on for the future when we can, funding them through tree permit fee revenues.
 And some of those short-term needs are an additional permit tree technician. That's the one we have already. Additional tree inspectors and additional staff needed to do policy and outreach type work. And we're working on that one now. To be clear, Council, we're going to be asking for position authority, but funded as expected through the program fees. Next steps for the citywide tree project.
 You've heard that to date we haven't done any real proactive compliance checks, so we are aiming to change that in the near future, and we're beginning work on a compliance strategy, and it will probably include encouraging and supporting compliance through means such as outreach and training and also some form of conducting inspections for permit compliance rather than waiting for citizens to call us with concerns. Thank you.
 Better enforcement of the city's tree regulations was also a citywide tree project goal, and it's a concern that we hear frequently from the public and stakeholders. And this compliance work we feel is very timely, since we have had a significant general and targeted outreach push, and we've learned a lot from the first year of implementation to help us. Another next step is addressing certain code issues that have been revealed in the first year of implementation.
 So we are hoping to do an amendment project, and this would consist of a BPS-led code amendment project. Parks and BDS would be central to the project. Okay.
 And this project would involve certain issue areas that have shown to be of concern in the initial use of the code, but it would not be a full-scale opening up and revamping of Title XI. And that project would absolutely need to include other bureaus and public stakeholders in the process. Some first steps of that project would include a more thorough project scoping of what issues could be addressed.
 And the central project staff for the three bureaus would be funded from urban forestry trust funds, not from general fund and not in budget requests. Those trust funds can be used in support of urban forest management and urban forestry programs, and they are separate from tree mitigation payments that go into the tree planting and preservation fund established by the new code. So each time someone pays a tree mitigation fee, those funds go for tree planting and are not the funds we're speaking of.
 And we would hope the project could start as soon as possible. What are the trust funds? The trust funds, there are two types of general categories of trust funds in urban forestry's portfolio. One is very narrowly defined by code. It's tree planting and preservation. And its sources include primarily, there are a few sources, but mitigation payments,
 that are received through tree permitting for removals. And the intention of that fund is to replace what's lost to some degree. So that's for planting, and it could also be used for purchase of property or property rights where there are significant trees. So that's not the one we're talking about. The other category is Urban Forestry Trust Fund. It's very general. And that fund can be used for education, outreach, all manner of program support and implementation needs that we might have, potentially even things like purchasing equipment,
 and it's not an unlimited fund by any means, but in our determination, amending the tree code is a very high priority, and that would be a reasonable and appropriate use of the funds. A little bit more about the amendment project. You actually have a handout in your packet also on Park's letterhead. It's just two pages, and it is a list of six categories with some subcategories in it, and these six categories are the same as are on the slide you have here, too.
 And these are broad categories in which we feel that there may be amendments needed, and we'll be working more on these in the next few weeks to bring back to Council for their consideration.
 And these categories reflect the findings of staff from the Bureau's tracking and doing some program evaluation about what is working and maybe not working so well in the code, and the recommendations and questions from the Oversight Advisory Committee, and they're going to report to you after this, and you'll hear a little bit more about that, and others. And you've heard many of these issues today in one form or another.
 Please note that these are areas to review, not necessarily to change. The project itself would determine if and what changes should be made. Oh, and I wanted to note the last bullet on this slide, so the sixth category area, technical items and minor changes, includes potentially changing the street tree pruning permit threshold from one quarter to one half inch. Thank you.
 Commissioner Novick. So I'm not seeing that in my packet. I'm seeing my colleagues flip through on theirs. What we're proposing, colleagues, is to continue this hearing on the report for four weeks so that there's more input into what the sideboards of that amendment project are. And so we can get that information out as to what the first scoping of that list of potential amendments would be and then encouraging public input, including today, on what...
 what issues are primed to be addressed in this amendment process whenever the council authorizes the staffing to be able to do it. So this is going to be linked to the amendment process. Does that mean we can expect that we can see these amendments proposed like a year from now or something like that?
 Yes, and we could also do, as they get finalized, we could do little packages of them if you'd prefer, rather than bringing them all together at once. Well, I would, I mean, I have highlighted this issue of you have to get a permit in order to prune a branch of more than a quarter inch, which frankly suggests that you'd need a permit before your kid climbs a tree because he or she might inadvertently break off a twig.
 and I think that we've made a large number of tree owners in the city into lawbreakers. So if there was some way to – I'm glad I had a discussion about where you can't arrive at a half an inch, but if there's some way to speed up that process, that would be nice. Okay. Thank you, Commissioner. And we also – one of the early steps would be prioritizing also what things would be worked on in what order. Okay.
 So our recommendation today from staff is that council carry over the report and the accompanying documents, including the sheet that you hopefully all have now about potential amendment project, and vote to accept them with that project category list in four weeks. The Tree Code Oversight Advisory Committee representatives will now give you their report, and time for questions and deliberation will follow. Thank you. Thank you both.
 Welcome and thank you for all of your work. It's been a long project and you've put in a lot of time. I appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Council, Mayor Hales. I had the, I guess it's an honor to be one of the co-chairs of this committee. And it was a fairly intensive process. Can you state your name for the record? My name is Arlene Kimura and I live in East Portland. Thank you very much. We want to also thank the staff for the work they did. They provided an enormous amount of data.
 And what we did learn is there's not enough data available to make a real comparison. So the staff is aware of that and has done the very best they could, given the amount of time we had. We do feel that there is more work that needs to be done, as you have seen from the staff report. There is a number of issues that came up from the citizen point of view, which our committee heard about in great detail.
 And I think that those were unintended consequences that did not actually get addressed in the initial rollout as well as the code itself. So I want to say that one thing that I think has been an issue for us, those of us who live in neighborhoods that are not tree-lined and –
 have the kind of mature plantings, is that we are losing our canopy at a much faster rate than any place else because we also have available, developable lands. It is critical that we get this code and we be able to do that in a way that is supportive of the citizenry as well as the environment. We are supposed to be a green city. We also have land
 The issue of affordable housing, I don't think they are mutually exclusive. And people who live in affordable housing also deserve a nice environment. My neighborhoods are economically not as advantaged. They are not as old. And they were all farmland, so there was lots of clearing. I do believe that this is a first step. This code and the implementation is a very good first step. But more work needs to be done.
 And like Title 33 and Title 17, Title 11 should be an eight-year process and that we are going to be looking at things as they come up. And I don't think you need to just whole cloth revisit it, but there are tweaks that are going to happen as we learn more things and as development and the city moves forward. And with that, I want to turn that over to Chris. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Chris Hikari, formerly Chris Day. I'm an urban forestry commissioner, as well as the Friends of Trees regional programs manager. I live at 8715 North Foss Avenue in North Portland. To begin with, I'd like to thank the Bureau Director's acknowledgement and dedication to protecting Portland's trees. As stated earlier, I felt that was a
 a good omen coming into today's session here. I'd also like to thank all of you for the energy that you've put into putting in place the stopgap emergency amendment here to protect large trees and development. Thank you again for that. Along those lines, your responses.
 to public testimony earlier this month. It was very nice to see on the spot, you know, changes in your recommendations in such a quick manner. As one of the audience members, I was really impressed by that.
 But moving forward, I'd like to challenge all of you, as well as everyone else in the room, to move beyond thinking of there being an inherent conflict between these two land uses, that is, development and trees. Thank you.
 It seems that the current paradigm sees infill development, commercial development, development in general as a good thing for Portland. And I don't disagree. Development-related activities spur the economy, provide additional tax bases, and provide, of course, much-needed housing for our growing city. Thank you.
 This same prevailing paradigm is also doing a pretty good job of incorporating the values of trees into our policy language in Portland, that trees provide essential services to people, the city, and our surrounding ecosystems. City trees help slow the effects of climate change. They clean our air, help keep polluted runoff out of rivers. Trees increase home values and positively contribute to measures of human health.
 and on and on you've heard all of this before my point is that we need to set up a system of urban land management that provides tangible reinforcement of values that we put on development onto trees as well right now the ways that we're acknowledging trees are in many ways still on paper in reports in guidelines we need trees and the spaces needed for them to grow
 to really make it onto the priority list. And we're making great strides, again, thanks to the lot of you and many folks in the room here. But again, we need to recognize, yes, trees have been prioritized lower historically, and we need to turn the tide and flip that page and give them their due.
 The piece of the OAC recommendations report that I'd like to highlight here offers suggestions on moving us into this next paradigm and how we think about and manage our urban land resources. It concerns the preservation standards and flexible design options. And
 details of which can be found on pages 7 and 8 of that report, which is, I believe, Exhibit B in your packets. Notably, Jen Cairo also called attention to some of these in her presentation a few minutes ago. In countless meetings, the committee attempted to explore ways that trees and development can complement one another rather than compete with each other. And I think it's fair to say that
 that all of us on the committee felt additional flexibility and incentives to meet standards and protect trees are needed for developers as well as homeowners doing improvements, and particularly for trees 20-inch, DBH, and larger. Support was expressed specifically for reduced setbacks, waiving parking requirements in single-dwelling zones, and allowing parking in required outdoor area within front setbacks.
 We also recommend a discretionary review process be required when trees 36 inches or larger are slated for removal. And this is the threshold identified in the current amendment as where we move into inch-per-inch mitigation. You know, so it sort of falls in line with a size of tree that is already jumping to an additional layer of review. Thank you.
 This would shift the burden of proof to the developer to demonstrate there's no other way to complete a project than to remove a vital element of the city's infrastructure in what amounts to essentially a private profit situation. We cannot continue to give away such high service-providing features of the environment, as well as future potential for them, as we do when we convert unbuilt urban spaces to buildings or parking lots or sidewalks or streets.
 And lastly, we feel that to achieve better consistency across city regulations, as well as to achieve truly meaningful transition in our collective thinking, trees as essential infrastructure elements, and again, the space needed for them to grow, must be addressed head-on as part of any and all development and land use projects, such as the currently underway mixed-use zoning project and the residential infill projects.
 Coordination with other city policies, projects, and codes is paramount to the protection of Portland's urban forest. And with that, I thank you all again, and I will pass the mic to Jim.
 Thanks. I'm Jim Labby. I served on the original Citywide Tree Project Oversight Committee or Advisory Committee and then last year of course the Oversight Committee. I'm going to focus on two specific additional recommendations on page 9 of the report that really deal with closing some key gaps in Title XI that I think are important aspects or ways that Title XI aren't meeting Portlanders' expectations
 Portland, we talk about this as a CYP tree project because we originally aimed to develop a consistent, cohesive, comprehensive regulatory framework. But the reality is we've fallen short in some key ways. And the OEC recommends looking at those. And broadly, they fall into some of the triggers and exemptions that affect specific systems.
 types of developments and then also issues in the public right-of-way. In terms of valuing the triggers and exemptions, the Oversight Committee recommends the City evaluate these triggers and exemptions, specifically the 5,000 square foot site trigger, which applies in
 in its pockets around the city, but also, more broadly, the exemptions for commercial and industrial lands, which if you look at a map, and David Diaz from the Urban Forestry Commission developed a map, it's quite striking the extent of the city that we're leaving out of this citywide tree code. And these are areas that are particularly important to combat any Portland's serious urban heat island problem, important to critical health and...
 important to public health, and they also tend to fall in areas to the extent a lot of industrial land is closer to lower income neighborhoods like on the Columbia Corridor and East Portland. It's important to address trees in those areas to achieve the equitable health outcomes that are a high priority for the city.
 The other area is in the public right-of-way. We've heard a lot about the concerns about large, healthy trees in private development situations. We also heard about problems with large, healthy trees in the public right-of-way and both them being removed and the need to grow them there.
 So the committee recommended kind of a big look, inter-bureal, unified big look at addressing trees in the public dry area, how we can preserve large healthy trees there, and how we can help grow more.
 more there. It's clear there's significant and avoidable conflicts between street improvements and tree preservation and planning, and we need more leadership, innovation, collaboration in the bureaus to address these conflicts. We need to make the innovative, tree-friendly designs and technologies for sidewalks, for example, the default, not something that neighbors have to fight for.
 Cully residents pointed out to us that in their neighborhoods, 75% of large trees, trees over 24 inches diameter, are in or near unimproved streets, which make up 60% of all the streets in the neighborhood. And you have similar situations like this throughout East Portland, even in Southwest Portland, too.
 So I think there's lots of solutions here that would be lots of support in the community, but we need to address those and we need to address them soon. I think we should start in, for example, in the MexU Zone project, which I think we were all surprised to hear really wasn't dealing with street trees in the public right-of-way next to some of these areas that are, you know, the corridors, main commercial corridors where we want.
 envisioning these places as livable, vibrant places. So lastly, I'll just point out that in 2007, the data indicate that the city is falling the farthest short in achieving its tree canopy targets in two areas, commercial industrial land and in the public right-of-way, where we're only about 50 percent of the targets for those particular areas.
 While Title XI is expected to only be one tool to achieve these targets, it's a big concern that Title XI exempts or is really kind of the weakest in these very areas. So I hope that kind of leads to the need to put some focus in both these areas going forward. Thank you very much for the opportunity to serve on the committee and to report to you today, and we look forward to being involved in the next steps.
 Thank you for all of your service. Thank you very much. Thank you. Do you have some other invited testimony? No, that's it. And I understand that staff wants us to take testimony on the report first, and then we move it to continue it for four weeks. All right. Then let's do that, please. Who signed up? For 314, I have five people signed up. Okay. Four people. Jim Katudin, Joe Petrina, and Sarah Long. Okay. Come on up.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, commissioners. Mr. Amir. So let me just pull up my – Give us your name for the record, please. Excuse me for one second. I'll introduce myself. I'm Jim Kitchen, general contractor. Thanks for having us. A lot of work that's gone into this.
 We are general contractors. We're specializing in renovation and remodeling industry, and this is specific to the report, just in the remodeling context. We both belong to the Oregon Remodelers Association and the Home Builders Association, and I know the home builders have not been involved.
 participating in this process, unfortunately, and we've been a little bit absent as well. We've all been very busy since the recession. So what we've seen, it's been a
 We understand the health and vitality of the urban canopy and trees in Portland and contributing to the livability. What's been frustrating is the consequences of the new tree code regulations. It's been difficult.
 People have been frustrated. There's been an educational process. They don't understand the fees involved, the level of protection that we had to go to. Our comment, my comment would be that the regulations are not clear and consistent and easy to implement. I think there's, you know, still a learning curve, and we've had frustration expressed by our...
 building inspectors they've spent some time presenting to us that are some of our membership meetings our clients are frustrated and angry I even had a retired building official it was very angry about the requirements for for the tree code
 Yeah, so let me introduce myself. My name is Joe Petrina. I'm a remodeling contractor. I've been in business in the city of Portland for 35 years. I've also was born and raised in the city of Portland, and I live presently in Laurelhurst. As a remodeling contractor, I come to you to suggest improving the existing tree code to serve both the urban forest as well as residents in the city.
 i believe in the spirit this code i believe the spirit of this code however i believe the present code has some unintended consequences to the remodeling industry and to landscape contractors i'm presently a member of the uh on of the oregon remodelers association as well as a member of the home builders association which are two professional associations that represent the building community
 i believe in the spirit of the new code so i'm not here to protest the fact that we have a new code i think it's great and as jim said we feel like there there might be a few things that might be able to be tweaked in order to maybe make the code a little bit more affordable but still live by that spirit at my house in portland i have a large canopy in my backyard i have a 100 foot pin oak
 I had another 100-foot pin oak, and unfortunately it tried to save it for five years and was unable to do. I have two sweet gums in the front yard that are 80 feet tall. I have two smaller dogwoods. I have two 40-foot red leaf maples. So I do like trees, and I think we all do.
 However, I also have to say that I believe that trees beautify the city. That's how they help with our rain runoff, how they help improve the value of our property, our neighborhood, and our city as a whole. However, I am not in favor of some of the existing or the present restrictions. I have come to the council to express my concern of expensive procedures that are, in my mind, unnecessary measures for the code currently that are enforced.
 Speaking to the building community, to the city inspectors, city planners, and city building officials, I have come prepared to make four proposed changes for the remodeling projects. The four proposed changes would change the code with regard to how to protect the trees. The first proposed change, and by the way, I have emailed all of you this information, so you have it.
 The first change that I would recommend is that right now the code is enforcing us to put six-foot chain link fence, which I'm sure you're all aware of, around a tree. And sometimes it gets to the point where it's such a distance around the tree that it's almost impossible or difficult to even do the building. When you, you know, like there's projects where,
 you know the tree has a canopy of you know 20 feet 25 feet and you're trying to you know put a driveway next to it well it's legal to do it it's just difficult to do it because the actual protections in the way
 Okay, I'm sorry. Well, why don't you lay out your amendments. You're, in a sense, giving us four amendments. He has emailed them to us. Okay. But I'd like to hear them from him if I could. Thank you, Amanda. Thank you. Okay, so I will try and pick up the base. So my suggestion for the – instead of putting up a chain link fence, my suggestion, and we've talked to the members of the Oregon Remodelers Association –
 Instead of using chain link fence, why can't we use like the orange, you know, there's a four-foot orange caution fence that an average contractor can purchase relatively inexpensively. They can keep it in their shop. They can use it. It's still a means of protecting that tree. It's just not as expensive. MR. You're talking about the plastic net kind of thing. MR. That's right, with metal posts. And it would be a four-foot high fence. And you know, most contractors can afford just to keep it.
 It probably doesn't rust. What are your other three, sir? Okay. Second proposal was that we think there should be several things that are exempt. And one of the proposals is hand-dug footings and foundations. Sometimes, you know, there's deck builders. I don't really build decks. I do more major remodels. But there's deck builders. You know, say they're going to build a $2,000 deck, and they're building the deck in the backyard, and there's a tree –
 in the front yard on the opposite end of the house that falls under protection but that by code the deck builder needs to protect the tree so he has to spend 500 or whatever it cost to rent it to buy it to assemble it to dismantle it and take it back
 For a small project, it seems like that should be exempt. And then also, I think that we believe that small additions for less than 200 square feet, which I think it was originally proposed for that to be exempt, and then somehow it fell off the map. Two other items for exemption would be hand dug wells, window wells, you know, for egress.
 and any other related items that would not affect the tree roots. What low-impact excavation method? That's correct. And I feel like this would save the homeowner unnecessary expenses but still live by the spirit of the tree code. Third proposal, let me try and sum this up. So...
 that trees that are located on a building site in a remodel should only be protected if it's a specific distance away from the work or if it's in the path of the construction, which I just explained to you about. And I had a job recently where we were putting a front porch on
 this house and we're doing a kitchen remodel, there was a huge tree on the very back of the property. There was a fence between us and that back tree, and there wasn't any work being done in the back, but by code, we're supposed to protect that tree in the backyard. The owner said, I can't believe it. I just can't believe that we have to put tree protection.
 and spend $500 for a tree in the backyard where it has no effect. Or another thing is like, I have a job that I'm looking at now where we're putting a driveway in, or the driveway's there and putting a new garage in where an existing garage was. There's a tree on the opposite side of the property, on the front of the house. You would never come close to it. So we're just wondering why do we have to put tree protection for areas like that. So that would be my third proposal. And my last proposal,
 which is pretty simple. This is the code right now. It's a 95-page document for the existing tree codes. And what we're suggesting from the homeowners or the Home Builders Association and the Oregon Remodelers Association is that we could simplify the tree ordinance so that we can have a tri-fold, which the City of Portland has a dozen of these for attic conversions and
 for staircases, for dormers, for basement remodels. So why can't we take this...
 and put it in this so it's really hard to do it may be hard to do but it should some we we need to simplify it so the average homeowner for you know for the guy working out of the back of his truck as a small landscape contractor and has no clue what you know what's being discussed and may not follow the news may not read the news may not find about it until he has a violation and we don't want people like that to get harmed and we're also trying to save money for um
 you know, to homeowners so that they're not paying unintended expenses. So I just wanted to say I've talked to a lot of professionals, and they're saying that this code is probably one of the more difficult codes to implement because it's expensive. And I've talked to people that are city inspectors, contractors, homeowners, and said,
 And the bottom line is it's coming down to the homeowner's expenses. And it's not that I don't want to protect trees, but we want to do it in a reasonable fashion. So I truly believe in the spirit of the code, and I think there are several unintended consequences, and we would appreciate the council's consideration in this matter.
 Thank you very much. All right, just closing, kind of summarize. So I think there's a distinction between remodeling and site redevelopment. I don't know if this code addresses that adequately. And then we're going to continue to participate in whatever levels we can still participate with the urban forestry people. Thank you both very much. Thank you for your time. Okay, who's next? Sarah Long and Bob Sollinger. Good afternoon. Hello.
 Okay, so... Just give us your name, Sarah, for the record. Oh, Sarah. Sarah Long. Right. Okay. I'm waiting for the file that I just sent to Carla. Oh, okay. Give her a second to route it to us here. Okay. What that is is a copy of an email. It's a photograph of a copy of an email that was sent from Luke Miller to Stephanie Beckman, who spoke earlier today, who is sitting next to Mike Abate right there.
 What was going on was the developer who owned the house that I lived in submitted a very falsified Arborist report. And as you can see in this email here, Luke Miller was trying to bring light to that. He said this was far from the only time it had happened and that he was going to use it as an example. I never heard from Luke Miller again after I saw this email. He didn't send it to me. I got it from a public records request. Um...
 In fact, I was never able to talk to Luke Miller again, and I'm kind of concerned about his career in urban forestry, given that he was trying to bring light to corruption within the Bureau. In the end, I actually had to go to Stephanie Beckman's supervisor, because she would not listen to me on the fact that the arborist report had been falsified. And I finally got to her supervisor, who oversees a lot of people, she's extremely busy, and
 the supervisor, after months of Stephanie stonewalling, was finally able to force for this, you know, thing to take place. And he wrote this really scathing email, as you can see. At the end of this episode, all of the trees I tried to save were killed, except for one. I saved one. But...
 And two of them had never been fixed. They were never identified as the correct species. And my former landlord got out of paying $2,400. I have proof that they were the wrong species. I got another arborist report, but there's no enforcement written in that safeguards in situations of fraud. And so there's nothing that can be done in arrears about those trees that were killed wrongly.
 So I just wanted to bring that to your attention. Bob, come on up. Good afternoon. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for Portland Audubon. This is Jed. His mom's sick today, so he got to come to council. So I apologize for the various noises from the back of the room. Unneeded. I'll be very brief today. I just want to, first of all, express Audubon's appreciation for the work done by this committee. I think they've done really good work. It's important work. But I also want to point out...
 uh something that i think is really ironic i put it out once before but i'm going to keep pointing it out and that is the fact that we're spending this incredible amount of time and money and we should be to protect our trees the goal is to increase our urban canopy and yet we're also at the same time proposing to cut the dutch elm program which would be the largest loss of trees up to three thousand trees um
 to save a couple hundred thousand dollars. And, you know, as we're doing all this work and putting all this code in and these inspections and saving, you know, one tree at a time and spending a lot of money doing it, we're talking about, for a very small amount of money, the biggest loss of big, beautiful trees literally in decades. Right.
 and i just don't understand how we get there not really we're well we are it's it's it's we have to propose that that the city budget office is recommending against the cut and i doubt very much whether the council will approve it okay well when i hear that confirmed i'll be very happy to hear it i will say that it's come up year in and year out i think this is probably the fifth or sixth time i've testified against it it came up every year i was on the parks board
 And I really wish that we would stop doing these kinds of things because it just takes a tremendous amount of resources. And we know that if we don't come in and testify, it does go through. You know, if the council doesn't hear. So what it requires us to do year in and year out is to come back and testify like this and then get told, well, we weren't intending to do it in the first place.
 That's not good public process. It's not good public policy. I hope we can come up with a plan. And one of the things I would recommend for this plan, if we're really thinking holistically about trees, and we've recommended this for many years, is to get a plan for the Dutch elms.
 let's put that in place. It should be in the central city plan. It should be in the tree plan, wherever it needs to live. But let's invest the time to think about how do we transition these thousands of trees, what makes sense over the next 50 or 60 years, because we probably don't want to spend money every single year on them. What we probably want to do is save some for the full 60 years. Yeah.
 save some for a period of that and then transition some out and sort of sequence it so we replace that canopy and save money as we do it, but we don't just lose them all in one fell swoop. And so I'd really encourage folks to add that to the plan going forward. I think it would save us a lot of time and angst every single year in the budget process and would also be, you know, probably the most significant thing we could do to preserve our canopy because it's going to save far more trees probably in the short run than what we're doing here.
 Both are important. So thank you. And again, I apologize for all the noise from the back of the room. No, no apologies. I really appreciate you highlighting this issue, both because it's an important issue, and I agree with you, but also because I do think it's important for people to know the budget choices we're making. Because as Commissioner Fritz said, the city budget office does not recommend that cut.
 But they recommended other cuts in parks. They recommended eliminating the police officers in the school program. That's the way they balanced the budget. So I think the Commissioner Ritz is right that the Dutch Own Program is probably safe. But people out there need to know that these are the kind of tough choices that we're making. And it's because we're dedicating millions of dollars to affordable housing. It's okay.
 Counsel, we are supposed to be moving to the next item. But right there, Bob, in light of the fact that Bob is full-time parenting right now, I'm wondering if you would let him testify on the next one before we even hear the staff report on it so that you can give full attention to some of these demands. And, Bob, since you're next in queue, he can sit up here if he wants. Bob, the other thing I'll just say about the 5% cut package is that
 I may be in a minority. I don't know what the views of all my colleagues are, but when Mayor Hales came in and did a modified zero-based budgeting at 95%, it created a lot of very uncomfortable conversations because it forced people to rank and prioritize and think about some things. We actually spun off some work, and we created new partnerships for some work in some bureaus, or we rethought where things should land.
 And the pushback we get is that each year we're having this painful conversation about identifying things. And if it wasn't the Dutch Elm cut, it would be a swimming pool. And people would come say, well, you're healthy Portland. How can you dare put a pool on? That's against your health mandate or anything. We're a maintenance cut. Well, how can you do that? Because you're supposed to be maintaining things. I still think.
 personally, that this exercise that the mayor initiated, we've done every other year, is a healthy one, even though I understand your frustration. And you and I both, and Commissioner Fritz was very clear during the budget that most of her proposed cuts were, what did you call them? Against my recommendation. Well, you called them, not Empire State Buildings, but Washington Monuments. Washington Monuments. I said that everything in parks is a Washington Monument. Yeah, so she made it very clear that there was,
 no cut that she was going to advocate for. But my personal view is that it's an exercise that every once in a while does bear fruit in a bureau, causing us to rethink something. But I take your point. Your point is also accurate, that it produces the anomaly of us doing a hearing like this and having a cut that is inconsistent. But almost every cut on the 5% cut packages is inconsistent with the core mission of the bureau that's proposed it. So therein lies the dilemma. It's a process.
 So if we could move to the stopgap amendment, which we had testimony two weeks ago and then was amendment to the amendment, if you'd like to testify on that, Bob. I know you've written a letter on behalf of Votabon. No, I really appreciate that and again, I apologize. Jim's doing a wonderful job of parroting back there, though, so it's good to know that.
 So we did send a letter. You know, we appreciate the intent behind Commissioner Saltzman's proposed additional amendment regarding affordable housing. Certainly no one wants to drive up the cost of affordable housing, but we think this is the wrong way to do it. We think we're trading one inequity against another because the neighborhoods that are getting the most affordable housing are also the neighborhoods with the least trees.
 And I don't think we can pit one inequity against another. I think it's not a zero-sum game where the poorest neighborhoods can either have trees or sidewalks or clean water or healthy air. We have to do all of those things. And when we consider that, we need to compare it against the whole budget and where we spend money in other places. And I certainly come up with a lot of places that I think are better to cut than trading one inequity against another in a poor neighborhood. Okay.
 And, you know, I've been asked by staff the question, well, how many trees is it? It might be only a few trees. And my answer to that is a couple things. First of all, if it's only a few trees, then the city can subsidize that mitigation. And that's our recommendation. Don't just put in the exception for affordable housing. Also, agree to mitigate for those trees that will be lost out of the city's fund if, in fact, we do need to do an exception for an affordable housing complex. And if it's only a few trees, you can afford to do that.
 And if it's a lot of trees, then you can't afford not to do that because those are the neighborhoods that don't have very many trees. And when there were three big trees being cut down in Eastmoreland, that was so important that the city, the mayor's office actually directly intervened and got involved. And I'm glad they did. But that's a neighborhood with a heck of a lot of trees. And the loss of those three trees was.
 means a heck of a lot less in that neighborhood than one big tree in, for example, my neighborhood, King neighborhood, where there are no big trees left. If you cut down the one tree that's there, it may be the one tree for blocks and blocks that's big.
 And so I really think when we do these kinds of things, we can't play this zero-sum game. If we're going to exempt affordable housing, let's also put in place, first of all, very strict standards to make sure that the exemption is really needed in this case, that there's no way to avoid cutting the tree, and that to me would be a site inspection. And two, I think the city should step up and create a fund, and it probably doesn't have to be very big, where they subsidize the replacement of those trees so we don't see the neighborhoods with the least trees and the communities that need them the most
 lose the few trees they have left. And the Climate Change Action Plan, which I quoted directly in my letter, speaks very specifically to this. How are we going to deal with urban heat island in underserved neighborhoods? We're going to plant trees. Let's live up to that obligation. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Thanks very much. Okay. Let's move on into the rest of the list on the first item. Yeah. I think we're done on the first. Okay. I'm sorry. Go ahead then. Okay.
 So now we have to frame the second item. Right. I'm ready to offer my amendment. I didn't hear Carla read the item. Oh, I guess you read them both. Oh, okay. Now introduce and remind us of what we did two weeks ago, that this is a stopgap measure to try to stop the removal of very large trees. The proposal has a significant impact only on trees greater than 36 inches, which is a very small percentage of trees.
 and that by requiring inch-for-inch mitigation for above 36 inches, it will create a significant disincentive to remove these historic trees. And then if the developer chooses to remove them, then there is significant mitigation. And I understand that Commissioner Salisbury wishes to offer an amendment. Yes, thank you. I'd like to first...
 Well, this is a substitute amendment for the amendment that Commissioner Fish offered on my behalf two weeks ago when I was out sick. So I'd like to offer this as a substitute. Second. Could you read it, please, for everybody? How about if I describe the intent? It's a long amendment. It's got a lot of words in it. It's fundamentally the same amendment. It will exempt the inch-by-inch diameter tree mitigation requirement for affordable housing projects.
 that are approved for our system development charge waiver due to their affordable housing component the sub substitute are the subtle changes here between what was offered two weeks ago and today is that one this will prorate the exemption to the percentage of units that actually achieve the sdc waiver and two the housing director may craft administrative rules that can refine this process as real world circumstances dictate
 And I also want to point out that the amendment makes clear that the developer must demonstrate to the city that the proposed development cannot be situated on the lot to save the trees in question. And I'm confident that with the improved working relationship between the Bureau of Development Services and the Housing Bureau, that this requirement can be utilized to push hard on developers to save trees. So I want to thank everybody who's worked on this amendment over the last few weeks and thank you.
 And we'll take testimony and hopefully we'll act on this amendment and on the package today. I would like to have some council discussions since I wasn't involved in preparing this amendment. Could you tell us how you see the demonstration of the retention requirement? How will that happen? I'd be happy to bring Matt Grum up from my office to explain that.
 And the procedure is to have it seconded, placed on the table, and then we can have discussion. All right. So let's do that. Okay. Sorry, I thought that had already been done. Let's proceed to get it on the table. So is there a second for Dan's amendment? Okay. Yeah, there was a second. Further discussion to accept the amendment and begin discussion. So let's accept the amendment, and then we'll move on into discussion. Yes. I'll accept it for discussion. Aye. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Aye.
 Novick? Hi. Hale. Hi. Okay. Matt, please. Yes. Basically, my understanding is when a developer comes in and wants to use the SDC exemption program, they work with the Housing Bureau to apply for that. In those circumstances, the Housing Bureau will contact the Bureau of Development Services, work with them to say, hey, let's look at this developer's plot. If need be, we can send a tree inspector out to the lot to work with them.
 to find out why they need to put the homes where they are. And if the inspectors feel that there's a way, we'll continue to work with them. And it's ultimately the housing bureau that approves whether they're allowed to get the SDC exemption, is my understanding. So the intent of the code, the treat title 11, is to streamline it so that there are fewer bureaus being involved? So the housing bureau will have trade inspectors? No, these are the Bureau of Development Services. These are the inspectors that are co-located at the Bureau of Development Services.
 But this says the director of the Housing Bureau is adopting the rules. If need be in the real world, basically as it works now, you have to go to the Housing Bureau to get your SDC exemption, and you also need to go to the Bureau of Development Services to get your permits and your tree, obviously all your permits. They work together, and they basically meet now weekly to talk about affordable housing projects, and these can easily pop up in those meetings as, hey, we have a developer trying to get the SDC exemption as well as the tree exemption. Let's talk about this, and if we need to send an inspector out, we'll look at the site.
 What do you make of the proposal that Bob Salinger raised about having the city possibly subsidize the medication? Obviously, that's a policy call for the city council and the use of your resources. Well, that's true. That is a policy call. How long have you been doing this? I don't know.
 So the amendment assumes that the cost of removing the tree is less than the cost of mitigation. Is there any kind of weighing? Some of these large trees are expensive to remove. Is there any, under your proposal, how would you evaluate whether it's actually more expensive to remove the tree than to save it? I guess I don't quite understand. That would be, I guess, the determination of the developer and not the city of the cost.
 But if the basis of the amendment is to save the applicant money... The applicant doesn't have to pay the inch-for-inch mitigation. They still have to pay the $1,200 fee that we normally have under the amendment. They just don't have to pay the inch-for-inch mitigation fee. $1,200 for a 50-inch tree. As it is now under current code. I'm sure we'll have citizens who want to testify on this, and then I would like to return to discussion after that.
 thank you all right thanks matt so let's go ahead and take testimony then on the second item which is the uh the regulatory changes i show eight more people uh michael withy mark bello and justin wood
 Good afternoon, Michael. Good afternoon. Mike Withey with Micro Community Concepts. Although we've only designed a couple small communities in Portland, we've been able to design around them. Whenever we design something, we bring in landscapers, plant biologists, and architects. So the 150-person Stark project, we saved an old growth tree, hazelnut trees. We even saved the grapes that were existing there.
 So we believe it can be done with a little ingenuity. I'm very excited that you guys are willing to let folks that are building low-income housing get some exemptions and that the city may work with us on that.
 There is one problem that I see, and I think that Jill Petrina made a good point of it. I live across the street from Matt Safina, the Safinas, and they have a garage that's falling down. So they need to fix this garage. But in order to do that, they had to spend $7,000 to be able to just scope it out, get the – not even before the permit process actually happened, actually.
 And part of that was $700 so that they could surround a fence, even though it's 50 feet away from the project.
 So I think that there's some things that need to be straightened out about this, but I think for the most part it looks pretty good. I'm very impressed with the work that's been done so far, and I really don't have anything negative to say other than we can bring down the cost for the developers and the builders and the homeowners, and that's one of the ways to do that. One way to do that is to not make people fence things that really don't need to be fenced.
 In terms of the stopgap of Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, though, you're in favor of not requiring trees to be preserved on affordable housing sites? I think that when you build affordable housing, it's extremely hard to get anybody to build affordable housing anyway. I think you know that. Unless, of course, it's financed by the city for the most part, whether it's through our own sort of inclusionary zoning non-rules or not.
 It's very hard to build affordable housing affordably. And so anything that you can do to mitigate those costs, whether it's replacing sidewalks, trees at the sidewalks, or any other thing that you can do to make it more affordable for developers to come in and build affordable housing, yeah, I think it's a good idea. And if the city can help pay to bring new trees in, then yeah. That's not what's being proposed. Mitigate.
 Cutting the trees down and then replacing them mitigating the cost being proposed under Commissioner Sussman's amendment is not doing the mitigation Just a twelve hundred dollar fee. Oh Good afternoon, it's a pleasure to be here. My name is Mark Bello. I live at two one four six Northeast 9th Avenue I am the new chair of the urban forestry Commission. I was also on the oversight Advisory Committee and it's been a Quite a quite a task this last year. I
 As you know, thank you for passing that out. What was more challenging, leading a distinguished unit of public employees or chairing the Urban Forestry Commission? The union is easier because union employees like to shout at each other and it's okay. Okay. Okay.
 We wrote before urging you to pass the emergency tree ordinance, and we were delighted. I will not repeat the kudos from Chris or Carrie about that hearing, how well that went. And we saw the amendment from Commissioner Salzman, and we felt we needed to do due diligence and looked at some alternative approach. And now I have a substitute ordinance, which raises one last issue. Okay.
 and perhaps another way of helping. So first of all, I was very concerned. It's not in the letter, but Trillium Corps was raised to you as a reason why we need to exempt affordable housing from the SDC charges or that we need to have no policy unlike the proposal from the Audubon Society.
 I looked at what we gained and lost in that project. That project, just very quickly, was 18,000 square feet. 4,000 square feet was in an environmental zone. There were three trees on site, a duck fur 48 inches, a duck fur 58 inches, and a sequoia 66 inches. I tried to figure out how much we lost by allowing the duck furs to be cut, because those trees, once they're cut, they no longer provide the benefits. Just to keep it simple, I looked at stormwater.
 I went to the iTree software, the national software base. Those trees are so large, they fall off the chart. So just extrapolating, it looks to me like every year, those trees prevent 15,000 gallons of water flowing off-site. Over 10 years, that's a million gallons. Over the 20 years we played for the replacement trees, that's, sorry, 2 million gallons.
 The trees, because it was an environmental zone, the trees proposed will perhaps stop 1,000 gallons a year at beginning. And they will ramp up. So what we gained was we gained seven affordable housing units. What we lost was 2 million gallons of stormwater and all the other issues. So...
 Finally, looking at the site plan, trees are cut not for building square footage but for our surface parking lot. That's why we thought we need to have perhaps a look at these because in some cases a large multi-dwelling project with many affordable housing units, you just can't have both. You can't save the trees and have the housing. It's clear. We have a housing affordability crisis.
 But in low density or in some of these low unit affordable projects, it's extremely important that we have that look, which is what we tried to craft in our amendment. Let me just finish by saying the new amendment, really, I feel the devil's in the details. This –
 The new SDC rules could require, as Matt alluded to, something very much along the lines of a competent city official having a quick discussion. So I do feel that there's a workable solution. I just am concerned that the council not feel compelled to, A, underestimate what we're losing by cutting these trees, and, B, thinking that it's trees versus affordable housing.
 I think that would be a big mistake. I think like a design zone, like an environmental zone, if you have big enough trees, it really is worth it to have that conversation. Finally, it's $150 for current – when I was a planner, it was $150 for a one-hour discussion. It could be $300, or there could be an early assistance appointment. But I think as part of this, we could ask the housing –
 providers to meet with the city and talk about what's on site and what can be saved. Thank you. Thank you. That's what my amendment requires. Mark, did the Open Forestry Commission send this to Council and to Commissioner Novick, I mean, Saltzman? Our letter, yes. Commissioner Saltzman, did you consider this amendment? Yes, we did. And I thought, we thought it was a little bit...
 more onerous and expensive for developers of affordable housing, and it could result in them not being able to build the affordable housing that is so necessary. I mean, we're very glib about saying nobody favors tradeoffs, but, you know, reality requires some tradeoffs. And right now we lack 34,000 units of affordable housing in this city, and so –
 I'm trying to make sure, I'm trying to strike a compromise here that will allow affordable housing to be constructed without gumming up the work so much that people throw up their hands and say, forget it. How many affordable housing units are we expecting on single-family lots? This applies to multifamily as well, but I don't have that number. This isn't just single-family lots. Okay, let's go ahead. I've got some questions, but go ahead, Justin.
 good afternoon my name is justin wood i am an infill home builder i also was on the original title i mean title 11 a tree code work group and was one of the original members of the tree oversight committee um i do support the original proposal that's in front of you that i guess i'm going to call it the fritz saltzman proposal which um placed trees in development in large trees and development situations at a 48 inch threshold
 However, I'm here today to ask you to not support the amendment lowering that threshold of 36 inches. Both the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, BDS, and when the Tree Oversight Committee originally heard the ask from council was to figure out a way to preserve large trees in development situations. And every amount of discussion and data and statistics that we looked at dealt with trees in the 48 to 50 inch threshold.
 I had communications with several of you, including Commissioner Fritz at one point when it was mentioned that we weren't talking about a great number of trees at trees larger than 48 inches. And I do believe that to be correct. I don't think we're talking about a huge number of trees. It would be adversely impacted, and I think it's a good way to save large trees.
 However, I think the amount of trees that are going to be affected by this at 36 inches is a huge number. Just in the last couple weeks alone, I have gone out and looked at sites that have quite a large number of trees in the 36 to 40-inch range. And a lot of times, the single one, two-lot houses we build on are not big enough to design around the trees.
 I would use an example that if one of you were to offer up an amendment today changing the threshold to 65 inches or some other number, that there would be an equal number of people in the audience upset about the fact that there was no data to support 65 inches as opposed to 36 inches.
 I think we need to go back in and actually look at how many trees are going to be impacted at 36 inches, what's the number, because 48 inches was what most everybody had studied and had worked on. I sat on a housing affordability task force that was put together by the Speaker and several other members of the state legislature dealing with affordability issues on houses, and I'm not talking about just the families that are below medium family income, but housing costs across all spectrums.
 And as somebody who builds houses that some qualify for STC waivers, but some are just above that spectrum, I think we're creating a system where those, I've heard some of you mention the missing middle housing, and I think we're creating a system now where the missing middle housing is getting really adversely impacted.
 because we're exempting or we're going to work for the families at the lowest wages. And quite frankly, the people building the McMansions, they're so affectionately termed, can afford to pay $10,000, $20,000 for a room of a tree. But those of us who might be building a house at $320,000 for the cop who lives in Portland can't. And so that's going to take that lot out of the inventory for somebody like me who wants to build that house. So...
 It's not just the lowest levels that this is going to impact. It's everybody. I would also ask the council to, with the report that you received earlier, to look at some problems with the existing city code regulations. You've heard some of them in regards to the fencing. I have some sites I've sent you guys examples on where we've had situations where
 saving the trees actually was harder to do than taking them out because it was harder to meet the regulations to save them. Matter of fact, we just had a lot that had 11 trees on them. We turned in to remove all 11 trees. I'm not intending to remove them. I'm going to design around the houses. But it's easier for me to pay the fee and say I'm going to remove the trees and then design the house around them without having to put the fences up and have the inspections and the arborists on site every time we do it. So it's actually easier for us to – on paper. So –
 Lastly, just as somebody who served on Title 11, I'd ask the council to consider that when we were trying to craft Title 11, we were all striving to come up with something that was easy. And we were also trying to come up with something that didn't require an arborist on every project. That was specifically one of our goals. Unfortunately, I think we're going down a path that is going to require us right back to having an arborist on everything, every project, to verify the size of the tree, the species of the tree, whether or not it needs to be saved or not. And we're getting away from what that requires.
 So I would ask the council to please consider the original proposal at 48 inches. And if 36 is the number that you ultimately end up on, ask the stakeholders that have worked on that to determine what the impacts to affordability are going to be and the tree canopy are going to be and come back with that as a later package. Thank you. Justin, what proportion of the fish construction homes are eligible for our system development charge exemptions? Right now we're about 50-50. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 The next three are Paul Groh, Carol McCarthy, and Marty Suchik.
 Go ahead, Paul, while they're getting settled. Sounds good. Mayor Hales, members of council, Paul Grove with the Portland Home Builders, thank you for the opportunity to testify today. Appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. It certainly impacts some of our members, as was previously testified to, and then also folks like Habitat and others that are in and around that range. It is...
 It is a benefit. But at the end of the day...
 I would echo Justin's sentiments around that threshold figure and note that the impacts to housing affordability, and in particular those, if you're looking at along the spectrum, that are within that middle range and just above the SDC waiver threshold, we're looking at the impacts to the middle class to housing
 workforce housing at a time when frankly we should be doing what we can in our power to protect and grow workforce related housing.
 And I think moving forward, the initial stopgap measure, again, was contemplated under the notion of these large trees and the advisory bodies that looked and discussed at this worked its way through a process that initially
 initially landed at that 48-inch threshold, and I think that that threshold is much more reflective of the discussions that had led up to the initial proposal that was before council, and I think is much more indicative and reflective of the genesis of the issue from the November timeframe.
 I think it's something that these costs get either passed on to the ultimate homebuyer at the end of the day or make development potentially prohibitive on certain lots. And I think we have to be mindful of that middle portion of the spectrum when we're looking at these proposals and understand that this impact taken in concert has cumulative effects to housing affordability and something that we certainly have to be mindful of at the end of the day. Thank you. Thank you.
 Afternoon. Hi. Can you hear me? My name is Carol McCarthy. I live at 4311 Southwest Freeman Street, and I'm testifying today as the chair of the Multnomah Neighborhood Association. So the Multnomah Neighborhood Association adopted a position in January supporting the Audubon Society's proposed reforms to Title XI. In addition, we requested that the exemption from the tree code provisions for development lots under 5,000 square feet be removed. I have copies of my letter that I forgot to hand out.
 Our letter to you promoting our support of the Audubon Society's reforms and removal of the exemption for development lots smaller than 5,000 square feet was endorsed by SWNI, the Coalition of 17 Southwest Neighborhoods. Today I want to focus on the importance of removing the exemption from the tree code protections to trees and development lots under 5,000 square feet.
 This exemption removes protections to trees on most of the infill development lots in our neighborhood. These lots may be clear-cut. This type of infill typically removes an affordable house from a large lot, and then it is split into two lots where two large houses at about twice the price are constructed. These houses are often inhabited by two people each or four people total, when for decades families with that many or more people have lived on that larger lot.
 In many cases, there's little or no increase in density with this type of infill. The trees are removed, and with them, we lose all the benefits that we've heard about today to air, water quality, noise reduction, wildlife habitat, and neighborhood aesthetics. And this is not a good bargain. It is distressing our residents who strongly identify with our neighborhood trees.
 We do not have the financial resources or the good fortune of knowing South Park heroes to save trees that are as noble as the Eastmoreland giant sequoias. We are relying on you to equitably preserve trees in our less affluent side of the river.
 And then just listening to all the testimony here today, I guess I'd now like to speak as myself, that if the process doesn't allow you to remove the exemption of 5,000 square foot lots, that you immediately impose a moratorium on cutting down trees of 36 inches at breast height until the new amendments can be considered, because right now,
 Every day we're seeing, as Marty will testify, large trees being cut down. And they take so long to replace, you know, 100 years. So it's too fast to cut them down now, you know. Thank you. Thank you very much. Marty, welcome. Marty Sutrek, 7005 Southwest 34th.
 Actually, we don't need your address anymore. Okay. Well, can I have those minutes back in a second? You bet. Go ahead. A couple seconds. I haven't been here for a while. I think I was. I'm here to tell you about a specific thing.
 And I was going to say all the things that have been said to you many times about the value of trees, their enormous benefits, et cetera. And I heard a lot of stuff here that's put it much better than I could by the tree code people, the implementation people, the tree code committee people. And the remodelers made a lot of sense to me. You know, especially the guy where the tree is in the back. And I remodeled 10 years ago.
 I have a tree very close to that, but I wouldn't want that. So I would encourage you to consider that. And I also want to say about the middle trees, the 36-inch trees, the 48-inch trees. How old are your kids? The kids now who are 7 and 8 who are in middle school are...
 Are they going to not grow up with trees the way we've had them if you reduce that? You know, I mean, if you increase the low threshold, we're going to have large trees and little trees planted by the friends of trees. That's not good. You know, we need to do something to protect that. And because of what I've seen in my neighborhood, I don't think it's all that costly. In our neighborhood, there is a giant specimen of a Deodora cedar. This picture is my written testimony.
 It's coming down on or after April 5th. An old man, the people that brought it from England, it was planted in the early 1900s probably. It's got two trunks. It is almost 80 inches in diameter. The developer reported that it was 41 inches in diameter, which would have been a middle-sized tree that could go down. The old man sold...
 The tree, when he was assured, I mean, sold the property when he was assured it would be okay for $185,000. When you buy a property in the 1900s for $20,000, you think you're getting a big profit maybe. In less than three weeks, it was sold to a developer for $450,000, less than three weeks. This is a predatory situation we find is occurring more and more in our neighborhoods, just not our neighborhood but around where people don't have family watching out for them.
 I like the tree code. I like to say what Carol did. 5,000 square feet should not be exempted because large trees do not know they are on 5,000 square feet. They give their benefits no matter the size of the lot. They're just like salmon. They don't know when they're crossing the urban growth boundary. So we've got to find a way to use imagination effectively.
 In order to put these houses on trees, we're not getting density in our neighborhood. What we're getting, as Carol said, we're getting the removal of modest houses that need energy upgrading, that have well-established gardens or well-established habitat for pollinators or gardens for people to grow their own food. So I'm asking you to...
 exempt the exemption, take the 5,000 square foot exemption off. You say, two commissioners say that because our policy in the city is density, we have to do this, but they're not head-on trade-offs. We can get density in ways and places that don't require us to cut down trees, even the 36-inch ones.
 And I would ask you that for the future of the children of this neighborhood and this region. Oh, the developer told us that Portland is the only place where they can do this and they're taking advantage of it. He's a businessman, he's taking advantage of it. We don't quibble with that. We quibble with the fact that Portland is the only area where you can do this kind of destruction. Marty, can I ask you a question?
 Would you do me a favor after you finish testifying? Would you, on a piece of paper, write the name of the seller and the address of this property? Well, I don't know the gentleman's name, but I can get it for you. If you could give me preliminarily, I have your contact information. You've raised another issue in your statement to us.
 that may be of interest to the Attorney General Elder Fraud Unit. And I just, the numbers are so striking, I want to just make sure that we don't overlook that as well. Okay, thank you very much, Commissioner. Thank you for bringing that to our attention. Elder Fraud? Yeah, there's an Elder Fraud Unit. If you give me just some contact information, I'll follow up with you. Okay. May I email that to your office, or do you want to, now I can give you the, okay, I'll email. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah, thank you all very much.
 The last two people I show signed up are Linda Robinson and Sarah Long. Welcome, Linda.
 So I'm Linda Robinson from East Portland. I feel at a little bit of a disadvantage testifying about the amendment because the amendment's different than what I thought it was when I prepared to testify. I haven't read it. I don't know. It sounds quite complicated. I do want to say that I have some real concerns about exempting
 affordable housing from the tree code of requirements for many of the same reasons that Bob Salinger and a couple of the people on the committee, I think it was Jim Labby, mentioned an equity issue. Many of the affordable housing units are being built in and near low-income neighborhoods. Yes.
 these neighborhoods have fewer trees to start with. In many cases, I'm not well, in some cases the exemption probably doesn't make much difference because I don't think there are very many very big trees. There aren't that many trees that are even 36 inches let alone 48 or 54 but I'd hate to have them...
 exempt from the tree code requirements because these neighborhoods are heat islands. These neighborhoods, they need the services of these trees as much or more than any other neighborhood does. So I have some real problems with that. And since others have been talking about some of the other stuff, I'll mention that as well. I, too, think that the 5,000-foot and under threshold should go away. Okay.
 I think it gives an incentive to create lots that are not quite 5,000 and therefore be exempt from all of the tree code provisions. And I don't see that as a good thing, particularly if they're dividing things up. They could create lots that are a whole bunch of them that are not quite 5,000 feet and then be exempt. So, yeah.
 I have some real problems with a number of those things, but the exemption of public property or public bureaus, the exemption of the affordable housing, the exemption of the site. I don't like seeing the exemption of all the road right-of-ways as a flat-out exemption. I think there are a lot of cases where sidewalks can be designed in different ways. I've seen it done in some of the inner-city neighborhoods around big trees.
 that can happen in some of our areas where we're putting sidewalks in for the first time as well. So I think there has to be a way that it's not just a flat-out broad exemption. My name is Sarah Long. I just looked up the tree at 7316 Southwest 33rd Avenue that we're talking about. This is what it looks like, guys. Commissioner Fritz, see? Okay.
 This tree will come down over my cold, dead body. The trees at 7707 Southeast Alder Street will come down over my cold, dead body. It's not going to happen. It's long past time for the citizens of this city to stand up to the developers and their shills, especially the ones who work in BDS. Quit smiling at me, Stephanie. God.
 We're going to put a stop to this. I know you guys are pretty insulated. You don't feel the anger out there on the streets, especially since working people don't have time to come in here in the middle of the day and talk to you. You hear mostly from people who are making a salary to be here and talk to you. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Any more testimony? Mayor, I have a couple of questions of staff.
 I have some questions of staff. I understand we may be losing Commissioner Novick. What's your pleasure in the endgame here? MR. I have some questions of staff, too. So I know we're going to lose Steve in a moment. So I want to take – MR. I might come back, waiting for a call that I absolutely have to take. But I can come back after the call if we're still going on. MR. All right.
 I'll just tell you what the question is. So I'll be guided by you and Commissioner Fritz on this. I have some questions relating to the matter which we set over. Should I just put those in writing to Commissioner Fritz, you, and staff? For the report, yes. The report. Thank you. There were some questions that came up that I thought were interesting comments. They were almost like recap questions, and they struck me that there might be some fixes we can come up with. So I'll send –
 the distinguished city forester copy my colleagues those questions since we're coming back so that's that's okay good plan is that it all right simple enough so can we ask staff to come back up and address some issues I think so refresh my memory on the five thousand square foot provision so it was it was
 It was a huge – well, actually, it's not refreshing your memory, Mayor Hales, because you weren't here. It was a huge discussion in 2011 in adopting the code. The entire code is structured to not apply to 5,000 square foot lots. So if that's something that the council wants us and actually to direct the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to look at in the ongoing project, we can do that. But we couldn't just change the number. The whole code is put together.
 with having it in mind that it doesn't apply under 5,000 square foot. In fact, for the smaller lots, there's additional street tree requirements and other such things. Okay. I guess it seems to me that provision would function even if item sub A1 wasn't there. No, there's a whole bunch of other things that are connected to that, that the –
 Can you explain better than me? Help me out here. Not having been here in 2011 and not having been here. I'm not going to say it any better than Commissioner Fritz, but the whole Title XI, you've just kind of got to think of it as sort of a package deal that the 5,000-square-foot lot exemption, it's unlawful.
 based on a number of considerations, including the urban development pattern. And then there's tradeoffs that would also apply to smaller sites. I think you mentioned the street tree issue. So it's not an isolated problem.
 It's not something that's isolated and can be looked at in isolation? It could be. I think her point is that it's better to look at the whole package together. It's not just in that section. It's in multiple sections. Okay. But as a matter of policy, the thought was...
 The thought was that in order to have a size house that a family could live in on a lot that's less than 5,000 square foot, it might be, as you've heard, really challenging to both save and plant significant numbers of trees on very small lots. I'll just clarify, too, that that item is on the preliminary list of items to look at with the –
 The bigger amendment project? And I'm glad to hear that you're interested in it. I didn't like it in the first place. I just can't say. I'm worried about, I'm not sure if this is the correct term of art, pernicious synergy between other things in the zoning code that might cause people to split lots and this. Yeah.
 I think that from what we're seeing, developers don't need any encouragement to make the smallest possible lots and the largest number of them in order to maximize their profits. I understand that. I understand that problem. Okay. Then some of these relatively minor but I thought constructive suggestions about...
 orange plastic fencing versus six foot chain link fencing and such? Those are all the things that we agreed to send by email. I do want to state for the record that that was also extensively discussed in 2011 along with multiple pictures of bulldozers having knocked over said orange fencing. But because in my view they feel more like a
 recap issues, cornerstone issues. They are. I think. Clearly. And we've set that matter over anyway. I just think we can all send our e-mails and then get responses and decide whether we want to do amendments. I got it. Okay. Thank you. That's helpful to me. So if I could just return to the issue of Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. As it was described by Matt Grumm,
 you would call BDS tree inspectors to inspect the lots? That's the understanding. If the site plan or the developer was saying, hey, I need to get the exemption for the large tree, basically coming and say, I have a 42-inch tree on the lot, I'd like to get that exemption, that's exactly when the housing bureau would connect up with BDS and say, hey, what's going on out here? Let's take a look at that. Do they deserve that? Where's the house going? Those kind of questions, right? Does BDS have tree inspectors that do that?
 Well, they would be the urban forestry tree inspectors. So you would have to be contacting parks. Cold Oak Inn. That's correct. There's a system in place right now where planners can consult with urban forestry inspections when there's questions about tree preservation plans or arborist reports. Okay.
 i can let jen speak i know we're in the middle of doing an iga whether that whether that would how much workload that would increase or how much staff time on urban forestries and that would add um but it would charge for right in development situations we would charge for urban forestries inspection time
 I would think we would need to because of the staffing issues that we have currently. Yeah, that would be additional staff work. Can I make a proposal just for a path forward? And I do this out of deep respect to my colleagues. Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Saltzman together brought us to this moment. We're talking about an interim set of rules, and I view this amended amendment now, substitute amendment, as being almost like a pilot. Okay.
 that has limited application no it doesn't i i please don't keep to you i i need to finish what i was about to say because the piece that's in this new new amendment that was only just put out today that bothers me the most is that the director of the poland housing bureau may adopt administrative rules for the administration and enforcement of the exemption of tree preservation mitigation requirements it took us
 10 months to do an administrative rule because the code says that it's BDS and Parks who are jointly responsible for doing administrative rules. To bring in a third bureau that's now going to do administrative rules on Title XI is a nightmare. Well, Mr. Fritz, first of all, this amendment was sent out with the Tuesday memo. It's now no different than what was sent out Tuesday. Yes, I was in a meeting last night. Seeing it today, that's inaccurate.
 I had to be in a meeting last night. Okay, but you're always pretty good about catching things, so I just want to make sure the record stands corrected. This was not presented today. It was presented Tuesday. Secondly, we're bringing in the Housing Bureau because they are the ones that administer the SDC waivers for affordability.
 And we want to make sure that any project that qualifies under this provision truly qualifies as an affordable project, as deemed by the Portland Housing Bureau in making a decision about to waive SDCs or not. We're not asking them to become the third cook in the kitchen. You are. You're putting in Title 11. We're only asking them to sign off that the project truly meets the Housing Bureau's affordability criteria and that the BDS and the urban forestry folks understand
 conduct an inspection and make sure that they do all possible to preserve the trees well the point i was just going to make though because i i i feel like with all the work that's been put into this i would like the two colleagues who worked the hardest to take a joint bow i just i'm a stickler for for protocol is there a tweak commissioner fritz to that provision something like in consultation with or something like that that would make it more palatable no
 So, colleagues, yeah, we've reached irreconcilable differences, Commissioner Fritz and myself, on this item. It's going to require the council to settle it. So I would call the question. Okay. Anything else that needs to be discussed? Well, I actually need to move for reconsideration of my vote on the amendment because I can't support the whole package with this amendment as part of it. So I'll have to – and I don't want to vote against something that I've worked on for over a year to bring to council with a stopgap measure which is supposed to save large trees in –
 neighborhoods across the city. So I move reconsideration of the amendment. We're going to reconsider our vote to accept the amendment, right? If there's a second to that. And take a vote on accepting Commissioner Saltzman's amendment afresh. Are you seconding my motion to reconsider? Sure, I'll second your motion. Hi. Fish? No. Saltzman? No. So wait a minute. You're going to have me vote no on the whole thing?
 You're going to have you vote no on the whole thing. Don't look at me. No. That was a professional courtesy. I cannot believe it. I cannot believe that you would not allow me to vote no on the amendment so that I could vote yes on the whole thing. Well, I guess I'm a little lost from a parliamentary point of view. I certainly want to accommodate your desires, Commissioner Fritz, but I'm not sure why you're preparing to walk out right now. Because the motion to reconsider lost. Right.
 I'm sorry if you don't understand parliamentary procedure. Okay. I think we are at the point where we need to vote, correct? I apologize that I had to leave, but I apparently missed some drama. Can somebody fill me in? I'll tell you later. Yeah, I think it would be the best way to summarize it is that Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz disagree about Commissioner Saltzman's amendment, and Commissioner Fritz asked for the opportunity to reconsider the vote by which it was accepted.
 and the council voted not to do that so what's now before us the amendment what's now before us is the amended ordinance okay right so we should take a vote on that you just amended the ordinance i'm sorry it's not actually no it is it is yeah it's the action it is the amended ordinance it's a horse and it's just a non-emergency it's not emergency but it's previous agenda so all we were doing is taking testimony you amended it today so therefore it has to pass a second reading
 Okay. I think you're right about that. You're right. We did take a testimony and amend it today. Carl, this is why we'd like to have you here. Yes. Thank you. We missed you during the budget hearing. You helped me out of that one. So thank you. Let me make some comments, if I may, because staff has done an absolutely amazing job on this whole project, and I greatly appreciate that, and so have the citizens who work so diligently on this.
 starting with Mike Hayakawa, who was the project manager before he retired. It's significant that two of the three main staff on this have now retired, kind of licking, not quite licking their wounds, but certainly with many scars to show for the whole process. So Mike Hayakawa was absolutely fantastic, as was Mika Keenan. He's now moved to help solve the ITAP problem.
 challenge in the Bureau of Development Services. Patty Howard on my staff worked on this pretty much full-time for the entire first year of implementation, and so did Tom Buzzo. So I really appreciate them. Jen Cairo and Casey Jurst and Jeff Ramsey and Danielle Bowenhan and Angie DeFalvo and Shannon Stahl and Director Obate in the Parks Bureau. Amazing, amazing work. Development Services staff, Rebecca Esaw, Stephanie Beckman
 Mike Hayakawa, Emily Sandy, Lauren Wirtis, Mika Keenan, and Director Scarlett, and all of the members of the Tree Oversight Committee, all of the folks who've worked so hard on this from 2007 onwards. Thank you, Margot Barnett. Thank you, Greg Schiffstein. Thank you to everybody who's going to continue to work on this, and we will get some fixes made as we go along.
 Thank you. So I think we actually, I need to back up because we have not adopted, we have not accepted the report, which is item 314. We're not doing that. That's moving, being continued for two, for four weeks. That's the part that's being continued, Mayor, and that's also the area where you and I have some potential amendments. So while we bring those ideas forward, that's being continued. Are we going to continue that to a certain date? Yes. I think we've saved one, right? So we first, we need to continue. Or did we?
 We need to set the trajectory for item 314. So is it – Do you want to go one week or two weeks? I thought we said four weeks. Four weeks. Oh, that's right. Sorry. So that would be – I don't think there is a time certain because of all the comprehensive plan time certain that are saved. It wouldn't be a time certain, but it would be a date. Date. A council date. Carla, I'm gone the first week in June. Is it possible to go the next week? No.
 Four weeks would have been the 27th. Oh, man. And you're gone then, too. I'm gone that afternoon. You're gone for two weeks, so it would be April 11th. May 11th. May 11th, I'm sorry. Is that acceptable?
 Yes for me, okay, so so item number 314 is continued to be 11 and now item 315 is the one that we still need to act on It's passing the second reading next week right no reason to live wait longer than next week on that one Okay, so that passes second reading next week. Okay? Done procedurally all right. We're adjourned. Thank you. Thank you