The Portland City Council is now in session. Carla, please call the roll. Here. Here. Salt City. Here. Here. Here. So we start with human relations. Carla, could you read the first item, please? Reaction. Oh, we did. Do we have a problem? I'll bet. I didn't know we had a problem. Okay. Sorry. Oh, whoops. The mayor's right here just in time with the proclamation. I don't know what we have at work. Proclamation. The pre-double proclamation. Upper day. All right.
 I thought you had it. Oh, yeah. Give us a moment for procedure here, folks. I'll make sure that Rachel brings it down and we return to it after communications. How about that? Want to do that? Yeah. Will that work? Okay. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for getting us started. Excuse my delay, folks. We have a delegation from Okayama, Japan, visiting us this morning, so had to welcome them here to Portland. So let's move to communications items 346. Mr. Strasher, good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for having myself, Ken Thrasher, here this morning, along with my friend Ashley Ehlers, who is a College Possible coach in the Gresham School and High School, and also was previously a student of College Possible. So you get the benefit of a twofer here. She's done both, both been a student and now a coach of students.
 We want to talk to you about College Possible today and consideration of having College Possible part of the city's budget for $500,000 next year. And we think it's a wonderful way to invest in strategic programs that really make a difference in the college transition years between high school and four-year colleges. This program is geared toward having low-income students graduate from a four-year college.
 And I've got to tell you, of the research we've done in looking at what we could bring to East County to really improve college graduation rates for low-income students, College Possible was by far the most successful program we looked at nationally and is evidence-based by a Harvard study that looked at it as the top program of its type in the nation, both from a cost per student and the outcomes. And let me tell you what those look like.
 In College Possible, nationally, the program picks up these low-income students in the junior and senior year, puts them through an intensive two hours twice a week after school with an AmeriCorps coach. They then get up to six years of coaching while they're in a four-year college. It allows us to show that these low-income students will graduate from college at a 60% graduation rate, which is the same rate as the average student body nationally.
 So if you think about it and you look at a peer group of low-income students that don't go through a program as intensive like this, what you'll find is the outcome from college graduation is a 10 to 1 ratio versus peers that do not go through the same program.
 We started this program a year ago in Portland. We have been in a number of the schools out in East County, David Douglas, Park Rose, Gresham, Barlow, and Reynolds. We are going to expand into the Portland Public Schools this next year with Madison, and Centennial will be coming on the following year.
 And we really believe a public partnership where we privately funded this today would really increase the capacity both in having more schools in the Portland area served, but also going deeper in the schools that we're in to serve more students. We currently have 300 students directly in the program. Our students the junior year increased their college ACT scores an average of 23%, which was the highest increase in the history of college possible nationally.
 And so what we've done is we've built a very powerful program with 300 students served now. We want to increase that to over 1,000 students in the next five years. I've given you a little summary chart that shows the demographics and the impact that we're having out in East County. And as you notice, we have 63% students of color. Eighty-six percent of our students are first generation. And I said these low-income students are really doing a great job.
 And I want to just tell you a really quick story. One of our students named Joss and David Douglas is a senior this year and was the first student to ever get a full ride to Harvard. This was a young man that was not going to college.
 So we believe this request will allow us to really leverage the program, grow it faster, and with your support, I think we can really change the curve, reduce the cycle of poverty for these low-income students in East County, better prepare the workforce for the future, and one really important thing is we reduce our social costs in this state significantly by this kind of an investment.
 So with that, I would open it up for questions. And Ashley, I brought, because I thought you might want to talk to a student, because we only have three minutes. I thought I would do the formal. If you have some questions, we'd love to answer them. I have a question. Yes. My daughter graduated from college in May. But four years ago, we went through all of the trials and tribulations of applying for college. And I remember that the financial aid maze was very hard to figure out.
 I remember that the application process was very complicated. I remember that the essays were very demanding, and it turned out that the parents were the least likely helpful people in that process because my daughter did not want to share her personal reflections. There was some career coaching stuff about, you know, why go to college, what do you want to accomplish that was needed.
 There were the test scores and sometimes coaching and how to take tests and encouraging people to take them again. And then there was all the hand holding throughout and it was sort of overwhelming actually. And so I'm just curious of all those things and the other kinds of considerations, what do you find is the area of the great, so to our coach, what are the areas where you find the greatest need in help? That's a great question. I think surprisingly,
 All of those things? I know it seems like I shouldn't say all of them, but for my students, their parents might not speak English, so they have no ability to have their parents edit their essays. So I mean, I come every day and edit each of their essays multiple times before they send it in.
 Also the process, the fact that they don't know the process of applying, so they don't even know that you have to fill out a FAFSA. A lot of students, low-income students, will go to FAFSA.com instead of FAFSA.gov and pay an extra $75 to file their free application for student aid. So I think those types of things, walking through that whole process of applying to each school, is really important. The FAFSA process required a computer and access to the Internet. Unfortunately, it's not structured so that it tells you don't apply at the front end.
 So I put my marriage at risk for the weeks we spent doing it, only to find out the back end that we were out of luck. And I kind of wish it had been a little more user friendly. Yeah. Yep. Well, we also have seven partner colleges already in Oregon. So we are partnering with colleges to get access to those and start break some of those barriers down.
 In addition, a couple other things I think are really important. We have a community service component to the program, and we also have a financial literacy component. So it's not just academic. It works on all of the skills that these students need to be successful in life.
 I also think students, they might not even consider college as an option for them. And I think that's the biggest thing that I've learned is that students come into the program saying, I never thought that I would be able to go to college. Nobody ever told me that I would go to college. So it sounds like your daughter grew up assuming that she was going to go to school. But for some of these kids, this is the first time anyone has ever told them that it's a possibility for them. So it really opens the doors for all the opportunities that they have available for them after high school. My daughter's mother, my wife, is the first woman on her mother's side of the family to go to high school.
 So, you know, I love the data on first-generation college students, I mean, because that's the charm here, is creating a pattern of expectations for kids that maybe didn't have someone at home that had that opportunity. I'm just curious, how does the initial contact work? I mean, who, you know, calls or visits a student to say, we hope you can interest you in this program? Yeah.
 Yeah, so we go into classrooms with sophomores, and we give them what's called a college prep talk. So we tell them not only for recruitment purposes, but telling them what it takes to get into college, that you can't get Ds in your classes, that colleges only accept Cs or better. So those kind of things, making sure that they understand the financial aid process, applying for the FAFSA, all of that. And so at the end of that talk, we tell students, if you're interested in a program that would help you through this whole process, we are available to help.
 And so we start doing that their sophomore year, but hopefully the longer that you're in schools, the students know about the program beforehand. We walk around with our shirts on all the time, finding students during lunch, making sure that they're coming to session, that kind of stuff.
 Thank you. It sounds like a great program. Mr. Thrasher, as you know, the city funds the Future Connects Scholarship Program with a partnership with Portland Community College. And we started that and was expecting a two-to-one private fundraising match for the city's investment. I think it's now almost four-to-one that the PCC Foundation is being able to get additional donations. Is there a component in your request to the city? Is there an expectation that there'll be a private match? No.
 Yes, absolutely. We are increasing our fundraising at a really significant clip. And we started out primarily with foundations to launch the program, because you have to go for some dollars that can significantly scale you quickly.
 And following doing that, we have an individual campaign we're going to be launching. We think there are a lot of individual donors that like to give scholarships, for example, to a low-income student, first-generation students, and diverse students. And that, with programs like we have Equal Access at Portland State University, which I actually was helped involved in starting,
 as a scholarship program, we are going to start to connect those donors in a strategic way that I think will allow us to have very similar ratios of funding that you're talking about. We absolutely are going to match and exceed the amount of funds you would invest here.
 Charlie, what was the elementary school, what's the elementary school we visited that has the banners of all the colleges along the corridor? So they're from the earliest possible days. Park Rose. Yeah. Park Rose. So the message from the beginning days of elementary school is you're going to go to college. Right. And we're going to start educating you about college options. Yes. It's high expectations is what we're setting for these students that have never, many of them never had high expectations. Yeah.
 If you had talked to Don Grouting and you walked into David Douglas today, he will tell you that College Possible has changed the culture of going to college in David Douglas High School. More kids are now thinking about it because they see their peers being successful who never thought they could go. Right.
 Other questions? I guess then the question would be why are the school districts not funding it? Well interestingly, we are the only college possible site nationally of their five other
 that have school funding. The schools actually do put an investment in this program. We asked them to do that. We have asked them to do that in the second year as a follow-on to the first year funding and we're now going back and asking schools to continue to do that funding. So they have given a contribution towards the program. We believe that investment is important to commit the school and the staff toward the program. But we work very well with them on that and Don and the other superintendents have been great in supporting that.
 Could you please send us the breakdown of the funding for the program? We can. We can do that. And I apologize. I missed. Where are you a coach again? I'm a coach at Gresham High School. Fantastic. Yeah. Thank you for joining us this morning. Thanks for being here. Great presentation. Thank you all. Thanks. Okay. While we're on the subject of education, number 347 and maybe 348 together. Okay.
 347, request of Gary Withers to address council regarding three to PhD. And 348, request of Carl Talton to address council regarding three to PhD. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Good morning. Always a pleasure to follow Ken Thrasher.
 We want to start with a big thank you and really the thank you is from Ken and myself and others who are affiliated with the Children's Institute for the support that you've given to David Douglas School District and the wonderful initiative at the Earl Boyles School. And in fact that's a great starting point for a conversation about 3 to PhD. And 3 to PhD is both a capital program and it's also an initiative with many, many program elements related to social services and education.
 The best way to view it is really through an equity lens. It's an Eastside, Northeast Portland, educational initiative that strikes at the heart of closing the opportunity gap and creating this culture of college and really beyond creating the culture of college. It's creating the culture of possibility. What's possible after you graduate from high school, whether it's college or on to a trade school or some other vocation?
 And so we have to look at the demographics of Fabian School, the largest catchment area in Portland Public Schools. And today there are 520 students at Fabian. There will be 800 when the new Fabian Concordia campus is built and open in September of 2017. Among those 500 students, in fact, the sheet that you have is now incorrect. It says that 81% are eligible for free and reduced lunch. The actual number, Portland Public Schools tells us, is 91%.
 And in fact, the principal and assistant principal estimate that about 20% of those students are technically homeless. And about another 25% live in trailer parks or in public housing. The diversity is rich. A third African-American, black, a third Latino, and a third everyone else, including about 20% for whom English is a second language. Now, there are four corners to the 3 to PhD initiative.
 We start with wraparound services, services that will provide mental, physical, dental, and nutrition services. We have wonderful partners there. The Tooth Taxi is just getting on board with us. Whole Foods and Pacific Foods are going to help us open an actual food club, making high-nutrition, organic foods available at cost, about a third of what we pay for Pacific Foods at Fred Meyer, at the food club right there in the school itself.
 Now from the wraparound services, we move to early childhood. We are all very much aware of the tremendous returns on investment for the social, emotional, and psychological development of young children and preparing them to learn through an intense early childhood program. And this program will have slots for 120 students. From there, we move to STEAM, science, technology, engineering, art, and math.
 Carl Talton, civic leader, Concordia board member, will talk about the STEAM initiative here in just a minute. Then the fourth corner is unlike any corner of a program like this in the country. The Concordia University College of Education will be fully embedded within this new facility. So we will have the largest college of ed in the state serving students at this facility.
 We're here today to request $500,000 in your support for the capital initiative. We're grateful for the $100,000 that has been passed so far. I appreciate that very, very much. And I'll pass it to Carl with the notion that this is a scalable model for Portland, for the city, for the country, and that your support most likely will be matched in its entirety. Carl? Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and City Council members. My name is Carl Talton. I'm a member of the Board of Trustees for Concordia University and an active participant in the rollout of the 3 to PhD program. I'm also part of the leadership of a coalition of community-based educational service providers who work primarily with communities of color. Some of these community-based organizations are only a few years old, but most have been around for a good 40 or 50 years.
 giving them tremendous history and credibility with the communities of inner north and northeast Portland. The coalition was formed to ensure that children of color, and in particular black children, are not farther educationally distanced from not only their white counterparts, but from future economic opportunities made possible by a strong STEAM program. The goal of this STEAM coalition of color is to ensure,
 that these community-based organizations have the necessary resources at their disposal to deliver and prepare STEAM-related curriculum to communities of color. To that end, we, that is the coalition, have formed a close working relationship with Concordia University and its 3-to-PhD program.
 This relationship greatly increases the coalition's capacity to deliver STEAM-related curriculum, expertise, resources, and program to its respective communities. Along with this, community-based partners who have similar goals and longstanding relationships with these communities, this relationship will serve Concordia, the coalition, and most importantly, the community itself.
 Thank you. We appreciate the time. If you have questions, Gary and I are available to answer. Gary, I have a question. If you're successful in this model of bringing a distinguished institution of higher learning into the public school system and creating a campus that is mutually reinforcing,
 Is it replicable with other institutions in the city? Absolutely. In fact, as we speak, I know Portland Public Schools is considering the next site for replication. We've already had folks from as far away as India visit Fabian, and I've had a number of inquiries recently from architects after I had a chance to speak at a public forum at Portland State, architects involved with school initiatives. Okay.
 I have just a related, it's not so much a question, it's just something for you to ponder and for us as well. We have a system of community centers in the city. We have partnerships with school districts and universities. I think we have a question to ponder over time, which is how many community centers should the city ultimately own and operate? We have some. There are places where people want more.
 To what extent are we fully utilizing the facilities of school districts and universities to serve kids, not just college kids in your case, but kids of a wide spectrum of ages? And what unused capacity is there?
 So you're sort of a model in that sense, too. What you're envisioning for Fabian is not just a laboratory school for teaching teachers. It's also a community center, at least in some versions of what those words mean.
 And I think it's just, you know, it's an important, it's an interesting question, but it's also an important question. It's a big financial question on both the operating side for the Parks Bureau and all their partners and for the number of kids we're not yet serving very well in the city with recreation opportunities.
 So something for us to ponder in this budget, yes, in terms of what we might do in terms of enhancing those recreation opportunities ourselves and with partners, but there's also a facilities question there. How many schools are there going to be that are like this one?
 How many partnerships are there going to be that get outside of the traditional boundaries as you're doing here? I think that has the potential to pay a lot of dividends to people in terms of what's available to them in their neighborhoods, particularly if we're not able to build, and we're not, a community center within easy walking distance of every kid. Thank you.
 So, not so much a question, but a set of issues for us to ponder. But any thoughts about that? I know Commissioner Fritz and I have been talking about this, and we all think about it. And at a time when we're trying to invest more on both the program side and on facilities, it's something that we want to spend more time in conversation with you about, and other leaders of various educational institutions in the city.
 We'd love to have the conversation. Fifty-three percent of the time on our soccer and baseball field is devoted to the community. And the new Fabian Concordia facility will actually have a gym that's large enough for our NCAA Division II basketball teams to be able to practice. And the idea was that we'd be able to demonstrate sort of college kids in action, as we already do with 200 to 300 of our students at Fabian every year.
 And you mentioned the idea of it as a lab school. We think of it as a collaboration where we're really learning from each other. In fact, the principal's office and the dean's office will be right next to each other, and a lot of our faculty will be embedded right next to the great school classrooms. But, Mayor and commissioners, as you think about recreation centers, this is a conversation that I'm speaking on behalf of our president now, Chuck Schlempert, that we would love to have with you because we want to develop a new fitness center and a new arena. In fact, we had a master planning session with the campus yesterday. Thank you.
 And I've shared with a number of individuals the only way that's going to happen on the Concordia campus, and I'm speaking again on behalf of the president, is going to be community-based. And we'd love to have that conversation. We'd love to see – we think of this almost as one campus, the Concordia, Fabian, Fabian, Concordia campus. We'd love to see this part of northeast Portland be as rich, open, and accessible as possible to the entire community. Thank you.
 It supports our mission of preparing leaders to go out and change the world, and it just makes great economic sense in terms of the economic multiplier. Great. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay, item 349, please. Request of Trish Reed to address council regarding houseless issues. Ms. Reed, are you here? Okay, then let's move on to the next one then, please. 350, request of Catherine Smith to address council regarding Portland and Tigard Police.
 Morning Good morning. My name is Catherine Smith Dear mayor hails and city commissioners. I have to return here again to testify because those Tigard cops are
 who I've mentioned before, are still shooting me 20 to 24 hours a day, remotely, with microwave weapons, ultrasound weapons, voice-to-skull command weapons, lead-in machine sleep deprivation, etc. And they say they're still shooting my son with these when he's sleeping to give him cancer. Mayor Hales, you are the police commissioner with authority to make Portland police do their legal duty to protect people.
 Could you tell me why haven't you talked to them about this issue as they torture and mutilate me daily with these weapons? We have talked to them. Keep going, Catherine. Okay. They have hundreds of other targets in Portland, including kids. Many people, they use voice-to-skull weapons on to make them commit suicide, or they incriminate them because voice-to-skull weapons are mind-control weapons. Cops have legally had them since 1994. Okay.
 Sergeant McCormick, previous Police Chief Reese, and it appears Commander Day and others cover up for these assaults and attempted murder, doing nothing to stop them. Mayor Hales, I know that you are smart enough to do all the tasks you have to do to be the Mayor of Portland, and I think you are smart enough to listen to and look at the evidence and to know that these assaults are happening."
 You can and should talk again, since you said you already did, to those Portland cops and Larry O'Day, the new police chief, about this. Sergeant McCormick is taking, or you could say stealing, some or all of my reports addressed to Police Chief Larry O'Day, thereby doing a facilitation of murder to me and my son.
 Remember the motive of the cover-up I told you all before. Many of the cops don't want the public to know they have these kinds of weapons, so they don't want court cases about them. Many of them threaten, slander, intimidate, and do false arrests on us, so we will shut up about this. And that sure doesn't sound like they're complying with the Department of Justice by improving their training, policies, and actions whatsoever.
 to not do excessive force to people, or to not allow other cops to do that to us in Portland. Internal Police Review, that's IPR, has no authority to order Portland Police to protect us. Project Respond has no authority to make Portland Police protect us. Tigard Police Department is very corrupt, and many of their cops told me, if I ever go there again to report them, they'll kill me.
 Your office assistant keeps repeating the same useless advice she got from another employee there, telling me to report those assaults to Tiger Police. And finally, Mayor Hills, when you don't do anything that resolves this, it makes you look negligent. Thank you. You take care. Stop up at my office and talk to Cindy, and she will get you some help. Okay?
 Okay, but do you know the last time I went up there, she said your office can't do anything to help. Well, she'll try. Okay, so go on up. Catherine, is this your current address, the Tigard address? That Tigard address is my mailing address. Okay. Is that where you live? No, where I live right now is a Fairfield, but they burn me there every night. I'm not going to be staying there. I'll be going back to safes any day now. Okay, take care. Thank you.
 Okay. Now, before we get into the formal council calendar, we have a proclamation about a city that loves trees. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. Is anybody here for the Arbor Day presentation? I think so. So I'm going to just read it. Whereas April 10th, 1872 was declared the first Arbor Day in the United States.
 And whereas Arbor Day is celebrated in all 50 states and around the world, with an estimated total of more than 18 million trees planted on that one day. And whereas J. Sterling Morton, the founder of Arbor Day, believed that other holidays repose on the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future.
 And whereas this day's theme in Portland in 2015, Trees Are for Everyone, invites everyone in the city to get to know and enjoy the urban forest and to expand that forest to include all of the city and its residents. And whereas for the 38th consecutive year, Portland will be recognized by the National Arbor Day Foundation with a Tree City USA Award.
 Thank you. Whereas the Portland Farmers Market has been bringing the best of the country to the heart of the city since 1992 and is hosting the Arbor Day Festival at the PSU South Park Blocks Farmers Market this April 11th. And whereas the community, volunteers, staff, and partner organizations work year-round to preserve and enhance the urban forest for everyone in the city, that everyone may benefit from our service.
 240,000 street trees, 1.1 million park trees, and countless private trees. Now protected by the tree code, I might add now. Now, therefore, Charlie Hales, the mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon, the city of Roses, does hereby proclaim April 11, 2015, to be Arbor Day in Portland and encourages all citizens to observe this day. All right. Thank you very much. Let's hear it for Arbor Day. Thank you.
 Mayor, can I, since we're celebrating trees, can we also just take a moment to celebrate Amanda's leadership? And I understand that the Friends of Trees will be presenting her with one of their highest awards on, I believe it's May 14th. I think that's right. 14th or 15th. Congratulations, Amanda. Yes, you're here.
 Okay, let's take care of our consent calendar, and then we'll move to the regular calendar. I believe there's a request to take one item off the consent calendar, which is number 361. Anything else? Okay, then a roll call, please, on the balance of the consent calendar. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz?
 I will just note that amongst the consent agenda item is some refinancing of urban renewal bonds, which saves the city a boatload of money. I don't have the exact number, but it's interesting that we get harangued for some of the borrowing and spending that we do and that we need to celebrate also when our city debt manager, Jonas Berry, and others do good work that saves the taxpayers money. Aye. Hales. Aye.
 Okay, now we'll move to the regular calendar. I want to welcome everyone here who's here to speak on council calendar items. If you're here to do that, when you sign up with our council clerk, we'll call you. If you are here to testify, please state your name for the record. You don't need to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist, please do disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you're here representing an organization, please disclose that as well.
 We typically allow three minutes to speak in front of the council, and we ask that you respect the time limit, and that we also respect each other in this chamber and allow people to have their say, even if we don't agree with it. If you agree, feel free to give them a wave or a thumbs up, but again, we'd like to ask people not to make vocal demonstrations in favor or against their fellow citizens' opinions in this room. Therefore, disruptive behavior is not tolerated, and if you do that, you'll be asked to leave.
 If you have handouts, please give them to the council clerk and she'll distribute them to all of us. So again, welcome. And let's move to time certain, item 351. Accept the Portland Design Commission 2015 State of the City Design Report. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor Harrelson. If I could invite those who are going to be presenting to come forward. It is a pleasure to introduce the Portland Design Commission State of the City Design Report. Thank you.
 So first I want to thank the dedicated volunteers who serve on the commission. This commission meets a minimum of twice a month and sometimes three, often for many hours as they review land use cases and provide design advice and indeed decisions. They are a dedicated, hardworking group. They are David Walk, the chair, Ben Kaiser, the vice chair, Guinevere Milius, previous chair, Jeff Simpson, David...
 Keltner and Tad Savanar. If anybody of those are here, could you please stand so we could recognize you or indicate that you're here? Thank you. Thank you for your service. And again, I'm going to stress these are volunteers. They give an enormous amount of their time for the citizens of Portland.
 The Commission is presenting their fourth report before Council. They have been operating in the City of Portland since about 1980, providing leadership and expertise on urban design and architecture and maintaining and enhancing Portland's historical and architectural heritage. And this report obviously comes to Council at a very important time for all of us as development and construction is exceeding the historic 2008 levels.
 Our neighborhoods deserve appropriate protection and predictability of quality infill that meets our density goals and inevitable growth. And I think we all are very proud of the way Portland is developing. So I'm looking forward to hearing more from the commission members and from the public. I am very much committed to supporting the commission in all of its efforts. Thank you.
 Senior Planner Tim Herron will start us off, and then Commission Chair David Wok will take the helm. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor, City Council. On behalf of Director Paul Scarlett, I have just a couple of brief points before I hand it over to the Chair and Vice Chair. The Design Commission, as you've acknowledged, Commissioner Fritz,
 provides leadership and expertise on urban design and architecture and maintaining and enhancing Portland's historic and architectural heritage. In 2014, the Design Commission did this 27 times. That's 27 different hearings. We've been very busy. We've seen as many as, on the report that you received,
 That many design advice requests, as many as 10 different briefings on different scale proposals, such as street seats or from the Oregon Convention Center Hotel. So this commission is looking at the small and the large in all of these hearings throughout the year.
 The commission also meets quarterly in retreat sessions with design and historic review staff. These are typically before a hearing, a couple hours lunch sessions, and where we review timeliness of our hearings. We review how to sharpen our message and delivery of concerns, and also consider best practices and how to communicate that out to the public so that these hearings can move smoothly, and we provide that heads-up customer service right on the front end.
 So last but not least, I just want to acknowledge Designers Workview staff. Thankfully, we've been able to hire more people, and all of them are most humbly sitting all the way in the back. So I would ask for those of you here, such as Kim Talent, Cara Firavanti, Ben Nielsen, Grace Jeffries, Pooja Bhutani, Art Graves, Hillary Adam, Chris Caruso, and Stacey Monroe to stand up, please.
 And with that, I will step away. Thank you, Tim. Thank you, Tim. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. Thank you for your time and attention.
 I'm dedicating a bit of time today to hear the State of Design report, Portland Design Commission, April 8, 2015. I'm David Warrick, Chair of the Commission. Joining me today is Ben Kizer, Vice Chair. And we thought we'd maybe change it up this year a little bit and have more of a graphic and pictorial presentation that touches on the who, where, why, when, how and what of design commission. And we've touched on design commissioners, and this is the who.
 I just want to give you a little bit more background. Myself, I'm RACS representative of the Regional Art and Cultural Council, and I'm a principal with Hindenburg Eddy Architects. Ben Kaiser is president of the Kaiser Group, a development company focusing on housing and office projects. David Keltner, our architecture appointee, is principal with THA Architecture.
 Gwen Milius is our design appointee, president of Parachute Strategies, a marketing and strategic planning firm. And of note, we're very grateful for Gwen to stay on commission. We are a little light-handed these days. And her continued service to the city and...
 the applicants is much appreciated. Tad Savinar is an urban design appointee, the studio of Tad Savinar, who is an urban designer and artist and general man about town. And Jeff Simpson, public at large appointee, he's a landscape architect and principal with Simple Landscape Architecture and Urban Planning firm.
 As I mentioned, we are a little shorthanded in these busy times. That combination has called for also additional meetings per month. We usually have two meetings that are supposed to last from 1.30 to 5.30. We're now having three meetings per month that last from 1.30 to 7.30. So that will be an issue that we start to cover later in the –
 presentation. The where of design review, this map of the city outlines basically where design commission's domain lies within the city, and that is in the blue areas on this map. Central City, Lloyd Center and Central Eastside, and the Gateway. So you can see our domain is very limited within the city. The green represents historic districts, the
 The more red-purple is a two-track design review with Type 2 or neighborhood design guidelines. The white, which is the bulk of the city, falls under the Title 33 planning and zoning code. So you can see just how much influence or limited influence we have within the overall context of the city. Okay.
 which is also a subject that we'll touch on later. The why of design commission starts basically post-war, where typical of cities throughout America, 50s, 60s, 70s, the pattern of development was where buildings reduced the pedestrian to basically an endangered species, having to navigate an urban environment given over to the automobile. These are all biomechanics.
 Projects in Portland, by the way, which are applicable. And then in many cases, buildings totally ignored their context, sealing themselves off from the street and creating an anti-pedestrian environment for entire blocks at a time. By the way, I was walking from Burnside to work this morning. I noticed that some of the biggest offenders are also some of our most historic hotels.
 and where some of the renovations, but it was literally a blank wall facing a main street. Right, right. It's very unfortunate. Right. And what happened after the war is just the sheer amount of development
 And so these dead walls, all these projects then contributed to kind of lifeless intersections. And then what that brought was a group of farsighted Portlandians that joined together to create a design review process with the goal of producing a more livable urban environment. And I think it's one of the few lasting things of value that came out of the 80s. Yeah.
 So with that, the how comes into play. So over the past 30 years, Design Commission has been the city's advocate for a new urban environment, a pedestrian-rich environment with open storefronts and vibrant streetscapes, buildings of quality and permanence, and a wide variety of architectural expressions.
 As you can see, this is kind of post-establishment of the Design Commission versus the kind of poster children of the pre-Design Commission. And the difference is obvious and influential. So with that, I wanted to kind of...
 illustrate, people often ask, so what do you really do in design commission? How do you impact the design process and the actual built work that is finally approved? So we've brought together three committees.
 illustrations or three cases that kind of illustrate the point. This first case is a mixed-use project, five floors of housing over a single commercial floor, and it's a key site bounded by East Grand, East MLK, and East Burnside. At the first DAR, this was the rendering that was presented to commission. Many of the issues centered around coherency, quality, and permanence. There were some parking issues.
 But the number one issue was that it really didn't respond to the character of the Arcade District, that distinct section of East Burnside that is just after the Burnside Bridgehead up to 11th. So Design Commission encouraged the applicant to look at the arcade precedents and incorporate that concept into their design proposal. And so to their credit, they came back with a very detailed study of the Arcade District
 We're all probably very familiar with this. And in their research, you can kind of see in the bottom left corner, the site that they're proposing to build their project actually had a very significant arcade structure. So with that, we – When you use the term arcade district and arcade structure, what does it mean? Well, in this case, along that stretch of East Burnside, there are about eight projects that have an arcade building
 that the building comes out to the past the sidewalk and is over the sidewalk. And then there's a series of columns that creates a colonnade or an arcade under which people can, um, much like, uh, um, if you, if you know this district, um, it's very distinct from any other kind of set of buildings in the city. And they actually, the,
 The background is kind of interesting because they were not originally built like this. This was a result of an expansion of the street, of the widening of Burnside. And so once they widened the actual lanes for traffic, the sidewalks then were incorporated below the buildings by creating the arcade.
 So it's an outgrowth of transportation projects that created this distinct district. And so we felt that that district should be – it is in the code that it should –
 kind of be continued so it was great that we suggested this the applicant embraced that idea and So the result is this project that was approved The Burnside elevation is on the left So they repeated that entire arcade along the the entire frontage of the project fronting Burnside and a little more detail shot of south-facing arcade where
 In our weather, you know, there's a great cover for year-round activity, and the commercial storefronts that line the exterior elevation then spill out and activate the streetscape. So we thought this was a very successful project and felt very good about approving it at that point.
 The second project is the Burnside Fred Meyer that is near 20th place on Burnside near the stadium. And at the first DAR, this is the rendering that was presented, Design Commission felt that it was very, very closed off from the street. Its character was more alien to the neighborhood, more suburban in nature versus an urban building. And there were also issues of quality and permanence.
 Design Commission's comments were centered around maximizing the transparency and thereby activating the burn site elevation. Consider the pedestrian experience. The canopies in this case might be helpful. And then also look at the adjacent older buildings for materials and form, which were masonry in character for the most part. And after another DAR and some more input, a completely different type of building evolved from the process
 One that is extremely very urban and uniquely Portland. And it's a uniquely Portland Fred Meyer at this point. And so we went by and took a photograph of it. And I have to say, with the addition of these upper balconies that extend their eating and dining areas and meeting place, it's a really, really successful Fred Meyer at this point. We feel very, very good about approving this project. And then the final example is
 the Pearl Marriott. And sometimes there's a focus on building, sometimes there's a focus on site. And in this particular case, had a courtyard that was basically auto-filled, a drop off at the center of the site surrounding by the building. Design Commission
 Feedback was the project basically had an urban skin and a suburban heart, and this was basically not acceptable as a non-starter. So the advice from the design commission at that point was to remove the cars from the center of the site and just make a great open space that all could enjoy. They came back with that advice in hand, revised their proposal to create
 an urban oasis, a really wonderful courtyard, and this is the final built courtyard and garden, which is an amenity for, and I actually have to say part of that, there's a public forecourt that was a part of this proposal. So it is actually a public park, public open space that then transitions back into a more private one. But we felt extremely good about this project and the impact that we had on this project.
 To kind of reiterate just how busy it is and what's going on out there, there are 24 Type 3 cases we looked at. In the height of the 2007 building boom, there were about 22. So we're up from that. I would say we're in full development mode, full building mode with 2060 ARs.
 Like Tim said, seven briefings from staff and other entities. Very rarely do we get these, but we did have two Type 2 appeals that we reviewed. I think the unique part about the development that's going on now is how much we're seeing cranes on the east side these days.
 The Eastside has come of age and we just wanted to share really quickly the impact of 12 projects that are have been approved and are under construction or are in the approval process. And those are centered around the Lloyd District and then the Convention Center Hotel all the way down to the Buckman. And those 12 projects range from the upper left is the Convention Center Hotel, the upper right are improvements to Lloyd Center Mall.
 The lower left image is the Burnside Bridgehead Tower, and the lower right are the Goat Blocks, which is a two-block mixed development. These projects range in scale from quarter-block infill to the creation of completely new neighborhoods as the...
 Seven blocks we have improved the first phase of Lloyd blocks, which is three entire city blocks The second phase or is underway with a complete four blocks so seven blocks of new development And the numbers are impressive if not staggering at this point where this represents over four point million five four point five million square feet of space 196,000 square feet of retail
 3,300 living units and or hotel units and 3,400 parking spaces. So what's interesting about this, there are more parking spaces than units, which is we don't often see that. Of course, that's spread over 12 projects. So with that, the design commission powers and duties include
 This is kind of the continued of what. Recommend the establishment, amendment, or removal of design district, develop design guidelines, review major developments, review other land use requests, and provide advice on design matters. And we actually focused on the last, which is to provide design advice at this point.
 Uh, and these are all, um, or some of them are, are more, um, have had more attention up to date. Uh, and some are, are kind of new. And, um,
 But the first one has been bantied about for several months, if not a year, to expand the de-overlay zone. The issue with this is it probably could be overcome with some smart thinking, but it's a dynamic system out there of development that has its highs and lows and fluctuations that is dependent on staff, which is somewhat limited, and then even more so on the design commission, which is a static organization.
 A number of seven commissioners meeting on a limited basis every month. So those two are at odds with each other, a static system and a dynamic system. So the issue is how to resolve that. And there are several ideas on the table. Nothing has reached any kind of level of consensus at this point.
 Second is reconsider the housing bonus. We're seeing a lot of projects that actually go after the housing bonus, and that results in increased height and density, which oftentimes overburdens a particular site. And so some of the thinking is should that focus on housing bonus actually shift to specific types of housing that are other than market rate?
 If there is a bonus, then how can it actually help the city in different ways to attain a wide variety of housing goals? Update the community design standards. These are woefully out of date, and I think everyone would agree, from the development community to city staff to design commissioners to neighborhood associations. So that is something that is worth discussing.
 And then a final one that we're really concerned about and want to talk about is reconsider the housing as a ground floor active use. And the reason for that is we're seeing...
 counter to what we're after, which is a ground floor active use relative to transparency and commercial businesses that actually invite people in, have a strong connection between sidewalk and their activities within, and they even spill out onto the sidewalk when weather allows. And this is an integral part of a healthy urban environment. And what our thought is we're seeing within these –
 red zones, which are commercial zones in Central City, that's not always happening. And the reason is there is an allowance for housing to be considered active ground floor use. And so the result of that are often projects that do the opposite of what our real goals are. And we're seeing more and more of this.
 housing type that are located on the first floor in the midst of thriving commercial areas. And the result is anything but an active streetscape. This one is on Burnside.
 This project is on Hawthorne, very close to the Safeway and the activity of Hawthorne Commercial District. And this one is a newly completed project on MLK, which is anything, like we said, but what we want. And so the question is, why should we settle for this type of urban condition at the first floor of commercial streets and in our central city when this alternative is infinitely better and easily attained?
 And so with that, we have a couple of suggestions. Before you move to the suggestions, is there a particular zoning that's allowing where you're seeing these projects with only residential? It can happen in any zone that allows commercial at this point. I believe that's correct. And with that...
 Because housing is lumped in with this active ground floor use designation, then it can go anywhere. It can go in downtown. It can go in the Pearl District, as we've seen. And in some places, it's absolutely appropriate. Not every street in the Pearl needs to be a retail commercially active street. And so we have approved many projects, feeling good about that.
 There are key sites along commercial corridors and in the central city, some that actually we've had a review of some that are coming forward that will occupy critical components, critical sites in the city with this type of development, which we do not feel appropriate.
 It meets our goals, meets the city goals. And the regulations don't currently allow the design commission to say, no, actually you have to have commercial. Right. All we can do is influence the outside kind of elevation and how that meets the street. But the function within behind that elevation, that facade, is not of our purview. Thank you. Right. Thank you.
 And so with that, there are potentially a couple of actions, and I'm sure you could come up with others. But the three that we feel are on the table, you could wait until the spring or summer of 2016 to adopt the 2035 comprehensive plan. At the current rate of development, we feel that dozens of sites could be lost to this type of housing on the first floor. And so we're nervous about that.
 We know that the comprehensive plan needs to be methodical and comprehensive, obviously, but there is a component of this comprehensive plan that does warrant our attention.
 You could accelerate the schedule for completion and approval of the 2035 comprehensive plan, which we're not really sure how feasible that is. And then for something a bit more assertive, consider a moratorium on first floor housing in commercial zones and within the central city. Exceptions could be approved by staff and or design commission where it warrants it. So with that, I'd like to open it up for additional discussion and questions.
 Well, let me start because I really appreciate the presentation. This is always a really good, important opportunity for the council to check in with the commission and our great staff on this important work, and you're doing a huge volume of it right now. So some of my questions relate to how do we manage –
 the volume of others relate to the proposals that you've just made. I mean, it seems to me we've got some, as you know, we've got some very large planning projects underway, like updating the comp plan. Right. And some things...
 take a lot of time. Updating our design standards will take some time. There are other issues, sort of exigent issues that are coming out of this development boom like demolition and this issue of housing as a ground floor use that are relatively discrete issues.
 that, in my opinion, should not wait for that ponderous process to be completed. And apparently not your opinion either. Yes. So I really appreciate you raising this ground floor issue. That seems to me, just impression here, the kind of thing we ought to be able to move quickly on rather than wait for the long, very expensive, very large legislative process that we're in right now to be completed. So I appreciate you being here.
 focused on that issue as well as raising some larger ones like expanding the D overlay or updating the design standards.
 Let me bear down on some issues of process, and that is we're hearing a lot of concerns about the volume of applications. Again, you pointed that out. You're dealing with a large number of applications. It takes a long time to get design advice. It takes a long time to get a hearing scheduled. The hearings are long. Mm-hmm.
 Not only commission members are being heavily taxed in terms of their time commitment, but so are applicants and citizens who are there to testify. And looking at the data that we've been supplied, there are a lot of cases that have multiple hearings, both at the DAR stage and at the design review stage.
 So what are your thoughts about how can we improve or streamline that process? Should we clone the commission and have two panels instead of one, you know, a north and a south or something like that in order to –
 give you and other volunteers a break and a reasonable expectation of how much of your time goes into this. I don't think this development boom that we're in right now is a one-year affair. I don't think this is a quick little bubble. I think it's a trend that we're in for at least the next few years. So it's not like everything's going to ease up, you know, for next year. So it seems to me we ought to be –
 considering some of these options about process. Again, what can we do with the process we have to maybe reduce the number of hearings? Should we have more than one panel? What else can we do? I think one thing we've already done, by and large, is that we have a development community and a design community that understands the higher expectations and
 A lot of the time comes to you with a pretty good proposal to start with, but the process is still working to raise the bar. In fact, the developer of that hotel that you used in your presentation is somebody who's been through that process dozens of times and who nevertheless told me on the day that it opened that the design review process forced them to design a better project, and he really appreciated it. Oh, great. So, you know, he was... Hopefully without busting the budget, you know.
 Yeah, he was really grateful. And again, this is somebody who's been through the process more than once and who said, you know, they forced us to reconsider that turnaround, and this plaza is great, and people love it, and we're glad that that process worked the way it did. So you're adding a huge amount of value, but it also is taking a lot of time. So anyway, a whole bunch of things to throw at you there. What do you think we can do about the process? Let me kind of break it down. What I heard was hearing time, case schedule, and D-zone.
 So the hearing time, well, we have made a positive definite huge move by getting a timer.
 So now we limit... So now presentations of kind of a typical project, single block, partial block, are kind of limited to 20 minutes. It was very obnoxious at first, but people have now been trained on, you know, how to react to the green button, the yellow button, and the red button. For projects like...
 The Lloyd blocks, which are basically four times the size of a normal project. We have worked with staff and the applicant to divide that into a set of DARs, so design advice reviews, that focus on one particular aspect of that four block project at a time. So the first DAR focused on kind of open space site planning urban design. The second DAR focused on more of what was the second one?
 The third one was buildings. Second one was the massing. And third one was more of the architecture. So with those three DAR, now the applicant feels pretty comfortable moving forward with that massive of a project. But it has had to be scheduled on its own particular date, separate from other cases. So the hearing times are really a balance of...
 of having applicants aware of their time limits now and being more succinct. And also, we've eliminated the overlap between staff presentation and applicant presentation. So that absolutely allows the applicant to have more time to get into the heart of their case. As far as case schedule and repeat D.A.R.s and repeat hearings, those sometimes are a product of, like I just mentioned, three D.A.R.s for a very large case. And some of it has to do with...
 A DAR coming in, like the three cases we showed previously today of, you know, you're really not close to being a project that's approvable. So you need to come back in your best interest and show us a project that is approvable, that does address some of those issues that we've outlined in the first case. So, therefore, you might have two DARs.
 A recent case came, I think, with three DARs because it was in the Pearl District. They were asking for a height bonus relative to...
 the housing, so there was a housing bonus and there was not real clarity on why that was worthy. And then they did prove the case of why it was worthy in terms of public benefit. So they needed to come back and kind of prove their case to move forward in a comfortable manner with the height bonus would be approved. So, and sometimes it's...
 either the, sometimes it's the developer or a major tenant that's reticent to maybe conform or try to fit into the Portland model, much like the Fred Meyer case. So sometimes it's just knocking heads and the kind of concentrant
 or reluctance to, or it might be that it won't work otherwise for their pro forma, and we're sensitive to that. I would point out that there are two things here, that the city, with all of the previous projects in the 30-plus year history of the design commission, are now, have formed a contract with the city.
 And their expectation is that people that go before the design commission now are expected to go through that same rigor, the same design guidelines are applied in the same way. And with that, I would also point out that we, I don't think, in my seven and a half years on the commission, have actually denied a commission.
 project that wasn't on appeal. And so when we've been working with applicants, every one of those projects have been approved at some point. So we are not, I mean, Ben is a developer. I'm an architect.
 We're all involved in the development of our city as professionals, and that's one of the reasons we're on the commission, because we understand that process. And we're all involved in that process through the design commission and through our own businesses. So it wouldn't make any sense for us to be anti-development or anti-growth for the city. We just want it to be in a way that is in alignment with the city's goals. So what do you think about that? Let me just add on that one for a second, Mayor, is that,
 It's interesting because, and I can't believe I'm going to say this as a developer, but I think we all need to be more patient in the process. I mean, it takes a long time to build a great city, and I think that everybody's getting a little anxious about schedules and pace. And I think that for all of us to collectively slow down and have a project move through the process, I mean, these are enormous projects coming through.
 And I don't think there's anything wrong with an enormous project or even a smaller project when it's within the city's core, within these design overlays, to go a little bit slower. So I think it's the expectations of the development community that may be a little out of whack with what we're all trying to achieve as a city, which is a great city, and that takes time. So I think that may be where some of the friction is happening. So with the timer to speed things up and with the expectation that things take a long time to do in the city,
 that's okay so i think well i appreciate that sensibility i mean we keep these shades down but it may be today we should have rolled them up because all you have to do is look across the street at that god-awful brick stone wall that led to the creation of the design commission in the first place right um to remember that buildings last a long time whether they're good ones or bad ones and uh so i appreciate particularly coming from you ben that sensibility that it's we should take our time and get it right so
 But if we need to have, you know, again, I think we'd lose something in having two review bodies instead of one. I'm concerned about that. So I'd rather make it work with one. Yes. I agree. And we've even spoken about that. I agree with you, Mayor, that it would be, I think there may be divergent views if there's two bodies. I could see them separating and going, kind of deviating from the collective goal. But I think a larger pool from the same body maybe so that we, because we're now, as Commissioner Work said, we're short staffed right now.
 But if we had a larger pool to pull from, I think we could accomplish the same board, same commission. We should overfill police officer and firefighter positions in order to maintain the workforce. Maybe we should overfill the design commission and the historic landmarks commission for the same reason. Yeah, and I think then we could have four hearings a month if need be and be able to not overtax those of us. You might need a more attractive compensation package. Yeah, it's pretty lousy. Other questions or comments?
 yeah i mean on page two you say we're supportive of more design oversight around the city either through the expansion of design districts and or considering some sort of threshold or trigger discretionary design review anywhere in the city for projects of certain scale etc but before expanding this tool to apply more situations the city must first assess the current issues with the d overlay zone understanding that you think that this is a second step do you have some ideas as to
 where we might add design overlay or what kind of criteria you might add to trigger threshold, you might add to trigger discretionary design review.
 Well, I believe in the comprehensive plan there are some areas in southeast near OMSI that are being considered to be included in the D overlay zone. I think maybe some either commercial corridors or commercial nodes that become centers. I know when we did the master plan approval of the interstate corridor, there are designated kind of nodes at Killingsworth and interstate and other intersections that would warrant additional approval.
 design scrutiny because they actually were given more height and density. So whenever height and density match up with that benefit, then the carrot and the stick, so to speak, and that was one of the things that helped design commission be created, is there was benefit relative to the process that you would have to go through. So I think those two things could be considered in partnership. Okay.
 And potentially also community-led efforts. I think if neighborhood associations knew of the benefits of having a design overlay, maybe they would even ask for it. And we've heard murmurings in the past of communities wanting a design overlay to kind of limit the...
 design opportunities and the decisions at the street level. So I think if we, even as a city, educated as to what I think design review means for communities, I think there might be a path there as well. And to augment that, I mean, obviously the D zone can't be expanded to all the white zone that was in that map we showed that would just be untenable. So the kind of
 other leg of the stool is for the community design standards to be updated. And as you said, Mayor, that does take time. But what we're seeing and hearing is the pressures of development on neighborhoods is becoming more and more intense. And neighborhoods are less and less satisfied with it in some ways. So how do we strike a balance between growth as a city and retaining the sense of neighborhood that we so embrace in our city? Thank you.
 I have a comment and a question. The comment is on the Marriott slide that you showed. I mean, bravo for the outcome in terms of that little plaza. I mean, it really is stunning. But I know there are people that either love or hate the Canary Yellow color scheme. Oh, sure, sure. And in light of the emphasis you placed earlier on context, what was the thinking of the design commission on the Canary Yellow theme?
 color scheme, particularly in the context of the buildings that are around the Marriott? Right. That's a very good question because that was discussed at length. And I think what the Design Commission strives for is a
 It's to not be too limiting, not to be a repressive regime, so to speak, in terms of creativity for design applicants. And colors can change over time. And so if the Marriott tired of yellow, they could go to bright orange or bright green at some point in the future. Dear God, let's not encourage that. So colors are maybe more ephemeral, let's say.
 Whereas brick and stone and things like that are more permanent. And the question is really I'm going to address to Ben. So you've raised a concern about ground floor residential in a commercial district. And assuming developers are rational people.
 Why would a developer put ground floor residential? What is it in either the financing of the project, the pro forma, or the return on investment that makes ground floor residential attractive? And to the extent that we were to prescribe you couldn't do that,
 Does that have any unintended consequences on financing or long-term operations, including does it require a developer to consider sort of long-term stewardship around the commercial space that's different than what they would normally do around residential? Great question, Commissioner. First of all, developers aren't rational. And we've spoken a lot about this, and I think that –
 One opportunity is, and we've spoken with a lot of applicants about this option, is to design and construct them so that they can be, in the future, adapted to accommodate commercial ground floor.
 In other words, have the ceilings a little bit higher and having ADA access. Because we all acknowledge that in long strips where there's no adjoining commercial, we'd be hard pressed to demand that they have empty commercial for five, ten years. Who knows the window there? But if we have buildings that can accommodate the change in the future, we think that that's pretty palatable to both the design commission and the development world.
 So I think that would work well on many strips that we see. And a project type that has been successful, there are very few of them. Streetcar Lofts is an example of this where it's a live-work unit in its true sense where it's a –
 business that operates on the first level, and then there's a loft that is more the resident where they sleep and live. And so you get the best of both worlds. So as a compromise, we would probably very much support that idea where you could have –
 housing and commercial space in one and or commercial space so the issue with what we've seen with a lot of the proposals of housing on the first floor is they're not it's not realistic to expect someone to tear out 10 units to create some commercial space with all the restrooms and kitchens and infrastructure unless something really magnificent happened to the retail rates versus housing rates so that's a unknown as to whether that would ever happen
 well i like your idea about adaptable space that makes a lot of sense and i i'm reminded that um you know in some affordable housing development the city has funded with the best of intentions we've built in the commercial space on the ground floor but it's been very slow to lease up so at some point here it's a laudable goal but someone is someone is is picking up the tab on an underutilized space where perhaps we were somewhat ahead of the market even though it was at the right location and the right concept so i think that's
 That's the balancing part. Well, again, I'm glad we're having this discussion now. Obviously, we need to continue it. We may need to. We will most likely change in the comp plan which pieces of ground in the city of Portland are zoned for housing strictly and for commercial or mixed use. And I think your point is.
 We need to get that right. So don't zone for mixed use where we don't mean it. But where we do zone for mixed use, get it. And so we've got two jobs to do. One, sort of stop the bleeding in terms of underutilization of mixed use zones.
 now and then get real about, come on, it's not going to be reasonably feasible anytime soon to get ground floor retail there. So do we really mean it when we say this is CM or EXD? MR. One of the things, by the way, and I don't understand your business, I guess, but one thing I've always wondered is if we were intentional and we created, say, condominium spaces in a lot of the ground floor commercial space.
 In some cases it's ahead of the market, in some cases it's in developing areas. My guess is that an enterprising financial person might look at that and say, I'm going to buy a package of these things and retain them because at some point they're going to become very attractive. Plan for the future, yeah. And you get them at a beaten down price. But as the neighborhood gets built out, these spaces become attractive. Think about Gray's Landing.
 You know, once upon a time, you would think, well, that commercial space on Gray's Landing on South Waterfront, you know, maybe is slightly on the edge. Well, now it's in the thick of things. Yeah. Right. And that's the part about how the city grows and allowing for that to be active once it all fills in. Right. Yeah.
 And beyond Commissioner Warrick's examples, I think in my opinion, MLK is one of the most critical stretches. It has many projects coming along it with ground floor residential. And if you drive down from north of Fremont, you can see four or five, six examples where the city, where the streetscape is just being...
 stalled and that'll be for 50 years. And there's nothing we can, and particularly along MLK where we've all been struggling to kind of reinvigorate that stretch.
 and get it to be a commercial zone. There's many examples of residential on the ground floor. There are Venetian blinds pulled permanently, and even to the extent of bushes right at the street state. So that, I think, is one of our probably most critical things to speak about in the coming months is how to resolve that going forward for the city. Great.
 Just one question. On the concept of requiring that the ground force base be convertible to commercial later on, are you envisioning that at some point in the future we might say, okay, time's up, now you have to convert it to commercial and kick people out, or just the fact that it would be convertible would be enough? Yeah.
 Great question. I think that would be market-driven, actually, Commissioner. I think that as things fill in around it and as Commissioner Work says, the rental rates match or exceed that of the residential above, I think it would be holding upon the development team to probably take it on themselves, regardless of pressure.
 But I think the opportunity there would give – and it's kind of flexibility for any building going forward. It would be a great thing to have for the city as it kind of inhales and exhales over the next decades how to accommodate these commercial strips. Yeah.
 Well, thank you for a great presentation. This is always, it's not hard to get us started on this subject. As you can tell, we do need to take testimony, and then we have a bunch of people coming here for a day of service proclamation here shortly. So we'll move on into public testimony and look forward to continuing the discussion with you as volunteer leaders. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, let's take folks that are here to speak on this item, Carl. Okay, I have 10 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Melinda Graham, John Spencer, and Stephanie Becker. Good morning. Morning. Go ahead, Melinda. I'm Melinda this morning. She had to leave early, so I'm Melinda. Oh, all right. Melinda, you proceed. Melinda Tillett, or whoever you are.
 We are here on behalf of... Put your name in the record, Paddy. Paddy Tillett, the Urban Design Panel. Thank you.
 The urban design panel, many of you will remember the AIA urban design committee which advised the city staff on planning and urban design for many years and we recognised it was much more valuable to the city if the design profession spoke with a combined voice. So now we have formed a panel between the American Institute of Architects, the American Planning Association and the American Landscape Association local chapters.
 all of the advice and letters and so forth we prepare are approved by the boards of those, so that we really do speak for the design professions. So we recognize many of the problems that David outlined with the design review process and the difficulties encountered there.
 We met with the Design Commission last May to lay out our concerns and some proposals as to how we might improve things and subsequently we co-sponsored a City Club Friday Forum,
 on that subject, followed up by a meeting at the Centre for Architecture, which was attended by over 30 city staff, Design Commission members and other professionals to further this understanding. And so we have arrived at a point today with a letter, which I think we have submitted to you, which covers some of the key issues which my colleagues will cover.
 My name is John Spencer. I'm a member of the Urban Design Panel representing the American Planning Association. And I think we're here to say and to support the design review process itself in the city. We're all professionals here. We believe in the design review process. I served on the design commission for 11 years myself. But we're also here, I think, to reinforce and promote
 restate some of the issues that you've already been talking about and we have some ideas about how we can proceed as a community and offer the assistance of the Urban Design Panel to help in that whole process. Some of the key issues you've already touched on like the lengthening time it takes to get through the design review process and a lot of that is due to just the
 sheer volume of work. There's a lot of pressure on the Design Commission. There's a lot of pressure on staff. And when these meetings go on for a long period of time, there's a lot of pressure on applicants and there's pressure on the public that has to sit there and wait for their time to testify. So there needs to be, I think, some work done on figuring out how to streamline that whole process. We think part of that could be perhaps
 some refinement about the clarity of the three kind of steps in an approval process. There is a step which is the pre-application conference, which is kind of getting the whole thing started. There's the design advice request process and kind of the level of detail that's needed there. Then there's the actual design review hearing. We think that there could be...
 maybe more specificity or more elaboration on the expectations of what's happening in each one of those different processes. We think that would improve things as well.
 We're concerned about the community design standards as was discussed, both the need for them to be updated. But we hear a lot of cases where if developers are in a certain place where you've got the choice of community design standards and going through a type 2 process, the choice is community design standards because the bar is not as high.
 So there's a real need, I think, to address the community design standards that way. All of these issues kind of result in consistent quality of development. Two other final things. The idea of expansion of design review is something we think is really important to discuss, and it's really the capacity of our system to handle it is the issue.
 And finally, we think it's probably a good time to review and perhaps update and revise not only the community design standards, but the design guidelines. They're 20 years old. The last time they were fundamentally reviewed was when I was on the commission. Probably need to be simplified and made more up-to-date. We think that that's another exercise that is very important.
 I hope we can call on you as leaders to help with that. We're offering our assistance. Thank you. I'm Stephanie Becker. I'm also on the Urban Design Panel, and I'm a member of the American Institute of Architects and former AIA president in Portland.
 So I'm going to be very succinct and reiterate a lot of the things John said and David stated earlier. We're very much in alignment with what the work that the Design Commission is already starting to do. They've been aware of these problems, and they're on top of those. But we want to support that, and we want to commend them for the work that they and the staff have done to date. Getting a timer is critical.
 incredibly important, keeping people on those limits and being able to help projects get through the processes is critical. Our first recommendation is to rewrite the purpose and requirement of the design review.
 The Lloyd Blocks example that they gave was a wonderful model, but it's not very clear for applicants what the subject of each design review will be. So starting at the large scale, looking at the urban design scale, and refining as you go through the DAR process, and then really talking about the finer details of the design in the final design review and not going back to large-scale issues like where –
 Entry, you know loading docks are and entry to buildings are is really critical to the way that we work Our second recommendation is to hold the Bureau design commission applicants in the public to specific time limits And you've talked about that mayor Hales and the commissioners talked about that so I think that's clear and we applaud them for the efforts to date and
 Updating the design guidelines is something that we think is really crucial to the process and to increasing the efficiency of the reviews so that the applicants are clearly aware of what the guidelines are and that the guidelines are serving the city the way that they should be.
 then laying out the process for expanding expanding design review while this ad Work adds work to the design commission. It's clear that there are communities in the city that need to Benefit from the work of the design commission great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Appreciate your help Okay, thank you. Next three, please our Joe Walsh Susan Stewart and Dave Ott. Come on up. Hey, mr Walsh think you're first
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Just from a citizen's point of view, there's an elephant in the room that nobody has talked about, and that's the Portland building. What happened with that? Since we're talking about the design, it's going to cost this council, it is our understanding, $100 million to either fix it or tear it down. And you have to do one of the two soon, or it's going to fall down.
 or somebody's going to get killed on the eighth floor, or an elevator is going to go through the roof. If the design, and this report is a really good report, and it sounds like things are going really well, except I'm reminded of the Portland building.
 And I'm also reminded that we have a housing shortage in Portland, a terrible housing shortage in affordable housing and low-income housing. And I don't like the term affordable housing because it's a misnomer. So let's talk about low-income housing. So if you exclude housing from the lower levels of your construction,
 You're making a decision that it looks good and it kind of fits in with the environment, but those people that are waiting to get into housing, too bad. We want it to look nice. And that's my fear, that this city is on a path to look nice. It's not Portland. Portland doesn't look nice. Portland looks interesting, exciting.
 progressive. It doesn't look nice, neat. And I don't want that. And I get the feeling that this commission, just from a citizen's point of view, looking at it from a distance, that this is the way the process works. A developer comes in and says, this is what I want to do. The commission says, well, maybe you shouldn't paint that canary yellow because it wouldn't look so good. And the
 Because in the testimony, if I understood it, no request from the developers has ever been denied. That makes me very nervous when people are not denying anything. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Go ahead. Thank you. Whoever would like to go first. Good morning. I'm Susan Stewart from Boma, Oregon. I represent over 43 million square feet of commercial office space.
 My board has asked me to come talk to you, and it's going to be a little different than what you've heard this morning. In my perfect world, my board would be sitting here sharing concerns with you, but overwhelmingly the concern is if they express concerns to the Design Commission, they may face retribution in the future. So I'm the lucky one who gets to come here and share a few of their concerns this morning. There were a lot of them. I pulled six. You have it in front of you, but briefly. Okay.
 Design review needs to only be if the design meets code. Apparently there are two clauses, C2 and C5, that gives the commission broad judgment. The group feels that these should be removed from code. Oftentimes commissioners push for higher design quality. It's not always practical, and it's certainly not financially feasible. Commission members should be more specific in their feedback, and I quote, just make it someplace I would want to go.
 Commissioners often ask for things not in their purview. One of them, in discussing art and projects, talks a lot about the cost and the comparison with the amount of art in public buildings. Entitlements, zoning, FAR, height, these need to be non-negotiable. Developers need to know what to expect before they plan their project. And finally, this was discussed a lot, some meetings have lasted over eight hours.
 Their meetings are one to two hours, and overwhelmingly the group thought that if staff had more input, this would probably not be an issue. Thank you. Thank you very much. Susan, I just ask you, I'm looking at your testimony, and these are not most of your comments are not particularly radical. On behalf of your industry, you're raising concerns or statutory interpretation, which is within your purview.
 But you began by saying that some of your members felt there was a risk of retribution. Is there a history of that, or is that just some abstract concern? My understanding from conversations is that there is a history of that, and they sent the messenger. Okay. We won't shoot the messenger. Appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Dave Otte, AIA, and I apologize if I don't read this because this is too important to just wing it.
 I am speaking to you today on behalf of the Portland Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. Serving as their president for 2015, I'm honored to be representing our local membership of over 1,100 advocates for a better built world. Our job as architects is to design great spaces manifested through a delicate balance of context, program, budget, schedule, taste, and code. The code and its relationship to designer view is what I would like to address today. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fritz recently released a memo about Designer View and its relationship to the code that got a lot of people talking. I won't go over the details of the memo here, but in essence, she urges a harder line be drawn between Designer View staff and applicants, mostly architects, applying for Designer View. Commissioner Fritz advocates for quality design, compatibility, and the preservation of natural and historic resources over the idea of density at all costs. We couldn't agree more.
 However, the issue is not design review when it comes to the perceived battle between compatibility and density or the perceived battle between neighbors and applicants. It is the zoning code. We are concerned this memo creates confusion with what is allowed by right versus what is discretionary. Despite a clear distinction between the letter of the law and more subjective parts of the code, we take issue that Commissioner Fritz's apparent solution to better design is making it okay to say no.
 The end result of a public agency that's encouraged to say no is a dynamic that assumes few common goals between applicants and neighbors and, in effect, encourages applicants to skip the discretionary design review process altogether in favor of the prescriptive part of our code known as the community design standards. The standards result in predictability, they result in efficiency, and they result in clarity, but rarely, if ever, do they result in great design.
 More fundamentally, the standards do not reconcile the perceived disconnect between compatibility and density. Creative and discretionary design is precisely how we can provide compatible density. Rather than trying to draw a line between density and compatibility, the AIA urges you to promote great design and compatible density by providing more resources to design review so we can encourage a collaborative approach between applicants, staff, and the community.
 Specifically, more qualified staff are needed under Tim and Kara to provide the support needed for them to guide their heavy workload and ease their backlog in a meaningful way. They need more resources to get to yes with better design as the end result. We need our leaders to value great design. We need you to be ambassadors for a quality built environment. And we need you to want more than the lowest common denominator known as the community design standards.
 We need you to support architects as we raise the bar through a discretionary design review process to achieve compatible density. Finally, we need you to see Portland's architects the same way as you see other neighbors, as local experts who want nothing more than the best for our city. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. If you haven't already done so, could you provide us with a copy of that testimony? Not necessarily right now, but sometime soon. You bet. Thank you. Mr. Roddy, thanks for giving me the opportunity to clarify. My memo was about land divisions. It wasn't about design review. So I have sent out another memo to clarify that. I do, however, agree that occasionally the answer can be no in discretionary reviews.
 There is, as you've heard, the Design Commission always tries to get to yes, and sometimes that takes many iterations, and I appreciate the partnership of the AI and the Urban Design Panel for helping to design projects that can get to yes. But I do think it's important that not, where you have a discretionary land use review,
 It's not an entitlement, and there should be an opportunity for a design commission or a city council to say, actually, no, this on balance doesn't meet the approval criteria. But thank you for letting me clarify that my memo was not about design review. May I respond? Please. Thank you.
 What I would like to urge you to consider is as we move forward with 2035 and the comp plan and the community design standards, if those community design standards aren't brought up to a better level of where they need to be, that is going to be the default. And so when you create a culture of no, developers are going to go to the standards. And it's going to be a losing situation for all of us.
 I totally agree and let's be clear I'm not creating a culture of no. Okay. I'm just saying that the public interest is what's at stake in discretionary reviews. Thank you very much. We appreciate your partnership with us on this. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, next. Lauren Waxman, Anoy Jansky, and Charles Johnson. Good morning. Go ahead. One more, Carl. Yes. Let's go with Mitch Nichols then. No, you go first.
 Mr. Jansky, go ahead while Mr. Waxman is getting organized here. Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor. I'm Andrew Jansky. I served on the Design Commission for eight years.
 it was an enjoyable term of service we started with the boom cycle and had eight hour meetings and i ended with the bus cycle where meetings are canceled so i kind of experienced everything and i was the member at large for a while and i was looking out for the neighborhood interests um
 From my experience, the design commission and review system typically works well, and projects come out better after they've gone through it. The examples that you saw earlier were really excellent examples. How long it takes to get through the system, I was one of the ones on the commission when the Burnside Fred Myers was first presented, and I remember people saying that it's a suburban design put in the city.
 So, you know, it takes a long time to get through the system, but the project is a lot better. One pillar of our system is the Neighborhood Association and how it fits into all this. They're good intentions, and it's worked well in the past for the community to express their voice.
 but there's some recent examples where it's really not the case. You know, I just feel like neighborhood associations are small groups of people that are talking about things, and they can typically grow in size around an anti-cause, anti-density, anti-dogs, anti-parking, anti-bikes, anti-laughing kids. You pick it, and they're going to try and get together to block something. The best examples at Design Commission were...
 When we told them to go back and work with the Neighborhood Association and try and come up with a solution, when they came back, the project was a lot better. But what I've seen lately is the polarization in some of the neighborhoods really starts really low, and then they get together and they form an opposition that sometimes doesn't work with the development team. And I think we've seen several examples recently that –
 So what I'm suggesting is that the city's staff in these smaller forums encourage the neighborhood associations to be more accommodating, to actually work with the things that are coming down the pipeline instead of just opposing it and supporting.
 The solutions will be better instead of just saying no at the lowest, lowest level. And it's usually a couple people that catalyze this opposition. And if we would have staff say, no, no, we need to be accommodating for other people's opinions. Let's work this out from really like the grassroots level.
 So that's my point. Thank you. Thanks very much. Just a comment made I agree It seems to be a lot easier for people to coalesce against anything than for anything But I do have to say that laughing children have posed a huge problem in the city recently. I understand the opposition to that Yeah, we got we got to deal with that. Mr. Waxman. Good morning. Good morning. My name is I
 Lauren Waxman. I was on the design commission from 2000 to 2008 for eight years. And I've been a developer here in Portland with my own company, Waxman & Associates, for almost 25 years now. So Portland is a great place. And anyway, I'm going to talk about three things.
 little bit about the recommendations we're in front of you and I want to talk a little bit about some of the issues in the r25 zone and I also want to talk about our comp plan and some of that and just sort of boxcar and a few things that I heard here today I liked the the recommendations were presented by the design commission today although I just wanted to chime in that I'm not sure that ground floor residential citywide
 I'm a little bit worried about that in the areas that are further outlying. I think you're going to have some dead commercial retail spaces. I think that hurts. So I think there needs to be a mechanism there for those to convert over time. I'm not sure what it is, but you've got a lot of people who I think can help us with that.
 The R25 zone. I live over near the Clinton neighborhood. We've heard a lot about demolitions. We've heard a lot about land divisions. But, you know, what I see going on in my neighborhood is a good thing. I walk a lot. The houses that I feel are disappearing are the kind of... It's like a wildfire. We're in a really hot business cycle. And what's getting cleared out in my neighborhood are the old and the sick and the weak. And...
 When I walk through, do I love every home that I see coming in? I don't. Could the design be better? Yes. But what I see are families and young professionals with dogs instead of drug houses. That's a big deal to me. I think we're getting better. But that leads to, you know, do we extend D into these neighborhoods? And I think we could, but I think we need to be really, really careful about that from a staffing point of view. And I think we should do it with much consideration, which sort of brings me to the comp plan.
 And I think Portland's best planning and what's really made Portland great over the years is our comprehensive planning. And I think that the design toolkit, as John Spencer was saying, it needs to be updated, not just the community design standards but the design guidelines. But I think it should be taken on like the comp plan with seriousness and with the whole future in mind and really thinking about how we want to make it better because they are a little bit outdated.
 So I think that's a much better way to look at our planning rather than looking at these demolitions, looking at some of these LUR decisions, looking at some of these developer fees. I think those aren't planning in a comprehensive way. I think our best planning is in a comprehensive way. And lastly, I would just like to say I appreciated Devati's comments, the AIA president. I would endorse those and add my opinion.
 You know, same sentiments to those. I thought they were very good. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you. I'm Mitch Nichols, Mr. Mayor, Councillors. I am the Inspection Services Manager for the city in BDS. And I'm here just to voice our support for the processes and the moving forward with the Design Commission's recommendations. Thank you.
 As with every process in the city that involves development, there is a great deal of mindfulness when it comes to how the building code, how the design code, and how the zoning codes work together. Very complimentary of the DRAC committee for their work and the recommendations that they bring forward in this process to help with the development of our community. But at the same time, being mindful of the concerns with interaction with the public and the pedestrians on the sidewalks and so forth.
 Very, very critical to get it right. I think a great deal of work and effort has gone into doing that here. And I'd like you to know that we fully support the effort. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. We're keeping you busy out there. You definitely are. Anyone else signed up? I believe Linda Netticoven wanted to speak. Linda? Is Linda still here? There she is. Good morning. The last word. Last word from Ladd's edition. Oxford Abernathy. Okay. That too. That's a good one. Thank you.
 For the record, I'm Linda Nedikovan. I wasn't planning to speak this morning, but I feel compelled. I agree with a lot of the suggestions that have been made, and I'm really appreciative of all the hard work that the Design Commission puts into its mission. I'm really here to plead with you to see if there isn't something we can do on an interim basis to improve perhaps the worst of the worst of the...
 design guidelines and the design standards. I'm a person who tends to attack problems from the perspective of comprehensive big picture, all the important people at the table. That's my way of doing things. But I also have been working on Division Street since 2000 and have watched the change and we've had 300 and some new units go in within two years and the pace continues. And
 We hear from our BPS staff folks who are very supportive and very helpful that we're looking at 2017 before the comprehensive plan is adopted by the state and zoning kinds of changes can go into effect. And we are looking at 2019 if we do, at a minimum, some kind of comprehensive look at those design standards.
 Our corridors will be gone. We'll have missed the opportunities to really make them the best that they can be. In some cases, we're going to be losing historic treasures because we don't have the transfer of development rights or the historic incentives at an optimum. We're losing our affordable housing. You know, we're losing, Lauren's in my neighborhood. He's coming to us in a couple weeks with the development. We'll be nice to him.
 We're losing affordable housing as we're tearing down the weak and the sick and everything in the wildfire. And we're not replacing it in kind. And we're not replacing more. I mean, we have, what, 36% of our population is at a standard where they don't have enough income to live.
 to support themselves in an adequate way. And it's going too fast, as someone else said. Somehow we need to be able to pause this a little bit, and we need to be able to be more thoughtful about some of what's being built.
 The depiction of neighborhood response certainly is accurate in some instances and maybe in too many instances, but we're setting this up right now. We're polarizing things in a way. We don't have this kind of grand narrative about the growth in our city that people can sign on to and say, oh, I see, we're taking our share of growth here, and we're doing it in a way that is compatible with the history of who we are and who we want to become here.
 You know that isn't happening people feel like things are being thrust on them They have no way good way to respond at a minimum. We need to change the notification requirements We could do that fairly quickly as we did with the demolition code So that there's a more of an early conversation with the neighborhood before plans are finalized and then a more final conversation when things are close to ready to go for permit and
 chance to see things in scale to understand how a building is going to fit on a street. There are some little things that we could tweak more quickly. And I'm just asking that we please find some things that we can do more immediately than, you know, just for the long term, which, again, we want to do in a good way. Can I ask you a question? Yeah. You're the last speaker, so just if I want to take advantage of this opportunity. So I took a walk around my neighborhood recently, and I –
 I notice we have a lot. I live in the Grant Park area. A lot of bungalows, craftsman style. We've got some modern houses that have come in. We have small houses, big houses. Used to be you could buy a house for $200. Now people are selling their bungalows for $400, and they're being demolished and replaced with $800,000 homes.
 We hear all the concerns in neighborhoods about the lack of affordable housing, about the impact on neighborhoods, on and on and on. How much do you think in this debate, how much would you value the question of the design and the context for these houses? My sense is a lot of these big houses that are coming into areas that have a traditional stock of housing,
 just look like they've been transplanted from a suburban development into an inner city neighborhood. And they're just, in terms of size and scale and design, they look like alien creatures. How much of the anxiety in the neighborhoods do you think would be addressed through the design component versus all the other underlying issues? Sure.
 I think that varies very much from neighborhood to neighborhood. I mean, you think of the folks from Beaumont, Wilshire, where there's a lot of demolition within the context of the single-family housing and a lot of the areas that are facing more kind of corridor development. It's the impact on the neighbors behind the new buildings going in and also the look and feel of the buildings that are going in on the corridors. There's the challenge of somehow...
 the design literacy across the community so that people have an option to say something besides no. And so in some neighborhoods, that would make a big difference. I work a lot with the Division Design Initiative, and we've been trying to create design guidelines for divisions so at least developers would have a sense of kind of what the values of the community are around design. We also submitted a proposal to the Meyer Trust trying to get
 some funding to create a design toolkit that a lot of other neighborhoods could use and to try to pilot it with one of the DCL partners or a lower income neighborhood to see how we could, what we could do to help a neighborhood that doesn't have architects living down the block who can help at those conversations when you're doing development. That makes a big difference in a neighborhood. If you've got folks on your board who speak the language, I mean, how many people
 people on the street know what an FAR is or understand the difference between mass and scale, and suddenly people are asked to respond to these changes that are happening, and they don't necessarily have the tools.
 Didn't we, Commissioner Fritz, didn't the council do that years ago a little bit with the skinny house controversy where there was an effort to create some design protocols or examples? I had an example, Commissioner Fish. That's a really long conversation. I would have to say that that was not a particularly successful project. All right, so we don't want to avoid those mistakes of the past. But that was analogous in terms of the amount of...
 discontent and frustration that was generated in the community, definitely. And what I remember some of the conversations were, well, if these kinds of houses are coming into the area, can we at least be consistent with some of the design values of the neighborhood so they fit in and contextual? All right, so a longer conversation. Yes. But coincidentally, Commissioner, that was part of what my memo to the staff on the land divisions was, is look at the context of the neighborhood when making a discretionary decision.
 Thank you very much. Okay. May I move to accept the report? Second. Further discussion? Roll call on accepting the report.
 Fish? Well, thank you for an excellent presentation and really a first-rate PowerPoint. And I will say just my guess is every commissioner up here would say the same thing, that these before and after type pictures where you explain the values proposition and you show us what it looked like and then what happened through your intervention and the collaborative process is very helpful to better understand the value-added proposition. So thank you.
 I really appreciated the thoughtful discussion today and the testimony. And since a lot of people are here today who serve as volunteers in this really important capacity, thank you for your service. We really appreciate it. Hi. No, thank you.
 I second what Commissioner Fish said. I really appreciated the specific examples of what you actually do, and I think that's very helpful to us and the community and appreciate your service and the staff and everybody who testified today. This is, I mean, these are tough issues and one point I think it's important to make is that
 Everybody's concerned about government being too big, but if you expand the number of things that you want government to worry about, then government has to be bigger. So if we're going to talk about expanding the reach of design review or making it more fine-grained, then that means Commissioner Fritz is going to have to have more people. So I thought it was important to make that point. Aye.
 Well, good citizens truly are the riches of the city. And thank you to the Design Commission for the phenomenal amount of work that you do and the high quality of the results. And thank you for helping to make it a great city.
 Thank you to Tim Herron and the team staff, and to Mitch Nichols for coming to show that actually BDS does have many different divisions, and we work really hard to work together and to make it work for the development community as well as for the neighbors. Thank you to my colleagues, and yes, we are going to be having quite a significant budget ask. Bye.
 Well, I want to thank all the current and former members of the Design Commission who are here today and representatives of the design community. We do have a high level of understanding in this city between the public sector, the private sector and the nonprofit sector about what kind of city we want. And we constantly have to bring new citizens into that conversation. And I think some of the turmoil we're seeing in our neighborhood network really kind of reflects that.
 I want to first thank you for the report, second pledge that we're going to move quickly on the recommendations that you've made because I think they're very important.
 And then third, I just want to deal with sort of one of the points that got raised in discussion here and might be the subject of other opining around the city about this. I think it's important to remember, and these examples showed it, that good design is not a tradeoff between an economically strong city and a pretty one.
 it's not like we only get to choose one and the comments that i recited about the developer who said thank you for pushing me to make my project better really illustrate that earl blumenauer is speaking next door to our manager's brown bag this week fred miller has this series and earl's the speaker and one of earl's comments that i love quoting was about
 a woman named Elsa Coleman who was our parking manager and who was responsible for implementing the draconian idea of limiting parking in the downtown core after the Environmental Protection Agency forced us to do that. And Earl said of Elsa something that kind of applies to the design commission. He said, never has one woman made more men rich over their objections. So never has one commission
 made one city better over at least some people's exceptions. Because that's what you've done. I mean, that's what this does, is hopefully most people, as that developer did, see the point and see the value that's added by good design. Because those buildings are going to be around for 100 years. And one that looks like that building is going to be worth a lot more in the 50th or the 100th year than the one across the street that's going to have to either be heavily remodeled or demolished someday to make way for a real urban building.
 So there's a real value proposition here, and I think it's important to state that. This is not a tradeoff between an economically strong city and good design. They are one. And I think our commission understands that. Our development and design community, by and large, understands that. And that's the ideal that we need to strive for. There's some things here we have to tune, and some of them quickly, in order to actually get what we're striving for. And I think you've got our attention, as this report always does. So thank you so much. Aye. Aye.
 Mayor, I have an excused absence to go speak on behalf of the city. Okay. I think we have some non- Mr. Fritz, I'm going to take this personally. This is our first major capital construction project at the Water Bureau. We were reporting. We were looking forward to you of all people to get into the details.
 But before we get into those details, I'd like to ask the council's indulgence to move to our National Service Day recognition proclamation, because we have some folks here to talk about that. So Water Bureau folks, sorry, if you don't mind, we're going to make you wait a little bit and take item 364.
 364 proclaim April 7 2015 to be National Service Recognition Day in Portland we have some people here to speak about this and to celebrate the good work when Shemra Velo is here who works for Multnomah County Aging and Disability we have Joe Shipley who's an AmeriCorps member and Abby Reinhart from AmeriCorps Vista come on up and thank you for coming today and while they're getting settled I'll read this proclamation which says
 Whereas service to others is a hallmark of the American character, and whereas the nation's cities are increasingly turning to national service and volunteerism as a cost-effective strategy to meet community needs,
 And whereas participants in AmeriCorps and Senior Corps address the most pressing challenges facing our cities and nation, from educating students for jobs in the 21st century and supporting veterans and military families to providing health services and helping communities recover from natural disasters, and whereas AmeriCorps and Senior Corps participants serve in more than 180 service locations in Portland, bolstering civic, neighborhood, and faith-based organizations,
 and whereas more than 790 National Service participants of all ages and backgrounds serve in Portland, improving the quality of life in our city, and whereas National Service represents a unique public-private partnership that invests in community solutions and leverages non-federal resources to strengthen community impact, including more than $3 million in Portland,
 And whereas the Corporation for National and Community Service shares a priority with mayors nationwide to engage citizens, improve lives, and strengthen communities, and is joining with the National League of Cities, City of Service, and mayors across the country to recognize the impact of service, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, do hereby proclaim April 7, 2015, to be National Service Recognition Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day."
 So welcome and thank you for your service. Who's on first? Lynn? Sure. So my name is Lynn Shemervlew. I work for Multnomah County Aging, Disability, and Veteran Services. We coordinate one of the senior core programs, the Foster Grandparent Program. And I wanted to recognize the great service that our foster grandparent volunteers provide in our communities at elementary schools, Head Start programs, after school programs, and other youth-based programs.
 We have over 70 volunteers in the foster grandparent program. These are folks who are all age 55 plus and who are living on a modest income, about 200% federal poverty. And they have contributed over 50,000 hours
 every fiscal year, spending at least 15 hours a week serving over 700 children in the capacity of mentorship and academic support. This is phenomenal. We have volunteers who have served in the program, many of our volunteers have been in the program for more than 10 years.
 A few of them have been in the program for more than 20 years, and we just had one of our amazing foster grandparent volunteers who retired, serving 30 years as a foster grandparent. She focused her time primarily on spending time with children, teaching them to read and helping them to become better readers. So this is quite a contribution.
 This program mutually benefits all who are involved. We place volunteers in Head Start programs, preschool programs, the Boys and Girls Clubs, at the Providence Center for Medically Fragile Children. They're in sun schools, they're in summer programs, and they're all focused on enriching the lives of children and increasing their academic success.
 Our volunteers provide much needed support to classrooms. In some cases, they are the only dependable and consistent caring adult in the lives of the children that they serve. They have helped withdrawn children become confident. They have helped struggling children learn to read, find the joy in reading. And they work with kids who do not feel safe and help them to become excited about coming to school.
 Our volunteers also gain many benefits themselves from this experience. They not only receive a small stipend, but they have the joy of giving back to their community and with the hope of expanding the potential for these children for the next generation.
 The volunteering extends their life expectancy. It decreases depression. They're engaged in their community. They are active in their community, and they are contributing significantly.
 And then, of course, there's the stipend, which helps these folks who are low-income remain independent, and it empowers them to provide for themselves. National service builds community while making significant positive outcomes for all involved, and we appreciate your help and dedication to national service in Oregon and here in Portland. Thank you.
 Zoe, would you like to be next? Thank you. My name is Zoe Shipley, and I'm a second-year AmeriCorps member serving with the SUN program at Clear Creek Middle School in Gresham. SUN, Schools Uniting Neighborhoods, is operated by Metropolitan Family Service, which is a nonprofit that focuses on community schools, transportation, family support, and older age support.
 MFS is unique in that it offers programs that provide support at every stage of life, serving a diverse community of people who often face cultural or economic barriers. The SUN program is an integral part of MFS and helps to further the goal of creating community schools that act as full-service neighborhood hubs where the school and partners from across the community come together to make sure that kids and families have what they need to be successful in school and in life.
 Most people associate SUN with the after-school programs, which is a huge aspect of what we do, but there's also so much more. AmeriCorps members serving with SUN plan school-wide events, lead adult classes, coordinate volunteers, run clothing closets and food pantries, and collaborate with local partners to connect families with invaluable resources.
 We provide students with a positive adult role models and a safe space for them to feel heard and valued. We help parents feel welcome at the school and provide much-needed services to families who are struggling just to get by. And Sun gives AmeriCorps members a space where we can try new things, explore our passions, sing songs and be silly, fail and learn and grow.
 When I started my service with the Sun program in 2013, I didn't really know much about AmeriCorps or about nonprofit work in general. I applied because I'd had a lot of experience being a camp counselor, and I thought it would be fun to try teaching in a school where I could spend a year with kids instead of just a week. At that time, I could not have predicted the impact that this service would have on my life.
 Watching my students grow over the last two years and learning about the challenges that they face at home and at school on a daily basis has really opened my eyes to the needs that exist in our community and in many other communities around the world. I'm so grateful that resources like SUN exist and at the same time have learned how many resources are really lacking for families that live below or just above the poverty line.
 Support for these programs is essential if we want to create healthy, happy families and communities where people can thrive and succeed rather than just keeping their heads floating above water. In my two years with AmeriCorps, I've witnessed so much compassion and love, both from my co-members and from the students and families that we serve. I've been amazed at the ability of small, thoughtful actions to really have meaningful impacts in the lives of others.
 And I'm incredibly grateful for my time in this position, for the lessons I've learned, the skills I've gained, the friends that I've made, all of which will continue to serve me long after my service is done. Thank you.
 Thank you. Welcome, Abby. Thank you. My name is Abby Reinhart and I'm an AmeriCorps VISTA member working with the City of Portland's Main Street and Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative Network. I serve at the site at Historic Park Rose in Northeast Portland's Park Rose neighborhood. And first I'll start off by bragging a little about our network of VISTA members who are working in the NPIs and Main Streets here in Portland.
 There is six of us in this network working as AmeriCorps VISTA members.
 Our job is to build the capacity of our organizations, help them sustain and keep working for the neighborhoods we serve. So for our first, we reported on our first six months of our service term. And together, our group of six VISTA members in the Main Street and NPI Network have recruited over 300 volunteers and leveraged a total of over $50,000 in in-kind and cash donations to our organizations. Okay.
 So that's a pretty big deal for all of us.
 I feel very lucky and fortunate to be working in the Parkrose neighborhood here. The VISTA experience has been very immersive, and I get to see people's faces and learn their names over a whole year. And really, I feel like I've adopted the causes and mission of improving the Parkrose Business District, making it a great neighborhood for the people who live there, and connecting everyone with the resources that are available to them.
 So I'm also very lucky that AmeriCorps VISTA is such a great fit in my personal career of public service and community work. So it's just it all fits together very nicely. Thank you. Thank you. By the way, delighted that you're out in Park Rose. Last year the council put an extra $100,000 into supporting small businesses east of 82nd.
 And we've got an event coming up, and we'll probably see you there. Yes, we will be there. Celebrating the next chapter. So delighted you're involved in that work. Thank you.
 Well, I have such a strong personal bias on this issue, I ought to declare it, which is that my wife moved from Vermont to Yakima in order to be a VISTA volunteer. I probably never would have met her if it hadn't been for VISTA. So there's that. And then two of our sons were AmeriCorps volunteers working up in Alaska with Inuit kids building trails and doing that kind of work. And the transformative effect on people's lives, but also on the volunteers themselves,
 is so profound, and I just so appreciate the work you do. So thank you. We'd love to take a photo with you and your colleagues in the council if we could. So if we could gather up here all the great folks here. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. Let's hear it for the volunteers. Congratulations. Excellent. That will make her happy. Thank you. Good work. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 We will move back to our, would you, Nick, would you like to take the hold item first? Please. Okay. So let's take item 361. Accept contracts with Advanced American Construction, Inc. and Black & Beach Corporation for the design and construction of the Bull Run Dam Two Towers Improvement Project as complete and authorized final payment.
 Mr. Fish. So, Mayor, this is a really big deal. And I'm actually, as I kidded Amanda when she was leaving, I'm sorry we don't have the full council. I'm a little chagrined that the council chambers is almost empty.
 And maybe I should take that as a compliment. It's good news. And the reason we've moved this from consent to the regular agenda is this is the first major capital construction project that's been completed since we changed the ground rules. And we're going to, Council's going to get a quick report on how we did. And I'm hoping that based on the questions that my colleagues ask,
 that this iterative process begins to shape what kind of future reports you're going to get and how they are presented. And so you're going to obviously be interested in knowing were we over budget, under budget, were we on time, those kinds of things, what's the benefit to our rate payers, and on and on. But let me try just framing the issue for you. Today we're in some ways pulling back the curtain on an aspect of Water Bureau work that very few people see because the work has been occurring in the Bull Run Watershed.
 But it's vitally important to both the quality of our water and compliance with some federal regulations. The specific matter before council today is we're coming before you to close out contracts with contractors on what's called the Bull Run Dam 2 Tower Project.
 Now, I have a confession. The first couple of times I was in meetings with Director Schaaf, he talked about the dam tower project. I said, David, I understand how passionate you are, but there's no cause for swearing in this room. Well, it turns out he was literally talking about the dam to power project, and that is what it is. I am pleased to report to my colleagues that the project has been completed on time and just slightly under the council-approved budget.
 To better understand what this particular dam to tower project does, I'd like you to think of it as you watch the PowerPoint as a straw, a fairly expensive straw that's been placed into the reservoir for the purpose of being able to capture the colder water that's below the surface.
 And why is that important? Well, our team is going to explain under some federal regulations and out of respect for natural habitat and other things why we have to regulate water temperature. But it is literally a straw that's been placed into a part of the reservoir that goes down as far as 150 feet.
 So the work on this project was very challenging and also very dangerous. In fact, essentially deep-sea diver-type equipment going down where you could only work for a very limited period of time, and then you had to come up and recover. From an engineering standpoint, this is literally a one-of-a-kind project in the country. And I learned just recently that it involved the largest silt curtain ever made at over a half mile long.
 Unfortunately, we can't recycle this curtain in any of our bathrooms, but it is the largest silt curtain ever done. And why a silt curtain? Well, because we had to make sure that there was no contamination of the surrounding water. I want to also just share a few fun facts before we introduce our panel. Between the two reservoirs in the Bull Run, we have about 19 billion gallons of water
 And that's really phenomenal when, you know, daily we read stories about the crisis in California, challenges across the country. We have 19 billion gallons in reserve, of which about 10 billion gallons is usable. And that's because if you go down below a certain level or you get to the edges, you create what Director Schaaf loves to talk about, which is turbidity events. And that's not good in our work. So about 10 of the 19 billion is usable. Right.
 The project that we've completed is a cornerstone of the Water Bureau's Habitat Conservation Plan, which is in turn part of the city's compliance with the Endangered Species Act. And here's something else to ponder about this incredible resource that we take for granted in the board run. We're using about 85 million gallons a day. And over the course of a year, we're consuming between 33 and 35 billion gallons of water.
 All of it replenished thanks to natural phenomenon that occur up in the watershed. Rain and water percolating through the natural filter system and then ending up in the lake. On some days, because we have a limited capacity to retain water, we're literally sending hundreds of millions of gallons of water into the rivers and streams and back into the natural ecosystem. That's how plentiful it is.
 We have more than we need, but we'll continue to protect what we have. And I'd like to introduce Mike Stuer, who's our chief engineer, and Tim Collins, the senior engineer, to work us through what I think is a significant success story for the Bureau. Gentlemen? Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name's Mike Stuer. I'm the chief engineer of the Portland Water Bureau. And I have with me Tim Collins, who's a senior engineer, and he's the project manager for Dam Two Towers.
 He was also the project manager for the Sandy River Crossing Tunnel Project and will be our project manager for the Willamette River Crossing. Give him all the easy stuff. That's what we do. Not only that, we've just tortured him through the city's leadership institute, and now we feel he's fully qualified to come and talk to council. Right.
 We're very pleased to be able to come and talk to you about this project. I think it went very well. It's a great project. We had great contractors. We had a lot of help on this project from our procurement staff and from the city attorney's office. It's a CMGC contract. And I think an excellent use, an excellent example of why we use CMGC contracts. So without further ado, I'll let Tim go ahead.
 Welcome, Tim. Good morning. My name is Tim Collins. I'm the, as well as being a senior engineer, I'm the program manager for the CIP projects that happen in the watershed.
 So I wanted to talk about the main participants in this project. We had Advanced American Construction, and they were the contractors Mike mentioned. We had Oregon Ironworks. They were the fabricator of the wet wall. They were also the people who built the streetcar. They were, in fact, building the streetcar at the same time they were building our facility. Black & Veatch was our consultant, and there are many, many other people who are involved. This is a...
 basically a six-year project and I am quite honored to be here and to be able to talk to you guys about it. It's probably one of a lifetime career type of project. And I just wanted to say that there are many people who are involved and made this a reality.
 You mentioned it was part of the Habitat Conservation Plan. It's basically designed to reduce the temperature of the lower Bull Run River below the dams throughout the summer season. I could throw some numbers at you. That's not my purview, but it's basically designed to approach what would have been historical norms in the Bull Run before we built the dams.
 I love your straw analogy. It's the one that I use myself when I'm talking to people who don't know what this is. It's very applicable. This straw has three different holes in it, and they have little gates that each hole can pull the water out of. But before I – I wanted to give you a grounding of what these towers look like. Now, I hope all of you and everybody in here takes a chance to go out and see the dams.
 and see the watershed. It's truly a gift we have, and we need to appreciate it. But they were built in the 60s, and what I want... Unfortunately, I can't do the PowerPoint thing. I can't point, but the North Tower is the one that we worked on. It's by far the largest. And if you look down, you'll see the grating at the bottom of it here. That's where the water leaves the reservoir. There's a tunnel that goes through the dam, and then it goes into our headworks facility. So we're going to focus on those areas.
 That's where the straw attaches. So we're attaching this straw to this screened area, and then the front side of the straw has these gates on it.
 So I've kind of already talked about these. There are a couple of other things that we did. We did quite a few, some improvements at our Headworks facility to better separate the water for fish from the water for people. That was a challenge that we had as requirements were coming through that we had to feed water to town and feed water to the river through the same system of piping. It was creating challenges. So now they're completely separate, and we have a much easier to maintain system.
 So here's basically a schematic. If you look in the side view, the stuff on the left is the existing tower. It's round, and then you'll see that sloping roof. That's the top of those gates. And the straw is this sort of ribbed-looked trapezoidal structure. And if you look on the front view, you'll see three pairs of gates, six gates. Each of these gates are about...
 15 by 13 feet tall. So they would be covering this screen above my head. They're quite humongous. So that's basically the structure. It sits on the existing foundation of the tower. So you'll see on the picture that kind of low disc-shaped thing. The wet well sits on top of the existing foundation of the tower.
 So the first thing we had to do was we had all this equipment, all this new stuff that we had to implement so that we could operate these gates. And the whole tower was open to the elements. So we had to create a new tower. Also, another significant thing was we had to upgrade the roof so we could put a crane on it because we needed this crane so that we could manipulate the gates. Okay.
 Not a normal service, but if they were to be maintained. So this building was built on the shore. We literally cut the top off of the tower. They had a huge, it was basically a diamond-encrusted piece of wire. And they literally ran this diamond-encrusted piece of wire, and it cut the top off of the tower. It was quite amazing. So then they rebuilt the roof, and we put this new building on top of it.
 And then we went to the base of it is with –
 Oregon Iron Works. These are massive pieces of steel. Each one of these webs is one inch thick. It's just an amazingly complicated and massive piece of steel because basically the whole tower has to be supported on this base. And then the side pieces, these trapezoidal, they're two pieces. You can kind of see the openings where the gates would fit on them. And there's this guy standing in front of it. So they're quite massive.
 And then we had to get it to the site, which was a job all on its own. Out in rural Clackamas County, lots of bridges with low load limits and weight limits. The one thing that I forgot to mention is that the tower was built out of nine different segments. So it's 120 feet tall, and each of these segments had to be broken up, and then it had to be bolted together. All of this happened underwater. Okay.
 So here we're putting the base into where we've got it out sitting on a barge. This 9,300 pounds, I looked it up. It's about equivalent to four TriMet buses. So these things are not trivial to move around. They're quite heavy and massive buses.
 And then this is showing it down. They had to drop it into 120 feet of water. Very cold, getting really dark. It was like 37 degrees Fahrenheit down there, so it was quite cold. And then this is another one. They had to flip these things over. It was not trivial to move these things around, drop them into the water, and keep them without any sort of damage to them.
 As you mentioned, this was literally like deep sea diving. These guys are in some serious gear. They've got these video cameras. If you look at this is what they had to wear. They could only be under the water for 30 minutes at the maximum depth. The guys are watching them. You can kind of see his hand with the wrenches. Everything had to be bolted together. By the way, my colleagues know that Commissioner Leonard was a very hands-on commissioner in charge. This is actually Randy Leonard.
 Leonard. Yeah. It's ready. A lot of time keeping an eye on the work. Exactly. There he is under the mask.
 So here's some pieces. It's finally coming out of the water here. You can see it underneath the beautiful clean water of the Bull Run. And this is the final product. We've got a nice product with some new access. You can see the front part of the gates that move the valves around. The big crane that I was talking about, you can see the change in the color of the concrete where they cut the top of the roof off.
 Before this, you had these rickety old stairs that were extremely unsafe. Now we have this very nice state-of-the-art safe facility that we're able to monitor the water temperature and manipulate it.
 I said there was some work on the downstream revisions. These are some other pieces of it. Once again, everything was quite large, 96-diameter outfall. This is where the water that we pumped through the towers goes into the Bull Run River. There's quite a large pressure-reducing valve because at times we would have to dump a lot of water through, depending on the flow regimen.
 I wanted to go through the construction costs. In 2009, we estimated that the construction was going to be $30 million. In 2012, we negotiated a guaranteed maximum price contract with AAC for $31.5 million. The final construction cost in 2015 turned out to be just under $30 million. Okay.
 And so that was the owner's savings of about 5%, $1.6 million. Okay.
 The consulting fees were basically about five. We were also able to negotiate what I felt to be very appropriate and what's word, aspirational goals for our MWSB participation was over 30% of the subcontracting fees. And the total project cost for the entire six years was just a shy under $40 million. Okay.
 We're not the only ones who think this is a great project. We've received three awards up to this point. Probably the first one is the most
 prestigious, I would say. They call it the Oscars of the construction industry. We won that. We got to go to Vegas. Well, the award ceremony was in Vegas, and so we got that for infrastructure. We've also been honored by the Daily Journal of Commerce and the Engineering News Review record as first-notch projects.
 So is there any other questions on that? Great project. The CMGC method obviously worked in this case. It was really actually critical to this project. It's one of the tough things about these one-off projects. There's maybe five of these on the West Coast. There may be more nationwide, but there's not like an inventory of these things. And it's deepwater diving.
 And I think the participation of our contractor in both the deep water diving, what you can assemble underneath the water, and also their knowledge of how to break this thing down so that we could get it up there. I mean, it would be a pretty simple thing to build it out in the river here, but when you have to cart it up to the watershed on trucks and it's got to fit under all these little bridges with load limits, it was critical to have the contractor on board. And we got them on board at the 60% design.
 and they worked with us throughout the project. One benchmark you didn't mention, your PowerPoint, has to do with water quality standards and whether we had any violations. In the course of managing this, getting the equipment up there, working in the water, working on the embankment, getting the equipment in, there's a myriad of opportunities here to get dinged. What was the outcome on that? We didn't have any water quality violations. We did scare ourselves a couple of times.
 One of the things you do when you're working over portable water is you require – the biggest thing that happens on construction jobs is the hydraulic systems blow. One of the requirements for the hydraulics on all the equipment up there was that you use – I forgot what the term was. Food-grade. Food-grade oil. So if you do blow oil –
 It's really no problem, but it's still reportable. So we had no water quality violations. Our water quality group was dogging us the whole time. We put in a bunch of extra monitors between two towers, one we were building on and the other one we were using. So we had an array of monitors between the two towers to make sure we didn't do anything bad or that if something bad did happen, we were able to respond quickly. Right.
 Good planning on all parts and very successful. I understand, Mike, this is sort of a one-off, but as you both look back over the last six years, share with us a lesson learned, something that you as a group learned about managing a complex project that will inform and help us do a better job on the next project. Sure.
 I will say that the CMGC process was really critical for this. Not only what Mike just mentioned, but because Oregon Ironworks was involved early on. I mean, it's things that we just couldn't know that they did. Like, how do you get a hydraulic wrench into this location under 120 feet of water? You know, those things were just critical. How do you build it? How do you fabricate a piece that's the weight of 310?
 three TriMet buses and move it around. These are things that you needed to know right off the bat. You didn't want to do low bid, you needed to know this stuff. So alternative procurement in general, I think is key in these really complex and long term projects. Yeah, we've used it a lot in transportation here. We used it for street car construction, light rail to the airport. Same kind of thing, big complicated project, only a few contractors really know how to do it.
 figure out all kinds of problems that you didn't know you had if you get them involved in the design process early. So, yeah. It creates a collaborative environment.
 teamwork environment that you need to work through these problems versus the more conventional Obed that tends to be more confrontational. Is there an opportunity to recycle or somehow reuse the silk curtain? Cut it up and sell pieces like the airport carpet? I will say we worked very, very diligently to try to recycle that silk curtain and we were unsuccessful in getting somebody to come and use it.
 How about safety? It was a dangerous project. Were you able to keep safety pretty well in hand? I don't think we had any safety issues. I've actually done inspection diving, and one of the pluses of the diving community is it's really, really dangerous, and they really, really know it.
 And we required diving plans and so on. So I'd say it was a really, really safe project. And partly that's the nature of the people who do this. It's so dangerous that you cannot be flip about what you're doing. One last thing. I remember a number of years ago we had some concerns from people about
 in the nature of a construction project like this, it was the risk of some kind of invasive something rather getting into the water supply. Remember that? Yes, zebra mussels or something. Right.
 One of the requirements is we've got a lot of water quality requirements for people going up to the watershed. And we had a protocol we worked out with Eddie Campbell's folks from resource protection and our own water quality folks. And all this stuff had to be steam cleaned. The diving stuff had to be steam cleaned, properly disinfected, so that we didn't drop anything in there that we shouldn't be. Great work. Other questions? Yes.
 Thank you both very much. Does anyone else want to speak on this item? Then we'll take a roll call. So I have one last thing I want to tell you. You have two jobs this morning is to accept our briefing and also to approve the final payment of $7.63. So we hope you approve that. Okay. We don't want to short this contractor if they did a good job. All right. Let's take a roll call on that, please.
 Well, Mike and Tim, thanks for the presentation. And, Tim, congratulations on doing the leadership program. I believe that's the same program that Sonia Schmansky in my office has been going through. And thanks to the professionals at the Water Bureau for managing kind of a one-of-a-kind project that, again, Mayor, because of the location and the exotic nature of it, it's really not in the public consciousness. But we have an obligation to make sure we're just as diligent in meeting our goals of making
 schedule and cost, even when they're out of sight, out of mind. And it turns out this one is vitally important. And so I want to thank our team, everyone who worked on this, all of our partners. And we're not done with some big capital projects. Actually, we're done with this. We're basically done with the two new reservoirs that are now online, Kelly Butte and Powell Butte. And we're also about to...
 cut the ribbon on the new facility and interstate. So the next big one might be somewhere down the road, both in Washington Park and then also when we start tackling the resilience questions under the river and thinking about how do we do that underwater, similar kinds of challenges. We're very proud of the people that work in the Bureau and do the hard work, and I'm grateful for this report and for the fact that they hit their mark across the board. Well done. Thank you.
 Novick? I really appreciate Commissioner Fish pulling this off consent so we can hear about the project. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, Tim. And it's
 It's great news to hear that we're able to complete this complex project under budget, winning all these awards. And as Commissioner Fish said, it's a shame that we don't have a full chamber. And there's a classic example of good news is no news. But I hope that we've got an unusually large audience on Channel 30 today.
 Well, this is a great piece of work, so you should be proud. I'm pleased about a couple things here. One, somebody used to work for an engineering firm. You know, getting your project recognized by ENR and AGC like this, that's a big deal. And I particularly appreciate the fact that our professionals accompanied the rest of the team, sounds like, to the awards ceremony.
 presentation. It's completely appropriate for our managers and our leaders to participate in that kind of event and to accept the professional recognition that they deserve when they do good work. So I want to be explicit about that. That's important. And I'm glad that it was celebrated by your peers as well as by us.
 And it is an amazing project. I haven't been up to the watershed in a few years. This may be one more reason for me to go take another tour because it's been a while. But, yeah, it's a place that serves everybody in Portland that most people don't know how amazing it is, both from a natural standpoint and from an engineering standpoint. And you've made it even more amazing.
 And finally, as somebody whose scuba dive qualifying dive to 100 feet was at the bottom of a really cold quarry, I can appreciate what those divers – I can appreciate just a little bit of what those divers had to go through to actually get this work done. And that's an admirable piece of work as well. So bravo. Well done. All right. Pay those folks that last seven bucks.
 Okay, let's see. We have a few items remaining here this morning. We have 363.
 appoint Jonna Colon, Don Grotting, Dion Jordan, Karen Loper, and Zeri Zantner to the Portland Parks and Recreation Bond Oversight Committee for terms starting July 1, 2015 and ending June 30, 2017 or June 30, 2018. I don't believe we have anyone here to speak on this item. These great citizens are willing to do this work, and therefore we should take a roll call on their appointment. Or a motion to adopt the report, please. Yes.
 Second. Roll call, please. Fish? It really is a great group, Mayor, and it reunites Zeri Santner and Karen Loper, who were a dynamic team at the helm of Portland Parks and Rec. And each of us take great pride in nominating someone for this important position. And I'm sorry Amanda's not here so that we could thank her again for successfully getting the underlying bond measure passed so we could actually appoint people to oversee the spending of the money. Aye. Aye.
 Novic. Yes, I suspect that it might have been easier to recruit people to oversee the spending of money to do cool things than it is to recruit people to some of our other citizen volunteer oversight boards, but we appreciate their service nonetheless. Aye. Hales. Aye. Very good group of people there. Dionne, Jordan, and...
 Karen Loper, Zari Santner, Don Gratting, and Jonathan Colon, all of whom served our city in lots of great ways. Okay, 365. Authorize the first sale of general obligation bonds for Portland Parks and Recreation repairs and improvements as approved by voters on November 4, 2014. Second reading and roll call. Fish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 366.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Hollywood Grant Park Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10384, for $9 million. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Portland has about 2,500 miles of sewer pipes, and over one-third of them are more than 80 years old.
 So projects to replace or repair aging sewers are important for protecting water quality, public health, and the environment. The Bureau of Environmental Services is in the middle of a large-scale sewer repair program to repair more than 34 miles of sewers all around Portland by 2017.
 The Hollywood Grant Park Sewer Repair Project will repair or replace 36,000 feet of aging sewer pipes. And I'm pleased to introduce our team and I'll first kick it over to Scott Gibson. Thank you Mr. Commissioner, Mr. Mayor. My name is Scott Gibson. I'm a principal engineer at the Bureau of Environmental Services and today I'm here with Jill Hutchinson. She's the project manager for this effort. She's a senior engineer associate at our bureau.
 We're here asking for authorization to approve, to advertise and award a contract in the range of $9 million for the Hollywood Grant Park Sewer Rehabilitation Project. As the Commissioner said, it's part of a large effort we have throughout the city. And Jill will get into some of the details. We're here to ask questions or answer questions. Good morning. I'm Jill Hutchinson.
 As Scott mentioned, this project is part of BES's Phase II sewer rehabilitation. And so on this map, you'll see our project areas outlined in purple with the Hollywood Grant Park project filled in green. The project is bounded. It's in northeast Portland, and it's bounded between 33rd and 57th Avenues from Fremont south to Interstate 84.
 The intent of the project is to replace or rehabilitate highly deteriorated pipes. And as you can see, pipes in this area have large holes, missing pieces, broken pipe, and vermin creating nests in and around the pipes. By replacing or rehabilitating mains, service laterals, and manholes,
 This project will protect public health, property, and the environment, increase sewer system capacity and reliability, and reduce the risk of sewage releases to homes, businesses, and the streets. By the way, I just have to interject. I know my colleagues generally don't like Washington monuments. They also don't like alarmist presentations, but I just want to certify. These are actual photographs.
 It seems like every time we come before you, there's one with a friendly four-legged creature, but these are actually what we get. I recognize that guy. I've seen him. These are not staged. These are the actual photographs. These are real. They're from the project. Okay.
 So in order to determine which pipes should be included in the project, we conducted the robotic inspections that you saw in the previous slides of all the sewers in the neighborhood, and then we coded the defects and used this information to calculate the likelihood of failure of each pipe.
 We then ran an algorithm to determine the consequences if a pipe should fail based on social, environmental, and constructability factors such as proximity to schools, hospitals, in major streets, and near other significant utilities. The total risk for a particular pipe was calculated by multiplying the consequence of failure with the likelihood of failure.
 We then performed an alternatives analysis to determine if we should invest in replacing the pipe now or wait to fix it in the future. And the outcome of this analysis is the assignment of a net benefit cost score for each individual pipe, and those pipes with an NBCR greater than zero were included in the project.
 So this is a close-up map of the project site, project area with proposed construction methods including open trenching, pipe bursting, and cured in place pipe, which is a trenchless technology that minimizes impacts to nearby residents. The project scope includes 142 pipes or almost seven miles of pipes ranging from six inches to 36 inches in diameter. 75 percent of the pipes are more than 100 years old.
 Three quarters are in residential streets, and one quarter are in major streets. The work will occur near five schools, and the contract requires work in these areas to be done when school is not in session to minimize the impacts to the school areas.
 There are 13 sites where work will be conducted at night with noise variances, and nine of those are for cured-in-place lining, which is the non-invasive trenchless technique. So that usually takes between one and four days. And there are four sites where there's open trench work in busy streets. So the public outreach for this project was extensive.
 Our public involvement staff at BES communicated both general project information and specific information about the night work to residents, businesses, neighborhood associations, business associations, schools, TriMet, and Providence facilities. So this is a flyer of a map that was included in one of the public involvement flyers that was sent to all area residents and businesses.
 And we also had a public meeting that was held on March 10th to address any questions and concerns from the neighborhood. One of the unique features of the Hollywood Grant Park project is that it will use vitrified clay pipe instead of PVC, which is BES's standard material for small diameter applications.
 The use of VCP is part of a four-project pilot effort, which is a continuation of prior efforts and is the next step in our evaluation of appropriate pipe materials. At this point, we have not made a wholesale change in the materials we use. This is just a pilot. The pilot effort is being made in the light of the city's various sustainability policies, most notably the toxics reduction strategy and the healthy purchasing initiative.
 The toxics reduction strategy was adopted in 2006 with the support of Commissioner Saltzman, and it calls on city bureaus to seek products that do not contain, release, or produce polyvinyl chloride or PVC. It also identifies vinyl chloride, the core monomer input for PVC, as a priority chemical of concern.
 And finally, it calls for the use of third-party certified materials where appropriate. And Claypipe has been rated by the Sustainable Material Rating Technology, or SMART, a third-party certifier at the gold level. And by the way, this slide is the one that really got my attention in the briefing because it sort of feels like Back to the Future. We've so taken for granted using PVC plastics.
 and we think about some of the benefits, but it actually is a toxin, and we want to avoid using it. We're calling it a pilot, though, because there's some things we have to work out, and we have to make some sober assessment about cost.
 and other factors and then one of the things that the team shared with me is you know you've got your competing you've got these competing uh values that we're trying to bring to bear but what if it turns out you have to ship this product from a long way away does that undercut some of the environmental benefits of not having it say you know manufacturer accessible locally so we're going to do this as a pilot and ask some tough questions and then come back and and share those results with the council yes thank you
 Returning to the Healthy Purchasing Initiative, this is another of Commissioner Saltzman's initiatives that was passed in 2012. It includes identifying products that are safer and less hazardous by requesting complete disclosure of a product's chemical ingredients and the human health or environmental hazards associated with those chemicals.
 and clay pipe manufacturers maintain current publicly available health product declaration forms, which are material disclosure forms on their products or their website. Wrapping things up, summary of the budget and schedule. The engineer's estimate is $9 million with a high level of confidence, and we expect the contract duration to be 18 months. Advertising in early May now.
 notice to proceed in September. Steve, we're going to kick this thing off with a coffee, open house coffee that you'll be invited to at a
 in the neighborhood just so before we actually start the work, people have a chance to come in and get additional information. We'll be doing that also in Hawthorne. There's been a lot of outreach, but there will still be people who show up and say, at first I heard of it. So we want to be able to make sure that they get another bite at the apple. One question I want to ask Jill, this is an incredibly complicated project with all these moving pieces and things. How many of these kinds of things have you quarterbacked?
 How many projects like this? Yeah, like this, of this scale, because this looks quite complicated. I've been with the Bureau in the large scale or the Phase II sewer rehab program for going on five years. So I think I've been involved in probably nine projects in the range of $3 million to $10 million. Wow.
 Very good. A little bit more about Jill. At a time in the bureaus, we had a rotational program where the engineers, when they first started out, worked at PBOT and water and BES, and we used it as a recruiting tool. And Jill was one of the first participants in that. Yeah.
 That's great. She's been with us since and has experience at the other two bureaus as well. That helps. Yeah, it helps a lot. And I certainly hope that no one at PBOT is trying to recruit you away, Jill, or at least you would give us fair notice if some kind of bad behavior like that occurred on my watch. Where's the clay pipe made? It's made in California. Okay, not that far away.
 There are two clay pipe manufacturers in California, Gladding McBean, which is in sort of north of Sacramento, and Mission Clay is in the L.A. area. Just one question about that because when we had our discussion, the thing that struck me was a plastic pipe just intuitively seems more flexible than...
 And since it's going in an area where there's vibrations and things, maybe less likely to have a break or something than a clay. Is that true, or is the way the clay pipe manufactured make it just as resilient?
 Well, for resiliency, we can look at the soil properties where it's going to be installed, and we can look at permanent ground deflections and other movements that we might see. Those aren't an issue in this area. So we're not expecting the clay to have to move, or the pipe material, no matter what the material, to have to move. It's a matter of good bedding. Now, with PVC, it's longer links, so fewer joints. Clay has shorter links, and it can move through the joints.
 There's allowable deflections in the joints. During the design phase, we also did a review of the soils in the area and the potential for liquefaction and other things that would happen during an earthquake or another natural disaster, and we aren't at risk of those types of things in this area. Good. Other questions? Yes.
 great thank you very much good project let's take a roll call vote on this uh first reading i think i'm sorry it's only first reading so uh that will be uh second reading next week um and uh the fact that uh we now have the bes bureau digging up two members of the council's neighborhoods uh should should not stop us from proceeding with the project because it turns out they're not um
 They're not doing any work on my particular street, but that's good because I've already got my own sewer problems in my house. And we have to connect a pipe that failed. It's like the fire following the flood. When we got someone to come in to look at it, they said, well, we can't actually do the pipe until you remove all the asbestos. So now we have to remove everything in the basement of the house to remove the asbestos before we can start the...
 the pipe project. So I'm delighted that my street is not actually in the scope of work on this one. Although that wasn't my request, I was delighted to be saved of that as well. Well, they dug up my street, but they did a fine job. Thank you very much. Thank you. I go to the second reading, and we will have to delay Item 367 until this afternoon. We're recessed until 2 o'clock. Okay. I have a question, Mayor. Okay. I think we should get started. I think Amanda's coming, so. Okay. We'll return to orders. Council, would you please call the roll?
 Fish? Here. Saltzman? Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Okay we have a couple of times certain items this afternoon. The first is 368. Did you want to take care of that item left over from this morning? Oh sorry yes we do have one item left over from the morning agenda which is 367.
 authorized application to the Department of Homeland Security through its Federal Emergency Management Agency for a grant in the amount of $100,000 for a smoke alarm carbon monoxide detector awareness campaign and the purchase of smoke alarm carbon monoxide detectors for the hearing impaired community. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hello. Hi. So you're doing... My name's Kim Kosmos. I'm with Portland Fire and Rescue.
 Aaron Brooks, Portland Fire and Rescue. So tell us about this grant. Basically, we have been providing smoke detectors or smoke alarms for the general public since 1990.
 And it's a concern of ours that the hard of hearing community has never really been approached for helping them with smoke alarms also and carbon monoxide. But that's one thing we would like to do is be able to have this offer for that community to give them the specialized units because they're not typical units.
 The thing is that they have to have a bed shaker, which is one portion of it, and then there's a strobe also that's another piece. And so they are expensive, so that's been one deterrent possibly for people, and the state does offer it currently. But we would also like to be able to offer that to those communities. And as a note, if folks who are hard of hearing do call us, we do provide them with one, but we want to do outreach. A lot of people don't know that they need them.
 that's great how expensive are they compared to the you know sort of standard is store bought a standard smoke alarm is anywhere from 20 to 30 or so and with both pieces of the unit it comes to about 297 so it is a lot different in cost definitely but still if you get this grant you can buy quite a few of them so yes yes you know i'm just curious the other day i i lost my keys
 and I was in a fit about it. And my wife reminded me that I have an app that allows me to locate them. So I just pushed the app and it, it told me that I had left them at work. Uh, but I'm wondering, could, could you conceivably have a system where, where, um, you've got a notification on your phone or something else or your computer, uh,
 in addition to what you currently have? As far as alerting the individual? Well, the way these work is that they also would need to have a smoke alarm, a basic smoke alarm, wherever they're living, their residence, because it's all keyed off of the alert system.
 The tone of the alert sets off the bed shaker and the strobe. So an app on your phone, I honestly don't know if they have something like that. Other questions, comments from the council? All right. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Is there anyone that wants to speak on this item? If not, then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a roll call vote. Fritz? Thank you for your work. Aye. Fish? Thank you for spending half a day with us.
 I'm sure you got a lot out of all the morning proceedings. Aye. Thank you. Novick. Thank you. Aye. Hales. Yeah, this is good work. There was just a really tragic death in Maryland of a whole family from carbon monoxide poisoning. So these detectors save lives, and it's really good work that we make them available to folks that would not be able to hear a conventional one. So thanks for doing this, and wish you good luck with the grant application. Thank you. Aye. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move to our time-certain item, 368. Accept report from Matrix Consulting Group on the Portland Police Bureau Staffing Study.
 Thank you. Well, let me call up Chief O'Day and Richard Brady from Matrix Consulting to talk about this report. I just want to frame this briefly. This is just going to be a presentation of the report in what's obviously a busy council session this week. There will be a little bit of time for public feedback, but this is mainly a presentation. I just want to thank the team for a comprehensive evaluation of both our span of control and our staffing levels today.
 In the Police Bureau, this was really in response to a budget note from the council in our 2013-14 budget. So the questions they're going to address here in summary, and of course a significant document to back it up, is are we focusing our resources in the right areas? Do we have the right ratios of management to direct service folks in the Bureau?
 other feedback on how our management systems operate in the Bureau. So what have we learned from this careful inquiry into the structure and workforce size in the various tiers within the Police Bureau, and how can we make it better? So with that, I'll turn it over to the Chief and his team. Let me supplement the record with one thing, because actually the original genesis was the stand and control report.
 that you asked Steve and me to do. And out of that came some questions about span of control and supervisor to employee ratio.
 And the next iteration was, I think it was the chief, the then chief, who said we want to do an independent study to look at this, and there was some disagreement about methodology. So we were pleased to support that, and a lot of good has come out of that original assignment the mayor made where he asked a number of us to pair up and do things, and the span of control I think is an example. Yeah, it's good work. So thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Chief O'Day. Orr? I'll have Richard start first with his presentation and I'll follow him. Thank you. I've gotten the message pretty clearly that you've got a crowded agenda. So we've got a 200, 300 page report and 92 recommendations.
 But let me walk you through the study and I think some of the more important things that we came up with. First of all, let me remind you what our scope of work was. It was a comprehensive management staffing and operations study to look at answering some important questions. First of all, is the police bureau providing the levels of service that this community expects, needs, and has historically received?
 Do you have the right number of people to do that? Are they managed and organized effectively in order to do that? Most of our analysis was from the ground up, looking very carefully at workload and service levels. But we also compared you to best practices and came up with this report that has a summary of everything that we did in this study. Thank you.
 How we got here was really intensive. We worked for several months just doing field work. We started in the middle of last summer. And we started with extensive interviews of staff, management staff, supervisory staff, but many line staff. In all, we had over 200 interviews, individual interviews of staff within this.
 And that input was important enough for us where we supplemented that with an anonymous employee survey to which about 60% of the employees responded with 600-plus responses. The input wasn't everything that we needed to do a study like this where there's almost as many numbers as there are words. So we collected a lot of data as well, quantifying workloads in every function, service levels, work practices, and things like that. And I think the analysis reflects that –
 empirical, that really detailed kind of approach. Throughout this process, we had a parallel reporting relationship, extensively meeting with the Bureau command staff to review facts and issues and alternatives, but we also had a broadly based project steering committee that we met with, particularly the second half of the study to review what we were coming up with.
 You know, a report like this necessarily focuses on the improvement needs, especially when we're talking about organization and management and operational types of things. And sometimes the more positive things get lost. And so I wanted to take a couple seconds just to talk about the positive things that we found as we went through this. First of all, it's important to stress that,
 In a number of indicators that we examine in field operations and investigations and even in internal operations, there are high levels of service being provided to the community as well as internally, and we can talk about that more as we go through this.
 Secondly, there's been a lot of external scrutiny of the Bureau in the last couple of years, most notably the Department of Justice. And I think the thing I've said about this whole process that I think is true is that unlike a lot of cities in the country, many of which we work with,
 The department isn't just responding to what DOJ tells them to do. They are proactively meeting and exceeding what DOJ is coming up with requirements, and I think that's a really important distinction.
 Deployments in general in the operations branch and field services generally balance the proactive and the reactive kind of workloads, which is a very important thing in law enforcement. You're not going to be effective as a police agency by responding to calls for service. You're going to be effective by doing something about the root causes of crime. And as you'll see as we go through this, they've got high levels of proactivity in patrol and they use it. Investigative clearance rates are high and that's a positive thing as well.
 Not just multi-jurisdictional task force, but other ways of coordinating and cooperating with other justice agencies, schools, other health and human service agencies is really high here. And I think that's an effective part of community policing today to recognize that you can't do it all and you need to partner with other kinds of agencies in the community. Thank you.
 So as I said, support functions generally meet both internal in terms of supporting police officers and external supporting the community in the way they interact. Some of the key themes that run through this report is I wanted to,
 because it runs through all of the recommendations that we've made here. Number one is while this is a very community-oriented bureau, more needs to be done to cement that community focus. And I think that is summarized in the use of the word formal.
 I think there needs to be more formal approaches of figuring out what the problems are in the community, deploying people, even managers, to address those problems and to create those ties and to make them accountable for it. And that's something that we stress, even in the staffing studies, an important part of the management processes here. Thank you.
 While the Bureau is taking a lot of steps to increase the use of data, creating an intelligence-led policing effort, and they've always had a strong data orientation, the demands of the external focus and what we're asking the Bureau to do will increase that need, and they need help to do it.
 It's not as easy as a police officer in the field pushing a function key and finding out everything he or she needs to know about the problems out in the community. That takes help, and that's an important part of several of the recommendations we made.
 Thirdly, more flexibility is needed in the Bureau, wherever we're looking, but especially in operations and investigations, that you need to have the performance management plan in place, the way to look at it, and the ability to move people around because problems are going to change every year. They're changing right now. They've changed just since we've submitted the draft report, and you need to be nimble, and that's what a modern department needs to be.
 Management consistency is critical. It's something we found in the employee survey. The message is sometimes not consistently delivered throughout the organization and possibly externally as well. So the new management team needs to create a consistent message and find some mechanisms to make sure everyone within the department is on the same page.
 operations the patrol obviously the largest part of the department and an awful lot of our time and an awful lot of this report is dedicated to that some really important findings associated with this first of all
 the workload and the proactive abilities in field operations are relatively evenly distributed. The East Precinct has more workload than the other precincts, but at the beat level, beat officers are handling within a fairly narrow range the same amount of workload, which means they all have the same amount of ability to be proactive, and that's important here.
 It's important everywhere. But here, you've got more proactive time than we typically see in larger cities. It's over 50 percent of your time. Many of our clients for agencies this size are struggling to get 35 or 40 percent. So you've got this luxury. The good thing is that this proactive time is being used.
 You're generating a lot of proactive activity and addressing problems in the community. But, again, the use of data, supervisory oversight, and making people accountable so that this is not randomly generated activity, it's directed toward problems in the community, is a need that needs to be made, and this needs to be an ongoing kind of process, review, tracked, et cetera, so that people are redeployed, redirected as necessary.
 And the new intelligence-led policing and other efforts are going to enhance that and help support that.
 We looked at the three precincts. You used to have more precincts, four or five precincts in the past. We think three is appropriate now. We think it's appropriate for Hispanic control reasons. We think it's appropriate for community access is not jeopardized with three. And the cost of additional command and administrative personnel outweigh the benefits of increasing the number of precincts at this time.
 In special operations, there are a couple of recommendations we make. You need to redeploy some traffic personnel so weekend coverage is enhanced. You need some additional canine capabilities. School resources officers. You don't have enough school resources officers.
 officers for the high schools you have at a minimum. You need to have a school resources officer in each high school. It's, I think, an important aspect today, both from the perspective of working with school administrators, teachers, parents, and students programmatically, but also to fund calls and other kinds of activity.
 We think that the cadets and the reserves in the Bureau are an important asset, a little underutilized in some respects. We think you need to develop a process in-house to increase their capacity and their use within the department. Investigations. So we went through a thorough process of looking at the case management system and how cases were assigned to these different investigative units.
 There's a lot of pages in there that result in moving people around. It may seem like we're just moving people around, but it's based on for an effective case management system, which you generally have, although we make some other recommendations to improve it, what are the effective caseloads so that you're spending enough time in investigations? And overall, you're a little deficient, in spite of moving people around. But more significantly, you've got some major gaps that you typically don't see in larger police departments today.
 You don't have an auto theft unit. More importantly, I think, you don't have a computer crimes unit. And it's not just handling cases that are computer-oriented in general or specifically, but also as a case assistant to other crimes, child abuse, other types of crimes for which computers are in use today, and you don't really have the capacity you need to do that investigation. Thank you.
 We think you need to return to something like the district investigative efforts where generalist investigators are centrally managed but decentralized in terms of their responsibility so that relatively minor crimes, especially property crimes, get some sort of follow-up. And that can be neglected now, even though patrol tries to help out.
 I think one of the principal recommendations in this report, and it gets to this issue of proactivity and coordination of services, is to reorganize what we're calling the proactive investigative units.
 Right now you've got gangs, which is a large driver of organized criminal activity in the city as that relates to prostitution, as it relates to drugs, as it relates to other forms of human trafficking. And those are in different parts of the Bureau right now, four different parts of the Bureau. We think that they should be in one part of the Bureau so that the same suspects can be more regularly worked by common people.
 detectives in a single system, and that the assignments can switch over time depending on what the problems are. So we think that the criminal activity and the criminals need to be better coordinated in terms of how you're working that. Again, support can't happen without people who can support personnel, so we're recommending a crime analyst to help with case research, case enhancement, and things like this.
 Over time, we think there's an opportunity to civilianize the criminalists, the field evidence collection personnel. That's a growing area. It's becoming the norm even in larger organizations. And it's not just a cost issue, but it's a way of finding employees who this is what they want to do, and they want to spend a career in forensics. Services branch, the last branch. Okay.
 Several support management and management positions should be civilianized relating to fleet and records. Civilianization was something that we looked at throughout the organization. We think that the follow-up through the strategic planning process from all these various directions that it's coming from needs to have some sort of facilitator to help coordinate that and to help develop a message that can be post-strategic plan process generated to the whole community as well as internally within the Bureau.
 You're going through the regional records management process. It's difficult to tell at this time what your needs are going to be. I don't think they're going to be greater, but they're going to be for different kinds of records management personnel to help you analyze and quality control information coming from the new records management approach that you've got.
 We've recommended three additional analyst positions, and I think there's been some budget adjustment since we did this report and today. But we think that because of the intensive demands and support required from the post-DOJ environment, you're going to need two analysts to help support that in terms of reporting. But another analyst is needed to help to transition to an intelligence-led policing effort within the Bureau.
 Lastly, organization and management issues. We looked at the overall structure within the department. It looked specifically at some span of control issues and allocation of functions. But we get back and start out with some of these management kinds of issues that accountability is critical for the Bureau at this point in time. Well, for all points in time. But because of the scrutiny, because of the visibility, it's really important now. Because of that, because of the work it takes,
 your current rank structure is appropriate. And we looked at that pretty thoroughly. And in terms of responsiveness to community and making sure that we've got performance plans in place for the department, your current rank structure in terms of span of control, layers of the organization, et cetera, are effective.
 Most spans of control for mid-level managers are effective as well. If you assume that a span of control isn't just numbers of reports, it's also responsibilities. So I'm thinking of positions like adjutants that they have for each of the branches and for the chief are important functions that have because they've got a lot of responsibilities in terms of management.
 administrating what's going on within each of those branches within the organization. Some spans of control are too low, and we've recommended a couple positions being eliminated, traffic being most notably.
 At the top, though, the span of control is too wide, and we think that you should consider a fourth branch to split off the operational support side from operations. If you don't do that, we've recommended that the operational support things go to patrol to increase the coordination between patrol and operational support things, like patrol SWAT, things like that. But we think that that would make it way too wide, so we've recommended splitting that off.
 The system of rotations, that's something we looked at toward the end of this study because the more we heard about transfers and reassignments within a department, the bigger an issue it was.
 Right now, quite often, personnel management personnel can be rotated too frequently to be effective. Sometimes it's weeks or months, and it's going to take a couple years, especially in many of these specialty positions, to get good at what you're doing and to be effective as a supervisor and manager. So we think that except in exceptional circumstances, that rotation should be a two-year minimum within the department bureau. Okay.
 Lastly, with the new chief, a new command staff and all these other things that are going on, some team building process that makes sure that the results of these directions that you're implementing through this process and for other processes that you've gone through in the last year is coordinated and transmitted consistently internally into the community.
 So I don't think I can talk any faster than that, but that is the report. That was both clear and swift. Let me ask you a couple questions before I turn it over to the Chief and Captain Scruggs, and maybe they can respond too. One thing I haven't spotted yet, it may be in the body of the report and I didn't spot it, and that is the assignment of responsibility to top managers, not just the managers.
 whether we should have a fourth branch or not but are we are we rightly configured in terms of what they do uh this got you know distorted for a while in portland because for a while we we had this artifact of having managers represented by a union we went to the employee employment relations board and got that clar clarified that the tenants and below are represented and captains and above aren't right um so you know now that that's cleared up
 are we assigning the right responsibilities to those captains and commanders and assistant chiefs, in your opinion? Yeah. Well, I think that that falls in a number of different ways. I mentioned the adjutant structure that you have here. And departments this size tend to have that kind of position because otherwise –
 top managers within the organization are too bogged down with administrative things relating to scheduling and transfers and other kinds of administrative things, even down to insurance and things like that, and not being able to function effectively at that level to figure out whether you're achieving your goals, your service priorities, et cetera.
 Lower down in the organization, there were a number of one-over-one kind of reporting relationships, which is a red flag for us. And we looked at several of those, and in traffic we recommended none. We looked at, in each of the precincts, there's one-over-one reporting relationships there,
 between commanders and captains, which we thought very seriously about until we understood better what they're trying to achieve here and that we're trying to get operations management effectively covered at one level and making sure that we've freed somebody to make sure it's working and to effectively work with the community. So we think the allocations or responsibilities are generally where you should be in a department this size and this complex, although we made some recommendations to change both roles as well as allocation of managers and staff. Okay, I'll look at those. Yeah, good. Thank you.
 Okay. I just have one question, Mayor. One of the early slides you had, you talked a little bit about the way the Bureau interacts with the community and that relationship. And of course, one of the questions that comes up is how do you measure that?
 You know, despite our best efforts, we don't hear from whatever, 90-something percent of the people that the chief serves. So how do comparable bureaus measure that, and what are the key factors that you look to?
 So, again, I get back to the word of formality. And so it's not just reaching out and going to meetings. Because as important as that is for the contact, it doesn't result in something that can be a plan for how you use your resources to meet whatever problems are identified out there.
 So the strategic planning process that we talk about needs to incorporate and create a process such as that, so that you're working with the community to come up with specific programs and deployments and strategies to address problems that are raised.
 in no community you're going to get ninety percent or eighty percent or even nine percent to be active participants in that but you need to maximize that through uh... public information and for involvement in use leveraging community groups to get as much information as possible but the important part is from
 because you've got such a relatively large and very diverse city, is to converting what you're hearing into plans to address the concerns that people have in the community, whether they're deployment things, visibility things, whether they're addressing specific problems that may occur in one part of the city and not many others, things such as that. Great. Did you look at the mounted patrol? No.
 And is that reflected in the report as to whether the staffing of that is appropriate? We did look at it. It is in the report, a very brief mention of it. And we're supporting it for the roles that it has here right now. What kind of factors did you look at?
 And we looked at what their roles are and what they're being used for, mostly for special kinds of circumstances. We looked at the cost, and we looked at how they interrelate, how they coordinate with other units. And did you look at the size of them, the number of officers assigned? Yeah, we did. And that's appropriate? It is. It's appropriate comparatively, first of all, but I think more importantly, it's appropriate for the size and the use that they have here. Thank you.
 And we did look at that seriously because we've recommended elimination in many cities we've worked with where you don't have the need as great as you do here. Okay, thank you. Chief. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. And I'll not go line by line on these recommendations. I'll be pretty brief and over. I know your time is very precious right now.
 I do want to start off by thanking the Matrix Group for their extensive work on this project. I really appreciate the significant time that they spent with people within the Bureau in learning what we do and why we do some of the things we do. We do some things different, and I appreciate them taking the time to learn why we do that. And I also want to thank Captain John Scruggs for being our project manager on this and for the members of our advisory group that included Commissioner Novick for their time commitment to this project.
 As you know, this project was directed out of the budget process last year and also as a part of the follow-on to the City Span of Control review.
 For us in general, the staffing study supports kind of what most of us have felt since the loss of 55 positions in the budget before last. With the loss of those positions that year, and that followed on after several other years of cuts, we had become really lean. And it really limited our ability to start addressing new issues or continuing to support for some of our needed specialized functions to the degree that we think that we needed to. Thank you.
 One of our coping strategies has been to have some of our positions that historically have been non-sworn to be sworn. By having some sworn members in some of those positions, it allows us to use them double duty for other things when they're not doing their day job, such as supporting our overtime staffing, major mission support, and also the staffing of detached assignments. Of course, the real answer is to have the adequate staffing level and have non-sworn personnel working in non-sworn compatible jobs.
 We've become very practiced at moving resources around temporarily and being as nimble as possible. However, we still have gaps in our service, even with that. And some of our gaps in service just can't be addressed by moving resources. Emerging insignificant issues like computer crime require specialized training and positions to really effectively address. We have a strong need for analysts. This includes both crime analysts and investigative analysts.
 These positions allow us to work more efficiently and effectively. And this is especially important during times of limited resources. And analysts are also a significant component for us in meeting the reporting needs of the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement and the reporting desires of the public.
 This year we've seen a significant increase in gang gun violence, and I've asked the Tactical Operations Division leadership and the Assistant Chiefs to work with their partners and to review what we may need to do differently regarding gang gun violence. I'm not sure as a community that we have the right amount of outreach, community engagement, the holistic approach, or Bureau resources invested in this problem that we may need. We've had almost three times the number of gang violence reduction team call-outs this year as compared to last.
 Another crime that is increasing rapidly is thefts from vehicles. We're up pretty significantly, about 30% from last year, and auto theft is also continuing to trend upward. We continue to try to be innovative within our existing resources whenever possible. This year we are piloting the concept of sector policing versus having individual district policing pieces. And this is in an attempt to be able to maximize our problem-solving and community engagement capacity.
 Instead of having 20 or 25 individual districts being managed by single officers, we have divided the precinct into four separate sectors where teams of officers work. The hope is that this will maximize our efficiency, allow us to take all of our calls, and still allow for proactive and follow-up efforts like the walking beat that was so successful last year downtown and in the Hawthorne area, and do it all on a more cost-neutral basis within existing resources.
 Looking ahead, the Bureau is facing the possibility of significant retirements in the next three years. This will require more background investigators and recruiting positions, which we forfeited in years past when we stopped hiring. We knew we would need these positions back when we started hiring again, and that time and need is upon us. I think that the staffing study offers the opportunity to help us continue the conversation about right-sizing the Police Bureau. I think right-sizing the Police Bureau needs to be done by incorporating community expectations,
 the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement, and the Mayor and Commissioner's priorities. I thank you all for your time. I know this is a very busy time of year for you. I appreciate your thoughtful consideration around such an important issue and know that I understand the tremendous challenges you face in balancing the competing needs of the city. Also know that we will continue to try to do the best that we can regardless of staffing levels and we will try to never let a lack of resources limit our problem-solving creativity. Thank you.
 Captain Scruggs, anything else to add? Mayor, no, I was just here to answer any questions. Questions? So, Mayor, we've gotten like the Cliff Notes version of this presentation, but the truth is our time certain isn't until 3, so we do have a little bit of time. We've got some time. We've got some folks that want to speak to us, but we do have some time to have some dialogue here. A couple questions. So, Chief, big picture. There are a lot of very specific recommendations.
 and they are coded high, medium, and low priority in terms of suggested sequencing and implementation. Is it your intention, Chief, to prepare a brief report to counsel specifically identifying those recommendations that you think we ought to be focused on earlier in the process and a rationale for that, or –
 How do you intend to take these recommendations and translate them into a priority list, a bucket list for the city? Well, knowing we're working to be able to do that today, my hope was this could just be the start of the conversation, taking a look at here's what these outside recommendations are and just me giving a brief overall. Here's where we're definitely short at.
 That format you suggested, I would be very happy to do. There's certainly some things that I think are important sooner rather than later. The analyst needs are something that are just critical for us, especially around our Department of Justice needs there, and I feel very lacking around things like computer crime. Why are we seeing an uptick in vehicle theft and breaking? That's a good question. The –
 We are looking, and it's also one of the reasons why we want and feel a need for more analyst work to help us. There's two kinds of analysts that we're looking for. One that can tell us on a much more real-time basis,
 you're getting car-proll break-ins, say, up in the Pearl, and be able to react better to that. And the other is looking at an investigative analyst. You know, for instance, this tremendous uptick in shootings that we've had on the gang team. We know we're having a whole bunch, but we don't know why an investigative analyst can help us kind of connect those dots and maybe start being able to pin that down to here's what you have going. You have this family fighting with this family.
 And, Chief, I was thinking when you're talking about break-ins and cars and things, I was also thinking about where I live. We've also had an uptick in home invasion, people breaking into homes and stealing stuff. And my assumption has been some of this is driven by drugs. People are breaking in, stealing things, raising cash, whatever. How do we – can we – is there some –
 tool that we have where we can do a better job alerting people by neighborhood about the specific challenges they're facing and also get useful information upstream about the things you need to be more vigilant about. I'll give you an example. In my neighborhood, I think a lot of people, because it's pretty cohesive, they probably don't lock their front doors at night
 a lot of people on my street don't lock their cars. You know, they're just rolling the dice and all kinds of things. And I wonder...
 Are there technologies or other things we can use to get advice and recommendations out to folks based on what the data you're seeing by neighborhood, sort of common sense things about do's and don'ts to deal with whatever uptick you're showing? Oh, absolutely. When you look at there's great ways of combining analyst work with,
 public information work and even with the technologies we have like crime mapping and be able to get that information accurately and get it out to folks.
 Yeah, I wonder, I mean, can I today, if I wanted to, go to a website, put in my zip code, and could I access that kind of information? Right now, for us, you'd be really limited because our analyst capability right now is shifted from a lot of our crime analyst work to our Department of Justice analyst work.
 But we've had times in the past where we've been able to be much more real-time about that. Yeah, and for example, you know, if I could punch in my zip code and find out that a lot of bikes have been stolen, cars have been broken into, those kinds of things, I mean, there is some common-sense stuff the neighbors could do, like making sure there's a lock on their garage, making sure they're locking doors. It seems like every time we don't lock the car, someone...
 takes advantage of that. And that's part of community policing, right? It is. And giving us the information so that we help you upstream. Absolutely. And then, I mean, when you really start putting together a whole system, you can look at things like big increase in heroin use, driving a lot of property crime, being able to gather that information, being able to tie your social service partners into that as well.
 A number of things here. I won't take a lot of time now because I want to make sure we hear from folks that want to speak, but I'm particularly intrigued by this recommendation about an organized crime division to sort of say, wait a minute, we're not just dealing with human trafficking, we're not just dealing with drugs, we're dealing with organized criminal enterprises that happen to have different,
 commodities or specialties, if you will, that they're focused on. Just some quick reactions to that. Yeah, that's a great one, and that's probably the one that I have thought about the most, both potentially for and against, and I'll tell you why.
 At first blush, that seems like a good logical connection to me, that we can put one unit addressing all this. But here's my fear, that we put all this working together, and right now we've got this huge spike in gang violence. So I fear our focus would change.
 shift the bulk of those resources towards that and particular things like human sex trafficking you know then you're gonna drop off at that and that you know that that's gonna that will suffer as a priority over the gang gun violence and and and i go back to our time when uh... we had all of our uh... investigations in detectives and uh...
 you know, what suffered, the family violence crimes suffered, until we were able to build that stand-alone unit that could prioritize those crimes. So I haven't said no to that, but it's one I'm putting thought into. I want to have a lot of internal conversation because, you know, the pro side is, you know, maybe you've got a lot more resources that can nimbly shift there, but I think particular things like sex trafficking are really hard crimes to commit
 stop investigating, then restart investigating, stop. I think I worry that that would suffer out of that. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, that will be an interesting discussion to continue because I think there's – I can see it both ways just as you have articulated, but I understand why the recommendation – I think I understand why the recommendation was made. It makes sense. And it's not just the shifting of resources. It's also the information. Yeah. And, you know, why?
 recognize that a lot of those activities, like human trafficking, are very complex, very time-intensive, and you don't want to harm that. And also interrelated. Absolutely. Yeah, gang violence and human trafficking are closely tied together. That's how they're making their money. Yeah, exactly. Thank you. Other questions for the team? I'm struck by the recommendations on the –
 Special Emergency Response Team, and particularly the finding that the members of the CERT team require 500 hours of training annually. Is that normal? Yeah, it is. That's one of the reasons why we're saying that it should be a staffed unit is because we're impacting other operations for the members that are involved in it. Is it normal in police operations?
 If there were an emergency with a standing team, would they still need a quarter of their time to be spent in training? Yes. So it's not because they have other duties that they have to spend that many hours. It's because of the particular specialties and challenges of that work. Right.
 I don't understand why you would have to keep doing a quarter of your time on training. It's situational, and it's also changes in tactics. I think part of that conversation came out of the CERT team does a lot of our search warrants for us.
 Those require pulling people to pre-plan those. You don't need the whole team to plan them, but you pull a small contingent. Except for the two sergeants, the entire SIRT team works in a detached capacity. That means they're all patrol officers or detectives or doing some other job full time. When they have a warning order to do...
 a search warrant planning, they'll pull four or five people to come in and plan that mission. So I think part of that justification, when I remember the conversation before, was you're pulling these resources already from here and there and then having to backfill those assignments on overtime to get this function done. Right. So that does seem to make sense to me. I still, if they're working four 10-hour
 having the whole of one of those days be training every week. I mean, am I understanding, are you talking about training or planning the actual? It's both. It is. Both specific skills training and pre-planning for this or that scenario? Right. Okay. It would seem like having a specialized team that were going to do the search warrants, for example, would be. Right. Eventually, some of the training would be on-the-job training. Right. Or that there's a standard protocol or a –
 No, that's worth exploring. I have one more question if I could to our friend from Matrix. You have been looking at – there's a section here about best practices. You're comparing us some of our peer groups.
 Who are the key peer group comparators that you use for Portland, Oregon? We were very careful not to do that. We're comparing you to best practices. We're comparing you to what is the best that you can be in law enforcement services, whether we're looking at deployment, management of operations, et cetera.
 So, you know, Portland's a pretty unique place, and we could compare you. We could come up with a list of communities, Seattle, others, but it's just not going to be Portland. So we are very careful in this bottom-up kind of approach not to give you too much top-down results from what others do. So we've worked with a lot of those other communities. So some things work, and we test them out. But whether it's staffing comparisons or things like that, we just don't like to do that. I'd rather use the good ideas that agencies have.
 So I get that best practices is the North Star, but wouldn't it be relevant to us as decision makers, especially in terms of resource allocation, to know whether anyone else is getting close to that best practice or whether the national standard is a B and not an A?
 Well, that's what we did in the study. What we didn't do, though, is give you a table that shows here's where you stand with other communities because I think that's really misleading, and I don't want that to generate the recommendation. I want the recommendation for something like that to be based on what level of service you've targeted here, how highly utilized people are at delivering it, and whether they're managed and coordinated well. Great. Thank you all. Let's take testimony, and then I'm sure we'll have some other comments towards the end. Thank you.
 Okay, who do we have signed up, please? We have five people signed up. First three, please come on up, are Suzanne Hayden, Joe Walsh, and Steve Entwistle Sr. Okay.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Suzanne Hayden. I'm the Executive Director of the Citizens Crime Commission. I'm also a Portland resident. And I want to thank you for commissioning this report to evaluate the Portland Police Bureau's staffing, their business practices, and service levels to the community. Thank you.
 I think this report is a good start to determine the right size for a police agency doing the type of work against what the community wants, a city of our size, using these objective benchmarking against other agencies and national best practices where they're available. I served on the citizen advisory committee that was formed and met with the consultants, Matrix, and the police bureau to review the –
 and also offer some feedback throughout. I want to provide a couple of comments on some key provisions in the 200-plus page report. I think the report is very important,
 accurately recognizes the many strengths that the men and women who serve as police officers in our community and their commitment to our community with really high levels of service, given the lean staffing levels that they have and the size and diversity of our community, the population that they serve. Many of the recommendations from the report have already been really evaluated strongly by the leadership and implemented services.
 So that's a positive. One area where...
 Policing is different than other city bureaus and other careers is the time it takes to hire police officers. And I really want to point this out because the report indicates there should be a net increase of personnel in the bureau, both officers and civilian positions. Well, what's not maybe widely understood by the community is how long it takes to hire an officer, which includes recruitment.
 background checks, the mandatory state basic academy training, and just to make sure that it's the right fit, they are on an 18-month probationary period as well. So that process takes over two years.
 So what I want to point out to City Council is that throughout that period, police officers are retiring or leaving the Bureau. So when the Police Bureau suspends hiring or fails to fill positions that are vacant due to budget cuts, there's drastic staffing implications for up to three years following that decision.
 And I believe that we really need to have a more stable and sustainable way to modulate the staffing of the police bureau, whether that's addressed by overhiring or rolling hiring. We just need to get ahead of that curve. Just a couple of other issues. Computer crimes unit, that's a significant gap, and we don't have any personnel attributed to that. And another area is the high school system.
 school resource officer positions. I think that is really an important upstream connection for our community. So, again, thank you for the leadership in commissioning this report. I think it gives a lot of really complex information to review and helps with strategic planning for the Bureau. And I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Walsh? My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 It's kind of interesting sitting here and wondering why we're under indictment from the Department of Justice. Everything sounds so wonderful.
 All we have to do is hire some more police officers, and we can fix all our problems. The major problem important right now is you have large sections of the community that does not trust your police department, and all the PR in the world is not going to work.
 There's got to be some heavy duty lifting here. We attended a co-op meeting the other night and for an hour and a half we sat through a PR stunt that was put on and the people were furious.
 So after all of this, after the Department of Justice came down, after the judge came down, after the appeals, after the wringing of hands and everybody trying to figure out what's going on, a couple of days ago, they did the same thing. After years of this stuff, you have a major problem. Keep the cops out of your schools, period. Keep them out.
 Figure out how you can make the school safe without having police in there. The police image is very special. If you have a security guard, it's totally different. They don't have guns. And by the way, you know, when we talk about the police department, would you ask them to check their guns outside? It makes me very nervous having my back towards them and they have their guns on.
 Why do you allow them to wear their guns in here? So here's the problem, folks. You can play this game over and over. You can have studies done. But the bottom line, and this is not rocket science, is the community does not trust your police department. And the police department has to work on it. And it's going to take years, not months, years to get that trust back.
 And it's not going to be by PR, and it's not going to be on you telling us how wonderful they are, or some study telling us how wonderful they are. It's going to be when the child looks at a policeman and is not afraid. That's when you have community policing. And we don't have that now. We have children that are terrified of our police force.
 Thank you. I think I'll let you go to Wilson High School and propose that they get rid of their school resource officer. You go ahead, please. That was on call for. Go ahead, please. That was on call for. Yes, go ahead, please. That was on call for. Mr. Wilson. I want an apology. No, you're done, Mr. Wilson. Apology right now. Apology right now. That was on call for. Who the hell do you think you are? I'm the police commissioner. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Yes, and you're doing a lousy job. Your opinion. Go ahead, Mr. Antwistle. My name is Stephen Antwistle. I'm a police officer.
 Lifelong resident of Portland, Oregon, 55 years. I'm a member of Individuals for Justice, and I agree with Joe that that was an uncalled-for statement. And also, we've got to understand where policing was born out of. Policing was born out of chasing runaway slaves. Okay, that's where policing, modern-day policing, started.
 We ramping up a drug war, okay, it's not a good idea. Chasing after people smoking marijuana, cannabis, pot, reefer, it's not a good idea either. We tried that years ago here in Portland. And guess what we found out? We found out that it increases crime, which means you have to hire more police. Oh, wow. And that's what we're here for, right, today?
 We got 900 officers on the streets or in the bureau. I see as the crime rates down. I think you've exaggerated a lot of this crime. I think we've got a lot of scared little men trying to build up this police force that doesn't need to be built up. It needs to be taken down. We need to take action.
 a smarter approach. Okay. And that's not the case. We're just going the same old, same old here with this, with every other city doing the same thing. Portland's no different than any other city in this nation. And my question to the president of the police bureau is, what is it going to take for him to just come out in public and say, hey, this officer is out of here. What's it going to take? What's it going to take?
 Shooting in the back doesn't work. Shooting him seven times doesn't work. What's it going to take? We just got a good old buddy system of prosecutors, city attorneys, and police bureau, and the union. All together, watching each other's back, saving each other's jobs. To me, that's disgusting. And I think the public, the informed public, agrees with me on this. Um...
 That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thanks. Next. Class 2 signed up. I believe it's Marla Vianney-Riviere and Daryl Turner. Come on up, please. Welcome. Thank you. Good to see you. Thank you again for your service. I appreciate it, as many of the people that I spoke to over the last six or seven, eight, nine days.
 As a member of the COAB committee, I appreciate being able to serve fellow Portlanders, and I take it very seriously. I don't really enjoy coming in these sorts of forums, but given the service, it's what I have to do. I hope you can appreciate me. While the Portland Police Bureau announces its demonstration to proactively conduct...
 outreach and the planning and the delivery of its services. And this may certainly be the case in the instance of the Z-Men Foundation. As I heard over the four or five days that I was in the streets and talking to well over 150 families, that was the name that I heard the most. And in fact, Commander Urahara, his name came up with...
 with a warmth in people's hearts. And I'm inspired by that, and I hope the COAB can move forward with that sort of relationship being built between the PPB and the COAB. However, the COAB CEOS, which is the Community Engagement Outreach Subcommittee,
 was patently shut out, ignored, and dismissed not only by the PPP but as well the COCL during the six-day planning phase of the PPP-sponsored, as announced by the PPP public hearing. Evidently, the PPP is incapable or at least unwilling to collaboratively work harmoniously with the COAP.
 This continued pattern of saying one thing and wholly doing another, whilst targeting and shooting blame and shame at others, serves no good to the public, the process, or any real effective sense of procedural justice. I implore you, as our collective representatives, to begin to make, implement, and maintain standards which reflect a willingness to change, a commitment to...
 not only to the settlement and the responsibilities in the settlement agreement alone, but those which foster the full and thriving development and expression of each of us. When I learned the City Council has habitually ignored the auditor's reports, and that somehow since the City has ignored and devalued the important work they, the auditors, perform on behalf of Portlanders,
 I can only wonder about the operational functionality of the city. The question and focus becomes for me, because certainly I will not even begin to imagine the city won't accept responsibility, but rather, not only what can I do as an individual COAB member, but simply as a Portlander. I think a lot of the stories that get lost, or the element of the story that gets lost in all of the spectrums that we hear,
 is the trauma and the tragedy. And one of the elements, the key elements of the design that the SEOS came up with was designed to address that and to bring everybody involved together in a way that we could begin to move forward looking towards outcomes and not looking towards the past.
 I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thanks. Just one observation. I really appreciate you taking the time to come share your thoughts. You got my attention when you said that we've, quote, habitually ignored auditor's recommendations, and this is not the right setting, but we
 I think all of us would be very interested in knowing what specific recommendations from which auditor you believe we either gave short shrift to or you think we should take up. And, again, this is not the right place for that, but I hope you'll share, you'll go a little deeper on that and give us the full benefit of your thoughts on that question. Of course. I appreciate you asking me, and I will attend to that. I and we will attend to that. Thank you, Bill.
 Thank you. That would be helpful. Thank you. Could you give me your name again, please? Yes, I'm Mila Vianney-Riviere. Thank you very much. And I was going to echo Commissioner Fish's question on the audits, because he and I both participated in insisting on the auditor's report being heard and acted on in 2010. We then had another hearing in 2012, and my understanding is we are waiting for the new auditor. The previous auditor had some –
 wanted some more time to do some more work. So I am certainly very open to our new auditor, who seems very proactive and who has highlighted some of the issues with independent police review and others, bringing those to our attention. And if you'd be willing to make an appointment to talk with myself and Dora Perry, who's helping me...
 with my office's responsibility with the Department of Justice settlement and the fact that all five members of the council are responsible for making sure that it's implemented, I'd be very grateful to listen to your wisdom and to hear some of the work that the co-op has been doing and how I might be helpful in furthering that. I know it's been really challenging with the speed of the settlement having set such a
 aggressive timeline at a time where you're still trying to get to know each other or understand what the responsibility is. I don't think you've even had the formal training yet. So I really appreciate all of the work that you and your fellow Community Oversight Advisory Board members have been taking, and I pledge to you that I'm going to do more to further the work that you do.
 Thank you. I welcome the invitation. I will get in touch with you. If you could just stop by my office and make an appointment, that would be really great. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks. Thank you, Mayor.
 Welcome. Welcome. Thank you. Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Fritz, I'm Daryl Turner, Portland Police Association President. Mayor Hales, our police commissioner, has highlighted the city's strong revenue forecast and resulting need to invest in additional city revenue and basic services. One of those core basic services is policing. Thank you.
 While I applaud the Matrix Consulting Group's recommendation to add rank-and-file police officers, detectives, and sergeants, I believe that the Portland Police Bureau, to the Portland Police Bureau, I believe the recommendation doesn't go far enough.
 Among other things, the city has prioritized implementation of the Department of Justice settlement agreement, including ensuring that we have a robust response to mental health calls, community policing and community engagement, and addressing the very, very important and dangerous spike in gang violence during the first quarter of this year. To do these things, we need to have adequate staffing. We are severely understaffed.
 14 years ago, in 2001, the city had a population of 36,240 residents. We had 1,049 sworn police officers, which is about 1.96 sworn officers per 1,000.
 As of 2013, a population of about 592,120 with 944 sworn officers. We are now at about 1.59 officers per thousand. During that same time, self-initiated activity has gone down annually 20,000.
 Self-initiated calls are those situations where police officers actively address enforcement issues, such as car prowls, car thefts, bike thefts, things to that nature. In other words, the number of times officers are able to proactively serve our community has dropped 10% annually. And that's a large part due to reduced staffing. Fewer officers means fewer opportunities for proactive policing.
 In some, since 2001, the city population has grown over 10%, yet we've lost over 10% of our ranks and our proactive policing by 10% a year. That is a very disturbing trend. The city is getting bigger, the police bureau is getting smaller, and less able to serve the community in a way that we believe the community should be served. That trend is even more troubling when we compare our city to the rest of the nation.
 In 2010, the FBI published a report that indicated that the national average for cities with a population over 250,000 was 2.7 officers per thousand of the population. By contrast, the city of Portland currently is at 1.5, as I mentioned before, officers per thousand of the population. Using a national average of a city size of Portland, we would need over 1,600 sworn police officers. We are not advocating for that many police officers.
 We currently have closer to 900 rank-and-file officers, however. In other words, each of us would have to have an average staffing to build up to 700 more officers, again, which we're not asking for. What we're asking is that you look at the staffing study, but also look at these other numbers and make recommendations to hire more police officers over the next five years in just the 23 positions that are advocated for. Thank you.
 Questions? Turner, three quick questions because we have a lot of people. Sure. I understand that. Sure. Number one, were you interviewed by Matrix? No, I was not. Did you ask to be? Yes, I did. I did. I talked to the chief of police at the time and asked if we could be part of the process, and we were never called on. Could we get a copy of your testimony? Yes, I will email it to all the commissioners. Your testimony. Sure. And then I'm just curious.
 Is the right benchmark ratio of police officers to population important?
 or is the way to measure an effective police force looking at the crime statistics and data and then sizing the force to meet the current need? I think it's a mix of both. I think we have to understand that we've gone down in police officers and down in self-initiated activity. A lot of the self-initiated activity that has gone away would help be proactive towards crimes, towards community policing and community engagement, and a lot of the other things that everybody here is advocating for already. Thank you.
 But I mean, I guess the simple point I'm making is you can look at police officers as a percentage of the population. That's a matrix, and it probably allows you to look at where you stand with peer cities. But if certain crime statistics have been declining, that doesn't help us really make the tougher decisions about how do you right-size a bureau given the resources that are available. Yeah.
 A perfect example, real quick, because I know you're in a hurry, is the SROs in the schools. A school like Grant High School has one SRO and about 2,000 students. That doesn't include the middle schools and elementary schools, which I believe we need SROs to be able to go to those schools, too, and be able to engage children at their youngest ages so that when they are becoming older, when they become middle school students,
 And high school students, they're used to engaging with police officers. They're used to talking to police officers. They understand their rights and responsibilities. But not only that, they are friendly with police officers. It is not an adversarial relationship just based on cultural how you grew up or where you grew up, but also that engagement you have from the lowest levels of school all the way up to the high school levels. Thanks very much. Other questions? Thank you both very much. Thank you.
 So unless there's anyone else assigned to testify, I think we might want to save further questions for the chief for later, unless he has any comments. Then it doesn't apply. So a motion, please. A motion to accept the report. Second. And a roll call on that, please. Fish? Well, thanks to Matrix. And that's probably the briefest and most concise presentation we've ever had. Mayor, we should take that clip of the video and send it to all of our consultants. Thank you for your good work. Thank you.
 Chief, I think we all look forward to the continuing conversations of your reactions to the recommendations, and I would say in particular...
 it would benefit me to get your first cut of sort of the high level, high priority recommendations. How do you react to them? Where, if at all, do they fit into the current budget conversations? And then, because this is a multi-year effort, you know, sort of prioritizing when we're going to come back to these questions, because obviously we're not going to get to all these or most of them in this fiscal year.
 Thanks to everyone who came out to testify and to share their views. And as someone who served on the original span and control report with Commissioner Novick at the mayor's request, this whole exercise that the mayor set up right after he got elected I think has been extremely valuable for the public and for the council. And so I appreciate, Mayor, you suggesting it. When I started the assignment, I wasn't sure whether to thank you or to go a different direction. But thank you.
 I've learned a lot, and I think the information we're developing is going to help us be smarter about what is a right-sized police bureau going forward. So, aye. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor, for that.
 Your leadership, and particularly Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Novick for requesting this study, Matrix Consulting Group has done a really excellent job, and it's very clear, detailed. It's good to have some outside eyes, particularly outside eyes who look at other police bureaus and look at right-sizing, so that it's very helpful, and I appreciate the level of detail. Thank you.
 It does show a gap in community perception of the police bureau's outreach, despite the efforts that have been made. And that's something that I think we can engage our Office of Neighborhood Involvement and our Office of Equity and Human Rights in helping to address and advise, in addition to perhaps some different kinds of training for our current officers.
 It showed the need to civilianize selected positions rather than to continue using sworn officers. That was a trend that over the course of the recession, we protected sworn jobs over the non-sworn jobs, and now it would be better, and that might help address some of the gap in the hiring needs that was referenced by the Citizens Crime Commission and others that we will have. We have officers who are currently doing...
 roles that non-sworn officers could do. And so we need to continue to look at that. I'm particularly interested in continuing to decrease the amount of overtime that officers are working. It is not safe for anybody, for officers to be working two jobs, and we need to be in the hours that they put in, and we need to make sure that we right-size to optimize the amount of overtime, not only for community safety, but also for the officers' safety themselves. Okay.
 And I very much appreciate the input from community members who testified, particularly the Community Oversight Advisory Board. There are many different ways that we are looking at how we do policing in Portland, Oregon, and many ways that we can make improvements. And so I thank everybody for their engagement in that.
 Hales. Well, first, I don't want anyone to mistake the brevity of this presentation for superficiality of how this report will be considered. And I want to thank you for producing it, you and your firm for producing it, Mr. Brady. And as somebody who used to work for a consulting firm, I want to assure you that your work is not going to be a shelf study. Aristotle said once that the unexamined life is not worth living. Well, the unexamined city is not worth living in.
 And when we get an outside, a careful review of what we do here in this city, we do take it seriously. Our design commission chairman is back. We heard a report from our design commission this morning about how we should improve the design of buildings in our city. We take that report seriously. When our auditor delivers a report to one of us about one of our bureaus, one, we all get it, and two, we all read them, and three, we all carefully consider how to make it better.
 So it's really important to me, and I think it's important to all of us as council members, that we get these kinds of clear-eyed outside reviews, whether it's by citizen volunteers, as we had this morning, from the design community, from a professional consultant, or from our independently elected auditor. And then one thing that I want to reiterate, I want to thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your work along with Commissioner Novick and then the rest of the council on the question of
 Do we have the right ratio of managers to workers in all our bureaus? But each of us has a commissioner in charge responsibility, but all of us have to be stewards of all of our bureaus and to make sure that they're working well. So I want to specifically invite my council colleagues to look at this report further, to come up with ideas and questions for the chief and the bureau as we work our way through –
 That is 90-some recommendations, 190 recommendations, I think. And, you know, there's a lot of depth in that report, and I intend to spend a lot of time with it with the chief. And then some of these fairly significant potential changes in how we structure the work
 as we just had a brief encounter about here need to be debated and thought about and tested. But it's an important piece of work. It will inform how we do the work and how much money we spend on doing the work, and both are very important. So I want to thank everyone who's participated so far in this process and look forward to continuing it. Thank you for good work. Hi. Hi.
 Okay, thank you all very much. And we will move to our final item this afternoon, which is 369.
 Appeal of Preserve the Pearl LLC against design commission's decision to approve a new full block mixed use project in the Central City Plan District's River Subdistrict at 1241 Northwest Johnson Street, LU 14230014DZM.
 Okay, this is a quasi-judicial land use hearing, and we follow prescribed procedures for how we conduct those. Those are laid down for us in state law and our code. So both I and the city attorney will set up that discussion, and then we'll proceed. First thing I need to do is ask if any members of the council have any ex parte contacts to report or any potential conflicts of interest with this case.
 Hearing none, I have none myself. I'll turn it over to our city attorney to detail the process that we'll be following for the hearing. Okay. Good afternoon. This is going to be an evidentiary hearing. This means you may submit new evidence to the council in support of your arguments.
 We'll begin with a staff report by Bureau of Development Services staff for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, the council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each of these persons will have three minutes to speak to council.
 The principal opponent, in this case the applicant, will then have 15 minutes to address City Council and rebut the appellant's presentation. After the principal opponent, the council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal. Again, each person will have three minutes. Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. I'd like to announce several guidelines for those of you who are addressing council today.
 First, submitting evidence into the record. Any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record must be given to the council clerk after you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, videos, or other items you show to council during your testimony, including PowerPoint presentations, must be given to the council clerk to make sure they become part of the record. Thank you.
 Second, any testimony, arguments, and evidence you present must be directed toward the applicable approval criteria for the land use review or other criteria in the city's comprehensive plan or zoning code you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their staff report to council.
 Third, issues must be raised with specificity. You must raise an issue clearly enough to give counsel and the other parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you do not, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue. Thank you.
 Finally, the applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. If the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing in action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes my remarks. Okay, thank you. I have a question.
 Sure. Question? Yeah, well, not really a question. I am with the judicial law responding to the appeal. However... I'm sure you can tell us about him when you testify, so you'll get a chance to put on your case here. Well, I think most of the time...
 No, we're going to conduct the hearing because we have to do that. It's on the council calendar. I realize that, but it's a violation of our fundamental due process rights to have a fair hearing because we haven't had an opportunity to respond to the... We'll give you the opportunity to make both substantive and legal arguments here today, but we have a pretty prescribed procedure and we don't get to make it up as we go along. So we will then take a staff report.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Jeff Mitchum. I'm with Bureau of Development Services, and I'm here to provide the staff presentation for the appeal of the design commission decision to approve Block 136. Today I'm going to talk about regulatory framework, proposal summary, project context, and appeal summary, and then follow up with an appeal response.
 This is a type 3 design review with modifications. The approval criteria are the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, River District Design Guidelines, Modification Criteria, Bonus Height Option for Housing, Land Use Review, Approval Findings Must Find a Nexus to Relevant Design Guidelines or Modification Approval Criteria,
 Design Commission decision was rendered on January 22nd, published on February 2nd, and appealed on February 17th. In the way of overview of the project, it's two north-south oriented buildings plus a courtyard.
 Fronting Northwest 13th is an office retail building, approximately 75,000 gross square feet. It's a brick-clad building, approximately 76 feet height, four stories of office over retail. It's got a rooftop terrace and an eco-roof. Fronting 12th Avenue is a residential tower, approximately 205,000 gross square feet. It's a glass and metal building.
 150 feet in height, 15 stories, 208 apartments, 8 townhomes. It also has a rooftop terrace and eco-roof. The central courtyard is approximately 10,000 square feet. It's publicly accessible. It has an internal loading dock on the west side off the back of the brick office building on 13th. It's programmed for lots of spillout on the ground floor, active and passive uses within. It's a very, very good building.
 Parking and loading is accessed from 12th Avenue. There are 196 spaces Some long-term bike parking underground and three loading stalls that project as described was unanimously approved by the design commission on January 22nd the project lies at the intersection of Kearney and Johnson and Northwest 12th and 13th Avenue. It's a full city block. It's centrally located within or excuse me, it's on the north end of the central city plan district and also within the river district and
 It's centrally located within the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, is adjacent to across the street to the southwest to the Northwest 13th Avenue Historic District. One block north is the North Pearl subarea, and another five blocks or so east is the Union Station area. As far as some photographs around the site goes, this is a southeast view from Northwest 13th and Kearney.
 This is a southwest view from Northwest 12th and Kearney, so just spinning around the other way. This is a northwest view from the corner of Northwest 13th and Johnson Street, some context across the street. Zoning for the site is EXD, central employment with a design overlay. The floor area ratio is 4 to 1 base, and with maximum achieved FAR, it can be 7 to 1 with a residential bonus option.
 the base height is 75 feet and with the 45 feet of general height bonus for achieving that three to one floor area ratio and an additional 30 foot bonus height option for housing the maximum height is 150 feet this is the view of the project masked up showing the 13th avenue brick building orienting
 directly to 13th Avenue and stepping down to the historic district across the street and the taller tower building stepping up to the greater massing to the North Pearl. This is a cross-section through the site looking northward, showing in green that the base height limit
 achieved at both levels of that building and then again the 120 foot so the 45 foot bonus is achieved through the general FAR bonus and then in blue is the discretionary bonus the additional 30 foot as summarized by the appellant the the appeal claims a flood flawed public process
 improper awarding of height bonuses and a claim that the project does not meet all applicable design guidelines. As for the flawed public process, the appellant asserts that the PDNA did not comply with ONI due process standards and staff and design commission have concluded that
 The coordination between neighborhood associations and ONI are outside the Bureau of Development Services and Design Commission power and duties. Staff and Design Commission complied with all city and state mandated public notice requirements, including hearing notices, site posting, BDS website posting, and public testimony at three DARs and two land use hearings. Also regarding flawed public process, the appellant asserts that the commission asking
 land use hearing testifiers where they lived in reference to assessing view impacts was improper. Staff design commission concluded that design commission was acting within authority to see clarity on specific view shed impacts only.
 Also regarding flawed public process, the appellant asserts that commission improperly considered future design guidelines in the land use hearing process implied by commission referring to the building as quote unquote transitional and that the commission was really considering impending height limit increases vis-a-vis the West Quadrant plant.
 Staff design commission conclude that design commission referred to the building as transitional under current height limits only from lower in the adjacent Northwest 13th Avenue district to higher in the North Pearl sub area one block north and
 As regards improper awarding height bonuses, improperly awarding height bonuses, the appellant asserts that the allowance of two separate residential housing exceptions to the height limits is improper. All height limit bonuses should be discretionary within the design review process.
 Staff Commission conclude that as described in the final findings and decision Bonus height was awarded because it was determined that the project met and in some cases exceeded all applicable design guidelines and criteria contained in the Portland zoning code River district design guidelines and the central city fundamental design guide guidelines in short the bonus is a three-step process and
 Step one is achieve floor area ratio. The project did that through C1 residential. A maximum FAR award of three to one was given. That is a non-discretionary award. The height award then follows because the project achieved a three to one FAR, it is automatically awarded general height bonus of 45 feet. And that award does not have additional criteria in the design review process.
 Discretionary, or third step is the discretionary part of it, which is bonus height for housing. So additional bonus height or height bonus is available through the applicable criteria contained in 510.210.E4.A-F. So those criteria are applied to the request. Commission findings supported the bonus in their decision citing all criteria. It's also worth mentioning that under Item 1, C4, Rooftop Gardens, and C10 Eco Roof,
 could have also been sought as justification for awarding additional FAR. The applicant chose not to seek those. Those remain part of the project. As regards public process does not meet all design guidelines, the appellant asserts that the opinion of the design commission fails to include 33510210D as part of the specifically enumerated approval criteria.
 Staff and Design Commission conclude that the project achieved bonus FAR and was awarded general height bonus of 45 feet. As previously stated, this award is non-discretionary in the design review process. Sites eligible for this award, as identified on Map 510-3, have undergone discretionary review in past legislative BPS planning studies. And Design Commission evaluated the project in its entirety, including all bonuses, under all applicable design guidelines. Mm-hmm.
 City Council, alternatives before you are to deny the appeal and uphold the decision, excuse me, the design commission's decision to approve the requested Block 136 design review with modifications. Number two, deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to approve with conditions added the requested Block 136 design review with modifications. Or number three, grant the appeal and overturn the design commission's decision to approve the project.
 That is the end of staff presentation. Any questions? Thank you very much. Questions? Mr. Juncture? Okay. Thank you. All right. Then it's time for the appellant to come forward, please. Afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Well, I have to take some of my time here to address the procedural issue because I'm not making this up, Mr. Mayor. No, no. We can't make the process up is what I was saying. Oh, I know. State law is pretty explicit with us about how we do this. So please don't take offense at that. Well, I'm not. This is all choreographed for us under ORS. So just put your name in the record and we'll give you a little extra time to put on the legal issue as well as the — Burt and Francis, for the record, representing Preserve the Pearl LLC.
 I do know what procedural due process is about. That's a full and a fair hearing. And in order to have a full and a fair hearing, you have to have an opportunity to respond to the documents and whatever argument is submitted by the other side. I got a phone call at 4.50 or 4.56 yesterday afternoon from the clerk's office of your chamber. Okay.
 informing me that they had just received a very thick document from the developer in opposition to the appeal. There's no way that we have had a meaningful opportunity to review that document. I spent an hour and a half this afternoon looking at it and only got through page 18 or 19 of a 51-page argument. There's no way for us to meaningfully prepare against those arguments, many of which are false in there.
 And there's no way for us to meaningfully respond in writing to those arguments. Let me make a clarification for you, which maybe the city attorney can assist with. Your job in this process is to argue against the design commission's decision.
 right your job is not to argue against the the developer or applicants proposal the design commission has made a decision it's been appealed to the city council your uh the the proposition before us from you is to tell us why the design commission erred in approving the project and i'm
 So that record is, you've got that record. Okay, I'm prepared to do that. However, you know, I look at the developer's paper as something as an amicus curiae. And under any procedural due process rules, we should have an opportunity to respond to that in writing.
 Otherwise, that's the last document that you folks get to see. I'm sure that your staff, I mean, a little presumptuous, but I'm sure that your staff hasn't digested that big binder that's sitting in the council office over there. So after you have a chance to tell us your position on the appeal, at some point you'll get to make a request of us.
 in the nature of responding further. You have the right to make a request for things like keeping the record open or asking the mayor to schedule further opportunity for you to respond. What the mayor is telling you is we'll get to that.
 We're actually very interested in hearing your substantive arguments about why you think the Design Commission got it wrong, and then you will have a full chance to raise those issues later, including making requests of us to continue the hearing. Can I make that request now just so we get it out of the way? No, no, because we want to have the hearing. So we want you to make your case for why the Design Commission erred.
 Well, I hope I don't forget to ask you that I need to submit further documentation. Thank you. So just for purpose of the council, the city attorney has made note of the request, and I will make sure to remind council to take it up at some point. Okay, great. All right, great, thanks. So I'm glad we made that record. Now to the substantive argument of the design decision.
 Um, this overall is clearly a, a North of, uh, love joy building in a South of love joy, um, uh, location. Um, the whole, uh, trend in development in the Pearl district has been that the height limits have been blown North of love joy. And so the Nolo district, uh, you know, has basically the, one of the tallest, if not the tallest development in existence right now in Portland, that's ever been developed going in right now. Um, under the current, uh,
 design guidelines that exist right now. There's still something called the middle pearl between Lovejoy and Hoyt and between the freeway and the river. And those are the design guidelines that should be applicable.
 With respect to the flawed public process, I think that the comments I just made contribute to that. I'm not going to address that because I don't have much time. I'm not going to address the issue of whether there's a double dipping on housing exceptions. What I want to get into is the criteria that was deemed approved by the planning department.
 Just now you heard that 33.510.210.D, the general exception, is some sort of automatic provision. I've reread that provision many, many times. There's nothing in that provision that says this is an automatic given. In fact, there's criteria under that section 210.D that need to be addressed, one of them being the preservation of the 13th Avenue Historic District.
 And in the paper that I was able to briefly peruse from the developer, they say that provision there, that zoning provision, doesn't include preservation. In fact, it does. It says that.
 So you have to look at the impact on the 13th Avenue Historic District under that provision to 10.D. And you can use the intellectual ruse of it being a heartwood versus a ceiling or a seed versus a sapling. The developer uses this language as somehow relating to the historical context of Portland being a timber place.
 It's really not. The correct floral reference would be apples and oranges because you have a smaller mid-rise and you have a high-rise. And the smaller mid-rise is, by everyone's acknowledgement, consistent with that district, the Middle Pearl, and consistent with the 13th Avenue Historic District. This 150-story wall that they want to erect in our neighborhood is obviously an outlier.
 With respect to the criteria of housing exception under 33.510210.E.4, you have really only two criteria that are applicable, the E and the F provisions.
 The E provision says that the project needs to better meet the applicable design criteria. All right? That means every one of the design criteria. The argument that's made for this project linking the community to the river, at least by the documentation that I was able to review briefly, is that it's all about whether their new building has views of the river, whether their rooftop has views of the river, whether their own project has views of the river.
 I read the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the River District Design Guide overlay very differently. I view it as a public document. I view it as a document that's in favor of the public good, not as some prop for private development. And in that sense, a 150-foot wall that runs from north to south through this block, which –
 is in the center of the residential area of the Pearl District, not as it's misrepresented in the paper that I was just reading, whether it is in fact in the geographical center of the Pearl District. It's in the center of our residential area. It fails to link us to the river and the community to the river. It in fact creates a wall or a curtain and curtains off that relatedness.
 One, the river district design guidelines at page 10 suggests that orienting buildings and towers perpendicular to the river signals a shift in the landscape that will foster an awareness of the river's presence for residents, commuters, workers and visitors.
 Okay, so buildings like 937 Gleason, which is in existence right now, is oriented on an east-west axis, not a north-south axis. All right? So any complaints that the developer has that the north side of their building is going to be in darkness or something like that isn't supported by the way that the current development in the district exists. Our orientation in the neighborhood is that the river is clearly to the east of us.
 How do you get across the river? You go down Lovejoy. Lovejoy is an east-west street. So there should be at the very minimum a reorientation of this project so that it's on an east-west access, not on a north-south access. What would that do? It would reduce the walling off of the residential portion of the Middle Pearl to the Union Station, the Steel Bridge, Mount Hood.
 It would relate this massive tower to the Lovejoy Corridor. And when we're talking about, you heard a little bit about the design commission talking about this being a transitional building. Did you notice how the transition was related to the north of Lovejoy? All right. That was the reference point for the transition. If the orientation of this building is going to relate to north of Lovejoy, it should relate to the Lovejoy Corridor, which would be an east-west access, not a north-south access.
 Positioning the tower on the furthest northern edge, I'm talking about on Kearney, would remove it as far as possible from the 13th Avenue Historic District and therefore would have less impact on that. It would orient their public space in between the two buildings to feed onto 13th, which would contribute to the vibrancy of 13th Avenue.
 It would enhance the existing pedestrian walkways that are in the neighborhood at the time. And there's been some quibbling that I've heard before about the fact that those are public walkways, not private walkways. I don't care what kind of walkways there are. They can't have it both ways. If they want to have a public space in between their two buildings and invite the public in, we're talking about access by the public.
 and the east-west pedestrian network is specifically talked about in a positive way in the river district design guidelines. If you orient it east to west, you reduce the profile of the tower.
 you reduce it from a wall to a profile, to a sideline. This reduces the size and the density of the shadow that's cast all the way over to Jameson Park and beyond, because the shadow studies show that it goes all the way to the residential buildings across Jameson Park. It would reduce the afternoon shadows cast on existing residential buildings.
 projects in the building or in the district. And I'm specifically talking about the Riverstone. If you have a north-south axis with this project, you are condemning the existing residential community of the Riverstone to perpetual shadow. If you oriented it onto Kearney, you have a commercial building to the north of that that would be shadowed to some degree on a north-south axis basis.
 And you would reduce morning shadows if it was a profile rather than a long wall. Let's talk about enhancing and embellishing and identifying areas under A5 and also under C4. And I'm referring, of course, to the design guidelines, right? The River District, it says in the River District design guidelines, is composed of many distinct special areas. Each of these areas is characterized by unique features, opportunities, or a special history.
 New development should enhance the qualities of that. As I said from the beginning, this is a north of Lovejoy building being put into a south of Lovejoy location under the existing design guidelines, and the existing design guidelines are supposed to be a 75-foot base. Is this consistent with F of the applicable design guidelines, E.4.F?
 I'm almost done here. That is an interesting feature because that incorporates 33.510.205.A criteria into the design guidelines of this project that's applicable. And the key point here is that there is supposed to be a stepping down of building heights to the Willamette River. And we've just talked about that in front of the council here with the West Quadrant Plan, right?
 The stepping down is shown. There's no way that this tall tower steps down to the river. If you look at the exhibits that we provided, it just doesn't do it. Okay. Just one last sentence, please. Thank you. The developer argues that just because they meet the height and the bonus, that therefore it makes it a step down. That's a tautology. It's not a step down.
 That's all I have as far as my opening remarks. All right, thank you. Questions at this point? We may have some more later. All right, thank you very much. I'd love to answer any questions. No question? Okay. Okay, thank you. So now we'll take individual supporters of the appeal. Who have signed up? I show six people have signed up. Okay. First three, please come on up, are David Halberton, Jeff Merrick, and David Morrell. Sir, if you could leave them with the part.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Afternoon. Who would like to go first? Yes, I'm up. Good afternoon. I'm David Halliburton, Jr. I'm a resident at 820 Northwest 12th Avenue in Portland in the Riverstone that you just heard about.
 I'm here to support the appeal. I believe that everything that Preserve the Pearl has said is absolutely true, and those are the base facts of what we're talking about. I'm just a simple guy that lives in the Pearl District that is here to talk about what's
 We've got a situation where the Pearl has become this icon of international interest, and it was based on a sustainability to bring reconstruction, re-enactment.
 of an area that was blighted to bring new life into it and to have low-level, sustainable living in a multi-family or multi-unit situation. The Riverstone was one of the first buildings in the area. It's a six-story building. When we bought in there, we thought, well, here we go.
 Across the street was the PNCA at the point that it sold
 there was no notice i i live right across the street from the place i had no idea was for sale and then i find out that the developer and the president of the college and somebody else were all hooked together and they got to move over to the building on you know broadway which is the federal building and isn't that that that's great for everybody but where was the the ability for anybody else to come in and in bid on this project
 Secondly, I think that when this building comes into hand, we're looking at safety. I do agree that the east-west orientation of the corridor is absolutely – it invites all kinds of –
 suspect activity in the area. If you go around the Pearl District, especially the Sitka Apartments, and you talk about their open east-west corridor and what kind of activities that's brought to their particular unit, you're going to find nothing but trouble.
 The Pearl has accepted and been part of the development of Portland, Oregon. We've taken in its low income housing, we've taken in its,
 the homeless. We've got Portland Luz around there. Let's let some other part of town take the brunt of this for a while. Let's put some Portland Luz and some affordable housing in other areas, not the Pearl. Let's let the Pearl be a
 In that area of 12th Avenue and what we're talking about is a condo area, not an apartment area. And a 16-story condo will take away all of my, any sunlight that I ever have a chance of seeing looking to the west.
 You know, six stories, I'll be able to live with. Some son will come in. You know, 16 stories is a huge, big block right there. It's going to block out Jamison Park. It's going to kill me and all the trees up and down 12th Avenue. And once you approve a 16-story apartment building for 12th Avenue right there between Johnson and Kearney, it's going to run right down 12th Avenue. I need that 24-hour fitness. Those guys there, they'll dump that place in a heartbeat, and they don't want 16. They're going to want 32 stories.
 Is that what you're going to want to put on 12th Avenue, which is a very, very small avenue that really just used to serve railroad cars to go up to the brewery? It's not a big street. And you're going to have garage access on 12th Avenue right there, loading zone, all of this stuff. Where are all these people going to go? You've got 196 parking spaces, 208 livable units, and that doesn't even account for all the people that are working in this other building.
 Let's go back to the original design concept, which was two six-story apartment buildings side by side. Leave it at that. Forget all this other. We don't need office spaces in the Pearl. What we need are parking spaces. All right? Thank you. Can I ask you one question? I want to make sure you understand. You're saying that the idea of the east-west connection,
 Open space is not a good idea. It's not a good isn't that what exists in the Riverstone there? But it has it has the access to the Riverstone Is is is controlled? I'm looking I'm looking at that. It's a controlled access if you're gonna control the access Oh because it's not public. That's correct. I see. Okay. I understand your point. I see my point. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you Welcome. Thank you. My name is Jeff Merrick and I just want to talk about your discretion on the height and I
 This is my simple submission to orient you to what we're talking about. We've got Jamison Square that we're all familiar with, where the kids play with their moms when it's sunny. And west of that is the Riverstone condominium. And west of that will be this 15-story wall oriented to block the entire park as it is now designed.
 You know, one day after work, it was kind of a rough day. I got off the streetcar at Johnson and 10th, and I sat in the park for a while to catch a little bit of sun. And on this picture, I sat right where I took the picture here in the lower corner. And then I noticed what I always notice is the curtain of shade that comes down because of the six floors of the Riverstones.
 And that's, so I took a picture of, you know, the kids getting edged out of the water into what's last, the last little bit of sunshine. You can see the picture that I was looking at of the river stone blocking the sun.
 And so I looked it up. The sunset should have been 840 that day. The sunset on the kids was 617 that day. So the parents had on that May day, and it's less on other times of year, obviously, you know, moms come home after work, they have one hour of sunshine with their kids in the pond, and then it's done. And you add 15 floors or another nine floors right behind this pond,
 These kids won't get any sunshine. And so I guess I'm just asking you, you know, I guess you have a choice, really. You know, do you stand with my rich white brothers from Seattle to help them add their towers, or do you want to stand with the poopy pants little kids and give them another hour in the sunshine with their parents? And today I'm for the poopy pants little kids, and I hope you guys are too. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm David Moyal. I'm a retired surgeon. You move the mic down. The whole thing slides. There you go. That works. Low tech, but it works. David Moyal. I'm a retired surgeon for three years. I've lived in Riverstone for 15. I was made aware that the Pearl District Neighborhood Association was a stop-off point for advice and decision-making related to building in the Pearl.
 When the project, the PNCA, closed or moved or sold, I would have expected the Neighborhood Association to play a role and got engaged in the process, went to probably now eight meetings of their group, joined by my neighbor down the hall, who was a standing member of that group, a voting member. He was unaware that there was any...
 discussions about the project and as we found because the minutes of the meetings for the Pearl District Neighborhood Association were not current it's my fact there was a kind of an ability to get them done on time so anybody that wanted to know what was going on had no access to information the Pearl District Neighborhood Association been around since 1991 and
 It still, up until the end of this last year, 2014, does not have a connection to any of the condo associations so that the condo associations in that district know what's going on. There is no official connection between these groups, which is really kind of surprising to me. As someone that went to the meetings...
 for the District Association, the neighborhood association, it became very clear they were their own entity. And because most of the people that live in the Pearl are renters, there are owners of which we represent some owners, most of the people that live in the Pearl are renters. The ability for the people who contribute and feel it's a neighborhood, not a transient rental group,
 are really underrepresented or not represented. And the ONI through NWNW had sent to the district association that they were not performing according to the metrics of having their information out there. That was in 2012. I've included some documents about their performance. The people at the neighborhood association do good work.
 but really them as a voice for the neighborhood is inadequate. Thank you. Sir, can I just, because we're going to have other people testify, we are hearing this as an appeal of a decision by the Design Commission, and you're raising perfectly valid concerns as a citizen about the neighborhood association, whether it represents your interests, other kinds of things. But I would just say that for other people testifying, I'm sorry.
 We're bound by a set of rules and laws, and so it's most helpful to us to hear why people believe that the design commission got it wrong and what code language has been applied incorrectly. And it's not to say that I'm minimizing your concerns. I'm just saying that it doesn't help us understand.
 other than we're becoming aware of what... This project, I'll say one thing. This project went through the Neighborhood Association and got massaged into a direction based on their advice, which did not represent the neighborhood, to the current status that it's in. Okay. That's the point. We don't... The mayor has...
 The Mayor is very generous in terms of these hearings and making sure people get a chance to be heard. But the question of the sale of the building or the question of the Neighborhood Association is not technically the issue that's before us. And the more focus on the code and the specific legal issues, the more helpful it is for us to then decide whether we think the Design Commission got it right. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay.
 The last three I showed signed up are Suzanne Clenard, Ilana Schwartz, and Stark Ackerman. I think Mr. Ackerman is representing the applicant. Okay. Anyone else wants to speak in support of the appeal? Okay. You two get the last word on that side of the question. I am not speaking for myself. I am reading a testimony from Judy Duncan, who is a real estate agent in the Pearl County
 My name is Judy Duncan. This is Suzanne Lenard reading the statement. Sorry. We have to have your name. I am Suzanne Lenard, 103 Northwest Johnson Street in the Tanna Place, Director of International Making Cities, Liverpool Conferences. My name is Judy Duncan. I live in 725 Northwest 10th, number 503, Portland, Oregon, in the Tanna Place condominiums built in 2004.
 I discovered the Pearl District in 1996 before mainstream knew what the Pearl District was or where it was. I fell in love with the concept of the city and developers taking this blighted area and creating a residential area where people could live, work, and recreate. At that time, there was no Jameson Square Park, only a few new condominiums developed and vast old rail yards. Imagine. Imagine.
 I have been a real estate broker for the past 22 years. After discovering the Pearl District, I moved my residence and my business to the Pearl in 2000. I wanted to invest in this neighborhood and work here. I love my neighborhood and have many friends here. I meet many people who are moving from another state or country. What draws people here is that it feels European, people say.
 This is created by not having canyons of very tall buildings. The ambience we feel around Jameson Square is very pleasant and inviting with an abundance of airspace and open skies with light. Such a critical need in the winter months.
 The Pearl District is changing. That is a fact, and it will continue to change because people want to live, work, and play here. It's very inviting. We who live and work here should have a determining weight in what is built here. We have the vested interest. We pay the taxes to maintain what it is. The visionary and father of the Pearl District, Al Solheim, could not have said it more wisely. It's been especially exciting, I quote,
 It's been especially exciting over the past 20 years, and it's going to continue. And that's because the people who have been involved in developing it are local, and they understand what can and should be done. They care about what they're doing. Where do you, who are affecting the changes, live, work, and play? Thank you. Malcolm. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Ilana Schwartz. I live at 820 Northwest 12th Avenue, and I'm here to wholeheartedly support the Preserve the Pearl LSC appeal. I agree with everything that was put into that appeal, but I want to make two points.
 This afternoon one is I'm sorry Commissioner fish, but it is about the pearl neighborhood Association that was part of the appeal that there wasn't due process that the neighborhood association met with the developer and we as the Residents of that community were not notified. We're not told about it couldn't find out about it in the notes and
 So, frankly, I feel ripped off. I work for the City of Portland. I'm not here. I'm on my own time right now, but I know that is not the intent of ONI to have something like that happen. My only point was you're actually before the City Council now, and we're the decision makers. So you get to make whatever argument you want about the law and the code, and you've got –
 council's attention and I'm just saying it doesn't to the whatever their challenges there are with with the neighborhood association you're actually talking to decision-makers so we can go right to the legal issues that concern you about height and code interpretation and precedent and and and we're gonna make a decision based on your testimony that's the only point I was me right yeah and my point is that we might not be here if the neighborhood association had included us from the beginning so I just wanted to make that point
 The second point I want to make is at one of the DAR meetings, the owner of Cool Moon Ice Cream was there. And I don't know if she's here today, but she gave a testimony. You know, she's a small business owner, and she gave a very compelling testimony about the increased density of the shadow on the park was really going to affect, could really affect her business.
 And that's the kind of businesses we want in Portland. I mean, if you've ever been to that corner, that business brings people out. There are children playing. There are multi-generations of people there. And her business will be in jeopardy with this building.
 That's the kind of businesses that we want here in Portland. I know that you support small businesses. I mean, the neighborhood does definitely not need another Botox shop or something like that. So in conclusion, I just want to...
 You to listen to the testimony here, the recommendations put forth by the Preserve the Pearl LSC, and remand this case back to the Design Commission. We're not opposing a building. We're opposing the orientation of the building and the height of the building as was represented in the appeal. Thank you. Thank you. Could you just tell me why do you – so presumably you'd like it to be oriented this way.
 90 degrees. Right. And why, in your own words, why is that? Would that be better? Because it doesn't create a wall on 12th Avenue. 12th Avenue is very narrow. So by reorienting it, you have the wall facing the other way. So you don't have that wall on 12th Avenue. You're not creating the shadow on Jameson Park and also the Riverstone condominiums.
 Plus, it goes more with the current design ordinances where the mid-pearl doesn't have those tall buildings, so that it makes it more of that transition building, which the commission actually spoke about. Thank you. Welcome.
 Hi, my name is Tim Allen. We live in, my wife Kathy and I live in the Marshall Wells condominium lofts, 1420 Lovejoy. And I'll pare this down because I addressed some things that aren't necessarily addressing the design. 11 years ago we invested in a condominium at Marshall Wells at 1420 Northwest Lovejoy. Our plan was to retire an agent place in Portland.
 Concern in selecting the unit at the time was building heights. We were told by our sales agent that the limit was 75 feet. For that reason, we selected a more expensive unit on the third floor facing east towards the river so we'd have some sunlight. What we didn't know at the time is that more than a dozen high-rise buildings north of Lovejoy were in various stages of development.
 Soon our view of the Fremont and Broadway bridges and the river was gone. The sky to the northeast was reduced to a sliver at the top of our windows by the high rises. We were left with a small rectangular view of the sky to the southeast. Should Block 136 be developed as proposed, we will almost never have direct sunlight on our unit since the proposed 150-foot tall building will shade a lower floor like ours for pretty much all day.
 The proposed development of block 136 will drastically and negatively affect our quality of life and decrease the value of our property. When we selected the Pearl District to live, we were there, or we felt there was a desire in Portland to preserve the district's warehouse heritage by preserving and repurposing buildings. The proposed development of block 136 is in direct conflict with that notion.
 It is extremely incongruous with the low rise neighborhood which surrounds it. We are not totally against development, but it should be right sized for the residents, property owners and tax payers of the neighborhood and not supersized for the benefit of the developers.
 I'd also like to address notification, guarding notification of local residents. Although we live one block from block 136, we never heard a word about the proposed development until the period for comment was closed. Our neighbors happened to stop by while they were walking their dog and saw a small piece of paper taped to the side of the building and told us about it.
 In fact, to this day, many residents who live in close proximity to block 136 still have no idea about the proposed building. I'll pass over the rest and just say that to conclude, we strongly urge the city maintain existing height limits in the Pearl District south of Lovejoy. This will preserve the existing property values, quality of life for residents and taxpayers, and the heritage of the warehouse district.
 Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay. Anyone else want to speak in support of the appeal? If not, then we'll turn to the applicant and their presentation. I haven't heard how many. So you've got slides. Is that what we're queuing up here? PowerPoint presentation. Okay. All right. Carla will get it queued up for us whenever you're ready. All right. Thank you. Okay. There it is. Mayor Hales.
 Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Fish, my name is Stark Ackerman. I'm an attorney at Black Helter Line, and I'm here representing security properties. The applicant, my address is 805 Southwest Broadway, Portland 97205. I'd like to introduce several others on the project team who are here today to present
 help in this presentation and to answer any questions that might come up. On my left is Phil Wiest, an associate at my firm. On my right is Heidi Oyen from Methune, who's the firm that has designed this project. And in the audience are John Marosco and Michael Nanny from Security Properties. I'd like to begin our presentation by saying that we think we have a great multi-use project for Block 136 in the Pearl District.
 and the design commission agreed unanimously. The project provides an office and retail building and also a residential building that together not only recognize the 13th Avenue historic district and the growing residential focus of the Pearl District but also add a new public space in the form of a central courtyard one quarter block in area running the length of the whole block
 This project is the product of extensive public involvement and close collaboration with the Design Commission and meets or exceeds all applicable approval criteria and design guidelines, as is reflected in the Design Commission's approval. I'd like now to turn this over to Heidi to describe for you the key features of the project, after which I want to discuss some of the most important factors we think you should consider in making your decision. Heidi? Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, commissioners, it's been a great pleasure to work in this special part of the Pearl District. As you know, the Block 136 is located between 12th and 13th, Johnson and Kearney. It's directly kitty-corner to the Historic District and equidistant to the Willamette River in both the east and north directions. The Pearl has fantastic courtyards, just absolutely fantastic courtyards, and early on in our process...
 We studied these courtyards, and we learned that most of the courtyards in public or semi-public land are oriented in the north-south direction. And it is the vacated right-of-ways that go east and west. This lets a lot of great sunlight in. It's definitely something we wanted to do in our project. So this shows the ground floor plan with two bar buildings. On the left is the 13th Avenue building offices, and on the right is the 12th Avenue apartment buildings.
 There's the large quarter block sized courtyard in the middle. It's 50 feet by 200 feet long. This orientation allows sun to warm the courtyard during the day and provides equal daylight to the buildings rather than having a long dark north facade. It also lets us build a long dock along 13th Avenue. We've then raised the level of the retail floor at that three foot dock level all the way through the building and built another dock on the courtyard side.
 This allows retail to spill on the north or on the east and west, and then we've set the retail on Johnson and Kearney low at sidewalk level. So every part of this building has great spillout potential. For the apartment building, the entry is located off the courtyard and the amenity spaces wrap into the courtyard. Then eight townhouses wrap the corner of Johnson and Kearney. Kitty Corner from Johnson Street townhouses that are firm designed.
 And then there's the garage and loading entrances kind of up on the northern part of 12th Avenue. We met with the PDNA early on and took their advice to keep 13th Avenue building low in response to the historic district to build some on-grade open space.
 and to build office use at all. This was at first a residential project. Security Properties is a developer of apartment buildings, but the Pearl District Neighborhood Association thought there was a demand for office in the neighborhood, and they had a desire to have daytime activity on the site. When using all the allowable FAR, this left the apartment building at 150 feet tall.
 And it turns out the PDNA was right. Security Properties has a lot of interest in leasing the office space. And depending on the type of office, we estimate that it could serve 300 to 480 jobs, with all of those people stimulating daytime businesses during the day.
 The Pearl has developed over time in really different cycles, from the warehouses to newer townhouses to the more recent high-rises. It's a diverse and dynamic neighborhood. It's wonderful for that, and we wanted to add to that. We sometimes develop a guiding concept when designing a project, and in this case, we were inspired by the working, durable heartwood for the low-rise and light-seeking fresh seedlings for the high-rise.
 This metaphor was inspired by the diversity of the Pearl, and you can see how it influences the form and materiality of the two buildings, with the low rise being a solid-looking brick building and the high rise a taller-looking metal and glass building. This view shows how the buildings fit into the district with a view towards the Willamette. The Design Commission was pleased with the overall massing and orientation of the project.
 And they were supportive of bonus height in order to keep the office low at the historic district and to keep the courtyard on grade. And they advised that the success of the project would hinge on how well the ground floor levels were integrated into the street level. So they were giving us the height, but it felt like the street level was important for that. So we went into the Pearl District often. We studied materials.
 Great docks along 13th Avenue, townhouses, what worked, what didn't, how garage doors were integrated. We had already studied the courtyards a bit. And then we took the best recipes for what works in the Pearl and worked them into every edge of the design of the project. Really, we have eight edges here. So I will walk you through those now along the ground levels. This is the 12th Avenue building. It will have eight townhouses, four facing Johnson and four on 12th Avenue.
 They'll have — Their entrances are on the street? Their entrances are. They're also an accessible entrance from inside the building, but they're all accessed directly from the street.
 This shows four of them along 12th Avenue. The stoops are raised about two or three feet, depending on the slope, from the sidewalk. Also has a light screen element and two layers of planting. And this, we think, is a good recipe for allowing people to be on their patios with a little bit of privacy where they can watch the world go by but not feel like they're in a fishbowl.
 And then the courtyard, this is inspired by a log jam concept. It will use timber salvaged from the existing building on the site for log benches. So in this view, you'll see the residential patio spilling out from the base of the apartment building on the kind of upper left.
 Tables and chairs in the foreground that can be used by the public, people coming out of the retail building or from the apartments. There's a bocce ball court in the upper right. And then the raised dock along 13th Avenue. So there's a lot of activity here. We think it'll be 24-7. There will almost always be eyes on this courtyard. It shouldn't be a dangerous place with that kind of activity day and night.
 And then this view shows the activity along the dock even better. The dock itself is envisioned to have tables and chairs spilling out from the retail building and provides a great perch to watch bocce ball playing. Security Properties is working to get great tenants for an open market concept in the dock level of the retail space. You can see how this space flows in and out in this view on the left.
 And then the retail space also spills out onto 13th Avenue's dock, activating this great historic street on normal or festival days. But as I briefly mentioned earlier, the retail spaces on the north and south of the building along Johnson and Kearney streets, they're kept at sidewalk level, so those are able to also spill out onto the street. So the whole building has great activity potential around it.
 So backing up, again, this view shows all the ways that the buildings open up and all the way up the buildings from the docks on the 13th Avenue building and what we call the patios on the 13th Avenue building for office workers. We're seeing a lot of office workers wanting to be able to open the windows. This building is naturally ventilated just to take a break, as well as retail storefronts and decks on the high-rise.
 We think it'll be a great contribution to the vibrancy of the Pearl. Finally, I'll share five slides that are in your packets. The first is a chart that calculates bonus FAR. We earn an excess of 1.94 over the maximum allowed. And then this section is repeated on this page. The color represents the base and different bonus heights that staff went over earlier. This one basically shows where the uses are allocated and shows that the whole housing bonus is used for housing.
 This is a city zoning map with base and bonus heights indicated, showing different allowable areas in the river district or allowable heights in the river district. And then finally, two bird's-eye views that show the buildings in context with the district. Thank you. With that, I'll turn it back over to Stark. Can we pause for a question or two since we have that before us? Have you done any – are you going to – okay. Okay.
 Have you done any analysis of what is the impact of the building on 12th Street in terms of impacting light and electricity?
 Particularly light on on on the park to the east we did and this was the topic of the second DIR meeting It was dedicated exclusively to the height bonus. We showed several times of day and times of the year when No project the 120 foot project or the 150 foot project would shed light or shed shadow across the the area
 And the Riverstone actually shades Jamieson Square as much on April 21st as our building would. We do not contribute any more shade. The city staff also did an independent shading study and showed that to be true. Why did you put the higher building on 13th and the lower building on 12th rather than the other way around?
 The lower building on 13th is in reference to the historic district. That's a lower district. The height requirements are lower there, and we just wanted to be in keeping with the scale of development along 13th Avenue.
 I was going to say that PDNA also recommended that in a very early meeting. You heard some earlier testimony where a couple of folks were arguing in favor of rotating the axis so that it would be going east-west and not north-south. What's your reaction to that concept? Thank you.
 Having the courtyard oriented north-south allows great light into the courtyard itself. If it were to be oriented east and west, it would be in shade much of the day. Because this is a great public amenity we're giving back to the Pearl District, it makes sense to keep it in the sun.
 Having it be a connection to the east and west, there's already a great connection along Kearney. It's a cobblestone street, and then one block later it turns into a pedestrian-only street on its way to Jameson Square. Drawing people to a parallel path in Block 136 doesn't make sense if you want to keep Kearney great. So this is a sun-warmed...
 courtyard along that path. And am I to assume that all the housing that you've planned for in the taller building, all that is market rate? Yes, it is. Okay. Well, in the short time we have for our presentation, we can't cover all of the factors you need to consider as you deliberate. We want to mention several key factors for you to be particularly aware of. First,
 As your city attorney has told you, the focus of your consideration is on the approval criteria that apply to the application. The design commission found that such criteria were met when it approved the project. We agree, and in support of our compliance with those criteria, we have submitted a written document addressing each approval criteria in detail.
 Secondly, there's been extensive public involvement in this process over the course of the last year and a half, and the project has changed as a result of that involvement, as Heidi has mentioned, in part. The Design Commission put a significant amount of time into the project, including three design advice meetings with the applicant and interested parties and two public hearings on the matter, and you have this hearing before you today where the public can testify.
 Third, the appellant and others have raised concerns about the height of the residential building. The applicant carefully designed the project to comply with the height limits in the zoning code, but taking advantage of available bonuses, which include a general height bonus and a housing height bonus. Despite assertions made by the appellant, the building heights are explicitly allowed by the code and actually have been allowed since 2001.
 I'd like to spend just a few minutes addressing some issues raised in the appeal and by some of those in support of the appeal. We believe the appellant's claims and conclusion that the project should be denied are without merit. I'll quickly address a few of those claims here. We address those in more detail in our written submission. With regard to public process, as I mentioned, this application has undergone extensive public involvement, including this hearing.
 The applicant, the appellant and others have had multiple opportunities to participate and have testified and raised their concerns on many occasions. The public process that has been followed does not violate any approval criteria nor procedural requirements nor has it prejudiced the appellant. With regard to project height, the appellant asserts that the residential building height is not allowed by the code.
 I discussed this previously, but to reiterate, the applicant and the design commission have looked at that question and believe the height is explicitly allowed by the code. To the extent that the appellant asserts that the project is not consistent with some height purposes, as stated in the code, and particularly Section 33-510-205A, not only does this requirement apply only to the last 30 feet of height of the residential building,
 but the appellant is misreading those requirements. All the code really requires is that the applicant show consistency with certain purposes of the height provisions of the code. The appellant is arguing as if each and every one of those purposes must individually be met, and that is not what is intended by the use of the word consistency. It's really...
 that the applicant and the application must comply as a whole to those purposes taken together. Compliance with each purpose would in many cases be impossible because the purposes are mutually exclusive or can be. And compliance with each would in some cases prevent an applicant from achieving an allowed height or even developing the property.
 Finally, several other provisions in 33.510.210E actually do establish specific requirements for matters covered by the purposes in 205A. So it is clear that when the city intended to establish individual requirements, it would do so. The code must be read to give meaning to the other provisions of the code, and the appellant's assertions do not allow that.
 To the extent that the council needs to interpret the code to apply this reasonably, it can do so. With regard to compliance with the design guidelines, the project meets or exceeds all the applicable guidelines, as is demonstrated by the design commission's approval and our submittal, including the river guidelines. And if I could have just one moment. What the appellants seem to be reacting to is change, and that's understandable.
 But this change is change allowed in the zoning code under provisions that have been in effect for many years. The city has already decided as a policy matter to allow this change. And the applicant has a right to approval based upon those current valid provisions. So in conclusion, we believe that we are providing you a refined, high-quality design that will be an exciting addition to the Pearl District.
 Your own design commission has reviewed this project in detail and unanimously approved the application. We ask you to deny the appeal and approve the project as it was approved by the design commission. Thank you, and we'd be happy to answer any questions. Questions? Questions?
 Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Any folks that are signed up to speak in opposition to the appeal? I have seven people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Bruce Morrison, David Wark, and Ben Kaiser. Okay. Yeah. You want the after these? Okay. Go ahead. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It seems like we were just here. We were. Okay. I'd like to go ahead, David.
 Oh, I thought we were going by, go ahead. You're on first. We've already heard from these guys. Certainly. I'm Bruce Morrison. I'm a resident of 1030 Northwest Johnson, a neighbor of Suzanne's. Our view will be affected by this building.
 Nevertheless, I personally support the building and the project. I think it is an excellent design that will increase the vitality and livability of the neighborhood and be a distinct improvement over the former PNCA building.
 I'm also the vice president of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association and a member of its planning and transportation committee.
 I know that the mayor and commissioners have a great experience with neighborhood associations. The Pearl District Neighborhood Association makes every effort to comply with the applicable
 state, city, and only regulations regarding public meetings. Our meetings are held on the same days of the month consistently in the same places at the same time. They're advertised in the media. They are advertised on our website, on our Facebook page, through emails,
 to people who asked to be advised to the meetings. We
 really welcome the participation of everyone in the neighborhood and and in fact our big problem is getting enough people to volunteer and to participate in our activities and attend meetings. It's really if if only we had two or three times the attendance and the involvement we would be overjoyed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, and
 Okay. Thank you. Good to be here again. My name is David Warrick. I'm the chair of the Design Commission. And I want to focus on what was the main issue at the DAR, particularly the first DAR, which is how does this work?
 Design better meet the intent of the design guidelines and so that extra 30 feet was the was the fulcrum of that discussion I've got five points to make that Why this is my commission did support this this extra height bonus? we felt that through the massing the two-part massing was very successful in terms of a respectful response to the 13th Avenue historic district in terms of height scale materials and character and
 We felt that the orientation of the buildings, of having the small building to the west and the tall building to the east, as proven at our request to provide shadow studies, did convince us that, in fact, that orientation would not have any more effect than the existing shadows cast by existing buildings.
 And we also felt that the solar orientation, as described by the applicant's architect, was better on a day-to-day basis, as if it were shifted on its access to be in an east-west direction, that the courtyard and that public benefit would be lost in shadow for most of the year, and also then cast shadow on future neighbors to the north.
 We felt that the program, well let me go back to the courtyard, we felt that it was a significant open space for public use and we were assured and actually demanded that there be no fences and gates on that courtyard.
 Four was program. We felt that the four floors of office provided an additional use of the site, which is not prevalent throughout the Pearl. It's mainly retail on the first floor and housing above. So we felt that mixed use would increase the activity of visitors and people working there coming and going throughout the day and into the evening. And we felt that the townhouse design, with the raised stoop, the porch, and at a request a difficult
 item to integrate, but nonetheless they did, which was in a canopy that extends out over the sidewalk to protect the pedestrian from weather. We just felt that the overall quality of the design from concept to composition to material selection and detail was one of the best projects we've seen in years. That is why we were in support of the height bonus and how we felt it better met the intent of the design guidelines. Thank you.
 Great. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I echo what- Put your name in the record. I'm sorry, Ben Kaiser, a Vice Chair of the Design Commission. And I echo what the Chair Warrick has to say as well as I just want to add a few things. One, to the appellant, we have often heard over the past seven years about the at time disconnect between neighborhood associations and
 area residents and I think we're all staff and the design commission has been struggling with how to improve that. So we're aware of those issues and it has been constantly improving. So I think with, as the gentleman stated, I think with additional outreach we'll further improve that situation so everybody can be more abreast of changes as they come into the city.
 And as Commissioner Warwick says, what we see as a successful building is essentially the bottom 20 to 30 feet. And where a building meets a city street is the most important aspect of how a building either succeeds or fails. And we think that the trade off of the additional height on this building is large part to do with what this development team gave back to the city of Portland. So it is probably as Heidi with Mithun stated,
 Eight sides, all extremely active in our opinion, and giving quite a bit back to the city of Portland. And as the appellant stated, the Riverstone is locked or has the potential to be locked access. This does not. So this is essentially acting as a public park into the future, which we think was the greatest attribute of the entire structure.
 It is, in my opinion as well, in the past seven years, one of the three best projects that I've seen come through from the Development Committee and the Design Group. So we think it's a fantastic addition. We did study shadow studies. We studied massing collectively with the development team, and we think they're all fantastic. Okay.
 I also wanted to say that as the city grows and as we're all realizing the goals of the last 40 years, these are kind of the growing pains that we're all going to face. The UGB is working perfectly, driving around the city. You can now see suburban developers doing infill lots. Yes.
 And as many cities across the country are actually paying development teams to come into their cores, we should be so fortunate to have such high-level projects coming in of their own decisions and own choice into our city core. And that, to me, is an example of all the great 40 years of planning and 40 years of consideration coming to fruition here. And this project is representative of that in our opinion.
 Great. Thank you. Questions? Thank you very much. Okay, next ones please. Richard Graham, Gary Washington, and Kate Washington. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead, Richard. Yes, my name is Richard Graham. I'm a retired architect and a four-year member of the Prolistic Neighborhood Association in the Planning and Transportation Committee.
 And I would like to add my voice and speak as strongly as possible in favor of the design commission's approval of this project. I think it's a magnificent project. I've been reviewing things for four years now, and it's the best project that I've seen come to us. It has a lot going for it. And one thing I wanted to add, because I don't want to repeat what's been spoken before here, but I did sit through a presentation with the opposition group that is here today, and I have to admit it was –
 One of the most thorough meetings we've ever had where the opposition came there with drawings, models, sections, and it went on for a long time. So they had a very fair hearing of their perspective on things. But anyway, the thing that I like about this project most, I think, is that quite honestly, this section of the Pearl District is kind of dead. The art school is dead.
 a great neighbor but it presents four blank walls to the neighborhood and i think a project of this type will add enormous energy to this part of the pro district and that's something i really would be excited about um just to wrap it up quickly i love the project i think it's it's contextual the brick building i think relates very well to this dark district and i think it's going to be a very successful place to be thank you thank you welcome good afternoon my name is gary washington uh
 I'm a 17-year military veteran and a three-year resident. I live at the Ramona Apartments, a low-income building in the Pearl District. I'm here to support the proposal of the building. Commissioner Fish has already pointed out that I'm not supposed to divert from the proposal.
 the building. I had prepared some words more based on them. I wish I'd almost not said anything. I was just trying to signal as politely as possible that we were very receptive to hearing the legal arguments as to why the design commission didn't do its job properly. And I hate to see people cut into their precious time with arguments that were secondary. But
 So it's not for me to say. No, you're completely right, sir. And like I said, I'm just going to come in and lend my voice to it. I'm going to piggyback on what he said in the regards of I've walked past the PNCA for –
 the three years that I've been here. Every time I go to PD&A meetings to listen to what the PD&A has to say, I've seen that building, and it is. It's four blank walls to the neighborhood, and this new project is going to be quite revitalizing to that small bit of the area.
 With the sunlight studies that have been done over what is actually going to impact and affect on Jameson Square, we know now that it's not going to affect Jameson Square and it's not going to affect the park as doom and gloom as some would have let you know beforehand.
 The idea of an open space market in the bottom of the building is revolutionary in that location where we don't have anything like that. When you walk over and up to 13th Avenue and you get to be a part of First Thursdays and be able to walk up and down and see all the trading going on is fantastic. I think this – because the developer didn't have to take into consideration the historical portion of the neighborhood, but they chose to.
 to let that be a part of the essence that is the Pearl district and the historical section really speaks high volumes in my opinion as to, uh, uh, their dedication into making this a better place on the Pearl district. And I will say one thing where I had on the piece of paper here is that, uh,
 I'd like to remind the older generation and also this council that the Pearl District has a 22% poverty rate. So the voices of renters should be heard. As I am a renter and have the luxury of being able to attend these kinds of meetings in the middle of the day, I'm here to stand up against the blatant disregard for the public process that was taken well into consideration. All the processes were...
 followed, and I see no reason why this building should not move forward as planned. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for your military service. I'm really happy that you got a spot in the Ramona Apartments, and I appreciate you coming as a renter because I found that earlier testimony about renters being transient. Obviously, you are just as invested in your neighborhood, and I appreciate you being here. I plan on staying for a very long time. And maybe we should give another plug. The mayor's former policy advisor, Ed McNamara, developed the Ramona. We know Ed very well. He's a very nice guy. You don't have to say that. No, he really is.
 We work with them.
 But I think the city also put close to $20 million into that development because we thought it was important that families making up to about 60% of median family income, like perhaps your family, can afford to live in a nice, desirable neighborhood. And then we love the idea that Ed brought the school in so that kids could get an education there. But that's a shining example of something that Ed did prior to working with the mayor. Okay.
 I'll just jump in real quick. As a reservist, the Ramona has given me the opportunity to be able to continue my military career and be able to give my wife the ability to have her education at the Portland State University, all while being able to live in such a beautiful neighborhood. It's an absolutely fantastic building. Great. That's great to hear. Welcome. Yeah, thank you very much. My name is Kate Washington, and I'm here to speak in favor of the development. I also live at the Ramona. Thank you.
 I've lived in the Pearl for three years and I've served on the neighborhood association in a variety of capacities during that time. I'm also a master's degree student at Portland State University in the urban and regional planning program. So I do have some training on the city of Portland's land use planning process and specifically the vision for the Pearl District.
 So first I want to express my opinion about the proposal. They have designed an excellent set of buildings that accommodate the community character in a variety of ways. The site plan for the lot is designed to respect the historic nature of 13th Avenue by aligning the buildings parallel to the street instead of perpendicular, and it continues the feel along that street. Further, this lot is outside the historic district, and therefore the developers didn't have to continue to honor the historic character, but they chose to.
 And they've used limiting the height and complementary design and materials along 13th in order to continue that feel. And finally, the courtyard that they're providing is designed to be a public amenity, and it creates valuable and much-needed public space in the community where we're not going to be able to add many more parks and open places that the city maintains. And so it's remarkable to see a developer want to give that to this really important neighborhood.
 Second, I want to point out that the height and massing of the development is completely within code and has precedent within the neighborhood. In fact, within one to three blocks of the site, there are several buildings of the exact same height as the proposal. Everyone who lives in and around those buildings benefits from the excellent qualities of the Pearl District without having their quality of life or livability compromised. Thank you.
 The truth is the Pearl is supposed to house at least twice as many people. It was always intended to be a high-density, mixed-use neighborhood. The city has invested tens of millions of dollars preparing infrastructure for density, and to compromise the fulfillment of that vision over someone's view would be a violation of the city's investment and the trust of taxpayers.
 The Pearl District is a high-density, mixed-use neighborhood in the central city and should be treated as such. To preserve the Pearl, as the opposition demands, would be to maintain its character as a rail yard. All of us have moved into an unfinished neighborhood, and none of us can be selfish enough to think that it should remain unfinished simply for our pleasure.
 Finally, I do understand that the opposition feels that they have not been heard at the neighborhood level, so I want to clarify on that. Apparently, when this development was announced, the Preserve the Pearl group sent a letter demanding the PD&A schedule special meetings for them. I have seen the letter posted on the website and read it, but I assure you the letter was never received by Patricia Gardner nor any board members.
 The PD&A has several monthly meetings which are published in the Northwest Examiner and on our social media. Preserve the Pearl did not join those meetings, and when they finally did, they did not ask to be on the agenda, but simply expected to be accommodated, which we did because we wanted to hear what they had to say. So finally, I recently heard through the real estate grapevine that the day the design was approved, nine people put their condos on the market to sell it.
 And while this does indeed display conviction of their position, it does not display commitment to the neighborhood and its vision, which is something that the Pearl District and the city actually need quite a bit of. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay. Others? One more. Reza Farhud. Okay. And anyone else who hasn't signed up who wants to speak, come on up. Otherwise, you get the last word before we turn to rebuttal. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Reza Farhudi. I am the co-chair of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association's Land Use and Transportation Committee. I have a packet here to submit to the written record that has our meeting notices, our minutes, our letter to the Design Commission. But I'd like to make a couple of quick points. The first is about our general process.
 As a matter of policy, the Pearl District Neighborhood Association strives to review all design projects equally. As you are aware, the neighborhood associations are advisory only to the design review process and have no standing in making any decisions on development projects. All of our planning and transportation meetings exceed the ONI standards for public notice. Per those standards, all our meetings are noticed in the Northwest Examiner newspaper with a circulation of over 36,000 readers.
 Beyond that, all of our meetings are posted on our website. They are noticed in our newsletters, which goes out to 1,100 individuals.
 And the agenda is also posted on our Facebook page with over 820 individuals who subscribe to that page. The agenda also is sent to an email list of over 70 individuals who have expressed interest in receiving the committee agenda. And to the previous gentleman's point about us getting reprimanded, that never happened. The executive director of Neighbors West Northwest, Mark Sieber, can attest to that.
 Regarding this particular project, the appellant was able to present their point of view prior to our non-binding advisory vote at our December 16, 2014 meeting. While we heard their concerns and points of view, and they had a great presentation about the issues with the massing and the height, our committee reviewed the project with the Apical City Guidelines and found that the project met those criteria.
 So they had their chance to make their argument. We just simply did not agree.
 Quite frankly, we think it fits well with the context of the surrounding neighborhood. It's 7-1 FAR, 150 feet. If you compare that to the edge, a couple blocks away, the REI building is 8-1⁄2 FAR, 145 feet. And Park Place, a couple blocks to the east, so closer to the river than this building would be, it's 5-1⁄2 FAR, 150 feet. These buildings follow the code guidelines that have been in place for almost 15 years now. So my question is,
 What makes this building so special, so worthy of such intense scrutiny? We feel as though this building should be approved by your body and as approved by the design commission. Thank you very much. Thank you. Questions? Thanks very much. Okay, now we turn to rebuttal. So I'll give you a chance to come back and rebut any issues that you've heard raised here today. Thank you. First of all,
 The park building that was mentioned just a minute ago is on the Lovejoy Corridor. It's not really part of our residential neighborhood. The fact that their agendas are posted on Facebook, nobody ever knew about that until much later. Now they're doing a better outreach, but it's still not enough.
 With respect to the Ramona, my best friend lives in the Ramona, and that's in the north of Lovejoy area. And how high is the Ramona? The Ramona is not more than seven stories, eight stories, maybe. So people living in the Ramona or that orientation isn't really relevant, and the Ramona is about to get creamed because the cash and carry lot just got sold, and that's going to be a huge development. You...
 It's kind of a slander to say that we're not in favor change that we just want rail yards. That's not yeah I don't know how many times you have to say that we are for Reasonable development not we are not against development. We're not Luddites the
 because none of the presentation by the developer addressed the guidelines that you need to use, that you keep talking about, you need to hear about these guidelines. So first of all, all of the benefits at the street level that everybody was talking about, even the people that are in support of the project, you can have all those amenities on the street level. You don't need the height. It doesn't mean that it meets the design guidelines for the height.
 Second of all, the design guidelines are rhythm and scale in the neighborhood. And if you even look at the developer's own material, you'll see that none of the surrounding buildings are anywhere near the height that we're talking about in the tower. Next, about shade.
 One of the design commissioners said, well, we're interested about future neighbors to the north in terms of the orientation of the building. That's an industrial building to the north. The Daily Cafe is in that building. There's no residents in that building. What about the residents that live there right now? What about the residents in the Ramona that live right now? What about the design criteria that says that you should minimize the shade on existing residents? Yes.
 That's a design criteria that is not met. What about step down to the Willamette? All right. That doesn't even get mentioned in the 51 pages that I had a chance to breeze through here that was just filed in support. This patently violates that provision from 205.A that says there should be a step down in buildings to the Willamette River.
 So those are three design guidelines right there just off the top, not even talking about all the other ones that are in our brief, but three right there. Now, I beg to differ with the attorney for the other group because, in fact—
 If you read the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines, if you even read the notice of the appeal for this hearing, it says each and every design guideline needs to be sustained in order for this to continue to be approved. And each and every one is not. So we ask you to send this project back.
 It does not meet the guidelines. It's, you know, what are you going to lose from throwing the little people a bone on this one, really? They're going to go back and redesign in a much more appropriate way. You know, lay people have this feeling that the design commission, the developers are all together. They're all on board with this. And it was kind of interesting to see two commissioners come in and testify on behalf of the project in that way.
 And this one commissioner over here actually said that my, it's kind of nice to hear that my presentation was so great because he said that it was really good at the design commission. But that's aside the point. It is good because the facts are on our side. That's why. So we ask you to sustain the appeal. Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions for staff? Okay. Could we have staff back up for council questions and discussion and we can see if there's a motion. Hello. I'm back. Questions?
 So you've heard all the testimony, and I just want to give you a chance. Is there anything you want to add to the testimony you've heard, particularly about whether the correct design guidelines have been applied, whether there's an issue around step-down, the shading, and the way the bonuses were applied? Well, I'd like to start by saying that the –
 To reiterate what I opened with, which was that staff early on in the process worked with the applicant and the Neighborhood Association to craft a project that better responded to all the guidelines, as you've heard folks testify to. Staff was...
 was accepting of the response. We felt that throughout the entire both DAR process and land use hearing process that every request, every directive for greater compliance was adhered to.
 specifically the shadow impacts early on, as was mentioned in the DAR process. Independent studies were conducted by Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, which corroborated the applicants' findings.
 I think the salient fact there simply is that there is no difference or very little difference, a noticeable difference by staff's assessment in the difference of shadow cast by a 120 or a 150 building, oriented as it presently is, that the difference between a 75 and a 120 is,
 is negligible for very short and brief periods of time. And that would only be around areas that were remote or edge conditions within Jameson Square. With regard to... Do you have any questions about any of that? Shadow? Okay. And with regard to the step-down to the Willamette and orientation to the Willamette, staff, I think, determined early on that...
 orienting the buildings in a parallel scheme northward was a more direct route to the river, frankly. It's equidistant, as the crow flies. But it seems that the just sheer sensibility of pedestrian connectivity northward would be better enhanced with a north-south orientation. Okay.
 westward orientation or reinforcing a pathway in a east-west direction, eastward, would present greater barriers in the form of Union Station and and
 post office and grade changes and off off direction travel necessary so i think the orientation and the stepping or orientation to the river was was was uh i think emphasized better with the north south uh orientation um other question was well and the other i guess there was a there was a broader concern raised about you're just applying the wrong guidelines right
 I think in my presentation I made clear that the guidelines that applied to the site were comprehensively and thoroughly applied to the project. Whether or not the 510...
 205 a guidelines that that appear I think in the appellants claim that were not applied to the site or applied to the project aren't entirely accurate we did look at the step down to the historic district we looked at protecting views.
 I can say that from the guidelines perspective, the protection of public views is the focus on protecting, on view preservation. We took a very close look at the orientation of the buildings and how that particular orientation would have affected, let's say, a view to buildings.
 the Union Station clock tower. And either orientation had no or little, if any, effect on view blockage of established view sheds toward the clock tower.
 i think the uh both river district and um and central city fundamental design guidelines were thoroughly considered beyond the codified findings that were embedded in the height bonus criteria
 There was very little that I think even early on that we found lacking in compliance with those standards. The focus I think all along was to orient, to capture the FAR that was allowed by the project through bonuses to best enhance and activate eight public edges on this project.
 And I think that the orientation, the basic party of the project, its comparative step down to the 13th Avenue district, both to the south, the historic district proper, and the step up to comply with greater context eastward made sense. It's worth noting that though the boundary of the Northwest District
 13th Avenue Historic District ends at Johnson. From staff and commission's perspective, it felt like the energy embodied by what is historic about that through the project was
 was carried northward on 13th. So that's just a case in point where the project, I think, better meets or exceeds guidelines, and we just in some total found that it was doing that throughout. Thank you.
 thank you thank you okay so question for city attorney staff um we've had a we've had a request from the applicant i'm sorry from the appellant to continue the hearing or to allow for further review what would you recommend our options are at this point so for a council hearing which is not the initial evidentiary hearing it is at your discretion whether to hold the record open or to grant a continuance um
 My initial observation of the packet that was submitted by the applicant is that one section of it is the only thing that is not completely information that was already in the record. There's a 51-page description of how the approval criteria are met. It looks to me as though it largely...
 provides argument utilizing existing evidence in the record. However, it is a large document. It's not a three-page submittal that someone could assimilate quickly. If you wanted some advice, I might suggest leaving the record open for seven days for all parties to submit documents.
 responses to what they heard today. I know that's not ideal because of your calendar for the rest of the month, but perhaps because it would be coming back solely for deliberation rather than for a continuance, it could be done at a morning time certain. Council, we've done that before. We have done that before. It's certainly within your discretion under the code. I think that makes complete sense. And I think that cures any
 question of someone feeling that they don't get a chance to rebut something in that exhaustive document. Okay. So is that suitable for you, Commissioner Fritz? Then, Mayor, we would come back solely for the purpose of deliberating. That's right. The only way the other two colleagues could participate, I guess, is if they had reviewed the entire record. They would have the option to do that if they wanted to do that. Correct. And so, Carla, before we –
 adjourned today would need to identify a date and time certain sometime after seven days. Mayor, I might suggest we ask the applicant whether a morning or an afternoon session is more convenient. There's going to be a lot of professionals on this side, but a lot of citizens over here. Okay. Morning or afternoon, better for us to deliberate from your standpoint? Got a preference? It depends on what day you're talking about. It's going to be a Wednesday. Okay.
 It's going to be two weeks from today, I believe, because if we're going to leave the record open for a week, then we meet a week later. And so that would be the 22nd. Carla, do we have time certins available, morning and afternoon? It would be 11.15 in the morning or 4.30 in the afternoon. I would try 4.30. And you're leaving at 11 in the morning. Sorry?
 Commissioner Fish is leaving at 11 on the 22nd. Do I have? It says city biz. Okay, you're gone early that day. What about the Thursday? The Thursday is Washington Park Reservoirs. We could do it at 2. It's at 2. We could do this at 2 and then follow with the reservoirs because we'll just be deliberating. I'd appreciate that. 2 o'clock on the 23rd? Is that suitable? Yeah.
 Let's do that, Mayor. We'll just move the Washington Park to 230 times certain. The applicant, is that all right? Two o'clock on the...
 23rd? All right. So then what I'm going to do then is continue the hearing. No. No, sorry. I'm going to close the public hearing. I'm going to keep the public record open for a week so that people can submit additional information in response to the hearing for any materials received. How am I doing? Yes, great. Okay. And then schedule council deliberation for 2 p.m. on the 23rd.
 giving the other council members the option if they so choose to review the record participate but the three of us are will be fully prepared to do so having been in this hearing and also received any additional information that we get so two points of clarification just to make sure all three of these commissioners are scheduled to be here yes and for people who wish to submit comments those would not go to BDS they would go to the council clerk the CC testimony at Portland Oregon gov
 Say that again? cctestimony at portlandoregon.gov. Okay. So that's how you submit additional information if you want. She gets it. She's the most important person. Yeah. So anyone that has questions about that, please talk with Carla after the hearing. One warning I want to offer, again, this is a quasi-judicial land use hearing. It's very important that council members not have ex parte contacts with parties to the case.
 I don't plan to have any, and I know the rest of us don't, and we'll, again, make sure that council members disclose any ex parte contacts if they have any, but I want to urge the parties to communicate through the council clerk, and that way we don't violate that requirement. Okay, so 5 p.m. on April 15th. 2 p.m. No, I mean the date by which comments must be received by the council clerk, 5 p.m. on April 15th. Correct, Carla?
 Yes. Why does that day have special resonance? Yeah, right. Get your taxes done and send us a letter. 5 o'clock on the 15th. Okay. Anyone have any questions about that? Then that's how we will proceed, and we're going to close the public hearing, schedule this for final action on the 23rd, and receive comments until 5 p.m. on the 15th. Thank you all very much, and we're adjourned.