April 3rd, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla. Could you please call the roll? Yes, good morning. Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udaly? Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. And now we'll hear from our legal counsel, Robert, on some of the rules of decorum. Good morning, Robert.
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting.
 Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Thank you very much. First up is communications. Carla, could you call the first individual? MS. Item 274, request of Louis Docter to address counsel regarding proposal for a tiered commercial tax rate for vacant and blighted downtown property. He is not able to make it. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. And that was noticed on the Tuesday memo as well as my understanding. Next individual, please.
 275, request of Brad Perkins to address council regarding Rose Quarter, Trailblazers, I-5 widening project and new bridge over Columbia River near BNSF Railway Bridge. Chair Greg Musil. Welcome back, Mr. Perkins. Can I do all that in three minutes? Mr. Brad Perkins. Good morning, council. I'm Brad Perkins. I represent Cascadia High Speed Rail and the Seoul District Business Association. Mayor Ted Wheeler.
 I read a quote by you in the March 14th, 2019 Portland Trib newspaper regarding ODOT's I-5 Rose Quarter Improvement Project. You stated that it is a once in a lifetime opportunity to reconnect the Albina community. Instead, this disaster project will do the opposite. This misunderstanding started when the City Council supported this project prematurely without ODOT completing an environmental assessment.
 Portland Public Schools and 90% of those who testified at the only EA hearing demanded a more thorough EIS study. The Portland City Council did not give the future of the Rose Corridor to ODOT. The surrounding area is the center of the African American community. It's Portland's east bank of the Willamette River with beautiful views of downtown. As our transportation hub and center for events, it bades carefully planned redevelopment.
 In the 1950s and 60s, fossil fuel vehicle demand pushed leaders to bulldoze historic urban centers and neighborhoods for freeway development. The I-5 scar through North Portland's Rose Quarter has drastically torn the urban fabric of the area and will not miraculously come together by spending $500 million on a freeway widening topped with vacant space and shrubs.
 It is absolutely necessary to take a more intelligent climate change planning approach for the heart of Central Eastside Portland. The Albina Vision Group is not sanctioned by any jurisdiction nor does it represent all pertinent groups. The City Council needs to appoint a broader group of stakeholders to complete a refinement plan of the area encompassing MLK Jr. Boulevard to Willamette River and I-84 to Russell Street.
 Prosper Portland should authorize a request for proposals to groups for ideas to develop the area to include Cascadia High Speed Rail Station as a catalyst. Spending $450 million for a new hybrid bridge for trains and vehicles over the Columbia River west of the BNSF bridge can be maxed by Washington's recently announced bridge commitment.
 I am currently seeking support from Oregon legislators for this more popular congestion and CO2 relieving project. The State of Washington is studying ultra-high speed rail and planning on putting together a bi-state group to guide HSR development. A new Cascadia high speed rail corridor and Columbia River Bridge coupled with the new Rose Corridor Transportation Hub town center is a practical climate change alternative worthy of your attention and priority.
 Supporting ODOT's I-5 Multiple Bridge Bulldozing Plan will worsen the divisions in our racially mixed environment and perpetuate the rich capitalist oil-based dominance of our society and destruction of our fragile ecosystem.
 Thank you for your time and remember the future is now. It's really up to you guys, especially with the Governor announcing today that we may have to suffer through another fight with the CRC. Okay? Chair Greg Musil. Trustee David Lindstrom. Thank you, Mr. Perkins. Trustee David Lindstrom. This is a legitimate alternative and this is really pertinent to the City Council because it involves our streets and our neighborhood. Chair Greg Musil. Got it. Thank you. And thank you also for providing the written testimony. I appreciate that. Trustee David Lindstrom. Yeah, and thank you very much for your time. Chair Greg Musil. You bet.
 Item 276, request of Eleni Cahiaris to address council regarding safety and security. Did you want to come with 277 also? Tina's not here. Do you want me to call her too? Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners Fish, Udailey, Hardesty, and Fritz. My name is Eleni Cahiaris, and I'm representing the Stadium District Business Association.
 I am the owner of a community-based neighborhood media company with my offices located in the Stadium District near Providence Park, home of the Timbers, in southwest Portland. I'm also the vice president of the Stadium District Business Association and our board representative of Venture Portland. During budget season, I would like to thank City Council for investing in the success of neighborhood business districts like ours and through the continuous funding of Venture Portland. And to Commissioner Fish, it is great to have you as a resident in our district.
 TriMet proposes to close four MAC stations downtown to save up to two minutes of travel time. One of the stations TriMet wants to close is the Kings Hill Station. The MAC station sits across from Lincoln High School and the Multnomah Athletic Club in the heart of the Stadium District. The Goose Hollow community has been advocating to keep the station open given the safety and security concerns to the neighborhood.
 Students, MAC members, guests, and employees in our district rely on this station along with Goose Hollow residents. With the platform located in the median, it is the safest station in the area with good lighting and sight lines. As the chair of the Lincoln Long-Term Development Committee, co-chair of the Master Planning Committee, and a member of the Design Advisory Group, I have spent many years involved in the plan for new construction on the Lincoln site.
 The new front doors will sit at 17th and Salmon. The shortest distance to a max stop would be Kings Hill. Due to budget constraints and city design requirements, the site will suffer at least 20% decrease, if not more, for a loss in parking. Children and staff occupy the campus from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m., and the need for safe access to transit options will only increase. We are experiencing extensive development in our district, which will bring many improvements over the next few years.
 We feel the decision to close the stop is a little bit premature and pending the outcome of those changes would be beneficial.
 As a daily TriMet user myself, I value the need for making improvements on travel time. However, we feel the decision to close the stop and reduce transit time by a few seconds for those passing through the city is not taking the best care and consideration for the area users who would have more travel time and safety concerns added to their commute to school or work by eliminating the access point at Kings Hill. TriMet has increased its period for community input and therefore we seek your advocacy and support.
 I urge you to stand on the side of the area users who value the safety and accessibility of the Kings Hill stop and implore TriMet to delay the decision to close the stop until more development and residents move into the district. Those developments will bring improved lighting, sight lines, and increase pedestrian density, making it safer to walk the distance to the other stations. Thank you for your time and consideration. Good day. Thank you. We appreciate it. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. Could I ask a question? Yes. When is TriMet supposed to make this decision?
 I'm not sure how much time they have left on that. They did extend it a little bit. It was something that was supposed to be decided months ago, so they have opened it up to more. There was just community input last week.
 Thank you so much. If you'd be kind enough to leave some attorney at my office, I absolutely agree with you. I think it's stupid to be closing a stop that's right at a high school. It doesn't make sense. Thank you. Especially with the new front door being there. And I did leave you guys written testimony as well as our stadium district maps. Thank you so much. Commissioner Udaly? Commissioner Fritz? Thank you for testifying today.
 I have not found that TriMet has been very interested in what the council has to say or what I have to say as commissioner. So I'm glad that you have put this in front of the public on Open Signals cable access television. Thank you. So it really is going to be up to community members to talk to TriMet to try to get them to change the decision. If somebody watching today wants to join you in this advocacy, how would they reach TriMet or get in touch with you?
 Their email is hello at trimet.org. Thank you. So people should just send comments there? Yes, they can send comments to that email address. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you for coming in. Thank you. Next individual please, Carla. Item 277, request of Tina Wysinski to address council regarding safety and security. Good morning. Thank you very much, Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler,
 Mr. Fish for living Commissioner fish for living in our district. My name is Tina Wyszynski. I'm with the Stadium District Business Association Actually the founder and president. I want to thank you all very much for letting us come and speak today We are members of Venture Portland. Eleni is my vice president. I
 The subject I want to talk about today is not a pretty one. It's about the homeless camping. It's against the law, yet it is still happening throughout the city. My work, that's not my volunteer work, takes me to all four quadrants of the city and to some suburban areas as well. And the problem is everywhere, it's not just in the stadium district.
 While it's against the law, it doesn't feel like much is being done to enforce the law. And while camping is a huge problem, the collateral damage, such as litter, fire, and everything that goes along with it, is another. This is not a unique problem, as I've said, to our district, but it is a problem for all local area businesses. Thank you.
 In the stadium district, you know we have a lovely new expansion project going on at the stadium, soon to be completed. People will be coming here from all over the country and really the world this summer to visit the stadium and to visit our city. Unfortunately, all roads into our beautiful city are laden with trash, garbage, and many other things I don't want to say on morning television. Our city has become a landfill.
 In our district, we have regular cleanups. I see camps being cleaned up one day, only to return in a matter of days, sometimes hours. As a district, we would like to help you help us clean up our city, and we'd love to know what else we can do.
 I would also like to commend Lucas Hillier of the city who took my phone call and returned it after a very long message because I can't be chatty and he actually got got he had a very nice explanation which I don't think the rest of us get to hear very often he also did mention that he's a staff of
 He's one person managing a staff of two people. My ask would be that some more dollars are found. I don't know how we do it. And, again, we will try to do something to help you, but to help clean up the city and to provide other resources so that camping isn't an acceptable thing in Portland anymore. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 I don't know if you're aware of it, but just in a few minutes we're going to hear from the auditor on her audit of the campsite cleanup program. I read it yesterday. Very good. I just wanted you to be aware of that in case you have any questions. I will stay for it. Commissioner Fritz. There are other districts who are.
 are doing as you are doing and getting together to look at holistically about this. We just approved a district on the central east side that looks at maybe different approaches to helping people who are living outside and making sure that the entire area is livable for everybody. So we hope that you'll continue to engage with the city and thank you for commending Lucas Hillier. I agree, he does amazing work. Absolutely. Thank you, Mayor. I agree with what Commissioner Fritz just said.
 People aren't on the street because they want to be. People are on the street because this is a city that's unaffordable for most working people. And we need partnerships rather than division. And so I look forward to working cooperatively to figure out how we allow people to live with dignity until we have housing that people can afford to live in. Thank you for being here. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Next individual, please.
 Item 278, request of Michael Zang to address council regarding progress of work being done with the community law division. I don't see Mr. Zang here. Carla, have any items been pulled out of the consent agenda? Yes, we have two items. Item 283 and 284. All right, those will be taken up at the end of the regular agenda.
 Let's go to the first time certain item, please, item 279. Roll call. Chair Greg Musil, R.D.: Yeah. Thank you very much. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Carla. Bish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler?
 accept Travel Portland 2018 Annual Report. Colleagues, today we're going to hear from Travel Portland on their great work creating economic impact in the Portland
 in Portland businesses, both large and small. This year they're going to celebrate 40 years as a nonprofit organization. It's partner-driven business engaging stakeholders to help shape a Portland that residents love and keeps visitors coming back year after year. Tourism is a very important part of our economy. It means over $5 billion of spending in the region, supporting over 36,000
 jobs. A couple of areas I'm glad to see focused on are cultural diversity and community engagement, vulnerable communities, neighborhood business districts, and the James Beard Public Market that we've had the opportunity to hear about over the years. I also want to thank Travel Portland for joining Portland Means Progress as an early adopter, connecting young people to the booming hospitality industry and business.
 Those jobs, I think, will be critical to our success in the years ahead. I want to welcome Jeff Miller, who's the President of Travel Portland, and Martine Martinez from Orocs Leather. Thank you, gentlemen, for being here today. Jeff Miller, Orocs Leather, Thank you, Mayor Riehl, Council. So nice to be here talking about our program work. We've got lots of good information. You may know that we moved from a destination marketing organization to a destination marketing and management organization, and that change really balances storytelling with stewardship.
 What makes Portland a great place to live is what makes Portland a great place to visit. And so we believe that a great place to live is the first thing that we need to think about. And our dual role as destination marketers and stewards, we are at the table on issues around livability, diversity, inclusion, equity, and more. And one thing that we do know though is Portlanders like tourism.
 We do a biannual survey with more information, and 57% of the residents said that tourism improves the overall quality of life. 87% said that tourists have a positive impact on our local economy, meaning jobs, businesses, support, and the tax base.
 What you see on the screen, these interactive statues are called the Portlanders. We took them on the road this year in 2018 to San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle, Phoenix, and Minneapolis. And they tell the story of beer, food, tax-free shopping, hiking, and of course, naked bike riding.
 These statues are actually interactive with virtual reality headsets, and you look through the eyes of Portlanders through these. The statues share really what Portlanders love about Portland, and we know it's the people here that make this place a great place to visit. I'm also joined at the table by a real-life Portlander whose business is supported also by tourism, and he'll talk to you in just a few minutes.
 Our mission is to generate travel demand that drives economic impact for Portland. It's pretty simple and it keeps us very focused on what we need to do. I'll run through some quick numbers. This is from Dean Runyon Research for the three county region. 8.7 million overnight trips which increased 1% this last year. The spending that Mayor Huir spoke of, 5.3 billion but you can see the amount that it's grown since 2010, almost a 50% increase.
 travel-related employment, 36,360 jobs, and we know that that will continue to climb as more hotels are opening. Very many have already opened their doors, and we have several to go. And we often get a rap that these are low-paying jobs. We do have a lot of entry-level jobs, but they also provide career path to higher career goals.
 And we are very proud to be an early adopter of Portland Means Progress. We will actively work to connect those youth to jobs in our industry. Transient lodging tax has continued to increase. This represents 1% of the tax, and of course the city gets 5%, which will be about $41 million this year. And you can see the growth over time, and we really do feel the need to make sure that that tax is growing for all Portlanders to benefit from.
 Probably the best thing that has happened to our business is the addition of the Hyatt Regency Portland at the Oregon Convention Center, which is scheduled to open in early 2020. It needs to be opened by March because our first citywide convention is moving in.
 So, we're excited about that. You can see 2019, we booked 195,000 room nights just in convention business, but over 347,000 room nights when you add the meetings business of the single hotel business as well. And then you see also that incredible economic impact that comes along with that. We also plan to double what we did last year.
 And I'll talk about one conference in particular that we're getting ready to book. It's the National Convention of the Government Finance Officers Association in May of 2023, with 14,000 room nights and an economic impact of $9.5 million. We have tried for years to get this conference
 And now with the Hyatt in our package, we were able to book it. And thanks to Jennifer Cooperman, the city CFO, she was very helpful with us and our team in making sure that we're going to get that. You will see a VDF grant soon for that, Commissioners Fritz and Mayor Wheeler.
 Also, as the hotel rooms have grown, we know short-term rentals have grown. In 2014, there were about 1,500. As of August 2017 at the Eclipse, there were 4,600. Airbnb has remitted their lodging taxes and through partnership with you on the council, they are now remitting also their tourism improvement district fees, which has allowed us to expand programs to help businesses do a better job.
 With that legislation, we added Eric Breon, who's the CEO of Vacasa, to our board, and Shannon Hillier-Webb, who's an Airbnb super host. And Commissioner Fritz rightly suggested that we add a super host, and she's a terrific addition, so thank you for that. We were excited to have her come on.
 And now I'd like to introduce Martin Martinez, whose business certainly benefits from tourism, but who has been an amazing partner of ours as we travel both domestically and internationally, talking about the maker community here. And again, it's all about the people when we talk about Portland. And Martin will talk a little bit about a program called Local, which I'll dig into a little bit more, but I want him to tell you sort of what he has to say about tourism.
 Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Hi, I'm Martin Martinez, co-founder and general manager at Orocs Leather Co. With our office and workshop located in 450 Norwest Coach. Orocs Leather is a small family business that makes and sells quality handcrafted leather goods. Our products include wallets, purses, belts, bags, and other accessories. These products fit well with the lifestyles of Portland residents and visitors, which is an important reason why we are in this city.
 We opened our combination workshop and retail store in Notan, Chinatown on December 2012. And we currently have 10 employees working for us. Thrive Portland has been a significant partner for us over the past several years. We estimate that 50 to 65% of our customers are from across the US and across the globe. Thrive Portland has provided excellent support for us in a number of ways.
 One example is the Maker Trifles brochures available for visitors at the convention center, which is a great location to show our business. We list our business in their directory, which visitors access when they're making travel plans. Every week, we track website visits which were referred from Travel Portland website.
 Oryx Leather was featured in several articles and a gift guide written by Travel Portland, and posted their website and sent out to various media in press releases. Travel Portland, in combination with Prosper Portland, enabled us to exhibit and sell our products on my people's market, where businesses of color are connected with travel industry and new market opportunities.
 We are looking forward to the third year of this event at the end of the month, where we will join over 80 other businesses like ours with over 1,000 expected attendees. Horrocks Leather has been engaged with a new program partner called Local, who is working with us to increase our customer traffic.
 They show us techniques for bringing more prospective customers to us through Google Maps searches. One of my favorite stories about, it was about someone who was walking past our shop.
 and they received a phone notification telling them about an offering. And they turned around and they came by to our store. They saw our products and met the family, and they ended up with a story. They left with one of our wonderful products. Local taught us about this marketing practice plus several others which has resulted in more traffic and more conversions on those visits.
 Local has also made other changes for us of which we do not have direct access but which help us bring more traffic and more sales. Overall, we see more visitors and sales as a result of locals work for us. Travel Portland included us in an event in New York City to meet with a large number of local media to promote Portland as an outstanding travel destination.
 This event provided our brand with an excellent exposure to various media whom we had no prior contact, and an area of network with other iconic Portland brands. Oroch's Leather has been featured on two national television shows, Naturally Danny Seo and Handcrafted America, and we expect to be on public broadcasting this summer.
 We have also been featured in several magazines and articles over the past several years. We believe that Travel Portland may have helped to steer these organizations to consider our business for their coverage. In summary, Travel Portland has played an important, effective role in the success of our business. More than half of our customers come from outside Portland area, and Travel Portland has proven to be a valuable resource for our success.
 As a self-funded small business, we are grateful to have partners like Travel Portland on our side and we rely on their efforts for long-term health for business. Thank you everyone and thank you for, thank you Travel Portland. Thank you, Margie. Appreciate it. Thanks for being here. Yeah. So I'll dig into a little bit of our work now. One thing that you, I know you know about is My People's Market. We held a third one on November 9th of 2018 at the Custom House Blocks and it's a partnership with Prosper Portland that we're very excited about.
 My interest, especially in my people's market, is really the B2B connections and for hospitality businesses to be able to connect with local businesses. And you know these are all of course the Mercatus vendors. And I want to give a huge shout out to the Mercatus website.
 it has allowed our convention services managers who are working with those national meeting planners to connect them with local businesses services that they need and that website has been a boon for us to be able to get directly to those businesses so uh... i just saw kimberly bram in the building and really thanked her again and we have a surprise for them with mercatus later
 My People's Market 4.0 will be May 31st and June 1st at the Broadway Corridor. The first day will be exclusively dedicated to business-to-business opportunities for those vendors. Again, something very important to me.
 and we're holding it while we have a convention in town called NCORE, the National Conference on Race and Ethnicity in Higher Education. And we've had a big push to bring more ethnically diverse conventions to Portland, and this is a terrific one. It has 3,000 attendees, and that first entire day will allow those delegates to interact with our local businesses in the My People's Market atmosphere, the second day will be
 certainly the marketplace and a cultural celebration, but that B2B piece is what we hope to really expand their businesses beyond Portland's borders. We've really increased our emphasis on research. One, what are people thinking about Portland? We're doing a nationwide perception survey quarterly. As you know, Portland gets good press and sometimes bad press.
 Two, to understand what people are saying about Portland, social listening and monitoring. And three, to really understand how on the ground visitors are experiencing Portland. And we've partnered with Oregon State to conduct intercept surveys around town. And you can see from this chart that people are delighted to recommend Portland to their friends and family to come. Our consumer marketing campaign, which is mostly focused on the winter months when businesses need more help.
 We use the data that we've been talking about to shape that creative work. And you'll see it's called You Can in Portland. We think it talks about this place as a place of opportunity, a place that's friendly and welcoming, and it's a multi-channel, multi-tiered campaign that we do around the country. And I'm going to show you the stop motion advertisement that we had, and make sure that you watch the chicken. Whatever it is that floats your boat, or tickles your taste buds,
 or brightens your day. Even if you've never tried it before, just know that you can in Portland. We've gotten terrific comments on that and it was fun to have that produced actually here in Portland.
 The other thing that we know is content is king. And we've forged some really strategic partnership with digital publishers like Chef's Feed and Vice. And it's Portlanders telling their story again. You see Gregory Gorday there and his interaction with other chefs went out on their digital platform.
 But we're also excited about our newest content partnership with OpenSignal, a community-driven media arts center. OpenSignal has created an incubator program that supports black filmmakers and the creation of new work, and Travel Portland has stepped up as a partner there.
 We'll leverage that content via this program, which connects young African American filmmakers with established African Americans in the film industry to create new content. That allows us to push it out on digital platforms and again, give a voice to real Portlanders and their stories.
 The UCAN campaign was one of the best branding and integrated marketing campaigns in 2018 by the U.S. Tribal Association, but even more importantly, Focusrite, our research firm, said that we drove $156 million of incremental business in those winter months. Cash registers ringing is what we are all about.
 Excuse me, when you use the term incremental spending, what does that mean exactly? It would not have happened but for the campaign. Ah, thank you very much. You're welcome.
 And I have challenged the Travel Portland team to be the most innovative destination marketing and management organization in the country. You've seen some of these things. We're holding a marketing conference today with a record attendance of 220 people, really helping businesses learn more about marketing and how to push their businesses out there. But we know that our job isn't finished when visitors arrive, that we need to attach them to those businesses with their dollars. And I'd like to share one of the ways that we're doing that.
 There are three universal truths about today's travelers. One, they use their phones to search. They almost exclusively use Google and Google Maps. And after performing the search, they intend to visit that business in the near future. The other truth that we know is that Portland businesses, like all businesses, are stretched thin.
 So, they're missing easy opportunities in this digital space. 20% of Travel Portland's partners are not, do not have their business verified on Google. And of those 20%, most aren't optimized.
 So our pilot project is with a company called Local. And we want to be the first city that's Google Map optimized, which increases the online visibility, overall profitability of businesses, provides visitors and locals with better on-the-ground experience, and shapes visitor perceptions. Local is a local company, is actually a local Portland company, and that are focused on Google My Business and Google Maps listing, which is how we all search.
 Travel Portland is able to do this for all visitor-facing businesses free the first year, which is an $1,800 value to each of these businesses because we believe it's so important to make sure that we help them attract more business.
 The business will get a dashboard. This is Bamboo Sushi. And it really gives the business more analytics on their Google searches and the business they are getting and helps them and local will help them analyze and make better business decisions. As a destination, and what we're mostly interested, Travel Portland gets a dashboard and really gives us business type, what's happening in business type when we have an event in town, and we can really track what's going on. So it's exciting for us.
 As a case study, Wildfang signed up along with Tinder Loving Empire, OMSI, Mark Spencer Hotel, Groundworks, the Portland Japanese Garden, Orocs, and a few others to be the guinea pigs. Wildfang in January saw a 79% increase in direction requests and a 321% increase in direct searches just from optimizing their Google listings.
 These are some of the testimonials of those businesses. We've had about 200 sign up, and we're signing up more today at the marketing conference. One of our next pushes will be for landmarks and for Portland Parks. And so we'll work with the Parks Bureau, but we'll raise the profile for city parks in those Google searches, ensure that they're accurately represented, and make sure that they are part of the tourism package. And we'll measure their visitation in new ways. And we are also happy to be a sponsor of Summer Free For All.
 in Portland Parks. I'll conclude by saying that the visitor industry in Travel Portland is very excited about our partnership with the city and actions like adding a short-term rentals to the Tourism Improvement District has allowed us to do programs like local and my people's markets and to really grow our influence in making business having businesses create more business for themselves. Thank you. Happy to take any questions if you have them.
 Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Fish. Jeff, excellent presentation as always. You said that we have about 8.7 million overnight trips. Is that in the region or is that just one? The three-county region, yes. Three-county region. I seem to recall from last year though you said that we had a total of about 16 million tourists who come into the region every year. Is that number still correct?
 It's hard to tell the number of tourists versus the number of overnight trips, but it's probably close to that because we get a lot of day trips. You get a lot of day trips. How are we doing compared to peer cities? Let's take Seattle, for example, which has roughly our population. How do we stack up? We stack up actually very nicely because they have so many more direct flights, international flights, and they're a Delta hub. Obviously, they're a bigger city, and they are.
 that their international business is larger than ours, but we are growing there. And I think we stack up nicely against them, against Minneapolis, certainly against Austin, and those are the cities that we consider. And on the international side, we have five cities that we compare ourselves to and how they're doing internationally, and we've stacked up really well there. This year has been a little tough, but more flights are happening in other cities than here. And also, um...
 We're becoming a destination city for film and TV. Hulu is doing a show currently and looks like it'll get picked up and other content providers are filming here. How does the image of Portland and film and TV help us meet our goals around tourism?
 I think that we talk a lot about our access to nature here and that's really important to TV shows because there's a real variety of places to film, both urban and out in nature. So that it's really good for us. We work closely with the film office and certainly the state film office and are talking to another major TV show. Those TV shows tend to be very expensive so we don't always have the funding for that but they are important.
 Chair Greg Musil And finally, thank you for your sponsorship of Summer Free-for-All. We're going to be unveiling our lineup shortly and we've exceeded our private fundraising goal and we're very excited to have you as part of that. So thank you very much. Chair Greg Musil Well, we will be pushing all of that out on our social media to make sure that visitors also know what's going on with Summer Free-for-All. So the team's ready. Chair Greg Musil Thank you. Chair Greg Musil Commissioner Udalli.
 Well, thanks for the presentation. I am intrigued and just slightly creeped out by the giant figures with the virtual reality in the back of their head. I wanted to ask of the 8.7 million overnight visits
 Do you have even rough numbers on how many of those individuals are staying in hotels versus short-term rentals? Dr. John Benderer There's a bit of that. I don't have that information with me. It really talks about overnight visitors either staying in a hotel slash Airbnb or with friends and family. Dr. Nancy Cox Okay. I mean, I'm particularly interested in that issue.
 Because while I certainly support and celebrate our tourism industry, my first
 concern is how it's impacting our housing crisis and that is specific to short-term rentals. It's very concerning. If you have any numbers you can dig up, I'd appreciate that. I'll send over the report. We are working closely with Thomas Lanham and the Revenue Bureau because we agree with you that illegal rentals should be gone.
 And certainly the host to host community believes that and so we'll do our part And I just spoke to Thomas a couple of days ago about things that are moving forward So we're interested in being supportive of that as well. Thank you Commissioner hardest. All right. Thank you mayor Thank you so much excellent report
 I want to go back to something Commissioner Fish said, which is how is our rising houseless population impacting tourism? And what's the role of the tourism industry to help us find housing that people can afford to live in?
 It does certainly affect people on the ground. One of the reasons that we added the research that we did that I spoke of was to see what is that effect both from a social media listening and on the ground. Certainly on the social media both nationally and internationally, it was not as big as we Portlanders may think it is.
 I was pleased to see that. There certainly are blips around some of the protests that happened and things like that, but generally we aren't seen as much different than any other city. One of the things that we are doing on a houseless situation, Tamara Kennedy-Hill, who's our Vice President of Diversity and Community Relations, has convened a Vulnerable Communities Working Group. Mark Jolin is part of that, the county, the city, the mayor's office.
 And we are working on what is our lane as tourism to do our part to help that. So we are very engaged there. Tamara's, I think they've had two meetings now. And so we have dug into that issue and we're finding ways that we can help. We also support transition projects and their street outreach team.
 which goes around and really talks to populations and tries to move them to services. That's been very successful and those, we did that along with PBA and the Business Owners and Managers Association. We're continuing to support that street outreach team. So we are at the table making sure that we have a voice and that we also are helping. Does that table include people who are experiencing houselessness?
 At this point, it doesn't. We're relying on the Joint Office to really be the guide there and help us find our lane. And so if we should bring someone there, we certainly can. We want to make sure that we stay in our tourism lane because it is a big subject that a lot of people are working on, and we think we have a particular role to play as well. I hear what you're saying. Okay.
 However, I think there are way too many tables trying to address the problem of people being houseless that don't have anybody at the table who's actually experienced houselessness.
 And so you get better outcomes when you're actually talking to the people on the front line. So just a small suggestion about who's at the table matters because the decisions you come up with have an impact on those communities. Thank you. Okay. Commissioner Fritz. Jeff, you also have been very – Travel Portland has been very supportive of dedicating $5 million of the tourism tax money to – I said they have been very supportive of –
 Dedicating money to permanent supportive housing for folks and so a lot of Travel Portland's contribution is monetary and making sure that as you said the organizations that do the work and engage houses people are getting the support that they need through As you said everybody staying in their lane. We're happy to be there.
 Thank you for your partnership. Jeff and Martina, I have a question. So we've heard from you what you're working on. I've always impressed that the better part of 40,000 people in this region are employed directly in the tourism industry and obviously it's a huge component of our economy. What would you ask of us as the city of Portland? What do you need from us to continue to be successful and to hopefully expand tourism opportunities in the years ahead?
 I feel like, I mean, the city really needs to be constantly shining. So, I mean, like, anything that you can do to support, you know, like, the small businesses, like Orox, you know, like, and also the maker community, you know, like, ways where we can thrive, you know, like, sometimes, I mean, like, the problems that we have, you know, like, kind of come, like, as just...
 having an area to express, you know, like a, or trade, you know, like a, so I feel like supporting Prosper Portland, Travel Portland, I mean, even when we started Portland Salary Market was an area too that helped us be where we are at now. So more of that, more areas for makers to express their craft will be
 amazing help to more upcoming makers in our community. So, excellent. Thank you.
 I think this council has been very, very supportive of tourism, remembering that tourism does create jobs and not just low paying jobs. And when we come to you with the things that we are doing, you come to our customer advisory board events and our FAM events and we appreciate that because those meeting planners and delegates like knowing that our city council supports tourism and their business.
 I know the Visitors Development Fund Board has been, it's always a good place to learn about the size of these businesses. You've been very supportive of us in the past and we really appreciate that and we want to give back in very specific ways that will grow jobs in the region. I think the Portland Means Progress Program is another way that you're providing resources for us to then move to that. Thank you for that. Chair Greg Musil. Thank you, Commissioner Fisch.
 You know, you mentioned a convention that you've landed in 2023.
 and it's going to bring us great prestige. I just want to acknowledge that I believe it's the American Public Garden Movement will be here in June of 2020. Yes. And so that will be happening right after next year's annual report. It's as I tell my team at Parks, it's just around the corner. We're going to, it's going to happen sooner rather than later.
 It will bring a very important niche audience to our city, and we'll get to celebrate Portland as a city of gardens. And we're looking forward to showing off Leach Botanical Garden, Japanese Garden, Lansu Chinese Garden, high-profile gardens on the east side and the west side. And...
 and using it as a way of burnishing our reputation and actually doing some fundraising locally. So another terrific win. So thank you for that. Absolutely. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly. One last question. It's probably another request for some offline information, but I'm the arts liaison now, and so it just occurred to me,
 vital that intersection of tourism and arts are and how arts also create a lot of jobs and revenue in the city so I'd love to have a
 conversation with you or if you have any existing data to share with me to think about how we can work together in that arena. And there's a slice of money out of the lodging excise tax called the cultural for cultural tourism and a part of that we work with the Regional Arts and Culture Council and we make grants to arts organizations and other organizations to help their advertising out of town.
 because they're doing their in-town advertising and we can help fund them a bit to do that. So I'll make an appointment and take you through that program. It's a pretty fun one. You learn something new every day. It's always good to give away money. Commissioner Hardesty. One last question. What have you heard from small businesses who...
 your marketing to tourists and visitors about their ability to find a place that they can actually maintain their business. I mean, you talked about the people's market as an example of a lot of very, very small businesses that really don't have a place, right, because they can't afford to actually open up a shop and operate it.
 What are you hearing from those small businesses that we're highlighting as these are the jewels of Portland? Are they going to be jewels long? I think part of the reason for my people's market is to help them scale to the next level so that they do have the revenue to afford a permanent home some of those businesses had and prosper Portland really takes that role Directly with the business and helping them find that place our job our piece of that job is to help people
 find them the business to business connections and find new markets where they can grow their revenue so that they can afford a space. That's why the partnership is so important because we have our lane. I appreciate the partnership and you're right, a lot of this is very interconnected, right? If you can't make sales, you can't stay in business, but if you can afford your rent,
 Mr. Martinez is downtown, right? And I know that is a lot different today than it was, say, in 2008 when you opened. Yes, definitely. Right? Yeah, it definitely increases. Rent has increased for us, so we had to... But I feel like there was a point in which there was not even possible for us to open a retail store. So thanks to tourism and thanks to, like,
 Portlanders really loving a brand really has helped us a lot. Yeah. I just hope we keep that conversation going because people can't be in business if they can't afford to actually Open up their storefront. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. I'll entertain a motion We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty a second from Commissioner Hudailey any further discussion Carla, please call the roll thank you both for an excellent report and I
 I'm delighted particularly to see the data on people recommending to friends and family that they consider coming to Portland. It does seem that every time someone has an unfortunate experience here, we get at City Council, we tend to get those emails. So it's nice to see a more balanced presentation and that people who visit the city share in the same pride that those of us who live in the city have in Portland. So thank you for your good work. Aye.
 You daily. Well, thanks for the presentation and thanks for the reality check on how the rest of the world perceives Portland. It's easy to get caught up in the social media echo chamber, but I know it's true that the challenges that we're facing in Portland are challenges that cities across the country and actually around the world are facing. So that is helpful. I look forward to working with you in the areas that I mentioned and I vote aye.
 Thank you for your presentation. Thank you for all your work. I've been on the Visitor Development Fund Board for over 10 years now and I really appreciate how well Travel Portland is run and that's very much due to Jeff. So thank you for you and your team doing an amazing job. Many of you know that I was a registered nurse before I got on the council and I worked evening shift for 27 years.
 The Travel Portland Development Fund Board is the only 8 o'clock meeting that I agree to attend on a regular basis and certainly the only one that I enjoy. And I would like to look at the rate. There's hundreds of conventions that come to Portland and the board looks at can we give grants to make the event.
 to make it possible for these conventions to come. And then we get the room taxes so that we then have more money that comes to various sources. It's always amazing to me just a range of different professions
 A, have conventions, and B, bring them to Portland. And so when we think of our entire... It's not only the economic impact of the taxes. It's also bringing all of these brainpower, these talents, these varied things of people who come to Portland and say, wow, this is really nice. I mean, it's partly due to why we have so many people coming to live here is that they visit and then they stay.
 I think it's a very good thing. We do need to have a community discussion about how do we get more than the room taxes, since we don't have a sales tax, which can be a selling point to people coming to Portland. How else can these visitors contribute to our entire community and pay more?
 and perhaps a little more in other ways, not adding to the room tax, but in different ways. So again, thank you very much. Aye. Councillor Wendy Becerra-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler. Councillor John Bates-Wheeler.
 report on recent work from the City Auditor, data loss prevention, restoration projects and green streets, cleanups of homeless camps and the annual following of reporting. Chair Greg Musil, Welcome. Madam Auditor Caballero, thank you for being here. Madam Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero. I am back with some members of my staff to share results of our latest audits.
 The types of audits we conduct are comprehensive assessments of city programs or operations against performance criteria. The criteria may include sources such as city charter and code, national standards, professional standards, or a bureau strategic plan.
 The audit process has three phases. The planning phase involves identifying the appropriate criteria and meeting with management and staff to understand their work and any barriers that may keep them from achieving their goals or performing optimally. By the end of the planning phase, we've established the scope of our audit and meet with management to discuss it before we begin field work, which is the second phase of an audit.
 Field work is guided by a handful of objectives designed to assess whether the program or operation is meeting expectations of the criteria. If there are gaps between the criteria and the actual performance, we identify them as findings. Findings become the substance of our report and the basis from which we make recommendations for improvement. We have three performance audits to present today. The first assess whether the city is aligned with national standards to prevent data loss.
 The second focused on two Bureau of Environmental Services programs to manage restoration projects and build what are known as green streets. This audit is an example where better criteria, in this case completed environmental plans, would help management deploy resources to highest need projects and evaluate program effectiveness.
 The third audit looked at the program the city created in the Office of Management and Finance to address some of the side effects of people living in tents and makeshift shelters on city property. The program began as a temporary response to people living outside, but has evolved into a multifaceted program spending $3.6 million annually. Before we begin, Mayor, I'd like to remind you that no council action at the end of our presentation today is necessary. We are here strictly for information sharing purposes.
 And so we will begin with the data loss prevention audit. Would you like to mention the follow-up process, or would you like to review that? Yes, I forgot to mention that. We have started this year publishing...
 work that we've always done but haven't published, which is we always go back after an audit and check on the progress that a bureau is making. And we started to publish the results of those things and we have one out currently on the Americans with Disabilities Act and then we have one also on the Private for Hire Transportation, the Uber Lift program. Where can people find those?
 You can find them on our website. You can also find them in our office. And I think you're... Easier said than done finding them on the website. I'll just come up to the office. Okay. But maybe for everyone. We're happy to bring them by and I think there's one in your packet as well. Thank you. And maybe the website for the listening public. Did you just say it? It is portlandoregon.gov backslash audit services.
 I'm Kari Guy. I'm the Audit Services Director and I'll describe our first and shortest audit. In October 2018, we assessed the Bureau of Technology Services' overall approach to data loss prevention and we also looked more specifically at the Bureau of Human Resources' data loss prevention practices. Data loss prevention is the practice of detecting and preventing unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential information. It can be deliberate or inadvertent. It can occur physically or electronically.
 For this audit, we contracted with an IT data security specialist. They conducted a number of tests around the city's systems, including reviewing the overall policies, procedures, roles and responsibilities for data security in the city. They conducted after-hours desk reviews to look for unsecured laptops or exposed hard copy data in various Bureau of Human Resources offices.
 They reviewed access controls and lockout settings for our computers, electronic systems, and they observed BTS, Bureau of Technology Services, tests that were designed to prevent or detect data loss, among many other tests. The audit found that overall the city's approach to data loss prevention was sound. The city is moving toward implementation of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework, and that's a national best practice.
 However, the audit also found some areas of vulnerability and in a separate confidential report we made 27 recommendations to strengthen the city's data security systems. The bureau manager is committed to implementing those recommendations and we will follow up in one year to make sure that's done. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. My name is Elizabeth Pape and I'm a performance auditor and I led our December 2018 audit of environmental services restoration projects in Green Streets.
 This is the second in a series of two BES stormwater management audits. We released an audit on private stormwater management in July of 2018, and we'll be following up on those recommendations this summer. Portland residents rely on restoration projects in Green Streets to improve water quality, restore wildlife habitat, and prevent flooding. But without formal methods to select projects and document outcomes, the City may not meet those goals.
 In 2018, the Bureau spent nearly $13 million in construction and maintenance for projects to treat rainwater runoff, including restoration projects in Green Streets. However, there was no formal method to track and report progress towards goals. Instead, the Bureau relied on piecemeal reporting and staff assurances. The Bureau uses restoration projects to meet watershed health objectives, such as improving water quality and habitat.
 Restoration projects include planting native vegetation and land excavation to create wetlands. Projects can vary widely in size, cost, and complexity. We looked at three projects based on input from staff, Albert Kelly Park, Luther Road, and Mason Flats.
 Green Streets are recessed planning strips extended from roadside curbs. The Bureau uses Green Streets to treat and slow water runoff. The channels are planted with vegetation to filter pollution and slow and absorb stormwater. There are more than 2,000 Green Streets in Portland. We had three findings related to restoration projects in Green Streets. Our first finding was that restoration projects in Green Streets may not have addressed the area's highest needs.
 Despite intentions going back almost a decade, the Bureau did not have a stormwater system plan in place to guide the investment of capital spending for restoration projects in Green Streets. Existing plans were not enough. The Portland Watershed Management Plan, the systems plan for the combined sewer system, and watershed level plans did not meet the necessary criteria.
 Only a stormwater system plan will assist the Bureau with defining the areas of the city that are at the greatest risk for threats such as pollution, habitat loss, and local flooding. Our second finding was that it wasn't clear that restoration projects met environmental and water management goals. The Bureau cannot demonstrate that its restoration investments were making overall progress towards watershed goals because of inconsistent and piecemeal reporting.
 The Bureau has affirmed the need for reporting restoration project outcomes, noting that reporting could provide benefits such as the ability to connect restoration project outcomes to watershed goals. The Bureau can't report on overall progress because there's no inventory of restoration projects on which to base reporting. None of the projects we reviewed had quantifiable goals and there are no protocols for consistent monitoring or data collection.
 Our final finding was that there was no reporting on Green Street condition to rate payers or regulators. The Bureau cannot demonstrate to rate regulators or rate payers that the million dollars it spends annually on Green Street maintenance kept them in functioning condition. A majority of Green Streets, 53%, were not inspected as required in the spring of 2018.
 The Bureau did not have a method to summarize eight separate condition scores for reporting or monitoring to ensure that staff met inspection and maintenance standards. The Bureau did not report on whether green streets were in functioning condition as required. Instead, it reported the total count of inspections and maintenance activities. In 2017, approximately 40 percent of green streets were not maintained at least three times, which was the standard, and 70 were not maintained at all.
 So, for our recommendations, to ensure that projects are cited in the highest priority areas, we recommended that the Bureau should commit to an implementation schedule for components of the stormwater system plan and create a method to use the risks identified to evaluate capital projects.
 To demonstrate that restoration projects met goals, we recommended that the Bureau develop an inventory of restoration projects and track information such as cost, location, project goals, and outcomes. Ensure that all projects had quantifiable goals that were tied to the goals of the Portland Watershed Management Plan or that reduced risks identified in the Stormwater System Plan. Regularly report project results to ratepayers in a way that explains the connections between projects and outcomes.
 Number five was the one recommendation the Bureau didn't really commit to. They said that they were working towards connecting individual restoration projects to the quantifiable metrics in the watershed report cards, but the report cards are only issued every four years, which may be too long an interval for noting adapt— for adaptive management or noting trends. To provide reports about Green Street, to demonstrate that restoration projects successfully met goals,
 We recommend, I'm sorry, I'm getting very confused. It's okay. We're not as scary as you may think we are. We're auditors, so...
 To provide reports about Green Street condition, we recommend that the Bureau define quantifiable standards to describe functioning condition for Green Streets, update operation and maintenance guidelines that support functioning condition, and create oversight procedures to ensure that staff follow operation and maintenance guidelines.
 I meant to stress that the Bureau assisted us with coming up with recommendations and they were really helpful in creating concrete recommendations that they are going to follow up on. We will follow up with staff in December and let you know how they're doing implementing these recommendations. Christine Adams- Good morning. My name is Christine Adams-Wanberg. I'm a performance auditor and I led our March 2019 audit of the city's camp cleanup program.
 The Homeless Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program was created in 2015 and it takes complaints about camps, assesses site conditions and removes trash and camps on city property. It removed 2.6 million pounds of garbage in fiscal year 2018. It's a fairly new program for the city and we wanted to see how well it was performing such as looking at the site assessments and cleaning, if it was meeting legal requirements for notice, if the crews were respectful and how the program was responding to complaints.
 We found that overall the program was doing well by improving the conditions in the camps. We did find that there were some improvements in communication of folks as well as program data.
 For people making a report about the camp, they like the ease of reporting a camp, but they did want status updates about what was occurring with their complaint. We were pleased to find that the city was meeting legal requirements for posting notice and we saw firsthand that crews were being respectful with those experiencing homelessness. These crews are hired through a contract with the city and many of the crew members themselves are formerly homeless individuals.
 People living in the camps wanted better information on when the cleanups would occur. So rather than a seven or ten day window, they wanted more information about when exactly they would have to move. Assessment criteria need to be better developed and applied. Currently some of the criteria overlap and are not clear to the crews or the supervisors giving scores to the sites.
 Program data needs to be improved. It relies on several manual processes and separate systems. Currently the program is not monitoring timeliness. The program is however working on some options for better systems. Program storage policies need to be more detailed on what is to be stored and how and the facilities themselves needed to be upgraded. However, I would like to note that the program does have a new facility at this point where it is consolidated at the property.
 We recommend that improving communication data and internal policies by doing the following. One, improving communication to people in the camps about when crews will likely be there and also improving the durability of the notices that are put up. Two, ensure contractors have a common understanding of what is personal property. Three, improve storage policies and procedures.
 Four, give complainant status updates. Five, improve data quality and reduce manual processes. Six, use data to analyze and improve effectiveness, efficiency, and timeliness of the cleanups. And finally, seven, to clarify the assessment risk factors of scoring and ensure a common understanding among the crews about the criteria and identify what needs to be photographed. With that, I will turn it back over to Mary. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LISERSON. So we're prepared for any questions that you have. COMMISSIONER HARDISKY.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you all. One of my favorite occupations are people who do audits because they're like just the numbers people, right? Don't blame me. This is just what I found. I have a couple of questions. First, about the restoration project in the green streets.
 I think before your audit, I think you did a really good job about really laying out what our vision is as compared to what our outcomes are. You said that number five was the only recommendation that was not agreed to. I guess my question is for the fifth recommendation.
 A, why was it not agreed to? And B, what's a good outcome? Because four years does seem a long time. One year seems too often. How do we get to a place where the public gets the information they need? I think that's a discussion that you should have with the Bureau.
 We mentioned in our report that the four-year interval seemed too long. On the other hand, a lot of these are really complicated projects that have very small incremental improvements. And so I think you're absolutely correct.
 you know, where that interval lies, where there's resources that can be devoted to it, and also where it really makes sense is something we're not taking a stance on. But I did, when we were performing the audit, we looked at the report cards. We're doing our field work in the summer of 2018. The index started, oh, I can't remember the exact date, but it
 2011 or 2012, I think. I might be wrong on that. But there was only one reporting period within the, I think it had been almost eight years that the program had been in place. So we just didn't find that it was a tool that was useful for us for tracking trends or looking at whether or not projects were effective in meeting their goals.
 Thank you very much. I also appreciate the two-page updates because that's helpful. One of the things that used to make me crazy was that we'd get an audit and then we'd hear nothing else about it until the next audit happened. And so this is really a good way for, at least I'll speak for me personally, to be able to track the work that's being done and to find out if we really are improving our governance in the process. So thank you for that.
 My last question has to do with the reports around the cleanup of the house, the homeless camps. I know that this is a... The cleanups are a complaint-driven system, but they... And do you take complaints from both directions, or is this just people that want people that they're uncomfortable with moved?
 So you know what I'm saying? So I'm trying to understand if I'm houseless and my ID is gone, my medicine is gone, if I call and complain, am I going to get help if I go through this process?
 Commissioner, so they take complaints from anybody. It could be somebody who lives in a neighborhood and somebody is, there's a group of folks that are homelessness near the neighborhood, they want that place cleaned up. It could be somebody who potentially is living in a camp. In many cases when we went out and did field work, the folks who were actually living in the camp helped with the cleanup. Do we track that? I mean, do we track where the complaints are coming from?
 Commissioner, we don't particularly track like is it coming from a particular address or neighborhood. They tend to be confidential. I hope I'm having that right. Confidential. Yes.
 So, for example, anonymous, exactly, I'm sorry, I had that wrong. So they tend to be more of an anonymous feature in the database and everything like that. Some people do self-identify and say, hey, I'm from this, this is my address. They will give information on where that camp is, so here's the cross street, here's what I heard, here's the complaint and everything like that. It could be somebody who just leaves their email address, however.
 And do we have a way of, how does the prioritization work? Commissioner, the way that it's supposed to work is basically a complaint comes in, staff in the program look at it, they will send it out to one of the contractors to do a site assessment. The site assessment will take certain criteria like where's the location. So for example, is it in a sensitive location, like is it near a school?
 They will also look at other factors, for example, are there needles present, are they blocking access, and they will make basically a score based on that criteria. That criteria will basically identify whether that site needs to be cleaned up and the priority for that cleanup. My last question, well, actually my next to last question is,
 I have heard a lot from community members who have lost ID and medicine and have had a really hard time getting those real necessary needs met. And so are there any recommendations about how we protect people's vital ID information and medication to make sure that it gets back to the right person in a timely manner?
 So, Commissioner, one of the recommendations is actually to improve the policies and procedures for storing. One of the things that we did find is that some of that more sensitive information like, you know, if you had somebody with a credit card or a passport or something like that medication, that that actually needs to be stored separately from the rest of the belongings and needs kind of a higher level of security for that. So that's what we're hoping is going to happen. And I think that the program was amenable to that.
 Wonderful. And what is the training for people who are subcontracted to go out and do this service as far as the cleanups are concerned? Based on your report, it sounds like there's not a standard across the board about what a priority site is.
 what's appropriate, how much time the community needs in order to know that something is going to be happening at that site. So Commissioner, in terms of, there are kind of two different things going on. One is the assessment criteria which you have one contractor only kind of doing it. And I think with more clarification of that criteria, it'll be very helpful. I think that will resolve a lot of issues. In terms of the folks who are actually doing
 bigger cleanups and everything. They do receive training. I would say that really when they get out in the field, when we did our field work and rode along with the crews and everything, sometimes it really is a judgment call on what is property, what is not. And that's something that is difficult, but that the program gives updates to. And that's something that we're hoping that they can refine that information and continue to basically work with those crews. Thank you, I appreciate your work.
 Very good. I'd like to just read a couple of comments if I could. First of all, thank you Madam Auditor. Thank you to your team for three what I think are very strong audits. Thank you for your detailed work. I particularly appreciate the fact that you may not have any knowledge about the Bureau or the program that you're going into and you really take the time to get under the
 meet with the employees who manage these programs. And the feedback I get has been uniformly very positive. So I want to thank you for that. There's an important symbiotic relationship here between the enterprises that we're individually responsible for and frankly our limited bandwidth
 and an ability to be accountable for everything that is going on in a $5.2 billion enterprise. So we really rely on you to help us be the eyes and ears in terms of the programs and help us sharpen our programs to make them more effective. So I want to acknowledge that and thank you for that. I want to speak specifically to the homeless.
 and urban camping impact reduction program. This has obviously had a very rapid evolution just in the last several years.
 We have an Anderson agreement, a legal agreement, which has been in place since 2014. And it was determined that the city needed to create a process where people living outside would be given notification and adequate time to remove their belongings unless, of course, they were extenuating public health or environmental circumstances.
 If belongings were not removed, the agreement was that the city would bag and tag and hold those belongings for 30 days. You've made a couple of suggestions on how that process can be further refined. I also want to acknowledge that the office moved the storage from a place that was really inconvenient to a place that is now centrally located and easier for people to gain access to.
 The Coordinated Campsite Cleanup Program started out in 2015 as a one FTE program in the mayor's office. And it's now grown over the years to include the One Point of Contact Campsite Reporting System, which you mentioned, as well as the Homeless Urban Camping Impact Reduction Program. The One Point of Contact Program received $25,000.
 460 reports this year, or excuse me, last year. We're expecting to exceed that this year. So we have a three FTE program that had 25,000 plus reports last year. In 2015 they cleaned 139 camps. Last year they cleaned 3,122 camps. The three team program that we
 The three-person team takes in all of the complaints. They have developed a prioritization risk assessment, which includes the factors that you indicated, environmental factors, public health factors, and other considerations.
 They have daily phone calls with outreach providers and emergency responders, and they also work to develop initiatives to address hygiene and trash issues that we see every day. And they attempt to establish partnerships with those in the camps to make that happen.
 Just to give you some context on today, in the last seven days we've received 802 new campsite reports identifying roughly 200 campsites throughout the city. So this is a widespread issue.
 When I came into office, the city was cleaning approximately 10 camps per week. We have increased the capacity and now we're cleaning about 40 camps per week. Of course, we've now also entered into an intergovernmental agreement with ODOT to be responsible for those right of ways because frankly, we have the ability to clean those camps in a manner that we think is more appropriate for the city of Portland.
 The process looks something like this. All reports are read, they're reviewed by the city staff, and an assessment is conducted for all sites that have been reported so long as it's not a duplicate. Then Clean Start PDS is dispatched to perform the risk assessment that you mentioned. They pick up trash and they also work with the people in the camp. They pass out trash bags and often there is a collective effort to keep the campsite clean.
 Staff are looking for things like the amounts of trash, biohazard materials, needles, proximity to school, private residence, and whether it's blocking sidewalks or restricting access. Depending on the results of the predetermined assessment criteria, the sites are then evaluated.
 Staff then determine whether another level of intervention is necessary, and that intervention frequently includes engaging social service providers to put people in a place that is more, that they're more likely to be able to get help than the location where they already
 The program has had to walk the line between working with our outreach providers to get folks the help they need to get off and stay off the street, and holding the line when people need to move from public property when the situation has deteriorated. I want to be very clear on something. The goal of this program is not to solve homelessness.
 There are other programs that are supported and funded by the city to address the issue of homelessness. This program's goal is specifically to reduce the impacts of these camps by managing the waste and keeping the community safe and clean for the benefit of everyone in the community. We only started tracking last year, but last year we collected about 1,300 tons of garbage. This
 We've collected 1,139 tons just at the beginning of this month so far this year. So we're collecting far more garbage this year than we did last year. I want to, again, thank the auditor.
 As you can see from the response letter from the Office of Management and Finance where this program ultimately results, resides, we're already beginning to work on a number of the recommendations that were put forth in the audit. Again, I thank you for those recommendations. And last but not least, and perhaps most importantly of all.
 I want to thank Lucas Pillier, who manages the program, and I want to thank Coordinator Katie Lindsey and Jonathan Lewis for their continual and dedicated and thoughtful service and their approach to this very, very challenging work. There is no question about it. You cannot make everybody happy
 when you were doing this work and we've already seen something in the dynamic in this chamber this morning there are some people who will say we are not doing enough and make no mistake about it this program is not resourced to the scale of the problem in this community on the other hand there are those who say we're doing way too much
 This is characterized as sweeping homeless camps. You're never going to make everybody happy, but the work that you do is important. You get all the complaints. You are rarely thanked for the work that you do. I want you to know as your mayor, I tremendously appreciate it and I thank you for the work that you do. Thank you all for that. Thank you for the excellent presentation. Thank you. Chair Greg Musil:" Perfect. We're right on time.
 Next time certain item at 1055. That looks like 55 to me, doesn't it? We'll take a two-minute break. We are now back in session. We're all well organized. I'd like to welcome back Auditor Mary Holcabiero. For the record, I am still. I'm sorry, Mary. I should read the title. Wait. She needs to read the item. Sorry. Okay.
 281, transfer payroll and non-payroll payment processing functions from the auditor's office to the Bureau of Human Resources and the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, respectively. Mary Hall- For the record, I still am City Auditor Mary Hall-Caballero, and I'm here today with the second consolidation proposal between the auditor's office and the Office of Management and Finance.
 A few weeks ago you approved code changes to reflect the transfer of assessments finance and foreclosure from my office to the Revenue Division. That change reduced redundant steps in the city's assessments and foreclosure processes and allowed my former staff to benefit from expertise that resides in the Office of Management and Finance.
 I'm proposing today that the payment functions in the Council Clerk Division in my office be transferred to the Bureau of Revenue, the Bureaus of Revenue and Financial Services and Human Resources. Directors Jennifer Cooperman and Cyrilda Summers McGee have agreed to assume the auditor's payment responsibilities.
 You may not even be aware that the council clerk staff plays a role in vendor payments and city payroll. That responsibility harkens back to a time when the auditor's office was responsible for monitoring financial transactions and serving as a payment control. As the accounting division and human services became more specialized and some controls have been built into the financial software, the auditor's role in vendor payments and payroll has become redundant.
 Carla's handing out a handout that shows the process and it's a graphic that shows the back and forth between the auditor's office and the accounting division to produce vendor payments and by removing the auditor's office from that middle section and before the checks go out the door, it streamlines the process and makes it a lot more efficient.
 I have delegated the auditor's charter obligations for vendor payments to the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services, and I plan to do the same for payroll. Today's council action will amend the code to reflect the transfer. I'd like to thank Directors Cooperman and Summers McGee for working out the details of this consolidation, as well as Controller Michelle Kirby, Payroll Manager Tom Schneider, and Tony Anderson, who supervised the Council Clerk Contracts Division in my office.
 I'm also grateful to General Counsel Jennifer Amiot for managing the code revisions and I'm happy to answer any questions. Chair Greg Musil. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for your presentation. What's the financial implication of this? Is money being transferred to provide this so that the new staff, the staff in the new place are going to be able to do the same things that your staff have been doing?
 The work that is done in the Council Clerk's Office is redundant to work that's already going on in both payroll and the accounting division. That second step, we're stopping that step and the work that we're transferring over to the Office of Management and Finance does not amount to even a half-time FTE or something like that.
 So in the financial impact statement it says that check printers, check stock related equipment and supplies are being transferred over. Is there a budget for those within your office that needs to be transferred over? You know we have the physical printers that the checks are printed on and then there's an arrangement between the accounting division and human resources.
 because the budget item for buying checks and toner and things like that for the printers is in the accounting division. And so they will work out how payroll will get access to those. So that internal materials and services is already not in your budget? Right. Thank you.
 Chair Greg Musil. Very good. Any further questions? Not at the moment. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Trustee Laura Smith- No one signed up. Chair Greg Musil. All right. That's fine. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Appreciate your being here to describe that to us. We will move on to the regular agenda item 288, please.
 amend ordinance to modify a condition of approval for the vacation of a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street east of Southeast 122nd Avenue subject to certain conditions and reservations Commissioner you daily Thank You mayor P bot has been working with Portland Parks and Recreation to vacate a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street and
 located east of Southeast 122nd Avenue. This vacation will consolidate property owned by PPNR for the expansion of Leach Botanical Garden per its recently adopted master plan. Staff from both PBOT and PPNR
 Lance Lindell and Brett Horner will quickly walk us through the item and of course are available to answer any questions. Commissioner Fisch, would you like to comment on this item? Commissioner Fisch, R.C. Just thank you, colleague. Just to say that I'm happy to see that we are achieving another milestone in the Leach Botanical Garden project. We want to thank, on behalf of Parks, we want to thank PBOT staff for their partnership in this important project.
 Gentlemen. Thank you for the great introduction. My name is Lance Lindahl, Portland Bureau of Transportation Right-of-Way Acquisition. And again with me today is Brett Horner from Portland Parks and Recreation. We're here today with a request to amend the previously approved ordinance that vacates a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street east of Southeast 122nd Avenue. This street vacation has been a cooperative effort between PBOT and Parks and the end result will be a big positive for both bureaus.
 In this slide, you can see in the first photo, it shows southeast Claiborne Street where it intersects with southeast 122nd. The street's currently unimproved with a gravel surface, and this segment of street will actually be retained, widened, paved, and will have a sidewalk added as a part of the Leach Botanical Gardens expansion project that's getting ready to kick off.
 The second photo shows the portion of Southeast Claiborne Street that will be vacated. It's also unpaved and unimproved. And current plans call for this area to be changed and constructed with a paved private driveway, landscaping, a new gift shop, and administrative offices, again, serving the garden exclusively. Here's a quick slide showing the Leach Botanical Garden's master plan. Right in the center there you can see the area that is being vacated as public right-of-way. It's outlined in the red box.
 So past actions that have occurred on this item. Back on May 9th of last year, City Council approved Ordinance 188928, which vacated a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street subject to certain conditions. And then in January of this year, the Bureau of Development Services revised the response to the street vacation. BDS determined that the original condition of approval was no longer needed.
 At that time there was split zoning that was in place at this site that has been resolved through the comprehensive plan update that recently went through and also there was a concern about
 doing a lot consolidation so that the historically platted lot lines would be extinguished. And upon closer review, BDS determined that that section of city code does not apply to lot zone open space. So what happened is Parks was then being asked to do or to meet a requirement that was quite onerous in terms of survey work and application materials that was not really needed.
 So in conclusion today, amending this ordinance will remove the now unnecessary requirement for the lot consolidation process. All other conditions of approval for this vacation have been met. So with this amendment as an emergency item, I'll be able to move forward and record the ordinance at this time. And this will allow the construction of the Leach Botanical Gardens expansion to move forward. Great. Any questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No one signed up.
 Alright, very good. This is an emergency item. Please call the roll. Fish. Yet another example of PBOT and parks working effectively together. Thank you, gentlemen, for your presentation. Thank you, Commissioner Daly. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Thanks for the presentation. I can't wait for the garden to be complete. Aye. Wheeler. Love to see you. I'm sorry. Order. Ricks.
 Thank you. This is really a wonderful project, and it's a joy to see it continuing to move forward under Commissioner Fish and to have been a part of helping to plan it. Thank you, Brett Horner, for all of your work on it, as well as yours in Peabody. Thank you. Wheeler. Well, since she voted that way, I think it's good that we let her vote.
 Chair Greg Musil. Trustee Jerry Cook. This is fantastic work. Beautiful garden. I'm always happy to see it evolve. So I want to thank my colleagues and their bureaus for working collaboratively to make this happen. Thank you. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item number 289.
 Accept bid of Granite Construction, Inc. for the Southwest Capital Highway, Southwest 36th Avenue to Southwest Texas Street pavement rehabilitation project for $1,787,787. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Lester Spittler, the Chief Procurement Officer. You have before you the procurement report recommending a contract to Granite Construction
 in the amount of $1,787,787. City Council approved ordinance number 189317 on December 19th to allow Procurement Services to competitively solicit an invitation to bid for the project. The engineer's estimate for the project was $2,024,646.
 Procurement Services issued the invitation to bid and received six responses on February 19th. The lowest responsive and responsible bidder was from Granite Construction. Their bid amount is 11.7% under the engineer's estimate. The City's Subcontractor Equity Program applies to this project which identifies an aspirational goal of 20% for disadvantaged, minority-owned, women-owned, emerging small businesses, and service-disabled veteran businesses.
 in the subcontractor and supplier areas of the project. Granite construction has proposed a goal of 20.52% for disadvantaged and minority-owned firms in the areas of handrail fabrication, permanent signage installation, oil and asphalt hauling, saw cutting, traffic control, and trucking services.
 There are six firms that have been identified to perform this work, and all six are certified as disadvantaged business enterprises and minority-owned business enterprises.
 Granite construction is located in Vancouver. They are in full compliance with all of the city's contracting requirements if there are any questions I'd be happy to answer them the project manager from P bot is in attendance as well Otherwise, I recommend that you approve this report Thank You Commissioner hardest. Thank you mayor. Thank you very much for your report and
 My question is the disadvantaged business enterprises, do you have a breakdown of just who is included in that? And again, my question is always who's benefiting from these contracts?
 Yeah, so the DBE is a distinct, the disadvantaged business enterprise, a distinct certification that the state promotes. It's different from the minority-owned business enterprise certification. So all six of the firms that are going to be performing the 20.52% subcontractor work are certified as both DBE and minority-owned firms.
 That's as far as the breakdown as we can go. That's not going to be sufficient. For me, I just need to know, like when DBE doesn't tell me anything about who's benefiting from the contract, so I'm really interested in what specific firms are benefiting, right? And kind of, so just for future reference, I need to know like the details of that breakdown. So you want to know the makeup of the company ownership?
 I want to know whether they are identified as a disadvantaged business, which traditionally is a white owned company, right? They may be starting off, might be a white woman owned company, at least on paper. Uh, but what I want to see is the diversity of the contracts, right? Is this an African American firm, Latino firm, Native American firm? Is it a woman? You know, I, the, the, the alphabet soup just doesn't give me enough information to be able to determine who benefits from public, uh,
 contracts. Okay. The prime contractor is not certified, but the six certified subcontractors are all minority-owned businesses as well as disadvantaged business enterprises. So I don't know the exact ownership of those six firms, but I know that they're all certified with the state as minority-owned business enterprises. I think...
 I appreciate that. In the future, if you would be kind enough to make sure that I got that information ahead of time so I would be able to see who benefits from public contracts, that is the question that I'm asking. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Any further questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? This is a report. It's a report. I'm sorry. Commissioner Fish moves the report. Commissioner Fritz. That's a good one.
 Wow, that's a new one for me and I'm stone cold sober. Commissioner Fritz seconds the report. Please call the roll. Fish. Hi. Hardesty. I'm really looking forward to the day that I don't have to ask in this chamber who benefits from public contracts. It is a very simple question and using the alphabet soup that we tend to use really doesn't give me factual information that I need.
 What I hope is that the diversity of our community benefits when public dollars are spent and that's what I'm looking for. And I will continue to ask that question and expect people who are providing public contracts to have those answers for me. I vote no. Udaily. Aye. Fritz.
 So the information that they're all minority certified contractors is in the council documents, and I'm not sure how much we can delve further into the ethnicity of the businesses. I'm not sure that we can do that. So I appreciate that they are getting 20% minority owned businesses, getting 30%.
 $366,791 from this procurement. I'm also really grateful that this project is happening. It's a fix our street projects, thanks to Commissioner Novick. And I've seen the signs on Capitol Highway every day when I ride the 44 bus that you're dime at work. And so it's, I think, really important to know that there are projects going on all over the city because of the gas tax. And that's a really important work. Wheeler.
 I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you for your great presentation. Don't go far. Item number 290.
 Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Administrator Nitzelman. Chair Stephanie Sharp.
 to $500,000 for professional service contracts. Last December the City Council extended that increased contracting authority until March 31st.
 This ordinance would make the Chief Procurement Officer's increased contracting authority permanent and additionally raise the authority for professional service contracts to $1 million to conform with other categories. And we of course have Chief Procurement Officer Lester Spittler is here to present the ordinance and answer any questions. Thanks for being here again. Thank you Mayor Wheeler. Good morning City Council.
 As the Mayor said. I'm sorry. Before the legal counsel, I'm sorry to interrupt, Lester. A legal counsel had advised me that there was an inadvertently missing underlining and strikethroughs on exhibit B. So I've been asked.
 to attach the correct document through substitute. I'll read what legal counsel has provided. The Exhibit B that was filed with the ordinance is inadvertently missing the underlining and strikethrough showing the proposed code changes. We need a motion to substitute Exhibit B so we have the correct document attached to the ordinance for the record. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udalli.
 Any questions about the substitute? Could we call the roll please on the substitute? Commissioner Fritz, you go. Well I just wanted to specify that I was confused by the substitute because there was underlining and strike through for section A. This new section B adds some criteria. So it says,
 For amendments not exceeding 25% of the original contract amount, amendments exceeding 25% of the original contract amount provided the amended contract amount does not exceed $1.25 million. The director of the Bureau whose behalf the contract was issued concurs. The price agreements, if the yearly estimated cost of the city is $1.25 million or less,
 amendments where an ordinance approved by the City Council grants additional authority to the Chief Procurement Officer beyond those stated rules and that's the material change.
 So, would you just explain a little bit about what difference does this make? Sure. So, price agreements are a different type of contract than regular contracts. They allow for more of an on-call nature of the work, where there's typically a task order that's issued for a specific scope of work, but the contract in and of itself is more on-call.
 So previously we had the price agreement authority in section 533, which is the goods and services authority. It applied to 568, but we're just being more explicit about including it in 568 with this revision. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions on the substitute? Please call the roll on the substitute. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? No.
 So if I understand this amendment correctly, rather than having authority for a million, now the procurement officer would have authority to sign a contract for up to a million, 250. If that is my understanding, I would not support this amendment and I vote no. That's, can I respond? Was that the... Yeah.
 The intent was there's always been authority in our rules that allows me to increase a contract by 25% of the original value. So I can't award an initial or sign an initial contract up to $1,250,000. It would be up to $1,000,000. And then if the Bureau needed more capacity in the contract from a funding perspective, then we could amend it to add 25%.
 So, in the cumulative total is $1,250,000, but the initial contract would not be able to exceed a million. So, these are on-call contracts that you would be able to negotiate without the council's oversight, is that correct? That's correct.
 Because of on-call contract, has there ever been a time that you've actually gone into negotiations on a million dollar contract for an on-call personnel?
 Yeah, the bureaus use a lot of on-call architectural and engineering contracts. And as part of that process, we're not allowed to take price into consideration when we're selecting a contractor. So what happens is the city selects the highest qualified contractor and then we enter into negotiations with that firm on their hourly rates. The hourly rates are what they bill on each task order.
 So when a scope of work comes up under a price agreement, the bureau engages the consulting firm. They send them a scope of work. The consulting firm sends back a proposal and the proposed cost is reflective of the hourly rates that were negotiated at the time the contract was awarded. So this is a RFP process? It's a qualifications-based selection RFP process. And it is a diverse pool of candidates that you're choosing from?
 The same goals and objectives apply to these types of procurements that apply to all of our procurements. So depending on the dollar value, we have to solicit them openly and competitively if they're under a certain dollar value.
 If it's $100,000 and under, for example, the city is allowed to directly award a contract to a certified firm without going through any competitive process, which is a new pilot, and that's been wildly successful throughout the city. So how does the city determine whether or not it's effective in reaching its goals of contracting with communities of color, and very specifically across the board with women? How do we ever figure out whether or not those goals are achieved?
 So the city has an aspirational goal via our subcontractor equity program, and we report on those metrics every year on what the city achieves. I think recently you heard of fixing our streets presentation where the utilization was in the 60%. So, you know, certain contracts are more...
 are better suited for competing at a smaller level. So Lester, could I suggest this? Let's finish the vote. It makes me nervous that we have an ongoing dialogue in the middle of a vote. So let's finish the vote and then let's have this conversation because it's a good one and I want to have it but I just don't think it's appropriate to have it in the middle of an open vote. Continue to call the roll please. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. So you voted. I did and I voted no. I'll vote aye to put it on the table.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's on the table. Mayor, given that this is an emergency ordinance, obviously Commissioner Hardesty has some questions. I have not reviewed this language and neither has my financial and legal genius in my office. So I'm wondering if we could set this over till next week so that we have, Commissioner Hardesty has time to get a full briefing and I have just a bit more time to look it over.
 I'd be willing to do that, yes. Would that be, I mean, presumably it's an emergency because you need to get it done quickly. Is there a reason that we have to? I'd rather hold it over for one week than remove the emergency clause if those are my options. I think those might be your options. Is that what you would request? I think that's a good idea. Okay, very good. So we will hold this over in my office. We'll bring it back next week. Thank you, Lester. I appreciate it. Next item, 291.
 adopt revised comprehensive financial management policies, financial planning, operations and maintenance, and budget to address the City's financial planning and annual budget processes. Colleagues, this resolution adopts two revised comprehensive financial management policies and a related procedure that addresses the City's financial planning process and annual budget process. This item was originally heard on March 13th and this is a substitute resolution.
 CFO, Chief Financial Officer Jennifer Cooperman is here to explain the changes in the substitute resolution and answer any questions that we might have about the policies. Good morning. Jennifer Cooperman Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. As introduced, I'm Jennifer Cooperman. I'm joined by Josh Harwood, City Economist out of the City Budget Office. We're here today to present updates to two of the City's comprehensive financial management policies that address the City's financial planning and annual budget process.
 As the Mayor stated, these are substitutes to what I presented on March 13th. There's one change from March 13th, and that's the deletion of language that addressed the funding of labor agreement costs. And I'd like to take just a couple of minutes to highlight the following revisions that are being proposed to these policies. FIN 203, which discusses financial planning.
 has been revised to incorporate specific council direction for bureaus to prioritize asset management as a citywide core business function, including life cycle costing and the setting aside of replacement reserves. And asset management is defined to include the city's investments in capital assets and equipment. And assets are tangible assets as well as intangible assets.
 intangible meaning software, right of way, et cetera. FIN 203 also is amended to direct bureaus to develop long-term financial plans, which are in addition to and go beyond the currently required five-year plans. They're intended to highlight and quantify in these financial plans and in the capital improvement plans funding gaps as well as proposing strategies to address them.
 As submitted, FIN 203 will codify the current restriction of capital set-aside resources to projects relating to emergency preparedness, parks and recreation, and transportation. Per Resolution 37101 from 2015, these restrictions are otherwise due to expire on June 30th,
 FIN 204 budget has been revised to require bureaus to secure Council approval for financial commitments such as bureau director decisions or litigation settlements of half a million dollars or more after the current year budget is approved that a bureau otherwise cannot accommodate. Change guidance for amending the budget during the year to urgent and unforeseen needs rather than needs that are just unanticipated.
 We'll allow one-time resources to be used to address citywide liabilities that are not included in the city's five-year forecast. We'll consolidate the capital set-aside ranking and funding process to once per year during the annual budget process, and we'll set certain limitations on the competitive special appropriations grant process. And we're available to answer any questions that you might have about these financial
 Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you so much, Director Cooperman. My question has to do with the funding limitations on FEN 2.03. If you look under the funding, we have very narrowly
 set a standard for how that 50% could be used. That includes emergency preparedness, parks and recreation, and transportation. Does that mean that if any other bureau in the city has a desire to actually utilize that money that's been set aside, that they would have no access to it?
 Do you want to speak to that? I can try. For the record, Josh Harwood, City Economist. Our director, Jessica Kennard, could not be here today. She is experiencing the wonders of flu season, so I apologize for her not being here. The short answer is yes. However, it is within council's capacity to waive the policy in an individual circumstance and state why they're doing it.
 And so, could I just add in here? Yeah, go ahead. The current policy is this. It was due to a binding city policy that the council adopted a little over three years ago because we got the overall asset report and looked at where are the biggest deficits, and they're in those three bureaus. So that's where the 50% set aside is currently set aside to be. That was due to sunset in four years, which is why we're having this conversation on that. So thank you for raising it.
 it doesn't preclude the other 50% of the one-time money going to asset management as well. So that's where we're trying to be really focused on, where do we get the biggest bang for the buck in which bureaus, and knowing that there's still the other, in this year's budget, there's 14 million in the one-time, seven million to asset management in these three areas, and seven million that could go to something else. And I would also say that
 It's been a little bit, the term emergency management has been used a bit creatively in recent times in that it funded, I think, the police, I mean the firefighters apparatus. Well, thank you very much. That's very helpful because, oh, I think I just turned me off.
 So what is the definition of emergency preparedness? Because as you know, I have the rest of the first responders in my portfolio. So I'm really surprised you're questioning this particular thing. Well, I'm not... You know, if it says emergency preparedness, I'm just wondering if it's across the board. As you said, it's been used creatively that way. I guess my concern is that we don't know what we don't know yet, and there may be something else that comes up that needs capital improvement, and I'm just concerned that we're...
 pinning ourselves into a box that we will not be able to get out of. Could I make a suggestion here? I would recommend we adopt this policy, but I do think there is a need for us to review the question of the categories.
 One could make a very strong case and Commissioner Hardesty, I believe you've made, well, you haven't necessarily made this case, but you talk a lot about technology and technology is becoming more of infrastructure to the work we do. One could make a case that city technology
 should be included as part of the capital side. I'm not saying that that's where I am today, but I do think it would be useful for you to go off and for some period of time review that question about whether we have the right buckets, whether we should be considering different buckets, and then come back to this council with recommendation. And as a point of information, we did use that bucket for the data sensor that was transferred out of the earthquake area. Indeed we did. Yes.
 I'll just put my cards on the table. I'm all for flexibility, but the trade off of course is more flexibility means less discipline.
 And so we need to find that that right balance so for for certain folks who weren't here in 2015 when the prior resolution 37107 was adopted that did a few things but one of the most major ones In my opinion was it increased the capital set-aside percentage from 25% up to 50% So the council did take a very proactive step recognizing the infrastructure needs in talking with city staff and
 I think there is a desire for you to have more flexibility than less and that identifying the buckets up front is restricting you because there are needs that do come up that might not easily fit into those three buckets. The choices and the allocations will come to you regardless. That's right. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 This seems like an important piece. And I would...
 If we could just hold this over so that we can have more of a conversation on it until next week. I'd rather not. I'd rather move forward on this. But as I said, what we could do is we could establish in the legislative record a request that you come back in six months or whenever with a more thorough analysis on whether we have the right buckets. But I think it's important that we move forward on the fiscal policies. Mr. Mayor.
 Any other? Mr. Mayor? Oh, I'm sorry, Robert. Sorry. One formality. Sorry, Josh. That's all right. One formality. I believe there has been a substitute resolution that would need to be formally adopted. Yeah, no, so we'll get to that. I just, I didn't want to interrupt the flow of the conversation. Is there more on this particular subject before I ask if we can get a motion, please, for the substitute resolution?
 So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. Any further discussion on putting the substitute on the table, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. No. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Substitutes on the table. All right, so we're open for more questions, thoughts, concerns. Any public testimony on the resolution? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll.
 Thank you to Director Cooperman and all those who worked on this set of policies. And I appreciate the changes that were made from the last iteration to what we have before us today. Aye. Hardest statement.
 Thank you so much, Director Cooperman. I really appreciate the work that you and your team have done on this project. I cannot in good faith vote for something that I do not support the limitations that we are putting on ourselves. And it is not acceptable to me that I need to wait six months so that I can have clarity on whether or not we're moving in a direction that makes sense. I vote no. Ms. Daley?
 I believe this is the third time we have considered this set or second? Only the second? It feels like the third time. I appreciate the revisions. My concerns have been addressed, and I vote aye. Fritz? Aye.
 So if this resolution were to be rejected, the current policy is to direct 50% to parks, transportation, and emergency management. And the reason for that is that the unfunded liability, especially in parks and transportation, dwarfs all other needs in the city. We added emergency preparedness to allow some more flexibility while still focusing on the things that are most urgent and the most cost effective. And so this takes away the sunset.
 and I appreciate all of the different policies and thank you for taking my feedback and incorporating much of it. Wheeler. Thank you CFO Cooperman for your presentation. Josh, thank you. Thanks for the hard work that you have put into this, your staff, OMF, along with the city budget office and city budget managers all across the city who work to develop these revised policies. Thank you again for your flexibility on taking into account our input in recent weeks to help solidify
 our viewpoints. I look forward to continuing the conversation with my colleagues in the Office of Management and Finance about how we can best address the question of funding labor agreement costs, since one of the agreements we made collectively was to withdraw that from consideration today.
 The revisions to our comprehensive financial management policies, I believe, improve the City's financial planning, financial management, asset management, and providing adequate reserves, aligning our policies with national best practices, and encouraging responsible stewardship of City assets.
 These improved policies will help us to achieve our financial management goals, including better long-term planning, promoting collaboration during the annual budget process, directing resource towards critical infrastructure projects, addressing intergenerational equity issues, and maintaining financial sustainability.
 One final note I'll put on the table, these policies are always subject to change. This is fluid. They evolve as the needs and the interests of our city and our fiscal structure evolve. I appreciate the hard work you put into it. It's an excellent product. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Next item please, 292.
 appoint Annalise Kohler to the Portland Housing Bureau Bond Oversight Committee for a term to expire March 1, 2022. Chair Greg Musil Excellent. We have Portland Housing Bureau Director Shannon Callahan here this morning. Good morning. Shannon Callahan Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners.
 We had expected Annalisa to be here this morning, but I think she is not quite here yet. So if you wouldn't mind, I'll just do a little brief introduction about Annalise Krohler, who is... Ah, Annalise. Hi. Great timing. So have you ever had that nightmare where you walk into a crowded room and you're...
 Good morning. So the Bond Oversight Committee is composed of five community members. One of each is appointed by each of the commissioners and the mayor. Commissioner Hardesty is appointing Annalisa this morning to replace Jess Larson, who was a previous appointee of Commissioner Salzman.
 Annalise has worked with the Housing Bureau for quite some time on affordable housing issues as well as was on the committee that moved forward the original ballot measure for the Portland Housing Bond itself, the Welcome Home Steering Committee. Annalise is also a public policy advocate for the food bank and we are privileged and honored to have her on our oversight committee. So with that, I would turn it over to Annalise.
 Yeah, thank you.
 I thought I'd have a couple minutes to think about this, but coming in hot. I just want to say thank you so much for this opportunity. I'm very excited about this and feel very privileged to be here. I started at the Food Bank about seven years ago, and my assumption was that I would be working on food stamps and other kind of anti-hunger policies and programs. And very quickly, I have spent the bulk of my career there working on housing.
 Our public policy priorities are guided by what we hear from the people that we serve and unsurprisingly I'm sure to you housing is the number one reason that people cite so worked on the Portland housing bond and the Metro housing bond and really excited to be able to see some of that work Through on the Oversight Committee very good. Well, first of all, let me say thank you number two Let me just say you do really well on the fly That was that was exceptional number three I
 I want to thank Jess Larson for her service to this important committee, and I want to thank you, Annalise, for being willing to come on board. I know you're a busy person. Side note, my wife Katrina was at the food bank last night with I think 17 or 18 other volunteers from our daughter's school, and they had a blast. And they came back and just said, you know, the Oregon Food Bank is just a paragon of organization.
 And I just wanted to pass that on to you. Thank you. So thank you for your willingness to serve. With that, I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion to accept the report from Commissioner Hardesty, a second from Commissioner Udaly. Carla, please call the roll. Well, Annalisa, thank you very much for stepping up and offering to serve. And also thank you for the work you did on both housing bonds.
 The Metro Housing Bond was, I thought, a particularly collaborative and extraordinary undertaking. And I set aside almost a day a week last fall to participate in the leadership of that effort. And I know you and the food bank made a huge difference. And we ended up winning in all three counties, which is really a testament to the strength of our coalition. Yeah.
 Thanks for all that you do for our community and thank you for stepping up again to serve in this important role. I'm pleased to support your nomination. Aye. Chair Stephanie Sharp.
 I want to also thank Jess Lawson for her service and her visionary leadership on this committee and I'm really thrilled to have Annalise come and take that spot. The Oregon Food Bank is near and dear to my heart as someone who loves the Waterfront Blues Festival.
 I have pretty much interviewed anybody and everybody who's ever played at the Blues Festival. And my favorite interview is always with the Oregon Food Bank. Because it is real that the folks who work and volunteer are doing it not for the money, but doing it purely out of the love of community and the love of people. I vote aye. You, Daly? I'm going to add to the chorus of thanking Jess and welcoming Annalise. I...
 I'd like to take every opportunity I can to highlight the fact that despite our booming economy, Oregon has one of the worst rates of food security in the country and I'm really grateful to have someone serving who understands this intersection of housing unaffordability and hunger and I vote aye. Fritz. Thank you Ms. Kohler for being here and for explaining your work at the Food Bank and how it does relate to housing as Commissioner Ewe Daly said.
 I appreciate your service. You have big shoes to fill, but I'm sure you can do it. Aye. Councillor Wendy Becerra-Wheeler. Mayor Redekopan- Very happy to support this appointment. Thank you, Commissioner Hardesty, for bringing it forward. I vote aye. The report's accepted and the appointment is approved. Welcome aboard. Councillor Wendy Becerra- Now you get to volunteer lots of hours for free. Councillor Wendy Becerra- Yes. It's going to be great. Mayor Redekopan- Now she's running off to the next step. I say, who was that masked woman?
 Next item, please. 293. Approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Northeast Killingsworth Apartments located at 5470 Northeast 16th Avenue. Very good. We have Shannon Callahan, Director of the Housing Bureau is here and Dori VanBakkel who is responsible for our multi-program. I don't know who's presenting today but I'll just introduce you both.
 Good morning again, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. Shannon Callahan. Just as way of reminder, City Council passed a comprehensive inclusionary policy, housing policy in 2016. Prior to when that policy took effect, 19,000 units of housing were permitted and vested in that program beforehand, meaning they did not have to comply with the requirements to include affordable housing in their developments.
 Based on the large pipeline that did not supply any affordable housing, the mayor and commissioners asked us to look at creating a program to incent that pipeline to come forward and voluntarily include affordable housing. After working with city council and the Multnomah County Commission, a program was approved to provide a limited tax exemption for a period of 10 years in exchange for 10 years of affordability.
 The development you have before you today is the first development to take advantage of that program. It will be providing eight units in their new development for affordable housing. The range of rent savings for tenants who would reside in that building would be from a $479 savings a month to $650 savings a month in the one bedrooms.
 And with that, I would like to just turn it over to Dory to add a few comments, and we're here to answer any questions you might have. Good morning, Commissioners, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Dory VanBakkel, Program Manager of the Multi-Program Program.
 AND AS SHANNON MENTIONED, THIS PROJECT WILL BRING EIGHT UNITS TO THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING PORTFOLIO. THEY WILL BE AFFORDABLE AT 60% OF MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME. THAT'S 20% OF EACH OF THE UNIT TYPES. IT'S NOT A REAL BIG BUILDING. THERE'S ONLY 39 UNITS AND THEY ARE COMPRISED OF STUDIOS AND ONE-BEDROOMS. SO WE'LL HAVE FOUR STUDIO APARTMENTS AND FOUR STUDIO ONE-BEDROOMS. THIS IS LOCATED IN THE
 Fairly high opportunity area within the city. So it'll be ground floor commercial space there's lots of restaurants and other commercial activity there along Killingsworth and the developer has expressed interest in Using the city's preference policy to help rent those units as well. Very good colleagues any questions, please call the roll. I
 I think everybody signed up. Oh, I'm sorry. Is there anybody signed up? I apologize. I think they all may have left. It was Lightning, Maggie, Courtney, Shannon, and Desiree Rose. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Happy to see the incenting the pipeline working. Aye. Fritz. Very happy to see that they're choosing 60%, which is the greater need, and also that there's a mix between the smaller one and then one bedroom. So again, good work.
 Chair Stephanie Sharp. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. No ordinance is adopted. Commissioner Fisch. 283 was pulled by Lightning. He is not here right now. I would urge that we just read it and go to a vote. 283, please read it. Authorize the acceptance of a donation of 385 square feet of real property on Northeast 11th Avenue adjacent to Woodlawn Park to be used for park purposes. Chair Jerry Cook. Carla, is there anyone signed up for public testimony? This was pulled. I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Very good. Call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Udalli. Aye. Fritz. Commissioner Fish, I'm going to be highly entertained to see what your operations and maintenance budget request is going to be for this. It's going to be a big number. I thought it might be. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. 284, please.
 accept a grant in the amount of $1,682,468 from the Oregon Department of Transportation and authorize an intergovernmental agreement for the I-205 undercrossing project. Who pulled this item? Commissioner Hardesty. Hi, Mayor. I was the one that pulled this off the agenda. I have all my questions answered. I do apologize that you had to hang out. Oh, that's okay.
 but I feel very confident and positive, and this is a great thing for my community. Very good. Thank you for being here, and thanks for your hard work on this. Would you like to put your name in the record so people know you? For the record, Elizabeth Tilstrom, Project Manager with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thanks for your work. Thank you, Elizabeth. We really appreciate it. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. We are adjourned. This is the Wednesday afternoon, April 3rd, 2019 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Hello, Carla, again. Could you please call the roll? Thank you. Fish.
 Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp. Chair Stephanie Sharp.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good, and I'd just like to add for the record...
 one of the core rules here is to understand and appreciate that you will hear differences of opinion from your own at the microphones. That's what democracy is all about and I
 In particular tomorrow when we get to the public testimony part of this, I'm going to continue to admonish people to understand that there will be different perspectives, different points of view. Everybody will have access to the microphone, but we just ask that everybody listen to everybody else's opinion respectfully.
 With that, could we read both items together, Carla, and then I'll turn it over to Commissioner Udalli. Yes. 294, add evaluation of applicants for dwelling units to include renter protections in the form of screening criteria regulations.
 and 295, add security deposits, prepaid rent to include renter protections in the form of security deposit regulations. Thank you. Commissioner Udailey. Thank you, Mayor, and good afternoon, everyone. I'm so pleased to introduce our fair access and renting proposal, a fitting kickoff to April, which is National Fair Housing Month.
 Given that this day has been more than two years in the making and we're introducing the most significant tenant protection package We've advanced since our relocation ordinance in January of 2017 you would think I'd have a lengthy and eloquent opening statement prepared. I actually just wrote this before the hearing I have thought long and hard about What I wanted to say today, but I've decided to let the policy mostly speak for itself. I
 However, before I move on to housekeeping, two minor amendments, and hand the presentation over to our esteemed panel, I offer the following comments and a piece of testimony for my colleagues to consider. As elected representatives, we have an obligation to ensure reasonable access to housing and to affirmatively further fair housing law, which was created to prevent housing discrimination.
 last year we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the fair housing act in these very chambers and last year as well as throughout the past decade we have heard from the Fair Housing Council of Oregon that discrimination in housing is alive and well in our state and in our city this package is passed will significantly decrease incidence of housing discrimination whether by default or design
 Housing is a basic need, a human right, and a finite resource. Our failure to protect tenants and stabilize rents has contributed to an unprecedented housing crisis, which is now in its 10th year.
 It has changed the face of our city, decimated communities, and impacted the future of tens of thousands of Portland residents. It's terrible for our economy, our environment, our social and cultural fabric, and our spirit. We are not acting fast enough to remedy this crisis.
 While this policy does not increase the supply of affordable units, it does decrease multiple barriers to housing, which is an essential piece of what must be a multifaceted approach to solving this crisis. Finally, I've been disappointed to hear some of the misinformation circulating about the impact and intent of these policies. Simply put, we are not forcing landlords to rent to people with criminal records.
 As you will hear, we are providing a low barrier option for screening based on solid data and research while allowing landlords to opt to do individualized assessments instead, a practice recommended by HUD federal guidelines, upon which they are free to decline prospective renters based on non-discriminatory business interests. I'm a long-time Portland resident.
 A renter, a woman, a mother, and a violent crime survivor. The suggestion that I'm so committed to renters as a class of people, above all else, that I would advance policies that would endanger other renters is false. I'm willing to assume the best and chalk this up to confusion and concern, but once we present the actual policy, I hope that we can lay this false claim to rest.
 the community. I know that there are many people who are struggling to get out of the system. As a survivor I know what it' s like to fear for my safety and the critical role that safe stable housing plays in that. I also know that when we deny opportunities for housing and employment to individuals coming out of the
 It's one we've kicked down the road for decades, and I don't know whether we can ever adequately address it through policy making. But what we can do here today is share data and research to help people make sound decisions based on fact, not fear. Now I'm going to share a message I received earlier this week from an impacted community member. This morning I read an article about your proposal to change rental policies in Portland.
 I cannot thank you enough for your insight, kindness, and consideration regarding housing opportunities in Portland. I am a convicted felon and have no fair chance at finding a safe place to rent.
 I'm refused despite the fact that I'm a first-time offender and to have both a bachelor's degree and master's degree. My credit score is in the high 700s. I have voluntarily completed evaluations to prove that I am not a danger and I present no threat to anyone. Despite this, I am told that as a felon, I am an imminent risk to other renters. Just looking at me, you would never know that I am a felon.
 I'm treated as a person until I have to indicate that I was convicted of a felony. At that point, everything changes. I lose my humanity and my chance to be a member of society in the eyes of many. The message is clear. I am not worthy of housing and despite any evidence to the contrary, being a felon means that I will harm others.
 In the 2018 study conducted by the Justice Department, nearly 2.2 million adults were held in America's prisons and jails at the end of 2016. I think of the men and women who are daughters, sons, mothers, and fathers who also happen to be felons and are consistently denied housing because of the fear surrounding the label of felon.
 I'm thankful that I have a supportive family who welcome me home with love. I will live with them until I can afford to purchase something because I know I have no hope of renting. Thank you for your courage to bring a voice to those of us that do not have one and have not been allowed a seat at the table.
 Now for some housekeeping. Colleagues, we opted to hold two hearings, as you know, one for our presentation and invited speakers, which includes some opponents to our policies, and one for public testimony. And that's because of the number of people we anticipate will want to testify and how long that would take. We thought you might want to go home before midnight tonight. Thank you.
 Yes, I encourage all of you to consider today to be similar to a work session. It's our chance to really delve into the policy, to ask questions, to deliberate. We've brought multiple experts for you to hear from, but I would strongly prefer that you hold your questions for the end of each presentation because they've been carefully planned and thought out. Chances are your questions will be answered by the end.
 Finally, these two ordinances must be advanced together. They don't work well or effectively on their own. Every word of them has been heavily negotiated with stakeholders and carefully vetted over the past two years. We have not received any amendments in advance from other offices, but we understand there may be some. I respectfully request that they be shared with my office in advance.
 and not introduced until tomorrow's session in order for us to respond to your concerns and work with your offices and that they will be voted on two weeks from now when the full package comes back for a vote. Finally I have two minor amendments to make before we begin the presentation.
 For the past two years, our office has worked very closely with City Attorney Lisa Grant, who left the city to work for the State Housing Department at the end of last year. We're grateful for the other attorneys who all pitched in and put a tremendous amount of work
 the policy language and the policy language was not incorporated into the document we had to put the code language into its final form but there were two small items that were incorrectly interpreted and not caught by staff before we submitted the document for today' s session. In order to uphold the promises we made to the community and make sure the policy language fulfills the
 Amends screening criteria code section D.4.B to adjust the look-back periods for non-heads of household. Amendment number two, amends security deposit code section F to clarify the length of time for the payment history requirement. Can I get a second? Second. All right. Thank you. Yes. I was meaning...
 With that, let's get started. We have a long and interesting hearing before us. Our first panel will be Tyrone Poole, founder and owner of One App Oregon, Jamie Duhamel, director of policy for my office, and Dr. Lisa Bates, associate professor and director of the Center for Urban Studies at Portland State University. Welcome, everyone. Welcome.
 Please state your name for the record. My name is Tyrone Poole and I am the founder and president of One App. Jamie Duhamel, Director of Policy for Commissioner Udailey. Lisa Bates. Would you like me to begin? All right. Well, I would like to start off by letting everybody know, I have spent the last 10 plus years of my life in housing advocacy. I've been working really hard to create access to housing for some of Portland's most vulnerable families.
 Outside of that, it would be good to make sure that you understand that I am not actually pro or against this rule. I am here to make sure that there is enough accurate data being presented so that you guys have enough information to make a good decision on if this law should pass or not. With that, I would like to go right into some of the data and the things that I've learned over the last five years of running one app.
 A lot of it will be very shocking and exciting to know. So with one app, the reason I'm going to go over the software with you, that way you understand clearly what the data that comes out of this software came from and how it's created. Because this data was used, a lot of the data points were used to create the rest of the documents that you'll hear today. Starting with one app, you will...
 When we first designed One App, we had the premise that we could create access to housing for everybody if we let everyone know where they qualify to live. Through my own homeless experience, that seemed like what made the most sense. People would apply to places that they qualify for if they just knew where they qualify. Based on your background check,
 you could qualify for a very small percentage of the market. I mean, a lot of people that have evictions and felonies or low income, they qualify for 1% of the market. That's 10 out of 1,000 units. The amount of money and time it would take for you to find one of those random needle in a haystack properties can be so much and so expensive that it creates homelessness that's unnecessary. People qualify for housing, they just can't navigate the rental market. It costs too much and it takes too much time.
 So we developed 1App, which was a tool that would let a renter see exactly where they qualify based on their background check.
 December of 2017, we launched One App Oregon. This is what you are seeing on the screen here. This is the map view. This is what happens when a renter on One App pulls their background check and can see every single property they qualify for. Green are approved properties. Red are properties that you don't qualify for. We don't say denied because we're not the property. What we actually say is these are action required, which means that there's work to do to get into this property.
 And yellow or orange is conditionally approved. So it's usually a double deposit or some other conditions you have to meet to move in, but you still pass. When we went out, when we launched this in December 12th, we ran this all through the entire 2018 year. And what we found, first of all, what would you think happens in a city where renters can see exactly where they qualify to live? We assumed that you would move in to the properties that you qualify to live at. That's actually not the case whatsoever.
 we found that even when people could see where they qualify, only 10% of families or households moved into approved properties. 57% moved into properties they were conditionally approved for or applied to, sorry. And 33% applied to properties they were denied to, even though they had complete vision on where they could live. So when we found out this information, we realized that people, we were unable to change human behavior.
 People do not apply to where they qualify. They apply to where they want to live. There are a few reasons when we communicated with different people, we did test and we asked, why is it that you did not apply to where you qualify?
 And one of the biggest feedbacks are community. They have their church, they have their home, they have their school, they have their parents, and they just cannot move to areas where the green pins are. If they're in Vancouver, they qualify it in Beaverton, but they live in Gresham and that's where their community is, that's where they need to stay. So they will apply to deny properties. And a lot of the time it was simply the properties that were green, they weren't interested in. This last weekend went by and I spoke to a family who,
 came in to look for a place. And there was a three bedroom in the area that they were approved for. And I was like, what's wrong with this one? And she looked at it and said, that one has the blue bedrooms. I've seen that one. I'm like, okay. She's like, I have two daughters. That was enough to not apply to the green pen and apply to deny properties. So no matter how hard we try, we are unable to get people to apply where they approve. So that changed the culture of One App.
 Because we can actually see every single reason why a person is denied on every single application in extreme detail We are able to put together solutions to why to help people get into properties They do qualify for so that changed into one apps new mission is not only to show you where you qualify but provide you with the tools in order to be approved to where you want to live and
 This is what actually attracted me to working with Jamie. Because I knew at this point that the product we had was not enough.
 And she was working on something that actually helped people get approved to places that she wanted to live, they want to live. So it was extremely exciting. I have never been paid a single dollar from Jamie's office. Every single bit of effort I put in was on our own time and money because I was very excited to create a solution to get people into housing. I think it's good that people understand that so they don't think that I was...
 that this data is tainted in any way. This is a sneak peek into 1.0 that's not launched yet.
 I wanted to show you this because it shows you what market driven solutions look like in order to create access to housing. This is what the site, this is an average renter. This renter looks like they're conditionally approved for credit. They pass the other things outside of rental history. We have products in this marketplace that will help you be approved. One of the products that is our most powerful product that we're able to do with the data is we created a product called the One App Guarantee.
 We found that out of all the denials that took place in 2018, 71% would have been approved if they had a cosigner. It is the one process that management companies use almost across the board to mitigate risk for renters that don't qualify.
 If your income is too low a little bit, if your credit is just below par, if you don't have a rental history, you've not been at your job long enough, a cosigner will get you through the door. The problem is virtually no one applies with a cosigner. Even though it's a powerful tool, people just don't have access to it. So we developed a cosigner product that we will get on the lease with you and we will cover the damages and lost rent if a person is to be denied. And so this was our way to help more renters get access to housing.
 Working with Jamie and hearing Jamie's proposal, it was so exciting because you could just snap your finger and then all the pins light up green and people have access to housing where they never had a chance to get in before.
 That's how the data works. Every single renter who pulls their background check on one app, when they click apply to a property, it not only tells them if they're approved and out of conditional, but it tells them exactly why they don't qualify in detail. Then it stores that information so that we can see in the future. Down to detail, it will literally say this property requires seven accounts and collections.
 9, you must remedy two accounts. And it shows you all seven accounts and collections, the dollar amount owed for each, and the phone number to call reported by the credit bureau. So you can, and then now we can say, a thousand dollars would have helped how many people? Because we can see the dollar amount of each account. We can see, you know, we did some data just to see how, to show how our data works. And we pulled our, we pulled every single Section 8 voucher because in last year they raised the Section 8 limits.
 on all their vouchers, and it only created access to less than 3% of housing based on our data. Because income wasn't why people were being denied, right? We had 17% were denied from criminal history. A huge percent was from rental history. So you can actually see this information. You can kind of more accurately know where to target. So that's the data. That's how it works. There's one thing that I wanted to make sure that...
 I helped change and inform the narrative of this conversation going forward because before I, originally when I first spoke with Jamie's group, I had this impression that was kind of created just universally about what property management companies are.
 And because I went through my own homeless experience, I kind of had my own idea what they were. And it's really the pictures of them has been painted as, you know, fat cats. They're wealthy. They are sitting with their feet up and they don't do anything but collect rent. And they just have the ability to they just have a lot of wealth and time.
 And during this process of following Jamie around for nearly a year now and working with lots of management companies, I found that that's actually not the case for the majority of management companies. Management company, as a matter of fact, most of them make little to no money.
 And when I say no money, I mean most of the ones we spoke to barely make enough to go get by with their companies. So I just want to make sure that that is thrown out. Also one of the big things that if you change the premise that management companies are wealthy and don't care about people and you go into and you look at it through the eyes
 They are business owners that need to create profit and make a living like everybody else. Then you start to look at denials differently. Every time a person was denied back in the day, I thought it meant you're not good enough to live here. In reality, after doing this research, I realized that what it really means is that I don't have the support systems in place to support you as a tenant. So because of that, I can't let you live here.
 And if you follow that premise further, you'll understand that most management companies' screening criteria is not actually designed to determine risk at all. Screening criteria when you meet with these owners are actually a reflection of their
 It is. Believe it or not, if a screening criteria says we don't accept renters who don't have two years of rental history, it doesn't mean that they think you're going to default. What it means is that I'm not in this to teach you how to be a renter. You need to learn how to manage a house or rent outside of me. And so once I met with them and I spoke to landlords and understood that the majority of them actually got into the business because they wanted to create access to housing, I started to look at...
 the screening criteria differently. And then I spoke to different owners who had, who were doing well what the criteria was asking to happen, right? When we say two times the rent, I went to owners that do two times the rent. And I said, how are you successful with this? And some company, and the majority of them told me I could use their name, so I plan on doing this thing. But one of the, Mo Farland was one of the ones I spoke to from Stark First Property Management.
 He has 1,250 prop units and he actually has so much passion for helping families that are rent burdened to the point to where he actually every person that he helps he knows them by name even though he has over a thousand properties and he says when a person can't pay rent they walk into his property and they he sits down with them and he says where's my money and then if they say I'm
 I had car issues or I had this or that. He's like, next month you pay a rent on time. This month we're going to break this rent payment that's due now. Don't worry about it. We'll break it over three months down the road. And he does that for every single person who does not pay the rent on time that missed it. And that's just part of his business model because he knows how to manage rent burdened families very, very well.
 if they don't pay during that payment plan, he still has options for them to continue. Another company that does this really well is Fortress. They do something very similar. I even spoke to Central City Concern because they do 1.5 times the rent. And I'm like, how are you successful with this?
 and they actually have a fund. So it's interesting to concern if you're denied or not denied, if you miss a rent payment, they actually send your 72 hour notice to a resident service coordinator at Central City Concern that calls you,
 and ask you basically what your scenario is. Then if you can't pay, they send out on your behalf rent assistance requests to all the programs they're partnered with. And then if those don't come back and pay, two times a year out of their own fund, they will pay the rent. So you can default two times per year and be covered.
 These are not solutions that the average property management companies possess. I met with criminal, and not to drag it up, I met with criminal owners who take criminal history. They just literally accept anybody who is criminal. One gentleman in particular that I wouldn't mention his name, he said he literally knows every single-
 parole officer in Portland by name. He said if they saw him, they would know him by face. He loves helping out people with criminal histories because of the fact that he can sit right across from them and tell them his story because he was a felon, and then also let them know that he's not judging them.
 he will provide the supports. And when they start making mistakes, he will look right across the table from them. And he sees that they have bloodshot eyes. He was like, I can tell you've been using, this is a violation. You can go back to prison. And he basically works with them on a personal level every single time. Uh, central city concern takes criminals as well. And, uh,
 their issue, they have an actual program that's called Flip the Script that they will, that their criminal, people with criminal history are part of that program and that provides a huge amount of support. And I asked the associate that I spoke to there if that criminal program didn't exist with those programs, would those criminals do well? And she said no. So the only reason I'm bringing this up is because I know that we're going to paint a
 First of all, I want to let you know, I actually want, throughout my homeless process, faith is really the only thing that got me through it. And I want those pins on that map to be green for people more than probably anybody else in this room. But at the same time, I mean, it's not a job for me. This is what I'm here to do right now. This is my mission.
 I need to make sure that you understand the risk that you run by passing the criteria. Not the risk, just the work, the effort that's going to be required to make it successful on the property management side. You are talking about letting renters into properties that management companies are not equipped to support.
 Right? Only so many management companies are taking two times because they're good at it. But the ones that don't take two times are not good at it. So they're going to need supports in order to be successful with that. You have people who don't know how to manage felons. Not saying that every felon is an issue, but some of them
 come with their own level of supports. And if these management companies don't have the tools in place when the traffic starts to come in, then it will be issues. During this process, I've realized that everybody's been chasing the wrong thing. Everybody's been trying to figure out, how do you find what creates defaults? We want to find the magic number that says,
 Your credit score below this means that you'll get evicted. You won't pay rent. Your rental history this low means that you're going to be a problem. And you try to find this perfect number that you can say, this is the number that you should approve people above and this is below.
 But after doing this research with Jamie, I don't believe that's the case. I don't believe there is no perfect number. Any renter will do well if placed in the right property management company that has the right supports for them, which means defaults really only occur when renters are matched with properties that aren't equipped to support their unique barriers and so if that's the case, then
 and we're going to make sure we pass this. We have to make sure we put in the effort to make sure that these management companies have the tools and solution to support the new applicants and the new characteristics of people that they have never supported before. That is really what I wanted to make because I want this to be successful. So that was what I wanted to make sure was understood on both sides of it.
 I am very excited for you to see the amount of access this rule could create if passed. So, thank you, Mr. Poole. I heard Commissioner Udalli say she wants to hold off on public testimony, but Commissioner Hardesty has a selection. You mean question? Yeah, no, just until the end of each presentation. Oh, very good. Commissioner Hardesty. All right. Thank you. Thank you, Baron. Thank you, Commissioner Udalli, for the clarification. Tyrone, you're one of my heroes.
 And you're one of my heroes because you were someone that was knocked down through no fault of your own. And you kept your eyes really focused. When I first moved here, I had no history. But I walked into an apartment complex owned by a woman and said, just moved here. Stopped my job next week. Don't have a lot of money. Don't have any local references. And she looked me in the eye and said, give me 50 bucks and you can move in. Okay.
 That would almost never happen today. I think there's a difference between nonprofit property owners, like Central City Concern, that has a host of programs that are geared towards giving people a second and third and maybe even a fourth chance, and providing resident services that actually help people troubleshoot their problems. That's one kind of rental opportunity.
 opportunity, right? Then we're talking private owners who today can kind of pick and choose and if you own a property, you really just want the easiest opportunity possible. The first person that walks up that you know has three to four times the money that's probably your person, right? Because you know they're going to pay the rent and you don't have to worry about it.
 I'm talking about an ideal world. Yep. We are not in an ideal world at this moment. Yep. We are in a real crisis. We have people, thousands of people living on our street. For me, I feel that we have an obligation to make housing available at every income level and every neighborhood. And I think we have to partner.
 So based on your personal experience, based on you following Jamie around for a year, and I'd love to be able to follow Jamie around for a year, and you said you didn't have an opinion. I need you to have an opinion because I need to know...
 that, I mean, there's an ideal world scenario and then it's the real world that we're living in today. Right? How do we get out of this crisis if we don't stop putting pieces in place to make sure that everyone has the opportunity? You said faith was what kept you going? Yep.
 Some days, faith is really hard to come by, especially when you've just been kicked, kicked, kicked, right? Yep. So can you help me, as I think about, how do I do what's in the best interest of Portlanders in a crisis? Because, again, in the ideal world, we'd have a lot of time and we could debate back and forth. We're in crisis. Right.
 What would you recommend for me? This criteria, if passed, would create a utopia for housing. People have access to places. The only fear, like the solution, I don't want to say this the wrong way. Once this criteria passes, like I said, there will be a...
 A lot of management companies that, remember, these aren't the really wealthy. In fact, let me give you some perspective on the market. Most industries are 80-20, which means 20% of the management or the 20% of the business is controlled, or 80% of the business are controlled by 20% of the companies. So a few people control almost all the market and then a tiny few pick scraps. That's not how it works in rental. It's one of the only markets that's the opposite.
 25 companies, the top 25 companies in Oregon out of 389 licensed management companies, first one's 14,000 units. The 25th company is 900. 369 companies, which makes up 80% of the rental market is the long tail of 369 companies of private management companies with 150 units under management.
 So, if you understand the market first and you know that what you're really is changing the law, not on the few top big ones that, yes, they are wealthy in this, but it's really on the 369 tiny companies. So if you understand that and you know you're going to...
 That change has to happen. So you put this out there, and what you're asking is for every management company to be efficient in every renter type simultaneously, right? So that can be a little tricky because you're saying you need to be good at managing rent-burdened families. You need to be good at managing people with criminal history. You need to be good at managing people who don't have any—
 So I'm going to cut this off because I think it's actually really important that we hear the actual presentation and then we hear from Dr. Bates. I get it, but I just wanted to make sure since she asked me the direct question of how to fix it or how would I change it, I would say if I was to pass it, then I would make sure that there was a time span before it went into place that made sure that that
 at Multifamily Housing Northwest, other programs and agency had the ability to train and educate their people on solutions
 on how to manage all of these different characters of renters that they are not used to managing before. Right. And that's why we have a delayed implementation. And I'm also a huge fan of yours and think one app is brilliant. But I do need to push back a little bit. As I explained in my opening remarks, landlords are not being forced to rent to people based on non-discriminatory business rules.
 issues. We are not asking the private market to take on tenants who would require supportive services to be successful in housing. And I also want to point out that 25 percent of
 of our renters are already spending 50% or more of their income on housing. And I can't understand for the life of me why it's not acceptable at the outset of that rental agreement to be spending 50%. But it's perfectly acceptable to allow landlords to raise it to 50% and above.
 during their tenancy. Right, but that's a different question than she asked, but yes, I agree. I appreciate it. I withdraw my question because I didn't want to take us down a different path. No, I just wanted to answer it to say to be successful...
 Just train them. That's all I would say. So let's move on to Jamie's presentation. I'd like to save the questions until the end of this presentation because we're already getting into the weeds. Alright, so let's agree on this as a protocol. Do you want us at the end of each panel to ask questions? This is the presentation. These three people have worked a lot on this policy. Okay, so then you let us know when it's time for questions. Okay.
 invited testimony. We will respect what you want us to do. Thank you. I just had a quick question. Yes, let's do it. Are you leaving? No. That's exciting. Thank you. Give me a minute to pull this up. So, Carla, how do I access the notes version on this screen? Can you help me for a sec? You can't do that. You can't do both?
 Well, it's a good thing I printed off my notes in case there was an issue. I was worried about that. Okay. So forgive me. I'm going to do a lot of looking down and looking up, but I'm going to do my best to stay engaged and read my notes here. So thank you. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor, and thank you, Tyrone, for sharing the stories and the data. We really appreciate the time that you've spent with us on this policy.
 Again, my name is Jamie Duhamel and I'm the Director of Policy for Commissioner Udailey. For the past two years, I have had the unique honor of working on this fair access and renting proposal with many community members, advocates, landlords, and private and public interests. I'm going to start this presentation by going over the outreach and development it took our office to get to this stage. But before I begin, I want to emphasize that we took an intentionally different approach to creating the code that you see before you today.
 Most of the time in government, we set our sights on fixing a problem. We give it our best shot based on our expertise, some internal guidance, and some selective input. Only then do we launch it into the public for feedback before making adjustments and bringing it to you. Instead, what we are presenting to you today was not created by our office alone, but was created with everyone you see in this room, or at least the invited testimony, and more. Thank you.
 Regardless of whether or not they are ultimately here to support it, what you are seeing is literally the 33rd draft and we're pretty proud of it. Let's start with a general timeline. This timeline only represents the work we did on the screening criteria part of the fair proposal. We actually in fact began working on the security deposit proposal in February of 2017 and an early draft was completed by the summer of 2017.
 was run through the relocation technical advisory group before it was disbanded. And once we began work on the screening criteria, it was integrated into some of the workshops and groups represented here in the timeline. So as you can see, the fair proposal timeline starting in January of 2018 kind of represents three major buckets. We started with an internal advisory group with a deep equity lens for a few months and created our first early draft.
 Then in the spring of 2018, we launched it publicly and we conducted face-to-face workshops with everyone in the city who would spend time with us. And then we took that final draft late last year and ran a beta test with the final information.
 I want to emphasize the number that you saw on there was 125.5 hours. I took meticulous notes as we developed this policy. It does not represent the phone calls, the emails, the one-off conversations and all of the in-between work that was literally face-to-face workshop time, me and others sitting around tables discussing the points of policy.
 So, we started, like I mentioned, with an internal advisory group with the Deep Equity Loans. The very first thing we did was create a mission statement that I used throughout the entire process as my guiding north star when negotiating changes to the policy drafts. I didn't quite realize it at the time, but it was a critical part of helping me evaluate the wide variety of needs, interests, and suggestion for the entire next year of work.
 As you can see, the mission statement says, we wanted to create clear channels to access housing of choice for all renters regardless of background that is consistent, fair and equitable and maintains dignity and humanity for the renter.
 With our workshops, we met with a large variety of impacted community members, including housing providers to negotiate the details. As you can see, we spent almost 55% of our time in workshop with private market and affordable housing providers, and there were significant improvements to our policy drafts because of it. I've provided each of you with a chart outlining the ways in which the policy was adapted over time to address industry concerns to land on this final version. And we'll dig into the beta test development later in the presentation.
 Through the process of outreach and development, we came to five conclusions that guided our outcomes. We'll go into each of these in detail, but in general, the findings are as follows. First, that the Fair Housing Act sets the standard for addressing housing discrimination, and indeed, the Fair Housing Act is being violated here in the City of Portland. Number two, affordability has disproportionate impacts on protected classes.
 Number three, screening barriers have disproportionate impacts on protected classes. Number four, the industry relies on mythologies to assess risk. And number five, changes to screening practice can address discriminatory outcomes.
 First, the Fair Housing Act sets the standard for addressing housing discrimination. In developing our findings, we use the disparate impact theory as upheld by the Supreme Court in 2015 to assess whether discrimination in housing occurs and who is impacted the most. The disparate impact theory holds housing providers legally liable for setting policies that don't have disproportionate outcomes regardless of their intent.
 Additionally, the Fair Housing Act requires all governmental jurisdictions to affirmatively further federal fair housing law, which means that we must act if we know discrimination in housing is happening and has been interpreted to also apply to efforts to eliminate segregation. Finally, HUD's General Counsel recommends individualized assessments as the best practice for mitigating discriminatory outcomes, particularly for justice-involved individuals.
 These are all important findings for understanding the baseline we needed to use for identifying the scope of the problem and the right solutions.
 Understanding our obligations under the Fair Housing Act then, we must ask ourselves if discrimination in housing is occurring in Portland. In fact, we have known for at least 10 years that it is because testing by the Fair Housing Council has shown discrimination in 2010, 2015, and most recently in 2018. Today, we know that one in four renters face disparate treatment based on race and nation of origin.
 The audit also found, and I quote, the most common issue identified was the provision of different terms and conditions and availability of units. Of the 13 positive tests, there was evidence of differing information provided to protected class testers with regard to rental terms and conditions, including differing rental price amounts.
 move-in specials, deposits, application fees, and screening criteria. The different information favored the comparative tester over the protected class tester. In the race color positive test, the protected African American black testers were told about higher rental prices and fewer units than their white counterparts."
 So we've already established the Fair Housing Act requires governments to affirmatively further fair housing law, and the Supreme Court has upheld the disparate impact theory, which the audit demonstrates is happening right now in Portland.
 Our second finding is that there is clear discrimination in affordability. So while property values and home prices are skyrocketing, average wages for people of color are going down. Because all or almost all of the city's neighborhoods are unaffordable to many people of color, we are reinforcing economic segregation through displacement and putting inordinate strain on affordable housing providers and their very limited housing stock. We will explore this problem in more detail a little bit later.
 However, we have a few maps from the Housing Bureau's most recent State of Housing Report. For Latinx households, only two neighborhoods can be classified as affordable. The term affordable, defined by HUD, is paying 30% or more or less of income on housing costs, and that roughly equates to about three times a month's rent income ratio, income to rent ratio. For black households, no neighborhoods are affordable.
 And for Native American households, no neighborhoods are affordable. This map provided by Metro demonstrates that economic segregation has significant impacts on people of color.
 More and more families are being pushed to less-resourced parts of our city and are being pushed out of the city completely. As Tyrone explained earlier, families will often apply to units they don't qualify for because they want to have choice over where they live and the communities they raise their children in. Right now, people have very little choice. Our third finding is that commonly used screening criteria have disproportionate impacts on protected classes. Let's start with credit history.
 State law gives explicit rights to landlords to screen for credit scores and credit issues. However, research from the National Fair Housing Alliance, as well as the National Consumer Law Center, and many more, prove that current credit scoring systems have disparate impacts on people of color and were designed to support housing discrimination at their core.
 Through redlining, predatory lending, disparate wage gaps, and other racist government policies, the average credit score for Black and Latinx people are approximately half that of white non-Hispanics. Additionally, credit scores and accounts do not reflect positive rental payments, and in fact, companies often do not report positive credit payments at all. If you are a renter with a limited income and a lack of assets, you often have to choose between keeping a roof over your head or paying a student loan on time.
 One is an essential need not reflected in credit, while the other communicates false information about your ability to pay rent.
 Finally, both FICO and TransUnion released reports that found borrowers with higher FICO scores are in many ways acting the way borrowers with very low scores are predicted to act. During the subprime mortgage crisis, their delinquency rates were four times that of borrowers with credit scores below 600. In fact, many lenders that do not rely on credit scoring mechanisms at all experience default rates that are lower than industry standard.
 As is well known, screening for criminal history also has disproportionate impacts. Locally, we know people of color are five times as likely to be incarcerated as their white counterparts. In fact, Oregon ranks seventh in the country for incarceration rates of our black population. Nationally, black and Latinx individuals comprise an estimated 58% of the U.S. prison population, despite accounting for only 25% of the total U.S. population.
 These impacts are well documented by HUD and form the foundation of their guidance around individualized assessments. Additionally, National Health Care for the Homeless Council found that justice-involved individuals are subject to public policies that impede successful reintegration into society, especially housing, leading to higher rates of recidivism and homelessness.
 So in essence, we allow justice-involved individuals to continue to be punished even after they have served their time and posed on them by the justice system. The stigma of past incarceration continues to drive public policies that either exacerbate or quietly allows a lack of access to fundamental resources, like housing, that enable them to contribute positively to society and avoid negative outcomes, like increased recidivism and homelessness.
 It's a vicious cycle of our own making. We must create policy that promotes a culture of early rehousing.
 Eviction histories is the third category of discriminatory barriers. We don't have local eviction data available, but a 2018 eviction study in Seattle found that over 51% of tenants in eviction filings were people of color. 31% were black tenants experiencing eviction at a rate four and a half times what would be expected based on their demographics in Seattle.
 Additionally, a study published by the Harvard Civil Liberties Law Review found that Hispanics in predominantly white neighborhoods were twice as likely to be evicted and more likely to be evicted when their landlord was non-Hispanic. Considering Portland's legacy and demographics, it is reasonable for us to assume similar outcomes here.
 Our fourth finding is that landlords, and really the industry as a whole, uses risk mythologies to assess applicant risk. This isn't intentional on their part. This is simply how the business of providing housing has developed to maximize time and money. Many people believe that renting to someone with a criminal history will make the community and neighborhood unsafe, and they are less likely to be good tenants.
 But a study conducted by a Minnesota-based research collaborative and Wilder Research found that misdemeanor offenses that occurred more than three years ago and felony offenses that occurred more than five years ago have no significant effect on rental housing outcomes. To determine negative housing outcomes, the researchers looked at evictions based on lease violations for behavior, nonpayment of rent, leave without notice, and a category called other.
 It goes on to explain that even when negative outcomes occurred, the average stay was one and a half years before the outcome, which is still pretty good. More specifically, 11 of 15 criminal offense categories, including violent felonies, have no significant effect on housing outcomes. In other words, they were just as likely as tenants with no criminal history to have positive or negative outcomes.
 Even the four of the 15 criminal offense categories that may increase the likelihood of negative housing outcomes only does so by three to nine percentage points at most, and the study claims that is an overestimation.
 Criminal recidivism research shows that juvenile offenders pose little to no risk of going on to become long-term recidivists of criminal behavior, and research also shows that recidivism rates of offenders decrease to almost the rate of non-defenders after approximately seven years. This time frame of seven years is widely accepted and is often used in employment screenings as well.
 What research shows is that the longer the time since a criminal offense was committed, the less likely a person is to re-offend at all. Time since offense is the essential factor here. Finally, research has also shown that recidivism rates double for formerly incarcerated adults who do not have stable housing.
 We have heard repeatedly from landlords that renting to people with criminal histories increases their legal liabilities. In fact, no landlord has ever been held legally liable for the criminal act of a tenant based on their decision to rent to someone with a criminal history alone. A research report published by the NYU Journal of Legislation and Public Policy found that past criminal history is not an appropriate predictor of future criminal behavior.
 because there is no straight line to draw from one offense to another. Which is why case law upholds that landlords cannot be held legally liable for the acts of others unless it was foreseeable based on previous behavior on that same property or was foreseeable because the landlord did not provide a safe and secure premises. So for example, if a tenant has a broken lock on their front door and the landlord doesn't fix it,
 If that tenant is burglarized or harmed from someone entering their unit, the landlord can be held liable for not fixing the lock. In fact, no state in the country, and this is really important, no state in the country even requires screening of tenants for any barriers.
 let alone criminal histories. Landlords often have the right to do so if they want, but they are not required to consider any barriers because it is not a landlord's legal obligation to keep certain people out.
 The industry is using credit scores as a shortcut to determining an applicant's sense of financial responsibility. Since we have already established that credit scores and indeed the entire credit system is inherently racist and not reflective of actual risk, using the scores alone is not appropriate and just perpetuates racial disparities. The only debt that truly matters in this circumstance would be debts owed to previous landlords.
 And finally, a very common myth is that people with eviction histories are going to be bad tenants. An eviction record alone is not a predictor of anything because of disproportionate use. Evictions are used as a means of retaliation and discrimination, so the types of evictions are important as well as the length of time since the evictions occurred. For non-payments of rent, which represent the vast majority of evictions, someone can be evicted for any amount they were short, $20 for example, and landlords are not obligated to extend the time for payments.
 As Tyrone mentioned, some of the really good ones do, and we're really grateful for that. But if they want them out, it is a perfect opportunity.
 And in the current affordability crisis renters are dealing with, those opportunities present themselves more often. Regardless, that circumstance should not prevent someone from ever accessing housing again. There is literally no way for a renter to overcome the stigma of a previous eviction until they are given the opportunity to build a better rental history. It's a catch-22 that leads to homelessness.
 Instead, only specific patterns of recent behavior can accurately assess risk. Nonpayment of rent, again it can be for any amount, that occurred several years ago has no direct relevant bearing on whether or not someone can pay rent today. And just like with criminal history, if they've gone several years without an eviction, it would indicate that they have established some form of stability or should at least be given the chance to demonstrate that they have.
 Our last finding is that reforming the way landlords screen for tenancies can mitigate many of the issues we have described. Reforming screening criteria is not a new concept to the city. In fact, in 2011, the Fair Housing Action Plan, then under Commissioner Fish, was developed to give policy recommendations to end housing discrimination. As you can see, recommendation number four specifically called for changes to screening criteria. The action plan also said, and I quote,
 This action plan sets forth the specific actions the City of Portland, through the Portland Housing Bureau, will take in 2011 to 2012 as the first set of bold steps over the next five years to end discrimination in rental housing. It builds on the visionary work of the Analysis of Impediments Review Committee and provides a comprehensive approach blending enforcement, education, and increased access to affordable homes and services. And we just want to thank and are grateful for Commissioner Fish's leadership on that.
 In addition, calls to change screening criteria and affirmatively further fair housing law is in the Home for Everyone 2016 to 2017 Housing Workgroup Action Plan. Finally, but most importantly, calls for changing screening criteria have been coming from impacted tenants and advocates for decades. I will let those who are here today and tomorrow speak for themselves.
 As the city's fair housing audit demonstrated, a lack of regulations and standards in the screening process has allowed a culture of discrimination, intentional or not, to flourish. Each landlord is allowed wide latitude in what they screen for, how they process applications, what income ratio and barriers they think determines risk. This environment makes fair housing testing and enforcement more difficult and violations nearly impossible to prove.
 Discrimination is not always intentional. Standardized screening practices with key accountability mechanisms can make fair housing requirements much easier for landlords to understand and apply in their everyday practice and should give them more peace of mind that they are doing the right thing and have less legal liability in court because of it.
 The four key solutions are on the screen and in summary, we are recommending to use recognized best practices such as first come, first serve processing as well as expanding the use of individualized assessments to address barriers. We recommend setting a lower income ratio to address economic segregation and income inequalities and low impact look back periods to screen for criminal histories and low impact credit conditions to screen for credit histories.
 So, that brings us to the proposal package. Before we get into the details, it is important to note that while there are two distinct policies within this proposal, they are integral to each other and linked in very direct ways. When we were ready to bring our security deposit draft to council in the summer of 2017, we heard loud and clear from our community partners that we would be making housing access worse for people of color.
 Landlords use security deposits to offset their perceived risks and some landlords right now in the city charge second chance tenants up to five times the rent for a deposit. We realize that making changes to what and how they make deposit claims would exacerbate screening discrimination. It is critical for this council to understand that one really needs the other to work effectively.
 We spent a lot of time discussing the data around screening criteria impacts, so it's important we take a moment to explain that there are significant barriers in security deposits as well. Ancillary income is a profit landlords make in addition to base rent and is a hot trend. This picture comes from a presentation given at the 2017 National Apartment Association Education Conference by a company called Entrata.
 They did a study of over 2 million apartment units and found that the number five source of ancillary income for landlords was in security deposits. In Portland, a lack of key regulations makes this ancillary income easier to come by. So let's start with deposit caps. There is no law in Oregon that limits the amount a landlord can charge for a security deposit. As explained earlier, those amounts can get shockingly high.
 Of the 25 states that set deposit caps, 22 states are between one time to two time a month's rent, two states are less than a month's rent, and one state is three times a month's rent. The other half of the states, including ours, is silent on the matter. Because state law gives explicit rights to landlords to charge both first and last month's rent, and because a deposit can also be used for last month's rent, we had to take a nuanced approach to the deposit caps.
 In total, a landlord can charge one to two times a month's rent total for a security deposit depending on whether or not they include last month's rent or if conditions as identified in the screening process warrant additional consideration of barriers. So including first month's rent which is almost always required, total moving cost won't exceed two times to three times a month's rent amount and while that is still high, it is fairly typical in the country.
 State law gives explicit right to the landlord to charge for repair and replacement, but not actually do the repair or replacement. It literally states that. State law also does not require much in the way of accounting of actual damages to make claims against the deposit, except for an invoice due to the tenant 30 days after move out.
 We are recommending a more thorough process for tenants and landlords to agree upon what damage already exists in the unit at move-in through a condition report. The report is the baseline for any claims the landlord intends to make at the end of the tenancy, and in addition, the landlord must include pictures and proper evidence of labor charges when making claims for damage. State law mandates that landlords can only use deposits to cover unpaid rent or damages caused by the tenant.
 Quote unquote, not including ordinary wear and tear. And that's about the extent of that explanation in state law. The common practice is to charge for full cleaning often after cleaning is done by the tenant before move out, to charge to put on a fresh coat of paint, and to repair or replace items regardless of how the damage was caused, including worn out carpet. Additionally, landlords commonly charge full replacement of all carpets and hardwood floors when damage occurs in a single area because they want it to match.
 We are recommending a more complete definition of wear and tear that makes clear landlords cannot charge for items that weren't damaged intentionally or through misuse or neglect. In addition, we have eliminated the ability to charge for basic cleaning and for paint, except where it is needed to repair damage to a wall. We have also provided a provision that limits what they can charge for damaged flooring, containing it only to the room or area in which the damage occurred.
 We are also recommending that the amount charged must follow a reasonable depreciation schedule. In effect, landlords should only be allowed to charge for the actual value of the item, in other words, what they could have sold it for in its used condition, at the time it was broken. We have not yet identified a specific depreciation schedule, so that is an area that will be decided in administrative rules if the policy passes and before implementation begins.
 State law requires only property management companies to keep security deposits in separate client accounts. In practice, landlords who are also not property managers often mix the deposits in their operating and personal funds. In fact, one private company who owns over 800 units told us directly that he always puts deposits in his operating budget, and we have since learned that he uses that budget to purchase additional properties.
 What that means is that landlords can be highly incentivized not to return any of the money because they are depending on it for other uses. Many other states require separate accounts and interest of a minimum amount paid to the tenant. We are recommending that landlords must put deposits in a separate account of their choice and can use the same separate account for all units. If they choose to use an interest-bearing account, that interest is due to the tenant upon move out minus an optional 5% admin fee.
 In addition, we are including new reporting requirements that are designed to assist tenants in providing evidence to their next landlord during the screening process. Before move out, a landlord would need to provide a tenant with both a rental history form that follows specific conditions described in the screening criteria policy and also a payment accounting of the last two years to enable them to demonstrate the history of payments they made to their current landlord since it's not reflected in credit.
 Both of these reports contain critical information that is often used to deny housing to tenants when former landlords do not respond to requests from screening companies. Now on to screening criteria. There is no state law requirements about how applications are processed or what information an application must provide to an applicant. In practice, smaller to medium-sized landlords typically take in many applications at a time and sift through them as they arrive until they find someone that they want.
 As the Fair Housing Audit demonstrated, the point at which an application is submitted is the primary intersection with discriminatory practices. Larger landlords and property managers often voluntarily use a first-come, first-served model as it is considered best practice to avoid fair housing claims.
 We are recommending a first-come, first-served approach for all landlords. The policy requires that landlords provide a receipt and queue number to applicants as completed applications are submitted and then process them in the order they were received. Nothing prevents a landlord from screening multiple applications at a time as long as they issue a determination in order.
 Because moving to a first-come, first-served system is inherently inequitable to some degree, we are recommending accountability mechanisms such as a 72-hour notification advertisement window before landlords accept applications for vacant units. This allows people who need to request time off from work, need translation assistance, have disabling conditions that require assistance, or need time to get their supplemental evidence gathered to have a shot at being the front of the line.
 The advertisement requirements also include notification about units that are fully accessible by ADA standards. And the preference policy allows individuals who need those units to be considered for them first if they apply within the first eight hours of an open application period.
 Finally, we have created a unique heads of household definition that allows a group of adults to choose who choose to live together to identify amongst themselves who will be the legal leaseholders responsible for paying the rent. This allows other adults to be screened on a more limited basis because they are not legally liable, but opens the door of greater access for multigenerational households, families who may have adult children with disabilities, and peoples whose income is so low they would never qualify on their own.
 This graph from Metro gives us a little insight into multigenerational households in Portland. As you can see, there are thousands of tenants in multigenerational households, and they are more likely to be households of color.
 State law gives explicit rights to screen for credit, eviction, and criminal history conditions, but does not specify the type of identification needed to acquire the information. Screening companies have told us that the only thing they need in order to establish identity is any document or combination of documents that matches the person's name with their face and their date of birth. Social Security numbers are only used for checking credit.
 We are recommending a wide variety of possible forms of identification to allow people without government issued ID to enter into housing. We have also added a provision that landlords cannot reject an application due to a lack of social security number. If the landlord uses the low barrier criteria, which we'll explain in a little bit, it won't matter for checking credit because lack of credit is not a condition an applicant can be denied for.
 If the landlord adopts the individual assessment model, lack of credit becomes part of the consideration and applicants can provide supplemental evidence about their credit conditions or a reasonable explanation of why they did not provide a social security number. State law does not mandate an income ratio, but in practice most use the three times income ratio. But some landlords require an even higher ratio for their market rate apartments.
 Resource providers across the board have told us that income ratio is the biggest obstacle into market rate housing. This puts tremendous pressure on affordable housing provider resources as well as creates economic segregation that impacts people of color the most. Also, people who have Section 8 vouchers have extreme difficulty finding market rate housing they can afford, and at least 25% are forced to give the voucher back.
 and at least half of all voucher holders are seniors and people with disabilities. We are recommending landlords cannot reject applicants who make at least two times the rent or at least two and a half times when three major utility costs are paid directly by the tenant. To compensate for the increased risk on future non-payments of rent, landlords can require either additional half-month security deposit taken in installments or a guarantor, or as Tyrone called it, a co-signer.
 when an applicant falls at two times the income ratio. This provides an additional assurance that the applicant has other resources to help them pay rent if they fall short. Additionally, for voucher holders, a landlord must subtract the voucher amount from the full rent amount before calculating the remaining ratio. And again, only heads of household would be screened for income, allowing other low-income tenants another opportunity to access housing.
 The concerns around lowering the income ratio are understandable, but at this point in time, there are no better answers. We have some organizations here who will speak to this in their testimony, but this infographic provided by Metro demonstrates the mismatch between units that are available and the incomes of people who need to access those units. As you can see, the number of units available to people who make 60% AMI or less is about half the number of people who need them.
 Lowering the income ratio allows us to ease some of this mismatch, which based on a previous map clearly demonstrates economic segregation, while also easing some of the resource burden put upon our limited affordable housing units. Okay, so let's talk about screening for barriers. Our proposed policy does not force landlords to rent to anyone or remove a landlord's purview over who lives on their property. It is against state law for us to do so.
 Rather, this policy simply asks landlords to choose their own screening process and provides the following two options. Option one, adopt the low barrier set of criteria outlined in this code. This is a fast, simple way to screen as quickly and easily as the current system allows. This criteria is based on data that supports a more accurate and equitable assessment of what constitutes risk, quote unquote, in an applicant's history.
 Or option two, adopt the individual assessment model. This allows landlords to choose whatever screening criteria they want as allowed by state law. But if they intend to deny an applicant, landlords must consider any evidence the applicant supplied that demonstrates they have mitigated or improved any of the housing barriers.
 that they are being denied for. For example, someone with an eviction on their record can show proof that they have held a steady job for a long time or that the eviction was based on conditions in their life that no longer exist.
 The landlord will still be empowered to make the final decision about if the applicant is right for their property. They just have to provide information to the prospective tenant about why they are being denied and what the specific business interest reason is that the landlord has determined as a basis for denial. This process is already outlined in HUD guidance and should be familiar to landlords. In fact, nothing about the individual assessment process should be new.
 We have simply codified in more explicit and objective terms how to conduct an individualized assessment and for what barriers. So while it may look confusing to people who have not been a landlord before or who are unfamiliar with the Fair Housing Act, this is something everyone should know well and be doing anyway. Okay.
 In fact, we believe that by codifying the process laid out in federal guidance, we are helping to educate landlords about what the Fair Housing Act says, and we are giving them a step-by-step process that, if followed, helps protect them against discrimination claims. This is just good business practice.
 What does not exist now is any requirement that a landlord demonstrate they actually considered information an applicant may give them. So we created the notice of denial to serve this purpose. And on your screen is just an example of what that could look like.
 HUD's Office of General Guidance says, and I quote, thus where a policy or practice that restricts access to housing has a disparate impact on individuals of a particular race, national origin, or other protected class, such policy or practice is unlawful under the Fair Housing Act if it is not necessary to serve a substantial, legitimate, non-discriminatory interest of the housing provider or if such interest could be served by another practice that has a less discriminatory effect.
 We are simply asking landlords to communicate the answer to three questions that follows HUD guidance. Number one, what is the specific screening criteria barrier they are being denied for? Number two, if supplemental evidence was provided, what part did it play in this analysis? And three, based on the first two answers, what is the business interest non-discriminatory reason for denying the application?
 This protects landlords from false claims of discrimination and gives tenants the information they need to either improve or acquire the types of evidence they need to overcome their barriers into housing with their next application.
 The length of time it would take a landlord to follow the individual assessment model and the advertising requirements are largely within their control. This is a timeline that demonstrates just how quickly turnover can occur. Day one is when a landlord either issues a notice to vacate or a tenant issues a notice that they are moving. This is typically anywhere from a 30 to 90 day notice. However, there are 72 hour notices for eviction purposes and more rarely 24 hour notices for extreme circumstances.
 So for this timeline we will assume a 72-hour notice.
 As soon as they know a unit will become available, a landlord can immediately identify an application period and begin advertising. For a 72-hour notice, that means screening may begin as soon as the unit is empty. But for longer notices, screening can begin long before the unit is available. In either circumstance, it takes time for a landlord to assess unit conditions, clean, and make repairs for the next tenant. In fact, our security deposit policy gives landlords up to a week to complete a final inspection, although they can do it much quicker.
 Landlords can start screening the minute they receive the first application, assuming it is not an accessible unit, which requires an eight-hour preference window. Because the individual assessment model requires tenants to provide any evidence they want considered at the time they submit their application, there is no additional time needed if they intend to deny and are mandated to do an assessment. What they are given is all they are required to use to assess. Next slide.
 So, screening companies, there are several screening companies locally who do a more manual process and they've told us that they typically turn around applications in three business days. So, maybe five days if it falls on a weekend. So, there are a number of landlords who already have a lengthier screening process in place and there are a number of screening companies who are already prepared to do this type of
 In the end, it is entirely reasonable to expect to be able to screen within a three to five day window, which is still only four to six days since the tenant moved out in this scenario, once applications are accepted with a 72-hour notice that can happen before the unit is even ready for the next tenant to move in. There is nothing in this policy that requires landlords to wait for postmarked mail or that assessments would have to be conducted one at a time.
 Multiple applications can be screened at the same time as long as the approval or denial is issued in the order they were received. In fact, if multiple applications are screened, that's better for them because landlords are explicitly allowed by policy to put those who are approved on a waiting list. Then when additional units open, they don't even have to advertise at all as long as the waiting list follows the order in which the applications were received.
 These are the conditions of the low barrier criteria that we are encouraging all landlords to voluntarily adopt. As you can see, it is meant to represent what research and best practices tell us about what constitutes true risk in a potential tenant.
 The credit conditions focus on lowered amounts of debt and credit scores, rental history focuses on establishing more recent patterns of specific behaviors, and criminal history conditions focus on judgments that have shown to not increase negative housing outcomes. You may also note that the look-back periods are based more on recidivism research as opposed to the even earlier look-back outcomes of the recent housing study.
 The length of time it takes for a landlord to follow the low barrier model is even quicker than the assessment model. We expect applicants can be screened for acceptance or denial on the very first day of the open application period or possibly the next day if it is an accessible unit. In a 72-hour notice scenario, this is only one or two days after move-out, and the unit is likely not even ready for the next tenant.
 State law currently requires landlords to only charge what is reasonable or what the screening company they use is charging. They must also return fees within two weeks if not used to screen an applicant. However, many do not follow this requirement because state law can be misinterpreted. It takes an applicant an average of four paid fees before they are approved and that number is higher for people of color and average fees are anywhere from $40 to $60 per adult but some are as high as $100.
 We are recommending a more nuanced approach to fees based on the feedback that the new policy may incentivize landlords to bring some of the assessment in-house. We have identified percentages that can be charged depending on the type of screening process the landlord adopts. We have also made explicit when fees must be returned. For landlords who use the lengthier assessment model only, screening companies have told us they may have to increase their fees by $20 or so or offer it as an additional service on a case-by-case basis.
 Since we know that the average applicant pays for screening fees before they are accepted into housing, we believe the fee schedule in combination with other parts of the policy, like the first come, first serve, notice of denial information, notice of rights and requirements, et cetera, we believe it will reduce the average number of fees paid by at least half.
 So, because we are reducing the number of fees paid, this will not result in a net increased cost for applicants and will actually result in a decreased net cost for those who apply to units using a low barrier model. We're getting to the end, I promise, at least of me talking.
 We have included a few very important exemptions. First, there are a number of ways in which resource providers and landlords have developed direct relationships and created agreements for placement preferences for vulnerable tenants. We do not want to interfere with those relationships as they serve the best interests of the tenants.
 Exemptions also include landlords and sub-lacers who share the residence, units that are rented privately, and any funding or loan requirements that mandate specific screening would supersede the parts of the policy in direct conflict with theirs. Jamie, I'm going to get in trouble with the sponsor, but this is such an important screen. I just, this goes to one of the questions that I had with your dispensation.
 Council set a goal of 2,000 units of permanent supportive housing. Council has policies regarding foster kids and intergenerational housing. We support providers to do refugee resettlement and then domestic violence survivors go to the head of the line in certain cases.
 Would those all potentially be covered under formal agreements that have a different set of rules than what we're currently proposing? Yes. So the intention is if there are specific formal arrangements between somebody trying to place vulnerable tenants into housing and somebody who's providing units for those vulnerable tenants, they would be exempted from the policy as a whole. Thank you. And finally, the best part. I'm so excited to get to this moment.
 We wrapped up our development of this policy by conducting a beta test with affordable housing providers, market rate providers, legal advocates, and resource advocates. We focused on case studies of real tenants that we used to conduct mock screenings. That helped us to identify any ways in which the policy was cumbersome or had legal or administrative issues. From those screenings, we were able to make final adjustments to the policy.
 But the most interesting part of the beta test was the data analysis. We were extremely lucky to contract with Dr. Lisa Bates, who is well known to the city and nationally for her research on displacement and racial justice. And Dr. Bates is here to explain the results of that analysis as a conclusion to our presentation. Dr. Bates, it is time for me to be quiet and for you to talk.
 Excuse me, Mayor. Before Dr. Bates speaks, I just wanted to say that if we all look angry, it's because there's this white noise that's beating down on us and it's causing a severe headache. So it has nothing to do with anything that anybody is saying or anybody that's in the audience. I just want you to know that we are suffering in silence here because this is such an important issue.
 I'm really relieved to hear that because I wasn't quite sure. I was the one talking the whole time. Are you ready? Yes. Also, as the presiding officer, I'm the bearer of bad news. We are approximately halfway through today's work session and I understand there are five panels and we are not through the first panel yet. I just want to put a time check out there. Each of the panelists have been asked to keep their remarks to about five minutes. Moving forward. Are you ready? Yeah.
 Thank you. Good afternoon Great thank you so much as Jimmy described my name is Lisa Bates I have a PhD in city and regional planning with expertise in housing policy and economics and is on that basis Which I was contracted by Commissioner you daily's office to provide some data analysis for what we described as a beta test to simulate the outcomes of screening and
 That beta test included a number of meetings with landlords and providers and property managers to think about individualized applications and also this larger data test, which is what I'm going to describe today, using the tenant data from the one app platform. So approximately 5,800 tenant applications that were submitted as of January.
 This is an analysis of the non-income to rent ratio criteria in the policy. So it does not include the income to rent ratio because that, of course, would be very specific to a unit and a price. But this allows us to understand how other kinds of rental history experiences for applicants may affect their ability to gain housing. So just to give a general sense of this applicant data.
 This is not a statistically representative random sample data set, but it is a large database of tenant applicants that have a variety of characteristics that allow us to test for different kinds of tenant screening barriers. So there's a gender and racial diversity. There's a fairly wide income range, including a substantial number of lower income households in the data set.
 And we do have, if you'll advance the slide, a number of folks who have the kinds of challenges to housing access that we're interested in, thinking about whether or not the policy proposal would change their ability to gain access to housing, including housing choice vouchers, a history of eviction filings, a history of criminal justice system contact, or having no rental history at all reported.
 So, sort of newer household forms with no rental history. There's also about a quarter of the folks in the database do not have a credit history that is recorded and have a mean history.
 credit score just over 600 but with a substantial number of folks less than 600. So just to give some visual representation here to see the difference between a standard industry practice and the fair proposal, the folks who fall in between these two orange lines would be those captured by changed standards on eviction filing.
 To give a sense again in this data set of the number or the proportion of people who have had contact with the criminal justice system in terms of convictions, this is the number. It's a small number and most of them, most of those folks would fall into the over seven year range of past history.
 For credit scores, again, we have a pretty significant number of folks with an under 600 credit score, with 600 being a baseline in many of the industry standard operating procedures. Rental history, again, will be a barrier for a substantial number of people who do not have a reported rental history for whatever reason. So in terms of looking at these outcomes, essentially what I've done is simulate the screening.
 Giving folks a sort of yes, no, we're an indeterminate across four policies this policy proposal the standard screening provided by a multi-family Northwest provided by another private industry group and one provided by central city concern to represent an affordable housing providers and
 So, we looked at all tenants across all four policies and then tried to drill down on some specific groups of persons with issues or backgrounds that were flagged as having particular concern. So, again, noting we do not have income-to-rent ratios here, so these are folks passing the screening based on other kinds of rental history barriers.
 And there are some indeterminate outcomes because we do not have full data for some issues. So as an example, in speaking with Tyrone about the data, the information on a felony versus a misdemeanor conviction is not particularly reliable because of differences from state to state in terms of what,
 activities are charged in what ways. So there's a number of people who end up in an indeterminate category because their charge falls within a time span that is in the look back, but we don't know whether it's a misdemeanor or a felony. So that would be one example. So our high-level analysis is that
 Approximately 4,000 people would be approved on the criteria in the fair policy under this new proposal out of about 5,900 people altogether. There is a substantial shift in outcomes, particularly for private market rental screening policies.
 So here looking at the two private rental screening policies that we tested, there is a pretty significant shift from outright denial into approval under the policy proposal. So if we look at what drives those different outcomes, it is largely credit history, rental
 So, in taking a look through our conversations with the committee, the advisory group, I was able to assess and analyze the relationship between credit history and eviction filing and found no relationship statistically in this data set.
 For rental history, of course, if you have no months reported rental history, you don't have an eviction history. But that sort of indicates, I think, the catch-22. How do you get a rental history if you don't already have a rental history, if rental history is required to be screened? So those are the two most substantial drivers in terms of these numbers.
 talked a lot in the conversation about eviction and criminal justice contact history as issues of concern
 But those are very small numbers relatively in the data set, right? About 600 folks with an eviction history, just over 500 with a criminal justice history. So this shift to approval is not largely driven by either of those characteristics. It is largely driven by credit and rental history criteria.
 It's also the case, I'll note that both of the market provider policies as written indicate that there are opportunities for additional individualized screening that may be available under unclear circumstances based on the written policy. So this is an analysis simply taking at face value their baseline rules.
 but they have some pathways apparently available under some unclear circumstances that may allow more people to have access. The fair policy proposal in looking at outcomes looks most like, and in fact very similar to, central city concern as an affordable housing providers policy. So the kinds of practices of those providers would be similar to this policy.
 Overall, from one-third to one-half of the applicants with data in this data set are newly approved with the FAIR policy as compared to current industry standard operating procedure.
 We did drill down and look at some groups of concern. And again, I would caution, these are not very large numbers of subpopulations, but these are the sort of the data that we have and we're able to use to understand what this market looks like. So if we look at the screening criteria for applicants who report using a voucher, housing choice voucher, or commonly known as Section 8,
 there is a significant shift into an approval for folks who have vouchers. To be clear, having a voucher is not itself a criteria for the screening, but the other characteristics that people have
 regarding, for example, their credit score that correlate highly with having a voucher, which is for low-income folks, are the things that block people with vouchers from these written screening policies. Second, we looked at those tenant applicants with low to moderate incomes.
 And again, those same kinds of correlating characteristics around credit history, rental history, etc. allow many more of those households to shift into the approved category. For those with a criminal justice contact history, we have a substantial shift.
 There are still a number of folks, and again, this is out of 530 individuals who have a history of criminal justice conduct in the database who are in an indeterminate category. But this allows access where there would have been essentially no access available baseline. And finally, to connect to the conversation around fair housing and discrimination,
 This policy provides substantially greater access for folks who identify as people of color in this database. Jamie described, I think, at some length the relationship of race with credit score, as well as other economic indicators that are connected in differential treatment in terms of eviction, criminal justice, contact, et cetera, that would all lead to
 a greater likelihood of a rejection in the current standard operating procedures. So again, to sort of conclude our simulated test, increased access for somewhere between one-third and one-half of renter applicants as compared to current industry standard operating procedures.
 similar to the kind of screening that happens with affordable housing providers now. Folks who are of course dedicated to providing access to folks with lower incomes. And this policy would increase the acceptance rate on the criteria of history, rental history barriers for people of color, low-income applicants and those with housing choice vouchers. Thank you. Thank you. That concludes our presentation.
 Colleagues, questions? Mr. Fisher. Mr. Fisher. Thank you. Jamie Duhamel, I have a number of questions I'd like to just pose to you. If you don't have an answer readily available, I'm happy to get an email or talk to you after today's hearing. Thank you. Mr. What is our best estimate of the number of rental units in the City of Portland? Oh, gosh.
 I had the number of 124,472. I think that's correct. Called from some documents that we were given. But is that in the ballpark? I think that's in the ballpark, yes. And do we know off of that data what the distribution is as between small, medium and large landlords? Well, unfortunately we don't have a registration in the City of Portland. So I think that I don't know if the Housing Bureau has guesses around that, but we don't actually have any direct data.
 What is the status of the landlord registry? You would have to ask the Housing Bureau that question. I'm sorry. Okay. Or I can find it for you and provide it later. So I have a couple of questions which I'm going to put under the heading, what does success look like? In the first year of this program, what do you guesstimate will be the cost of administration on the city side?
 Well, we issued a directive to develop to get that analysis. Based on what the Housing Bureau has provided, they believe that the delayed implementation plan could cost around $500,000. That's largely because there is no registration process. They would need to direct mail all landlords.
 I think tenants, they have a training plan, they have to turn forms, you know, they have to do interpretate, interpret forms into multiple languages. There's a lot of work that needs to happen. So their guess is around $500,000 for that delayed implementation plan and then a little over $400,000.
 annually to pay for two increased staff members. Their analysis suggests that the policy will require a great amount of interaction between the Housing Bureau and landlords and tenants as they learn the policy and adapt to the new regulations. Chair Greg Musil, So with those numbers, which I'll just say roughly comes to a million, roughly a million dollars for this year of one time and ongoing.
 That puts a fair amount of pressure on the budget discussions which we are in the process of having the Mayor comes out with his proposed budget in May. In terms of again what does success look like, if you are unsuccessful in getting the half million dollars and the $400,000 annually in year one, does that effectively mean that this would have to be delayed as to when it kicks in?
 I want to clarify a little bit. It is my understanding based on the analysis, it would not be a million dollars at once. It's $500,000 for this budget year and then moving forward, additional budget years, it would be over $400,000. It's not a million at once. I'm going to be a pessimist for a moment. We have less than two million of ongoing money to carve up and probably when the dust settles, somewhere around seven million in one time.
 and we have a rather robust set of asks that the council has put in. If you are unsuccessful in getting the additional resources you need to get this thing up and running, does that effectively push off the implementation date?
 It could push off the implementation date. I think that there's nothing within this policy that requires a dollar amount. How we move forward with implementation is fully within our control and I think there's a wide variety of circumstances that we can or scenarios that we can come up with if we can't get the full amount as requested by the Housing Bureau.
 But if it requires, you know, so our recommendation is that we implement by October 1st, 2019, to give six months for training and information to be provided to landlords and tenants. If we need to push that off to January 1st, that's certainly a consideration that we can take up. A couple other questions. How long do you anticipate it will take to develop administrative rules? That would also be a question for the Housing Bureau. Okay. Okay.
 One of the features of this law is that a tenant that feels aggrieved can go get a private attorney or get an attorney to bring an action for damages and can recover his or her attorney fees. What is your sense of the availability of lawyers to help enforce the terms of this
 We've been working very closely with legal advocates who represent low income tenants and tenants at large. The Fair Housing Council is fully prepared. The Legal Aid and Oregon Law Center have been fully involved and understand the policy deeply. We anticipate that they will be ready and willing and available to assist tenants as these kind of issues of conflict and clarification of policy present themselves. Did I answer your question?
 Yeah. I mean, they're already pretty strained in terms of providing services to people. The question will ultimately be one of whether the private bar steps up and is willing to take these cases. I see Alan Lazo nodding his head affirmatively. Affirmatively nodding his head. And, you know, it's not...
 I don't know whether historically we've always been able to count on the private bar to take their fair share for these kinds of cases, but that would be the principle enforcement mechanism, correct?
 Correct. We would, you know, our long-term vision is that we would be able to in-house enforcement of these policies. We think long-term it has better outcomes for tenants and for landlords if the city can take it out of the court system. Unfortunately, because we don't have a registration system and we also don't have a licensing program, we have no authority to enforce or issue fees or fines to the landlord industry as a whole.
 So, right now, it exclusively lives in the court system, just like state landlord-tenant law.
 tried to find a good balance in the damages part of this policy that would disincentivize landlords from violating the policy and also incentivize private attorneys and tenants to pursue their rights because it is often the case that for tenants the time and cost and intimidation around going to court to pursue their rights is too much for them to bear. So we definitely tried to strike a balance.
 My last question is, looking nationally, what are some of the cities that have tried all or a part of this proposal, and what can we learn from the record that they've had implementing similar proposals?
 So the policy that we are presenting to you today does not exist in form anywhere else in the country. However, there are two jurisdictions in which we took some inspiration, I would say. So the first is the New Orleans public housing model where they have developed a pretty specific criteria, nuanced kind of chart about when to do individualized assessments based on criminal history. So there's this pretty...
 Pretty nuanced and laid out so if a crime You know of a certain type was committed at a certain time you move on to assessment if a different crime of a different Type of a different time frame you don't do an assessment We decided not to take that very complicated approach because we are trying to get private landlords to engage in a low barrier criteria
 In addition, Seattle a couple years ago tried to do a similar policy. In fact, one of the staff with Central City Concern was one of the folks who helped create that policy and she's been very informative in the development of this policy as well. They attempted a first come first serve policy that would not allow landlords to deny housing for particular criminal histories.
 Part of the policy, as my understanding, was overturned in their state court. I think the judgment was that it was a takings of private property. It violated their state constitution for private property rights. Our state constitution, I believe, is interpreted differently, and we intentionally built our policy to not fall into the same legal traps as the Seattle model. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz.
 First, thank you all for your presentation. Thank you for all of your work over many, many months. I recognize it's been a lot, especially Jamie G. Hamel. Thank you for your leadership on this. Just clarifying questions. You said that this doesn't apply to units not available to the general public, and I think you said units rented privately. What does that mean?
 That means landlords can rent their property to whomever they want. So if they turn to their sister or their neighbor and say, do you want my property, they can do so. Whenever a landlord engages with the public is when this policy would be triggered. So if they issue any kind of advertisement, whether that's assigned to the general public, whether that's on Craigslist.
 If they are saying to the general public, anyone can apply and I will consider you, that's publicly advertising. Okay, so it's actually related to advertising. Correct. So if you don't advertise, you don't have to follow any of this policy. If you try to rent by word of mouth, if you rent to your friends or family directly, correct. Okay, thank you. That's helpful. Tyrone, thank you for your presentation and for all your work.
 Did I hear you say correctly, did I correctly hear you that 20% of properties are not managed by property management companies? No, no. Actually 60% of all of vacant or all 60% of all housing is not fee managed. So it's just mom and pop. 60%. 60%. What I was saying was the 80-20 rule doesn't apply in housing space.
 I'm glad I clarified. So then has there been consideration of mom and pop dealing with some of these social service issues, they're helping people out when they can't pay their rent, the criminal checks, et cetera, you know, the, you're taking drugs and I'm going
 Can you repeat that question one more time? You gave some examples of where property managers have been able to help people spread out payments over several months or the one who knows all the parole officers and is able to tell whether that is completely irrelevant to this policy. We are not asking private market landlords to provide supportive services. And the example that's not what I was. That's not what I was trying to convey. It was a miscommunication on that. All I was trying to convey.
 was that in order for the policy to be successful, it has to have property management company buy-in.
 That's all I would think. But what about the 60% that don't use a property management company? That's not what that was about. I was saying 80% of the market and 20% rule. So basically the majority of the fee managed marketplace is spread out over a ton of small companies. That's what I was thinking. I understand. Thank you. That's helpful. And then my last question, and back to Jamie, is the housing director going to be presenting today? I do not believe so, no. Okay.
 I think Commissioner Fish's question, several of the answers were that's the housing bureau's issue. When will we get that information? I believe they are here in the room and available to answer questions directly if you want them to, but they're not part of the invited testimony panels. They are here to answer questions. Thank you. We've also delayed the vote for one additional week so that council has plenty of time to have a conversation.
 I filed an absence for that week. I'm out on city business. For the 17th? Yes. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you. My question is, how do people with a previous felony conviction rent properties today? They don't. There is a large number of people, justice involved individuals who cope.
 through other mechanisms. They are either couch surfing, a few of them receive resources through Southeast Works. In fact, there is a representative of Southeast Works here who can probably answer more directly what people who are transitioning out of incarceration experience about getting into housing. So it is a needle in a haystack and there is a, there is very little access for them.
 And currently, do we have prohibitions against people who've been convicted of crimes, sexual crimes from living anywhere in the city of Portland? Do we have prohibitions?
 There's a wide latitude on what each individual landlord sets as their individual criteria. There's no standardization around that. So I think there's a large number of landlords who have just direct bans on specific types of crimes that they feel create an increased risk for tenancies. So sexual crimes, I think, is one of those particular ones that see outright bans across the board.
 I'm asking these questions in a very facetious way because I really do know the answer to. I know that we have sex offenders living in every neighborhood right now. And so I've gotten a lot of fear-based emails from people that if we pass these laws, then all of a sudden our neighborhoods are going to be overflowing with people who are sex offenders and murderers and rapists.
 and I just wanted to put it on the record. I wanted the invited testimony to put on the record that murderers and rapists and sex offenders are living in our neighborhoods today. Is that correct? They are. They're living, but they're living in ways where the neighborhood doesn't know, right? So they are forced to kind of access housing in underground ways. So they are either, you know, they're buying homes, they're living with friends and family. They are not...
 Leaseholders. What's that? Leaseholders. They're not leaseholders. And my last question has to do with, my last question I just forgot, having a headache and sitting under this white noise. It'll come back to me. Thank you all for your testimony. I'm greatly appreciative and I'm really appreciative of the hard work that you've done. And Dr. Bates, you've been at this for a long time. You look like you're 12, but I know you've been doing this for a long time.
 It was the glamour shot that we put in the PowerPoint. I just want to follow up very briefly on the criminal history question. Different crimes come...
 Sorry, I'm speaking to you, Commissioner Hardesty. Different crimes come with different conditions of release, and this policy would in no way supersede those conditions of release. So if a condition is you can't live within 500 feet of a school or you can't spend time in an area where children are prevalent, our policy does not supersede that whatsoever. But what we have been hearing, there's no limit to how...
 far a landlord can look back. And I think the testimony that I shared in my opening remarks is a good example of someone who committed a crime as a young person, and I think that
 and has served their time, earned a master's degree, developed a credit score above 700, and regardless of how many years go by, that prior conviction is still being used against them. I personally know people who have had convictions that are decades old,
 We have plenty of community members who have cannabis convictions that would actually no longer be crimes, and they are being screened out of the renter pool for no legitimate reason, no legitimate fact-based reason. It's simply…
 fear and prejudice. And I want to, I wanted to point out to the Council if you don't mind as our kind of final thing that we provided you supplemental materials and in there is also a memo around our response to the question about, you know, should we be giving different consideration to offenders who have committed extreme crimes in the past. There's just a wide variety of reasoning about why it's not a good idea to separate and segregate those criminal offenders and by types of offense.
 And I also want to just put on the record that the Vera Institute of Justice makes a really compelling argument that we are all safer as a community and as neighborhoods when we invest in formerly incarcerated adults stability. Because when they can access the basic needs of life, like housing and jobs, they're
 the opportunities for them to reoffend or the incentives for them to offend drop dramatically, that it is incumbent upon us to make sure that they are stable. So the neighborhoods as a whole are safer. Thank you for that. And thank you, commissioner. Uh, you daily, uh, as a former state legislator who was there when measure 11 pass and understand that in this state, uh, young people get, uh,
 convicted for sex offenses if there's a three year difference in the age. So there are a lot of changes that we must make to make our criminal justice system more fair. And so I really appreciate the work that you've done and your due diligence. Thank you so much. Thank you. And I mean, we did hear pretty compelling testimony last night at our budget hearing from a young man who had spent seven and a half years.
 in prison due to a Measure 11 offense.
 Like the person I shared testimony from has just encountered one barrier after another to housing and employment. We are setting people up for failure when they come back into community, therefore setting our communities up for greater harm. And like I said, it's such a thorny issue. It cannot be solved through policymaking alone, but it's something that we really can't turn our backs on.
 Very good. I just have a couple of questions, and I just want to sort of level set from my own perspective.
 You mentioned, Jamie, this is your 33rd draft. First of all, I admire your tenacity, but I also want to be honest. As I look at this, it is very complicated for me, and I'm going to need time to really digest this and understand the testimony and go away and have a number of conversations. So I just want to be very clear about that as I ask questions.
 And as people wonder maybe why I'm sitting here a little more silently than usual, it's because I'm really trying hard to understand all the nuances of this. I had one question for Mr. Poole, and again, I admire your leadership and the courage you took in being an entrepreneur, and I'm cheering for you. So first of all, thanks for coming back to City Hall. I had a...
 something you said haunted me a little bit. You said something to the effect that management companies are not set up to manage these criteria. Yes, and I think that was misinterpreted when I was, because I know you said it didn't really fall into line, but what I was trying to convey is that
 After doing the research outside of data, actually working with management companies that were taking on these renters that we are, that need different types of supports, the majority of management companies don't have these benefits.
 solutions in play. My fear is that to make sure that ... One thing is to get these management companies, get renters in the door. If that's success to you, then this policy will actually do that perfectly. The only fear that I see with the policy is that if they get in the door to management companies that are not set up to take on their unique characteristics, then we will have problems.
 And when you see what management companies are doing that are doing this very well, and you look at the average management company, you will find that there's huge discrepancies on what they offer and what the renters need in management companies that are doing it well. So that's why my only fear that I want to bring up, because I want to make sure I show both sides, yes, the policy will do really well at access, but if there are not...
 The management companies play a huge role in the success of a renter.
 You just have to understand that if you send rent burden families into a property, if you send any different types that they are not already taking, then they have to adjust to make sure that that family is successful. It is not a unilateral thing that takes place. That's all I was trying to communicate. I appreciate that. That is actually a question I have that we don't need to answer today, but as I listen to ongoing testimony and we have the opportunity to digest this.
 I appreciate Dr. Bates' analysis and her clarity with regard to the assumptions and the potential incomplete nature of some of the datasets that went into it. I appreciate it that you were clear on that point.
 I actually agree that if we lower the criteria on the front, the question is actually not just about the landlords. Our question is about the tenants. And I want to hear about their relative likelihood of success. If we lower the, the, the, the barriers to entry, I want to know about their success down the road. My concern would be at the outset that if people are,
 are able to access the units, which is great. We should all applaud that. But the question is then do they have the income level and the support structure they need to actually stay in that unit, or are we intentionally putting people into a position where we are effectively setting them up to fail? And there are consequences to failure
 in this model. If people are not successful in those units and they are evicted under our RELO ordinance, which I supported and I continue to support, they would be evicted for cause. That means they would no longer be eligible for RELO and they would have an eviction on their record, which makes it harder the next time.
 they want to rent a unit. So that's just something I'm putting out there as something I'm interested in. And my usual budget wet blanket note, I appreciate Commissioner Fish raising the question. I remind folks we only have 1.7 million in ongoing.
 and about 7 million in one time only. We have lots of priorities, not the least of which are the projects we've already told the Housing Bureau we expect them to execute on, like the rental registration system.
 We could be using local data if we had a fully functional rental registration system with the data collection, but we do not have that yet. We're still relying on data from other places to be able to inform our decisions here. I just want to put a marker out there that it is a priority for me as the housing commissioner to make good on the promises we've already made.
 if we go down this road and not be very clear about our budget situation, we might be setting up a situation where people have expectations about our ability to deliver on a new system that we in fact won't fund.
 or may not fund unless we rearrange our priorities as a city council. So my usual wet blanket statement, I'm not saying it's specific to this, I say this in many council hearings on many subjects, that we have limited resources going forward in the Housing Bureau. Yes, Commissioner Harsting.
 Do we have any data on how many tenants are cost burdened today? I know the Community Alliance of Tenants is in the audience and I suspect they're going to be testifying soon. Is that a question that I should hold until they, are they part of the invited testimony today?
 Okay, excellent. Then I will take my question back and wait for the privilege of hearing it. Because what I believe and what I've seen is that many people already are paying much more than 30% of their income for rent today. So it's not like this proposal will overburden people who are already overburdened. And so I'm looking forward to getting that real data. Thanks. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Yes.
 Jamie, I have one last question for you. We're hearing from a lot of people in the community about this. I want to give you a chance to respond to some of the skeptics out there that are worried we may be overreaching and it may be that a year from now we learn that despite our best intentions.
 We've made the situation worse, or we've created other barriers, or it's not working very well. So what is your plan to do a checkup on this legislation? Who would have that oversight role, and what would be the council's role? Thank you.
 Thank you for the question, Commissioner Fish. We had always intended this policy to be a living document. It doesn't exist anywhere else in the country. We are leading the way and taking some pretty bold steps to address discrimination. We should be proud of that. But what it means is that we don't necessarily have all the answers today. This is what, this is the best case scenario that we know based on research and best practice.
 What our intention has always been is that the Housing Bureau would be given administrative rulemaking to adjust the policy as needed and that commissions like the Rental Services Commission would be tasked with the opportunity to evaluate the policy, offer suggestions
 adaptations as they go. We are certainly open if any of the commissioners want to make a suggestion, a formal suggestion that there's an annual report or a biannual report, that is entirely up to you, but we believe the Housing Bureau will have the ability and authority to make adjustments to the policy as they determine if unintended consequences occur. So before I introduce our- Could I ask one more question? It's a quick question.
 I want to make sure I understand this. I think I do. Vouchers, SNAP, and the like, is that or is that not included in the income? That is included in income. That is included in income.
 Does that raise any concerns? Can you clarify your question? I'm sorry. Are federal SNAP food vouchers qualifying income? It's considered money-like, yes. It can be factored. But you can't actually spend that on rent. You're using that for food, right? No. But it increases your available income. The way the policy is written now, it doesn't take into account additional food stamps and those kind of supplementary resources.
 It does not include that. It does not. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you. Commissioner Udalli. I'm reading from Tyrone that people can include those types of- Yes. When you are applying to a property, that all counts as income. It is included? Yes. When you apply to a property, all-
 All of those are income sources. Okay. So the final answer is it is included in the income calculation to qualify for a company in Oregon. Got it. Now, thank you. And then I believe with a voucher, you would take the value of that voucher off the total rent and then you would base the income to rent remaining, to rent ratio on the remaining balance. Yes. The multiplier would be based on the remaining portion. So before we move on to the next panel, I just want to thank all
 all of you for your amazing work. Dr. Bates, I might have to go back to school just to take classes from you. She'll come to you. She'll be a hard teacher. Jamie, I'm so proud of you, and I'm really looking forward to you getting to work on something else. Tyrone, you bring such incredible insight to this conversation, and what you're doing is just mind-blowingly innovative.
 I do want to repeat what I said earlier, though. You brought up Moe, who owns Stark First, who is an amazing landlord. He is working with second-chance tenants. He is working with people who are placing these tenants. Mm-hmm.
 It's really important for us to distinguish between a landlord like Mo and the rest of the private market. We are not asking private market landlords to take on tenants that require supportive services. We're just not. That would be... Let me finish. That would be...
 a substantial change in their business model and it would not be a reasonable accommodation. What I want to make sure everyone understands is 50% of renters in Portland are spending over 30% of their income on housing costs currently. And half the, sorry to steal your thunder Katrina, but half of them
 half of them are spending 50% or more. That is roughly 125,000 people, I think, give or take a few, who live in cost burden households. They are stable, by and large, in their housing because they are prioritizing rent.
 And I was one of those tenants for many, many years, and a few years of spending over 50% of my income. So I would be an interesting case study for this policy, because I'm now someone who earns well over median family income, who could not rent from a property management company, because my credit score is too low, because of the really hard choices that I've had to make.
 in the several years leading up to my employment by the city of Portland to keep a roof over my head. So I can speak to this personally, and I just want to reassure everyone in the room, we are not asking private market landlords to become supportive housing providers. So I want to call up our next panel. We have... Thank you. Thank you. Katrina Holland from Community Alliance of Tenants.
 Alan Lazo from Fair Housing Council of Oregon and Deborah MC from multifamily Northwest. Yes Please limit your testimony to five minutes less if possible So we can get out of here around the time we anticipated and we're gonna begin with Katrina welcome There we go gotta push the button oh
 We have a request. Oh, okay. All right Sure don't know You know, I love that buzzer we could have used one last night I
 Okay. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is Katrina Holland. I have the honor and privilege of serving as Executive Director of Community Alliance of Tenants, a renter's rights organization that's been fighting for balance to the landlord-tenant relationship for the last 22, almost 23 years.
 As a participant in crafting this policy, I am excited today to sit here during Fair Housing Month and know that after almost a decade of bringing up concerns about housing via addressing private market screening practices and security deposits, we are finally having a robust conversation about what those steps forward look like. So thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for your leadership, and thank you, Council Members, for making this conversation possible. Thank you.
 First and foremost, I want to address a few misconceptions about this policy. Number one, this policy is not intended to solve for the millions of reasons and causes of socioeconomic inequality. The solutions to these problems are complex and have been discussed for generations to no avail. Number two.
 So knowing that these solutions cannot begin to manifest tomorrow, we must do the best we can to address the damages of racism, otherisms, and socioeconomic inequality today, as people are barred from housing access today in a crisis in these bases. This policy is designed to make discriminatory, intentional and unintentional screening practices harder to do and get away with.
 This policy is designed to encourage transparency in the screening and security deposit processes, mandating open and structured conversation between landlords and tenants. And this policy is designed to increase housing access to fair housing protected classes that the beta test has demonstrated, time-saving.
 that have time and again been proven to have less access to private market housing, for which market rate and affordable housing development will not meet the need in the near future.
 Number two, this policy does not limit a landlord's ability to screen people with criminal histories, as we've heard over and over. This is a twisted, fear-mongering tactic that has been used to scare people into thinking they are unsafe. People have gone so low as to label existing residents in an email that we got from one of our tenants as, quote-unquote, future targets of domestic violence and sexual assault.
 For everyone who is here today who received a robocall or an email stating this assertion, it is factually untrue.
 This policy outlines a careful and intentional process for how screening of folks with criminal histories are to be screened, which is a mandate of federal law and guidance as of 2016. The truth of the matter is individualized assessments have been a guidance given from the federal government for the last several years. So no, city council is not voting to limit the ability of landlords to screen people with criminal histories nor mandate approval of their applications.
 If the City Council were doing that, as Jamie stated earlier, they would be violating the law. These are lies and fear-mongering tactics at their ugliest that prey upon stereotypes and misconceptions of members of our community based on skin color and other appearance characteristics. So please, folks who have gotten those emails and phone calls, do not believe the hype. The truth of the matter is you could have someone with a criminal history living next to you today and you wouldn't even know it.
 The policy is designed to address and curb discriminatory practices that have disproportionately affected communities of color for many, many years due to the criminal justice system. This policy will place people in harm's way, asking the private market to rent to people who only make two times the monthly rent. The reality is that the majority of Portland residents are renters.
 or almost the majority, the majority of these renters are rent burdened. Over half of those who are rent burdened are paying over half of their income on rent according to recent data. In other words, they are extremely rent burdened. To Commissioner Udalli's point earlier, private market landlords are already providing this housing to these people without the support.
 People are already living this reality both in private market and in affordable and in the affordable housing Market, so let's talk numbers to your question according to the 2017 five-year ACS estimates 46.6% of households which we know is an undercount in Portland our renters. So that is approximately 115,949 people
 Of that number, approximately 110,426 households were computed for rent burden. 52.5% of renters are rent burdened, or approximately 57,974 renters. 25% are extremely rent burdened, or about 27,607 renters.
 In June 2018, 457 FEDs were filed in Multnomah County Courthouse. Approximately 80, I'm sorry? What was that acronym? What does that mean? Forcible Entry and Detainer. So basically evictions in the courthouse. Approximately 84% of those were for non-payment of rent or about 384 cases.
 If we assume each person was extremely rent burdened, that is 1.4% of extremely rent burdened renters in the market now. If we assume that they are all rent burdened, that is only 0.67% of these people that have faced eviction for non-payment of rent.
 In other words, the volume of folks being run through the evictions court system for nonpayment of rent doesn't even come close to the number of people who are already extremely rent burdened or characterized as regularly rent burdened. This assumption comes from a myth that low income people can't handle their budgets when in fact hundreds or thousands of people can handle their budgets.
 People with low to moderate incomes have been making these hard choices for years and in one case we know of for decades This policy is designed to attempt to increase housing access for families who are rent burdened Instead of segregating them into certain corners of our city or out of the city entirely Which is the case now and is a fair housing concern? This isn't about a phone or a car or even a loan this is a basic human need and
 This is about a commitment that the city has made to becoming a city committed to housing first. So why should the majority of our housing market be left out of that commitment? Number four, this policy will limit landlords' ability to choose who they want to live in their homes.
 As Jamie beautifully stated, this policy is designed to balance out the power dynamics between landlord and tenant. When a landlord makes the choice to make their property available to the public, there should be a set of rules for engagement. As it currently stands and as fair housing testing reports demonstrate, housing discrimination runs rampant for folks of varying national origins and races. There are too many loopholes property owners can use to screen someone out just because
 They choose to play the roles of national security officers, judge, jury, and executioners, and or loan officers.
 The policy simply outlines a process by which property managers must screen prospective tenants if they choose more restrictive criteria than the safe harbor standard the policy outlines. The choice is still theirs. They must be transparent in their decision making and make known to the tenant or, as we say, show receipts for choosing to deny someone access to a home. This is not a limitation. This is increasing transparency, a practice that both tenants and property managers will benefit from.
 Number five, this policy is not good because it doesn't create any more units. It does not create units, but it does create greater access and choice for many people currently barred from many units in our market. We know a woman who has moved six times in the last two years. Each time, she has been rent burdened.
 Each time she was preparing to move, she was threatened with homelessness due to a lack of housing choice. She said this policy gives her hope because it will increase her chances of finding a place to live instead of potentially facing homelessness due to less choices. She has never had an FED filed against her for nonpayment of rent.
 I also want to point out an amazing feat of this long and arduous process. This is one of the few times during a policy making process that research has been conducted as to the possible effects of the policy that Dr. Bates just explained earlier today. We do have a hint into the future kinds of access this policy will provide for many members of our community, and the results are staggering. They blew our minds.
 While not a representative sample and with some limitations, it does speak to the effectiveness of this policy in achieving what it was intended to do. And they're better than we imagined, than we imagined at CAAT.
 I also want to mention the myriad of policies that have been passed in the state, in the country, and in the county, and in the city that has not had any implementation dollars attached to them. We do not believe this should prevent the Council from passing this policy in its attempt to address housing discrimination and economic and racial segregation. We do know
 that the status quo does not work. Despite our best efforts to invest in housing access, affordable housing development, vouchers, et cetera, we cannot meet the volume of need that exists. And based on that, as well as the fact that, as well as fair housing standards, and as a city that falls under fair housing standards, we must pass this policy that addresses the private market. So city of Portland is at a crossroads.
 Are we going to continue to allow these loopholes to perpetuate layered racial and economic segregation? Are we going to continue to operate the status quo when we know it does not work? Or are we going to try something different? I have never, ever, and I'm sure way more experienced people than me have never seen a policy work perfectly in its first try, but we have always seen regret for inaction. We're living with regret right now.
 Let's not continue to make that mistake with this policy by not passing it. I am confident that we've done due diligence over this last year and a half to consider all perspectives, to tweak and tweak again and retweak, to invite opposing perspectives and consider implications, research potential impacts, and consider equity implications. It is fair, it is balanced, and it is a good step forward. And we look forward to seeing this policy pass. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is Alan Lazo. I'm the Executive Director at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. Our mission at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon is to end housing discrimination and ensure equal access to housing throughout the state of Oregon. I'm going to do a couple of things. First, I want to read a statement that was passed by our board and is an organizational statement. Then I also want to address some questions.
 some of the ways that our testing was characterized earlier and make sure that we're clear about how that works. So first of all, this is a statement about the rental screening criteria, and this is actually based on some earlier versions. So there are some specifics here that I want to tie to the current ordinance also. So the importance of screening criteria in the rental housing process and its intersection with fair housing cannot be overstated. Screening criteria are the literal measures by which an applicant's ability to be a good renter are judged.
 Similarly, screening criteria also help ensure the safety and peaceful enjoyment of housing for existing tenants and protect the legitimate business interests of housing providers. Those should be the only purposes such criteria serve. However, several criteria often used in the rental screening process can create equity barriers for many members of protected classes.
 Those most likely to experience impacts from equity barriers and screening criteria include communities of color, those perceived to be from another country other than the U.S., and people with disabilities.
 The Fair Housing Council of Oregon believes that principle among those equity barriers is the use of criminal history in the rental screening process. This concern is echoed by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development's April 2016 guidance on the use of criminal history in the screening process, noting the disparate impact on Black men and Latinos who are disproportionately impacted by the criminal justice system throughout the country.
 FHCO further believes that any successful proposed screening criteria must include an individualized assessment of an applicant's criminal history prior to any adverse action in the rental screening process. As such, we support the inclusion of this process in the proposed draft screening criteria ordinance. This was based on the iteration that was dated October 29th of 2018, probably somewhere in the draft 20s range.
 Specifically, FHCO supports the inclusion of the individualized assessment of criminal history as outlined in that draft as Section G sub B and in the current ordinance as Section E sub 1 sub A, as well as the individualized assessment process that's outlined in that previous draft as Section H and in the current ordinance as Section E sub 4.
 FHCO also believes there are several other fair housing related elements that are critical to the success of any proposed screening criteria. Among those are acceptance of alternative forms of identification beyond a social security number, formerly Section E, now in the current ordinance as Section D sub 1.
 the ability of a landlord to screen all occupants of a household for criminal history and pattern in rental history of hostile, unsafe, or harassing behavior, formerly Section C sub C and in the current ordinance as Section D sub 4 sub A.
 as well as clear standards for calculating a renter's share of rent when rental assistance is provided, formerly Section F sub C sub 1 through 3, now in the ordinance as Section D sub 3 sub C sub 1 through 3. So the use of screening criteria in the rental housing process should protect the interests of applicants, existing tenants, and housing providers.
 We believe and support a process that involves all stakeholders in establishing screening criteria that meet the needs and support the interests of all of these groups. So thank you. And I want to go back and talk a little bit about the testing that Fair Housing Council already conducted. And I just want to clarify that what that testing shows is differential treatment of testers in that process. I'm not sure that we should characterize it as a means to –
 to change what screening criteria exists. Because what I would say about the way testing works is that we are looking to see, does one person get treated differently than the person who comes behind them? So it's sort of regardless of what the screening criteria are, are people being treated differently as an indication that that discrimination or at least differential treatment may exist?
 So, again, and the work that we did with the City of Portland over the last 10 years has been audit testing that really tells us about the trends in the marketplace. And it really is with a number of tests that we perform during those time periods aren't statistically significant numbers, so that we could say that pulling percentages out of them can be a little bit difficult to do. But it really does help us identify patterns in how differential treatment and discrimination may be used.
 But again, it may not matter what those screening criteria is. It's very rare. We wouldn't need to do that secret shopper testing if there were people out there saying, we're going to deny you based on your race or your color or your national origin. It's much more subtle, and that's what we're looking for. And that occurs regardless of what the screening criteria are. So thank you, and I'm happy to answer questions and address concerns after the presentations.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Deborah Imzee and I'm the executive director for Multifamily Northwest. Multifamily Northwest is a nonprofit trade organization representing individuals, families and businesses that provide more than 250,000 rental homes throughout Oregon and more than 30,000 of those are in the city of Portland.
 While we share Commissioner Udailey's desire to reduce barriers to housing, the current 11-page proposal, where we have received more than 25 versions since the process began, is extremely complicated and contains numerous provisions which are unclear in terms of understanding and implementation.
 Although this remains true for all of our members, the greatest impact in terms of cost and implementation will be shoulders by providers of affordable housing. While there were non-profit housing providers that participated in the beta testing, those were largely social service oriented organizations with dual missions of housing and supportive services.
 By the nature of their good work, these organizations already have screening criteria similar to or even less restrictive than the low barrier screening criteria recommended in Commissioner Udaly's proposal and as such would not be impacted. However, a vast number of affordable communities which house tens or possibly hundreds of thousands of people do not operate this way.
 and are simply offering affordable housing to residents who would otherwise be priced out of the market. These providers are not currently prepared with the resources that it will take to implement these proposals. Early analysis indicates that, for example, a provider with 600 affordable units will see an increase in screening-related costs of $60,000 a year.
 These costs will mean cuts in other program areas and possible reduction in housing stock. This analysis does not include anyone issuing a notice of denial, which will need a high level of legal expertise due to the complexity of the proposal resulting in the need to consult attorneys.
 These additional resources will have to come from vital areas such as resident services, ground maintenance, capital improvements, basically stripping residents of the very things that help them maintain and enjoy their tenancies.
 The additional costs associated with the security deposit recommendations have not yet been determined but will again provide an administrative burden that these affordable communities lack the resources to administer. I would like to add that these proposals come immediately after the passage of rent control SB608 on the state level and the city's relocation ordinance.
 Rental providers are struggling to just to implement and follow the new rules. If the law is implemented,
 immediately or in short term. It would provide thousands of housing providers including affordable housing providers the need to expend more money on legal services because they will not have the time to modify their forms, their policies, their procedures or to train their
 We support the goal of increasing access to rental housing for all Oregonians. However, complicated policies will result in disinvestment of rental properties rather than finding ways to increase supply.
 Seattle, for example, is now showing a significant softening in rents after substantial increases in rental stock, moving to make housing more affordable and more available for all. If we do not have investment in the city to put more units on the market, regulation of housing providers won't solve these issues.
 There have been very good discussions regarding barriers. We believe that there is certainly more work to do to create a more equitable access to housing.
 However, with the complexity of this proposal coupled with the many consequences it could create, we implore you to assemble a broader group to work collaboratively to ensure that smaller rental providers do not leave the city due to regulations they can't implement and our affordable housing providers are not forced to reduce the vital services that help residents stay in their homes. Thank you for your time today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everyone.
 We're going to move on to our third panel. We have Nicole Cherone, City of Portland, our ADA Title II and Disability Equity Manager, Hannah Holloway from the Urban League, Jessica Greenlee from Affinity Property Management, and Becky Strauss from Oregon Law Center. If everyone could come up.
 We will go in the order I just announced starting with Ms. Chiron. Please everyone just before you begin your testimony, state your name for the record. Nicole Chiron. I'm with the Office of Equity and Human Rights. I want to highlight some of the areas of the policy that I'm really excited about and help Jamie work on.
 When I worked at what is now called Civic Life, the number one call that I got from people in the disability community was about the lack of affordable and accessible housing. We have tried over my 13 years of being here to try to get more things in policy to help mitigate that.
 We're just not being successful. When Jamie brought this to PCOD to kind of vet it in the workshop, I saw an opportunity to maybe use this policy to increase access.
 So, one of the big disconnects with accessible housing is that while we have certain fair housing laws that require certain elements of accessible housing, we have nothing that says those units have to be reserved for people who need them. And so, there's actually no mechanism to make sure that people who need the units are in the units.
 So with this policy, what we've been able to do is, if a unit is going on the market that has accessibility features,
 the landlord would need to advertise that so that it would be clear to people what accessibility features were available. On top of that, there is now a provision that would say that if someone in that first eight-hour period that the unit was available
 applied who had a disability who needed those features and say they were the last person in in that eight-hour frame This policy would say we're gonna bump them up to the top Because we want to see people with disabilities be in the units that are there for them The other piece of the policy that really helps us is the the income
 limit. A lot of people with disabilities live on a fixed income, but they have income sources that aren't necessarily things on paper. And so with this kind of doubling of the income it allows more people to use other resources to say I can't afford this housing. This is how I would do it. And we know that when people with disabilities get in a housing that works for them,
 they are 50% more likely to stay in that housing over 10 years because the lack of accessible housing in the country. I do want to say that we...
 actually had a lot of other things that we had initially put in the policy. And because of a lot of pushback, we really lowered all of those things down to the two primary things that I spoke about. But I do think that we have to start addressing this somewhere. And I think this is a really good start. Thank you. Thank you, Nicole. And I just want to briefly say that, uh,
 This is another challenge that I can personally attest to, having a son who uses a wheelchair, being a low-income Cospod and renter. I didn't have other housing options. I paid to install a 36-foot ramp on the rental house that I'm in, and time and time again when I went to look at other units, I simply couldn't make them work properly.
 for my son due to accessibility needs. And we just have a gross under
 availability of accessible units. Commissioner Hardesty, did you have a question? Thank you. I just wanted, I was hoping that you would just remind people five minutes each so that we could actually get everybody in before we left. All right, next up is Becky Strauss who has to leave early so thank you for accommodating her. Thank you for accommodating that schedule. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, my name is Becky Strauss. I'm a staff attorney with the Oregon Law Center.
 The Oregon Law Center is a nonprofit law firm whose mission is to achieve justice for low-end communities of Oregon by providing a full range of the highest quality legal services. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today in support of these proposals to address inequities in tenant screening practices, as well as collection and refund of security deposits. These policy changes would greatly benefit our clients.
 I echo and won't repeat all the comments made in support of these policies that we've heard today. I do want to put an emphasis on our client community and how these policies might benefit them in particular, low-income families and renters. The vast majority of our clients have incomes at or below the federal poverty level. They're hardworking people and they struggle to provide the necessities for themselves and their families.
 Helping them maintain safe affordable places to live is a critical part of our work. As rental vacancy rates have plummeted and housing has become less and less affordable, our clients are struggling to meet these needs. Some of them are homeless, some of them home ownership is simply out of reach. Many barriers contribute to these situations but
 A couple of them are your focus today and are important to address. Too often applicants for rental housing are shut out due to screening policies that penalize applicants for issues in their background that really bear no rational relationship to their ability to be a good tenant. While facially neutral, the criteria statistically have a disparate impact on communities of color, people with disabilities.
 The criteria perpetuate inequity in housing and undermine fair housing principles. I see the two tracks of the screening criteria policy as addressing these two pieces. Track one addressing primarily this idea that the council can make a statement about what is rational and relevant to a tenant screening, track two an acknowledgment to fair housing principles and that landlords can adopt whatever screening criteria they choose so long as
 follow what would be outlined as a more detailed pathway to complying with fair housing laws. I think at the crux that's what this screening criteria policy does and it's very reasonable and would benefit our clients.
 In regard to security deposits, we have seen move-in requirements upwards of four times the rent for some of our clients and certainly countless cases of wrongful withholding of those deposits after move-out. The lack of legal clarity around when a landlord can charge a tenant for damage after move-out enables this type of abuse and allows for landlords to hold tenants responsible for unaddressed repairs or simply routine turnover between tenancies.
 The unfair charges follow our clients and the outstanding balance can expose them to things like collections actions or repeated denials for housing. Low-income renters simply cannot compete amidst this landscape. Thank you.
 The good news and what we've heard today is there are some things that we can do to address these barriers and improve access. These policy proposals on screening and security deposit take important steps toward a more equitable housing market. The screening criteria policy encourages landlords to evaluate tenants in the context of their entire relevant background, including the systemic barriers that historically disadvantaged communities of color.
 Furthermore, the policy acknowledges that currently low-income renters are likely to be severely rent burdened already, paying more than 50% of their income on housing, and this policy prioritizes their access to housing with a sensible recommendation for adjusting income-to-rent ratio requirements.
 The security deposit policy provides greater clarity to landlords and tenants regarding collection, withholding, and return of security deposits. Both of these policies would positively impact housing access and stability for our clients, and for these reasons, we urge your support. Thank you for the conversation and deliberation on them. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Hannah Holloway and I'm here on behalf of the Urban League of Portland in support of these policies. The Urban League of Portland is a nonprofit civil rights direct service and advocacy organization that serves all of Oregon. Since 2015, we've operated a housing program that now serves 450 households annually through a combination of eviction prevention, permanent supportive housing, and rapid rehousing services.
 Our Rapid Rehousing Program now exclusively serves members of the reentry population. We found that a prior conviction was the most common barrier to housing for folks that were calling into our housing hotline. The housing team works with people to clear past and outstanding debt. They can find gainful employment to raise their income ratio and more through wraparound services. But a criminal conviction is the one thing that we typically cannot change for people.
 It is a scarlet letter that follows people around for the rest of their lives, keeping them out of housing no matter the nature of their conviction or how much time has lapsed. Landlords do deny for anything from low-level offenses to convictions for crimes that are no longer illegal. Without a legitimate safety or business reason to do so, however, these denials only strengthen discrimination and segregation in our housing market.
 HUD agrees with us, as you've heard. Citing the over-criminalization of black and Latinx communities, its 2016 disparate impact guidance cautioned providers that blanket denials based on criminal history had a disparate impact on applicants of color in violation of the Fair Housing Act. This guidance gave credence to what black renters have long known, that status quo screening practices violate our rights as members of protected classes.
 Yet today, three years since that guidance released and four years since the Supreme Court ruling, discriminatory practices and blanket screens are still common. The policy before you today, the screening policy, helps Portland landlords fulfill their legal obligations to fair housing. It also creates safe harbor standards that landlords can apply if they prefer more legal certainty than a subjective assessment like an individualized assessment allows.
 These standards set realistic legal look back periods as well as extend to the other elements of applicants backgrounds that correlate with race and where we often see discrimination. The new income standards give everyday Portlanders greater access to more housing. The cost of the average rental unit is out of step with median income and people are already severely cost burdened as you've heard today.
 As the 2018 State of Housing Report found, the average black, native, Hawaiian and Pacific Islander, and single mother households cannot afford rent in any neighborhood of Portland without dedicating over a third of their income. Higher income requirements effectively screen out all of these populations from our city altogether.
 While we don't want anyone to be cost burdened, of course, we do want to make sure that we at least have some ability to make the tough budgeting decisions, like dedicating over a third of our income required to stay housed in the city of Portland. The new 2 to 2.5 income standards in this policy do that and confront the myth that low-income folks lack the skills for responsible money management.
 The legal look back periods establish new research-based standards that allow people to eventually access housing, which we know is a critical element of successful reentry. The first in time process, while not perfect, does minimize the discrimination that happens when landlords are allowed to cherry pick their preferred tenants out of a vast pile.
 The new rental history standards also mean that landlords cannot consider no-cause evictions, which as we know have disproportionately been used against tenants of color as well. So using that to further deny future housing opportunities again reinforces racial discrimination and segregation in our housing market. The Urban League has endorsed this policy even though we think it should go further.
 We have endorsed this policy because of the research proving that it will increase access because it codifies much of what landlords should already be doing to fulfill their legal non-discriminatory obligations and because of what it will mean for the people currently served by the Urban Links Housing Program and what it could have meant for the 400 plus families that we served last year and the year before in terms of accessing housing sooner, living on the streets and in our shelter system for less time.
 I'd like to thank Commissioner Udailey for championing this policy and to Jamie for her dedication to a very long development and engagement process through which the Urban League was happy to inform this policy from the outside.
 From my involvement over the year and change, I can say with confidence that this ordinance before you today reflects the very best expertise and compromise from city staff, community advocates, landlords and for housing attorneys, affordable and market rate providers, and the community partners who all informed its contents.
 Housing is essential. We truly and radically believe that at the Urban League. We believe everyone deserves housing, even those that will still be screened out under this new policy.
 Everyone deserves to sleep indoors and Portland would be a better, safer, stronger city if this were the case. But it is withheld from too many in our city for outdated and arbitrary reasons that have nothing to do with the tenant's true risk or readiness to rent and everything to do with discrimination and paternalism towards our low-income neighbors. This policy expresses our city value that housing is an essential foundational right.
 not just with words, but in policy and practice. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Jessica Greenlee, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management, Affinity Property Management,
 particularly within the screening policy itself, to reduce the amount of administrative burden and cost associated with implementing the policy.
 On its face right now, the exhibit that you have is 33 pages long and is quite complex. As Tyrone mentioned earlier, there are a diverse group of property managers of all different skill levels in the system. When rolling out good public policy, you want it to be something that people can comply with and understand on its face. There have been simpler versions of this that have been introduced as alternative proposals at various points in time.
 Particularly of note in here right now, in the current system, somebody can submit an application, receive their screening results and move into an apartment in one day. In fact, one of our communities in northeast Portland, 46% of the applicants that have been approved for their homes do so. With this in and of itself, you have a confusing premise on the outside just from the advertisement
 standpoint where we are going to be in a position that we're going to have to explain to renters that yes, we can take your application, but we can't count it for 72 hours because the open application period doesn't start then. And then you have to wait an additional eight hours to find out if yours is the first one in place for this unit.
 First come, first serve is often practiced by large landlord companies like was stated previously as is ours and is the most common practice on applications, but in that position that will be confusing to keep track of the time clock on that 72 hours for both our,
 employees in the community as well as the residents applying for that housing choice. I mean, you're going to have to keep track of the exact date and time that you're then allowed to submit an application in order to ensure your spot.
 It creates another level of sense of urgency rather that you may increase competition for those individual units and it could feel like an additional barrier for people to access that housing in and of itself. I think that is a relatively easy fix in the policy to keep the basic premise of this.
 That being said, there are other opportunities within this as well to make adjustments. Again, I know that Jamie has heard me talk multiple times about this. There are some real confusing components of this as far as the non-governmental ID. What does that necessarily entail? What combination are you using? Is it an employee ID badge? If it's an employee ID badge, do you have to take it if somebody is self-employed as well? How do you get that proof necessarily in there?
 I guess my point in stating this is that this is not fully baked yet. As an ordinance, they're on the premise of surface of it. Then, yes, this is something that furthers access to housing and is important for our city. A lot of these provisions already exist in HUD. And if there were more education programs available to landlords, they would understand the compliance factors they already are required to complete.
 in order to provide some of the same provisions that exist within this. I just would love to get a further look into the actual detail, because we have to comply with the letter of the law.
 not the intent behind it. And the penalties for noncompliance in this are steep. There's also not a prevailing party provision within this which can lend itself to frivolous lawsuits that you're going to have to continually defend, increasing the overall legal cost, which ultimately ends up increasing the cost of housing in general because you have to be able to provide for the budget of operating that housing itself.
 So you're going to have to plan for those circumstances. The other item which will be very cost prohibitive in the security deposit screening is the requirement to develop the depreciation schedule on the onset of move-in. You have to understand that all of those schedules will then have to be maintained throughout the course of the life of that apartment.
 You have replacement of appliances. For example, in my own life, somebody replaced a ceiling fan in my apartment recently. We would then have to track that $50 part that just got fixed in there during the length of the tenancy, understand to restart the depreciation schedule and keep all of that on hand.
 all times versus being able to keep the maintenance records on file. So you're constantly going to be adjusting that depreciation schedule that is included in the rental agreement by the time of the end of tenancy and the need to distribute that information just adds to the actual work that takes place at the property increasing labor costs.
 I know I'm kind of rambling here and so I apologize, public speaking is not my forte. One of the other points I wanted to bring back up though is that there had been some conversation about how do people with felonies currently obtain housing. There is that existing appeals process that is available to people by HUD. If they're outright denied and then we have to provide them a notice that they have the opportunity to appeal now and get that individualized assessment.
 It then does not disrupt the workflow of everyone else who may qualify for those units, but then still gives them that opportunity to access that housing. And in that appeals process, they actually hold the unit at that point in time.
 So I'd love the opportunity to spend some more time with you guys on an individual basis to go over some of the details in this that I think, again, are opportunities to reduce the administrative costs associated with implementing an ordinance like this. If you would allow me that time at a future time. Thank you. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor. We have community members today who don't have access to government IDs.
 What is your process today to help them get into housing? So usually it's a combination of resources, but with the way this is outlined, it's very vague. That wasn't my question. My question was really basic. Today we have community members who do not have government issued IDs.
 And are your housing units accessible to them today? And if so, what is the process to allow them access to those housing units? They may have to provide a birth certificate or something with proof of date of birth, some other ID that we can use for screening purposes. I would say that the way that this is worded is what the challenge is, because, again, it's vague. And it allows us to be able to...
 Go ahead. Sorry. That's okay. I was going to say, so my dad was born a long time ago in a hospital. He was born and burned down. And so he does not have his birth certificate. So today in Oregon, if he actually wanted to get a driver's license and he doesn't live in Oregon in his 90s some, so we wouldn't want him to live and be driving anyway here.
 But my point is, is that based on Oregon law, he would not be eligible to get an Oregon ID. And so if he just happened to be out there trying to get housing, I would like to know how you would help him get housing.
 But don't you think that responsibility lies in the public sector then to be able to provide access to those forms of being able to get that ID or to utilize public resources to support those individuals? The federal law changed it. You're trying to ask somebody who may only own one or two housing units to make determinations that are much more complex. Excuse me.
 My question is really a basic one and you're choosing not to answer my question and that's okay if you don't have the answer. I would appreciate it better if you just tell me you don't have the answer and then I'll ask somebody that actually has the answer. Because it was a real straightforward question. It didn't need all that gray area. All right. If we're done. So could I just. We just have five people left. Because I have a hard out at five.
 and there's still a quorum and I will absolutely make sure that I review the record. But I want to put a marker down. When people come here and testify, they deserve to be treated with respect. And I said that right up front. I don't care if people are for this or if they are against it.
 People here deserve to be treated with respect. I'm grateful that people take time off from work. Hannah, thank you. Jessica, thank you. And thank you, Jessica, for serving on the Rental Services Commission. I asked you to do that. You stood up to do it. Thank you. Thank you both. Just asking a very specific question. Was that disrespectful? So I'm in a little bit of a quandary. I have five people left here. We have three minutes. They've been sitting here the whole time.
 Can you give me 15 minutes? I will give you 15 minutes. Yes, I will. Sure, you bet. All right. So I'm going to call up all five, and I want you in the order I'm calling you, and you're going to have to limit to three minutes each, and I am going to ask Carla to run the timer. I apologize for that.
 But luckily, some of, or hopefully some of what you have to say has already been said. And we also accept written testimony at any time. Emails are always great. Andy Miller from Human Solutions. Lisa Bonner-Brown from Central City Concern. Christian Bryant from IRC Property Management. And then the two remaining people are June Schumann from New Portlanders Policy Commission and Linda Hastings from Southeast Works.
 Welcome, everyone, and Andy.
 Go ahead and kick us off while everyone else gets settled. Okay. I'm going to try to truncate my prepared testimony given the hour of the day. That's okay. I apologize. Yeah. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, for the record, my name is Andy Miller. I am the executive director of Human Solutions. We're your partner in East Portland and East Multnomah County in our collective response to the homeless and housing crisis. We also help provide increased economic security for the diverse communities living in East Multnomah County.
 I'm here today to speak from our perspective, both as a provider of services and as an owner and operator of affordable housing, in effect a landlord. We really have a dual role in this and a bit of a dual perspective, but I'll try to bring those together and do it all in now two and a half minutes.
 From our service provider perspective, we see the impact of the current screening practices. Our shelters and housing programs support families and individuals experiencing homelessness. We use rental assistance from local, state, and federal sources to leverage partnerships with the private market landlords.
 And we see every day that folks are stuck in our shelters long term. They're stuck in our housing programs, unable to find housing because of the double jeopardy effect, in effect, of the criminal justice system.
 They're punished once for the sentence that they serve for their offense. They're punished a second time in an ongoing way in that that sentence continues to serve as a barrier to both housing and employment. And we think that this measure sets a reasonable new bar for,
 particularly with the low barrier criteria that are very similar to what we use as an affordable housing provider to provide clear access and also clear rules of the road for how renters will come up against the screening criteria.
 Over to how we see this as a landlord and an affordable housing provider. As we shared with the Commissioner's Office during the process, myself and many of our colleagues already do use selection criteria that are less restrictive than what this policy would require. In fact, we are required by our public funders to use income to rent ratio of 1.5 to 1. I don't know how folks do it, but they do it.
 and they pretty regularly pay their rent every month, with some exceptions. So it's possible. I think some of our reservations lie in the complexity of the policy, and our hope in supporting this policy is that through the rulemaking period, through the budget process, the rollout process, the city can ensure that this is an implementable policy.
 The last comment I have to make is really not about the policy, but it's about the intent of the policy and how we want to partner with you to achieve that intent. I appreciate I'm out of time. I'm going to say something real fast and just say, we know that this policy will continue to screen folks out. They don't have housing options. Our publicly funded affordable housing system should be their first option. We are not funded.
 wholly and sustainably to provide the services and the risk mitigation that's needed to serve the population we want to serve. We want to partner with you, work with you, and work with the Housing Bureau to ensure that we are adequately funded because everybody needs a place to live. Thank you. Thank you. Ms. Bonner-Brown? Bonner-Brown?
 Hi. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and members of Portland State Council. My name is Lisa Bonner. Could you speak into the mic? My name is Lisa Bonner-Brown. Thank you, Commissioner Udailey, for the invitation to speak today. It is my honor to be here today. I am the housing specialist at Central City Concern for Flip the Script, the reentry program. Flip the Script is a program for individuals that have barriers to employment and housing requirements.
 excuse me, overjoyed in housing, the community from prison. I am overjoyed in front of this commission today. It is my role as a housing specialist to support the CliftonScript clients as they reenter society to obtain housing. It is important for you to understand my clients are automatically denied each time that we apply for housing. Appealing each individual case can be disappointing, even if the appeals are denied.
 for the smallest of criminal charges no matter how old the criminal charge is. In my work, denial has become part of the application process. I'm expecting denial when I apply and it's really sad. Myself and my clients must prepare for denial as well as an uphill battle no matter how well they've been doing since their release.
 I prepare a packet of regional well accommodation and an or an appeal letter. The packet consists of letters from recommendations from Multnomah County Community Justice Programs, parole officers, alcohol drug programs, certificates of completions of the programs mandated by the court, rent well programs. All these documents represent a lot of work that these people are doing when they get out and they enter our program.
 and these letters and recommendations should carry weight in consideration for a rental application. For instance, I have a client right now that's been denied six times. His charge is unauthorized use of a motor vehicle. A coworker of mine, he had a client apply to the same apartment complex. He had multiple identity thefts and he got accepted.
 I don't understand that. Landlords have a tendency to put our ex-offenders in a box. To date, my clients are spending $200 a week on application fees. Application fees are a big business for landlords here in Portland. When the rarity of applications are approved, my clients being required to pay a higher deposit, we pay $3,300 for one client for a unit, then the rent is less than $1,000 a month.
 The time has come for landlords to change their perspectives, renting to individuals who have turned their lives around. Housing is a remedy to mental health and many other issues in our community. Please fully consider the proposal before you today for individuals who are committed to changing their lives, for having a safe place to live. We are a city that has a reputation of believing in our citizens.
 Equality, fairness for all. Please vote yes. Thank you. Thank you. It looks like Christian Bryant isn't present, so we'll move on to June Schuman.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is June Arima Schuman and I am an appointed member of the New Portlanders Policy Commission. Today I'm speaking in support for the housing screening criteria policy on behalf of the New Portlanders Policy Commission.
 The New Portland Policy Commission has been in contact with Jamie Duhamel, the Commissioner of Udailey's Housing Policy Advisor, and we have been keeping abreast of the policy and its updates and sharing our concerns and recommended solutions. Our communities have shared these concerns regarding their housing.
 Number one, the immigrant and refugee communities suffered the hardest from the ripple effect of burdensome and inordinate rent increases and no-cause eviction notices. Often due to language and cultural barriers, these sudden changes in their housing create unnecessary displacement, stress, trauma, and disruption to families. Two, because of these sudden changes,
 Three, the New Portlander families often experience discrimination in the application and selection process in the form of racism, high application fees, and or landlord unresponsiveness to renters inquiries. These experiences further complicated what would normally be a fair and objective process.
 For these reasons, MPPC supports the screening criteria policy proposal as we believe it will offer a clearer, more transparent communication process between renter and landlord as well as equitable and dignified access to housing.
 In addition, we specifically support these following changes in the screening policy, allowing for different forms of identification beyond government issued ID. Because immigrants and refugees often are in process immigration issues, for example,
 for example, or other status changes, this allowance would permit immigrant communities to use other forms of officially issued IDs they possess. Lowering the income-to-rent ratio to two times the current monthly rent, which would allow families greater rental options and opportunity to remain closer to their chosen area of residence.
 providing for an individualized assessment that accounts for the applicant as a whole person. No applicant should be denied housing without this approach. This will reduce
 I have one more. This will reduce the stigmatized and or discriminatory practices. Lastly, asking landlords to set an open application period would support immigrant and refugee communities in overcoming current application barriers and successfully applying for housing. Thank you. Thank you. And finally, Linda Hastings from Southeast Works. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Afternoon, Linda. Linda Hastings, Justice Coordinator, Southeast Works Mayor Wheeler and honorable commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Linda Hastings and I'm the Justice Coordinator at Southeast Works. Since 1997, Southeast Works has been serving justice-involved individuals in the Lentz area of Southeast Portland, also called felony flats. Last year, Southeast Works served 8,600 individuals looking for work.
 education, training, who assessed our services 23,000 times. Almost 30% of the 8,600 we serve self-attested to having former justice involvement. After 22 years of working with justice-involved individuals, we know that stable housing is the foundation of successful re-entry from prison.
 Unfortunately, many formerly incarcerated people struggle to find stable places to live. Part of the work focuses on assisting individuals who have been released from jail or prison to reintegrate back into the community. Part of the integration is the ability to find clean and safe affordable housing. We know that the transition from prison to the community is full of challenges.
 In doing our work, we know that before formerly incarcerated people can address health problems, find stable jobs, or learn new skills, they need to have a place to live.
 This is one of the most frustrating experiences working with our customers. They are able to get certification, secure decent jobs, apprenticeships, CDL training, and solid placement, and they make good wages and benefit. However, they cannot secure housing. Their prior backgrounds are held against them, and landlords are reluctant to allow them to rent units.
 Discrimination, and combined with affordable housing shortages, continues to drive the exclusion of formerly incarcerated people from the housing market. A big part of the problem is that property owners have the ability to implement their own screening criteria to determine if an applicant merits housing, a process that relies on criminal record checks as a primary source of information. Thank you.
 This means landlords have the ability to punish people with criminal records even after their sentence is over. They have served their time and need to move on to create a crime-free and pro-social life for themselves and the communities. Housing is a big part of the city and can assist by developing policies that address and correct the unfairness. Thank you.
 Thank you, and thank you for getting us in three minutes sooner than my colleagues promised to be here. Closing remarks? Commissioner Schuman, I just have a question. Did the Newport Lenders Policy Commission discuss the fact that immigrants and refugees are less likely to have computers and cell phones, so the first-in, first-served might not result in more housing being rented to immigrant and refugees? Did the commission talk about that at all?
 I'm not sure that I know precisely the answer to your question, but I think it may be one of those among many other issues that interfere in housing access. I will raise it with other people on our commission and have them look into more precise response if you want us to. But there wasn't much discussion at the commission about that issue?
 in connection with this policy. Was there any discussion at the commission about that issue? No, I'm not aware of that. Thank you. I can answer that. That's why we have the three-day advertising rule to allow people that have language barriers the chance to get assistance with filling out the application. The issue then is once the time starts, then you have to be able to quickly get in to be first in. Mm-hmm.
 I just want to know whether the commission discussed it. I'm not sure how we would solve for what you're talking about. We've done our best to account for that challenge. Well, let me just say that I greatly appreciate direct questions and I hope that nobody felt like you were attacking Commissioner Fritz.
 because you asked a direct question. I think it's important that we are able to ask specific questions so that we all have a better understanding of what's taking place in this building. So I thank you. Thank you. And thank you all for being here. Greatly appreciate it. Thank you. So thanks again, everyone, for being here. We will return tomorrow at 2 for open public testimony. Very good. Thank you, everyone. We are adjourned.