Everybody, this is the April 4th, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Oh, it's the new order. Yes. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Colleagues, before we start, I want to make note of the fact that this is the 50th anniversary of the assassination of
 of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King. And I had the privilege of hearing one of his children on the radio this week. And it was a really fantastic interview. And he talked about how people did not appreciate how radical or how revolutionary Dr. King really was.
 And he was so revolutionary in his views pertaining to nonviolent protest and pertaining to his vision of humanity that we still have not, 50 years later, lived up to the call that he put down for all of us. He preached about nonviolence, and he meant it.
 in the true tradition of turning the other cheek. And he talked a lot about the philosophy of society that he called the beloved community.
 And that's always been really inspirational to me as somebody in a position of public leadership and public responsibility. This concept of the beloved community, one which is just, one which is equitable, one which is inclusive, one where economic prosperity would be shared. And he talked about all of those things individually and separately. Right.
 I've also been struck by his just unfailing optimism in humanity. And if you go back and you listen to his final sermons, you know he wasn't going to make it. He knew it. He knew he had gone to the mountaintop. He said he had. But he knew that he was not long for this world. That's my interpretation of his last sermon.
 But he still didn't lose that undying optimism and hope for humanity. And that should be an inspiration to all of us. And so I just didn't want this opportunity to go by on this 50th anniversary. Could we just please share a moment of silence to reflect? Thank you. I appreciate it. Carla, first up is communications. Thank you.
 Oh, I'm sorry. We have our statement to read. Sorry. Legal counsel. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you. Communications. So we're going to do an experiment here, folks. The first individual for communications...
 for reasons I am not privy to, has apparently been excluded.
 He has asked that he be able to provide his testimony via audio tape in support of his First Amendment right to address this counsel. I will allow it. We'll call it an experiment. We'll see how it goes. So the first individual, please. Item 308, request of Barry Joe Stull to address counsel regarding Barry Joe Stull. Thank you.
 And if you wouldn't mind just stating your name for the record. My name is Barry Joe Stull, and I signed up to be on the agenda. And there is an unresolved matter of my lifetime exclusion from City Hall. That was produced in December of 2015. And I know now from the trial testimony from various city agents that
 that trespass exclusion itself was based on things that are just factually not true. So, uh, since then, of course, uh, in that same December, 2015, uh, federal judge Simon ruled in Joe Walsh's case about the city trespass policy being unconstitutional on its face. So I'm appearing here this morning, um, in this capacity because I have some things I wanted to share with the city. Um,
 in spite of my being excluded from City Hall in what I'm sure will prevail as a bogus policy. I was on the agenda in November of 2015, and I was arrested at City Council, and I was taken into custody, and 76 days later, the state moved to dismiss a felony charge of my assault on a public safety officer, which was Portland Police Bureau Officer Engstrom.
 And since that time, there's been a trial and there's been an appeal, and the State Office of Public Defense Services got an opening appellant's briefs, an excerpt of record. In the two cases I had, both stemming from November of 2015 with the arrest and custody that followed, the city hall being the second of those two events,
 When I was in custody, of course, Judge Simon ruled on the trespass policy being unconstitutional. And in addition to that, I saw some really terrible things. And one of the things that happened was a gal wasn't getting water, her...
 water had been turned off and the facility had a wiring problem. And she was begging for water, and my resolution of that was to stick my foot in the toilet and flush it, I'd estimate, a hundred times until I finally got the attention of the staff. And they finally addressed the fact that this woman beside me was being tortured. So I'm going to prevail on appeal. Both of the cases call for reversals.
 I'm glad to have this opportunity to speak to you. I will be sharing those opening appellant's briefs. My pro se supplemental briefs are due tomorrow on April 5, 2018, and the Attorney General will respond sometime in August 2018 if there aren't further delays. So thanks for having me this morning. I hope you're all well. Barry Jo Stoll, signing off.
 Thank you. And, sir, could you state your name for the record, please? My name is Moses Rosen, and I just wanted to say happy Passover and may the prayers of the homeless clog your toilets. Thank you. Next, communications, please. Item 309, request of Lightning Super Justice Watchdog to address council regarding Metro $500 million affordable housing bond. Good morning.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. I, Lightning, would like to declare a state of emergency for homeless children and students in the state of Oregon. As of 2017, we had approximately 22,541 homeless students.
 Again, understand that number does not include their parents, which would be families. And again, understand that number does not, this only includes people currently enrolled in the school system for them to be able to do the data. The number is alarming. The number has to be looked at. I have asked for an audit to be done on Oregon Department of Education.
 to review any and all data that they currently have. I am asking that we have the information provided to the public. Again, pertaining to the Metro bond itself, they were around $500 million. I had discussions with them and said I think it's a little bit on the low side for a regional bond. I asked for $750 million at their council meeting. They have come back at $1 billion. I absolutely agree with their number of $1 billion.
 I think the information from FM3 will substantiate that and the need for it. And when you just look at how many homeless children in use, just alone in Metro is approximately 7,800. And also understanding when you look and break down the schools themselves, such as Beaverton, 1,522 homeless students in 2017. Portland, 1,509.
 Reynolds, approximately 1,200. When you start calculating these numbers, again, those are enrolled in the school, which they can obtain the data. This is not including the people that are currently out in their cars and possibly tents and possibly not being able to get that data. We are in a crisis for the homeless children and students.
 I, Lightning, am taking it upon myself where the Governor Brown has failed on this issue. And I, Lightning, am declaring a state of emergency for homeless children and students at this time. And I'm asking Governor Brown to address this immediately, provide the proper data, and understand the $1 billion Metro bond is a beginning...
 Part of the solution, moving forward on this in an aggressive manner, to have real solutions, not shelters, not motels, not doubling up, but real solutions of permanent housing for the homeless children. Thank you. Next individual, please. Item 310, request of Star Stauffer to address council regarding conduct on becoming a publicly elected official and police accountability.
 I don't see star here today. Next individual, please. 311, request of Chuck Crochette to address council regarding misrepresentation of African American community needs being ignored. Thank you.
 He's not here. I'm sorry. Next individual, please. Item 312, request of Lowell John Mitchell to address counsel regarding guidance for police per ACLU. He has had to reschedule. Okay. Thank you. So that takes us through that. You put it off for two months. You're almost there. Mr. Walsh, please don't disrupt the counsel hearing. Why don't you change it?
 We have not changed anything with regard to communications. Every city council session starts with we have not eliminated communications. Are there any items that have been pulled off of the consent agenda? I've had no request. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. First time certain item, please. We're going to read items 313 and 314 together, please.
 313, accept a grant in the amount of $112,500 from Metro for the Rossi Farms Development Plan and authorize an intergovernmental agreement. And 314, accept a grant in the amount of $125,000 from Metro for expanding opportunities for affordable housing in faith communities and authorize an intergovernmental agreement.
 Colleagues, we're here today to approve two intergovernmental agreements and accept two grants from Metro. The first item, number 313, it's a grant for $112,500 for the Rossi Farms Development Plan. The second item, number 314, is a grant of $125,000 for expanding opportunities for affordable housing in faith communities.
 The first, Metro Construction Excise Tax, otherwise known as the CET grant, will help to fund a project to develop a concept plan for development for the 20-plus acre site, which is in East Portland. The second, Metro grant will help fund partnerships with face-based communities to develop affordable housing. Bureau Planning and Sustainability staff, Eric Engstrom, Barry Manning, and Ann Stark, could you come on up and let's...
 go through these items. And if you could start us off, please, with an overview, that'd be greatly appreciated. Thanks for being here.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Eric Engstrom. I'm with the Board of Planning and Sustainability. With me is Nan Stark and Barry Manning, who will be the project managers for these projects. I want to start by just thanking Metro for their decision to fund these two projects. Both of these projects will help us further the new 2035 Comprehensive Plan goals and align with both city and regional policies. Thank you.
 The grants provide funding for projects that might otherwise not be undertaken based on availability of local resources. And so we appreciate the opportunity to use the petro resources. Barry will talk a little bit about the Rossi Farms Project, and Nan will talk a little bit about the Faith-Based Affordable Housing Project. Great, thanks. Good morning. Barry Manning, Planning and Sustainability Staff.
 Talking a little bit about the Rossi Farms Development Project, we're looking forward to beginning work on the Rossi Farms Development Plan. The grant will help fund consultant services and staff resources to develop a concept plan for this site.
 The site is one of the last remaining large undeveloped parcels within the City of Portland. I've got a PowerPoint slide of the aerial of the site I can show you at the end of this. We want to note, and I think it's important to note, that while the project was labeled and submitted as the Rossi Farms Development Plan, the site is actually owned by and supported in this grant by several families, the Rossi families, the Giusta families, and the Gary families, so it's a combination of ownerships there.
 The Park Rose School District is also in the study area and has a small parcel that's in the focus area and is a property owner in the area as well. So there's substantial interest there. The site's located, as you may well know, on a prominent corridor, 122nd Avenue. It's approximate to several schools, including Park Rose High School and Beach Park. So this offers a really unique opportunity for placemaking in an area in northeast Portland.
 The site is also in an area that we feel could potentially benefit from new investment in community-serving commercial activities, perhaps a grocery store, as well as housing that serves a variety of income levels. Both of these aspects would help complete and work towards accomplishing goals in the comprehensive plan for complete communities. The project, as I noted, is supported by the families who own portions of the site, as well as the Park Rose School District, TriMet, and the Park Rose Neighborhood Association, who all submitted letters of support.
 And I just want to conclude that our collective goal with this project is to really develop a thoughtful concept plan that meets the goals of the city, the community, metro, and local stakeholders, while providing a viable path forward for the property owners of the site. And, Carl, if you could – oh, you have it up there? Great. That's showing the entire study area outlined in yellow. And you can see –
 that there is some undeveloped farmland in there to the right of the screen, which is to the east of 122nd. And the next slide here shows a red...
 Are you back at the first slide you're saying? When you're at right now, next to the middle school, it's included an area that looks like single-family homes. Are those all independently owned? Towards the north of the study area? Yes. Some of them are part of this ownership. I'm sorry, I'm not sure which one you're referring to. Kind of bottom left. I don't know whether that's north or south. The single-family homes that are right next to it, I believe that's the middle school.
 Yes, single-family houses on the bottom. I'm looking at the bottom right. And the bottom left, yes, those would be individual houses in that area. I'll have to do some research on that to clarify exactly what the property ownership is in that area. Yeah, I'm just interested as to why that's included in the planning area. Okay. Thank you for clarifying. Apartments that are within the study area but are not included in the focus area of the study, which let me show you on the next slide what that is.
 So you can see the red dashed area here. That really is clarifying. This is the focus area for the majority of the work that will be undertaken with this development study. And that includes the Rossi, Gary, and Justo properties as well as a small portion of the Park Rose School District properties. So then the next question is why not the bottom right or the far right of that area? Which would be the City of Portland Beach Park area, I believe. Okay.
 If I'm looking at what you're referring to. Okay, thank you. Yep. So with that, I'll turn it over to Nan Stark. Good morning. Morning. Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. I'm Nan Stark. I'm the North and Northeast District Liaison with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I'll be managing the $125,000 grant called Expanding Opportunities for Affordable Housing in Faith Communities.
 This grant will provide an opportunity for the city to partner with several organizations representing the faith community of Portland, as well as with several community development organizations. Grant money will be used to develop concept plans and financial feasibility analyses for three sites that will be selected.
 Engagement with leaders of faith communities will provide practical steps for other congregations to pursue housing projects consistent with their missions. The desired outcome of this grant is to create plans for developing affordable housing on land owned by religious institutions. This will serve as a model for other such institutions to follow in the future to address the affordable housing crisis.
 Any questions? Are there specific – you said there are three specific sites that will be looked at? No, they are to be selected. Oh, they are to be selected. Through the process.
 I have a question for Barry, and that is on the development agreement. Is there a development agreement for the Abrasi Farms project? There is no development agreement to date. That could be a potential outcome of the study. Really, the intention here is to develop a concept plan that gives direction to potential development on the site, and then as we explore some of the issues that are at play there, one of the outcomes could be some form of an agreement, but that's not
 anticipated up front. Could you talk a little bit about the construction excise tax grants from Metro, what the rules are for those? I'm interested in why city money and Metro money is going into a planning, what's basically going to be a private development. I'll defer to Eric on that one since he's been more involved in those projects. The Metro construction excise tax money, this grant program is intended to further the objectives of the 2040 Metro plan and
 This is the focus of that grant program, is to provide development assistance for key parcels, some of which are at the edge of the UGB where we've recently expanded, and others are internal to the UGB. There's an allocation of money to those two different purposes. But it's typical within this program that we do private-public planning partnerships on private land. Basically, the intent of the program is to develop plans that help us meet public needs
 public goals for the development of those properties and work with the property owners to further the potential development that's consistent with our planning goals. Thank you. That explains the $112,500 from Metro. There's a $50,000 Bureau of Planning, basically general fund match for this. What's the basis for choosing to put general fund money into essentially a private development? Okay.
 We have, in our planning activities, we typically are involved in private-public planning activities because the majority of land in the city is privately owned. So, you know, our planning activities extend well beyond just looking at publicly owned land. The river district in the central city, South Waterfront are other examples where we've put public money into development planning for private sites. That's very common in our work. Thank you. Any further questions? Yes.
 Very good. Does that complete your presentation? Yes. Is there a public testimony on these items, Carla, please? We have two people signed up. Great. Shedrick Wilkins and Joe Walsh. Good morning. Yes, I know about Rossi Farms. I'm Mr. Shedrick. I was raised there. I was raised in 70th and Sandy. I used to pick strawberries. I don't know if Rossi Farms when I was, like, in high school and stuff like that. My feeling is about immigration. Okay.
 A lot of Hispanics from Mexico have farm jobs. Cesar Chavez, who was a union activist for farm workers, is equally as important as Dr. King. He's 39th named after him. I think those kind of skills for farm work is the basis. It's hard to really pick strawberries or fruits with a machine. It bruises the fruit. So in California and Oregon, we have this relationship with farm workers.
 I like the area, too, because I love the campus of Mount Hood Community College, where people can, while they're doing janitorial jobs or farm jobs, they can learn skills to do more than that, or technical and scientific training.
 You could get two years at Mount Hood and then go to Oregon State, become a scientist or something. But you get a start there. So I like that area. If I have to be stuck in Portland the rest of my life, I will move out there. I believe in that area. You know, you see Mount Hood where, you know, the water and stuff like that.
 I finally want to say, too, that even on that, next week I'm going out to Mount Hood Community College. And about immigration here, I guess a Mount Hood Community College school board guy said there were too many Hispanics in the campus. He got voted out 80% by a woman for saying something like that. And he's an example why we will accept immigrants like California. And again, I like that area.
 And I used to look up at the jet planes and think maybe these people flying in jets are eating strawberries that people picked on the ground. Stuff like that. Thank you. It's a great story. Thank you for sharing it. Good morning, sir. Go ahead. My name is Joe Waltz. I represent Individuals for Justice. I'm having some trouble breathing, so I would ask for your patience. In this presentation...
 I heard the word affordable housing used, and I want you, the people that are watching this, to understand something. Affordable housing terminology is from HUD. It means nothing. Nothing. It has no correlation, no relationship to our homeless problem, our houses problem, or people that are suffering being let go. Nothing. Nothing.
 It is up to you. It is up to the people that get the grant. It is up to the goodwill of you. Because it means nothing. It means anything you want it to mean. You can have 80%. You can have 60%. You can have 30%. And unless it's in writing, it means nothing. So I want the people to understand that when they hear the terminology...
 Affordable housing, it's a con job. It's a political con job. And you got them all convinced. You use really good sugar words.
 You got them all convinced that you're doing everything you can to solve a lot of our problems in the streets and people that are dropping out. That Mr. Lightning told you is phenomenal. Even Mark, your director of the Joint Housing Committee or the director of the...
 agency or department or whatever he's called this month says that there's 16,000 people living by their fingertips and they keep dropping off. That's your affordable housing. You have to have money to get into affordable housing. I am affordable housing.
 I'm retired, so I could qualify for affordable housing, but I have to have some money. People on the street have no money. So it's a con job. You use the word, and then you use the word, well, we're going to help the people get off the street, and that is BS. Thank you for your time. Good morning. Don't thank me, Mayor. I didn't. Good morning. Thank you. I hope you're feeling better. Thank you. Bye-bye. Yes, my name is David.
 My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Superjustice Watchdog. I do agree with both the grants from Metro. I think it's important to get that data in front of us to understand what can be done with certain properties. I understand on the Rossi development, they're looking at a tremendous amount of affordable housing at this time.
 So I do think it's necessary to start looking at the properties and understanding what can and can't be done with them toward affordable housing. Now pertaining to the faith-based groups on the churches, I absolutely agree on this. I understand there's approximately 500 faith communities out there that have additional land. Again, I will stress to the faith-based communities. That's a good call.
 focus on this metro bond and understand that the $1 billion, if we also amend the Constitution, can possibly go in this direction. And again, my projection at about $1 billion would be talking anywhere from $3,500 to $4,500 if we use an analysis of $300,000 per unit.
 new inventory. That means creating a lot of jobs through the community, buying materials in the local community, and understanding that the benefits of this are tremendous at this time. So again, to the faith-based communities, get over to Metro, look up Metro and understand there will be stakeholder and technical meetings which they'll have everybody there, all the mayors and various mayors from all different locations,
 and attend these meetings to get a clear understanding on where you might fit in on this bond. And again, like I've stated, at the end of the day, on any of this, it comes down to the resources. It comes down to having the money there.
 That's what this bond is. And again, from Commissioner Salzman, Mayor Wheeler, on the city bond at $258 million, if we get a $1 billion bond from Metro, we're talking $1,258,000,000 toward housing. Again, I'll just use the term housing for the most vulnerable to get them in. And again, this is the ability to do that, the resources to do that, and everything on paper looks good.
 but it's the resources that make it into reality. It's the resources that get the people off the streets into housing. Again, focus on the $1 billion bond. It's going to be put on the ballot in November, and they need your assistance at this time. Again, great work to the faith-based communities, and good luck on your projects. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning, sir.
 There we go. My name is Mary Seip. I'd like to address the term affordable housing. I do think that it's a little bit misleading. Most people, when they think affordable, they think I have a job. This is what I can afford. The term low income, working poor might better reflect what we mean when we talk about affordable housing. And I think...
 We have to think about the fact that in addressing our homeless crisis, we also have to address the future, not just what's happening today. I think about the fact that so many people's wages have been stagnant for years. People working on minimum wage...
 are people that no longer do we have the luxury of corporate-sponsored pension plans. We have 401Ks and other vehicles that people can put their money into to build a retirement fund. But when you're the working poor, you can't build a retirement fund.
 So what we have, and you also probably are never going to be able to buy a home. So what we have is we have a generation and a couple of generations of workers that are going to be lifetime renters, right?
 They are going to be at the mercy of the market. And they're also probably going to have nothing but Social Security to live on when they retire. And we have to be thinking about those people and the people who are disabled who are living on SSI. Many of the people that are out on the street right now probably qualify for SSI and food stamps and could get into affordable low-income housing if it were available.
 When I moved into the affordable income-restricted housing development that I live in,
 almost eight years ago. I was on a waiting list for nine months. And actually, I got called at three months, but my lease where I was at wasn't up, and I was able to get in in nine months. Today, that same building, it takes about four years to get into. And on top of that, in my neighborhood, almost 600 additional units have been built within a six-block radius of where I live.
 So I think we have to be really careful when we talk about what we're addressing and not just dismiss affordable housing as not helping the people that are on the street right now. We have to also be thinking about the people that...
 could end up on the street tomorrow or the day after because we don't have any safety net to catch those people and help those people. And so I just want to say anything I see with affordable housing does not make me angry. It makes me very happy, and it makes me feel much more secure in this community. Thank you. Mary, can I just make a comment?
 Because I think the language has become very confusing. And I think what we have to often remind ourselves is the question is affordable to whom? Over 95% of the housing that the market is creating in this community is luxury housing. So it is what the market will bear at the high end. That is not the kind of housing that people who are at 60% of median family income or below can afford to live in.
 So if we acknowledge that there's a mismatch between what the market's creating and what a whole lot of people need, we then understand what government's role is and whether it's a carrot or a stick. If we don't act, we're not going to make a dent in that 24,000 to 30,000 units that we need to serve people who are sort of working class and below on the economic ladder. Right.
 And when I use the term affordable housing, I'm talking about people who have either no assets and resources or up to about 60%. But, again, I think it is important that we ask the question affordable to whom. We all want to live in a city where people of all incomes can afford to live here. That's accepted. Thank you.
 middle income, working class, the very poor, and people of means. The problem is the market is now almost exclusively producing housing at the high end, and that's why we, using the bond measure, inclusionary housing,
 tax abatements, things like CDBG and home and other tools are trying to create incentives for housing the market doesn't serve. And those are the people, in my opinion, who are at the most need of government assistance. It's uniquely what our role is, and that's what I think we generally mean when we talk about affordable housing.
 Exactly. Thank you for that. I appreciate it. So I'd like to chime in, too. And I'm always a little disappointed that Mr. Walsh comes and he throws his bomb in the middle of the room and then he picks up and he leaves. And then he never gets to hear the thoughtful conversation again.
 that he actually helped create. And that's just too bad. I use the words affordable housing to mean any number of things, but they all mean one thing in common, and that is below market rate.
 And during my campaign, I knew that people were confused by the term affordable housing, so I started saying workforce and low-income and very low-income housing. And then hilariously, the conversation came back to, well, what do you mean? Which takes us right back to the HUD definition of affordability, 80% AMI, 60% AMI, 0 to 30% AMI. And then people say, well, what does that mean?
 and it's back to housing that's less than market rate for people who work and people of lower income and very low income. So it's a big sort of non-virtuous circle of semantics. What we mean when we are talking about affordable housing for these particular ordinances is to do a study and look at the range of options all the way from zero up to 80% AMI.
 and when proposals finally come before this board, we will be talking about very specific levels of affordability and for whom. And if people stick around for a few minutes, we're going to hear from the North Northeast Housing Oversight Committee, and we're going to be very specific.
 about affordability and homeownership and the challenges that are there, particularly for our black community, but that are generally applicable to the entire community. So I don't want us to get too bogged down on what we mean when we're talking about affordable housing, except to say at various levels of affordability for various people at this point. This is a study.
 Very good. Now, I understand we have some representatives from the Rossi, Giusto, and Garra families potentially here today. Do you want to come up and say a few words? We'd love to meet you. Thanks for being here. Mayor, I have one more person who I took the sign-in sheet to earlier. Oh, I apologize. Sure. And if you could call the last person up for public testimony, we'll let them do it first. You can just cool your heels right there.
 John Hollister. Mr. Hollister, thank you. I apologize. Good morning. Good morning. My name is John Hollister, and I have been accused lately of having a total lack of awareness of the housing inequities that exist in Portland. After our conversation, Madeline Kovacs from Portland for Everyone recommended I read the book titled The Color of Law. After reading only 35 pages, I was sick to my stomach.
 After finishing the book, I came away with outrage towards our past leaders, not just in Portland but throughout the country, that caused and continue to perpetuate the most heinous of housing inequities. The Portland housing crisis has a number of serious issues, but in my mind, there is one tragedy that stands above them all, housing for people of color. There are several things that I became aware of from reading this book.
 FDR's awesome new deal that I learned about in school, both employment and low-cost housing programs excluded African Americans. The Federal Housing Administration and Veterans Administration refused to insure home loans to African Americans. Bank of America, Wells Fargo, and other major banks had the same policy.
 In December 1949, this practice was outlawed, but the law did not take place, did not take effect until February 15, 1950. Developers rushed to get their projects on record before the February deadline. Sounds very familiar. In the 1950s, cities across the nation increased minimum lot sizes to make affordable housing impossible. Also sounds very familiar.
 On page 238 of this book, the following quote, What's important is that until we arouse in Americans the understanding of how we created a system of unconstitutional, state-sponsored, de jure segregation and a sense of outrage about it, neither remedies nor reparations will be on the public agenda.
 The color of law also debunks the theory that all housing is good housing. Oversupplying cities with market rate and luxury apartments continues to create even more segregated communities. In March 2014, Housing Commissioner Dan Saltzman dedicated an additional $20 million to affordable housing to begin to address the ongoing threat of displacement and gentrification.
 As much as I applaud this effort, it's simply not enough. How about in 2018 we add another $200 million to address this problem? How about we start on a much smaller scale, prohibit displacement of single moms of color? We are creating...
 We are creating incredible instability for their children who move from school to school, spiraling deeper into fear, anger, and isolation. Give these women and their children a chance. They need affordability, family-sized housing.
 I am just an old, empathetic white guy with average intelligence, and I can't possibly understand the black experience. But from this day forward, on this issue, you can consider me an awakened and outraged American. Together we can do better, much better. So I would like to thank you, Mr. Hollister, for your testimony.
 I cannot tell you how much I appreciate your testimony and the preparation that goes into your testimony. So I have been provided a color of law book, as have all of my colleagues. And I don't know if you can see this on the TV, but it is both tabbed and annotated.
 with the appropriate sections, with little dots. I will read that. And again, I appreciate, I mean, I can't even imagine how much time and energy you put into this. And I can feel your passion. Thank you.
 all the way up here, and I do appreciate it. Thank you. And your testimony is not only germane to these two ordinances, it is directly responsive to the conversation we're going to have with the Northeast Housing Oversight Report. So thank you for that testimony.
 Good morning. Thank you both for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning. I'm Joe Rossi, one of the Rossi-Giustogary family members. And I brought a guest, Annette Stanhope, who is the president of the Park Rose Neighborhood Association. Also invited was Doug Cook. He's out of town and he sent his regrets. He couldn't come and sit in.
 I just want to say I'm excited about this opportunity to begin a conversation with our community about master planning, what our farmlands could be. I think it's an amazing opportunity because 32 anchors between a brand new park. Thanks a lot to your work, Amanda. Our community loves it. It's well attended. Lewitt View Park is here and Shaver School, primary school, middle school and high school, post office, all of that.
 So we have all the bones of what could be a really awesome walking community, and we're also just off the Columbia Corridor. So I really vision this. As a property owner, we don't have the ability to begin a grand conversation of what these properties could be developed to its highest use, and this process allows us that.
 I really see Corky Collier from the Corridor Association and Annette and Doug and then Mangus Mapes, who is our Historic Park Rose district manager, beginning a conversation of really what these properties could be. It's a clean slate, and it's very timely because these properties are owned by six people, but eventually with time an apartment developer or somebody is going to come, and they have an agenda. It's 50 units here.
 And what's best for the whole property and community is really not in their best interest. They just really need to rush development because time is money. But we have immigrant families who fled adversity and starvation in Italy from a few villages, come and farm all these years. And thus, all this property has been undeveloped. And in the 1960s,
 apartment developers built a lot of product and we have a lot of urban sprawl and it passed over us because we were just humble farmers this whole time.
 Anyways, I just want to say I appreciate the opportunity. The conversation is what means the most to me with our neighbors, and it'll be a year and a half, probably a two-year process to see what this could do. But we were granted with the new zoning some real flexible zoning. So whatever the need is in the community is really what the property owners would want because that was what would make the project the most successful.
 And I also want everybody to know I'm available for any questions. I'll be following this process step by step. You'll have a volunteer person who will make sure that this is done right because it's a legacy for our joint families and also Park Rose. Thank you so much. We really appreciate it. Appreciate your working with the city staff and the community to make something really great for the community here. Thank you. Thank you. I don't know if you had some comments as well.
 I just wanted to say that the Park Rose Neighborhood Association is in support of this particular project, and we feel that having a methodical and intelligent investigation into the potential for this property will make sure that it will be used for the best use for the community. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Colleagues, any further discussion on this item or further questions? Yes.
 Very good. Carla, please call the roll first on item number 313. Fish? Well, this is very exciting, and I want to thank all the families that are driving this development plan and thank Metro for this grant. Aye. Saltzman? Well, yes, I also want to thank the Rossi-Justo-Gare families for their commitment to the Park Rose community, their commitment to the city of Portland to get it right here. This is a prime opportunity.
 piece of property. As Joe Rossi just described, it's proximity to a lot of things, probably most importantly, good jobs in the Columbia Corridor. So this is really ripe for some good affordable housing, plus other things that are desired by the community of Park Row. So I'm very happy to accept this grant. Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz?
 Well, it's very fitting and also exciting that the first project that's coming through under the new comprehensive plan is the Rossi Farms and coordinated development with your neighbours. For those of you who weren't here during the four years that we were doing the comprehensive plan, Joe Rossi was at every single hearing and consistently advocating for what's good for the community as well as what was good for the property owners. So I appreciate that. This could potentially create 850 housing units.
 So when we're talking about, I'm sure there's other developers who are just waiting until the end of May to smack down their application for the new high-rise with the fancy apartments or condominiums. This is going to be a mixed-use development that's going to truly develop 122nd Avenue, hopefully stimulate more transit on 122nd. There's already good transit on Sandy Boulevard. So this is going to help with a lot of different comprehensive plan matters.
 I'm particularly glad to see in the grant that there are stipends of $5,000 for one or more of the following organizations, EPAP, the East Portland Action Plan, Community Alliance of Tenants, Immigrant Refugee Coalition, Community Organization.
 As Mr Rossi reflected, it's going to take the whole community planning this, and including those who have been displaced from elsewhere a long time ago from Italy or recently from various other countries. This is a very vibrant community with a very high percentage of students at both Parkrose Middle School and Parkrose High School being low-income students and students of colour. So I can't think of a better...
 site to be doing this first project and I'm really excited to see that the changes that we make in the planning realm are going to translate very quickly into on the ground improvements in this area. I was especially glad to see that the deliverable is that building permits will be cut within the first year after the end of the grant and I think that's a worthy goal which I hope we all work together. Thank you very much to all involved. Thanks to the Bureau of Planning.
 Wheeler? Thanks to Metro for selecting these important projects for grant funding. The partnership in our regional government is obviously an important part of successful planning. I'd also especially like to thank the families, the Rossis, the Justos, the Guerra families.
 I'd like to thank the Park Rose School District and the Neighborhood Association, and I'm pleased to see the chair here this morning speaking in support of these proposals and all the other folks in the community who have worked hard to bring this to this stage today.
 I'd also like to thank the Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon, the Interfaith Alliance on Poverty, Living Cully, Rose Community Development, Multnomah County, and others for their support of the, and I'm going to use the term, affordable housing program.
 in faith communities grant because that is the name of the grant. But I was particularly pleased to hear the conversation that we had today around affordability and what it actually means and for whom. And that should be front and center as we go through with this development strategy. So like my colleagues, I'm looking forward to seeing the outcomes of these grant-funded projects. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 314. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Well, I think this interfaith initiative has limitless opportunities. When you think about all the faith communities in the city of Portland and all of them who share a deep conviction around housing the poorest of the poor, and you think about all the big parking lots these churches have, they are well parked, most churches in the city of Portland.
 And there's a great opportunity here to have a mixed-use development supported by the faith community. And so I think this is a great grant, and I really look forward to seeing what the three opportunity sites that come forward first. And as I said, I think the potential is limitless here. Hi. Hugh Daly. Got to get used to this new order. I know, me too. Well, similarly to the Rossi Farm Development Plan, it's –
 heartening to see landowners, whether they're communities of faith or private landowners, being so intentional about how their property can be used to kind of its fullest potential, including serving existing communities and providing affordable housing. So this is really, really exciting.
 I really like it when we have two ordinances we vote on in succession because I can say what I forgot to say on the first one, and that is that we know that this land produces delicious fruits and vegetables. So when we do the concept plan, I hope you'll bear in mind a community garden would be really nice to have in there. Thank you.
 And I'm very excited about this second grant, too, that we do need to be looking to faith communities, and they have been stepping up. This will provide some resources to do a very thoughtful evaluation of how three communities could help, which then can serve as a model for others. And government can't do it all. Government shouldn't do it all. Private people.
 People can't do it all by themselves. We need everybody to join together, and this is a really good way of doing this. I'm really happy to see that Metro is giving this grant also. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you, everybody, for your hard work on this. Next item, please, 315. Thank you.
 Except the North and Northeast Neighborhood Housing Strategy Oversight Committee 2017 report. Colleagues, presented before us today will be the North Northeast Housing Strategy Oversight Committee annual report. This is the third annual report on behalf of the North Northeast Oversight Committee, and this report outlines the...
 made in alignment with the 2014 North Northeast Housing Strategy. This report also outlines some of the challenges that have been faced in accomplishing the goals of the strategy. Yet this report is not business as usual, and I'm sure it's no secret to anybody in this chamber today that I was highly disappointed when I received this report.
 I believe that despite the good faith efforts of the city and our partners, and especially the oversight committee members themselves, we're way off the mark relative to the original promises around this strategy when it was first put forward over three years ago.
 Rather than coming in and having people three weeks ago talk about the problems, I actually wanted us to have a more frank conversation about the problems and the solutions and who could do what to get us back on track with regard to the original commitments around this project. So I requested then that it be removed from the council agenda and brought back after the Housing Bureau had had a chance to address the concerns that were raised in the report.
 by the Oversight Committee and respond with some potential outlined solutions. I specifically requested that both the immediate and sustained actions were presented that deal with the challenges of both program participants as well as some challenges that we're seeing amongst the partner organizations. These challenges shouldn't come as a surprise to any of us here. We as Portlanders are aware of the history of North and Northeast Portland here,
 We've seen how the city's actions over the last 40 years have led to the involuntary displacement of some of our most vulnerable historical residents in these neighborhoods, which is why this report and the work of the Portland Housing Bureau and the work of the Oversight Committee is so critically important.
 By continuing to support the use of the preference policy, and I want to be very clear, I am a strong supporter of the preference policy. It's been instrumental and important in prioritizing historically displaced families for rental and homeownership opportunities and continuing to assess and adjust how homeownership funds are made available to participants. We're going to continue...
 down the path of fully implementing the North Northeast Housing Strategy. To present the North Northeast Neighborhood Strategy Oversight Committee Annual Report, we're joined today by the Oversight Committee Chair, Dr. Stephen Holt. Thank you, sir, for being here again. I think this is our...
 sixth time together in less than a week, and committee member Dr. Lisa Bates, and of course we have Leslie here representing the Housing Bureau as well. Good morning. Thank you for being here. Good morning. Thank you. Commissioners, good to see you as well. Thank you,
 Mayor, for your thoughtful introduction, I think that helps to set the context of what is in front of each of you. And hopefully you've had a chance to look it over and think about it. What we're going to do is I want to spend some moments doing a brief and kind of high-level overview related to our work and the work that is so central to addressing such a marginalized and displaced people. And then we're going to...
 kind of highlight what I'm going to call the challenges that surfaced during 2017, and Dr. Bates will speak to those. So I'm going to do the high-level overview, and then Dr. Bates will speak to the challenges we faced, and then I'll come back and make a few other comments. So today is briefly an overview. We'll talk about the charge, the engagement.
 what we've done around preventing displacement, creating new home ownership opportunities and rental units, and we'll talk about our preference policy.
 So the charge of the Oversight Committee, for those who may not know, is that the North Northeast Portland Neighborhood Housing Strategy Community Oversight Committee is created and tasked with the responsibility of reviewing and monitoring the development and implementation of policies and programming associated with North Northeast neighborhood housing or neighborhood housing opportunities and the dollars accompanying that activity.
 The scope of the Oversight Committee is to advise on, review, program proposals, and plan development, to monitor the implementation of policy and programming and associated outcomes, to advise the Housing Director and Housing Commissioner on progress, issues, concerns, associated with the North Northeast Housing Neighborhood and Interstate Urban Renewal TIF lift funds, and then that Portland Housing Bureau...
 And I would say along with the Housing Commissioner would inform the Oversight Committee of decisions, plans, and proposals prior to implementation. The committee is made up of a variety of individuals who represent education, who represent economy, who represent finance, who represent banking, who represent...
 community, long-standing members. We have individuals from their 30s up to beyond 30, we'll say.
 It's comprised of people who've been very committed for a long time to the work of the city. I think we've got an excellent committee. Our meetings are held on a consistent basis so that as much as possible to provide an equitable opportunity for community members to be present. We meet the second Thursday of every odd month at...
 New Song Community Church on Russell and MLK. And for those who cannot make it, then all meetings are recorded by OpenSignal and can be found on Channel 30.
 Our goal is to make sure that people are accessing. It is important that this process be transparent, that it be accountable, that it be engaging, and that the community understands this is about fighting for the determinations and the decisions that were made as a result of the original community engagement, the forums that were held. And you've heard me say it repeatedly over and over again, that the promises that have been made have to be the promises that are kept.
 That's our focus. So here are some of the strategies that were put in place. Strategy number one was preventing displacement as it relates to home repair. And this map that you're looking at gives you an example or identifies all of the people who've received repair. The purple are grants and the blue are loans. And that's within the interstate urban renewal area. Oh, in the study area. Thank you very much.
 Another strategy that was talked about is the ADU or Accessory Dwelling Unit Program. We had significant concerns as an oversight committee related to some of the implications around the ADU program. And at this point, think it needs some more baking, some thorough thinking through all of the impacts. There are so many various elements that are connected.
 connected to the ADU program, and I'd be more than happy to elaborate around that if there are questions. Could you give us a couple of examples? Okay. At the time when it was talked about, the discussion was in regard to the accessory dwelling units being in basements, and so not looking at the possibility of using garages. And so how then would that impact a homeowner if they're going to have to open up their basement to...
 Others. How does that impact in terms of that homeowner now becoming a business owner and the education associated with that? What are the tax implications that are associated with that? And so there were just some other elements I could continue to elaborate on, but there were just some questions that came up that we thought needed to be more thoroughly investigated and considered before we could say yes or no.
 Related to that. And then, you know, is it a wealth creation strategy? What's the purpose behind it? Another strategy that is a part of our oversight is the creation of new homes.
 In regard to that, as you know, the interstate urban renewal area is a hot market. Home prices are increasing significantly on a regular basis until we thought it necessary to change the boundary, to extend the boundary area to the study area to give a greater opportunity for people who have been impacted to have an opportunity to purchase homes. We also increased the subsidy.
 from what was originally $65,000 that became $80,000 that now is $100,000 to support and help people to secure homes. And then we also increased the subsidy for development of new units from $100,000 to $125,000.
 Strategy number three as it relates to creating rental homes. This gives you an idea of the projects that are happening, who the project sponsors are, where it is located, and the number of units associated with each project. Now, we'll talk through each of those, but it's over 500 units. Now, on top of all of that work, and Mary, you just spoke to it, is the preference policy.
 Everything that's happening in terms of how dollars are being allocated and spent are being filtered through a preference policy. The main concept behind the preference policy is to give opportunity to the families who were once in North and Northeast Portland, who've been displaced and or gentrified, to give them an opportunity of preference associated with their geography to return. Now, I'd love for it to be just the families who were impacted, you get a chance to come back.
 We know that HUD would overturn that. We understand that our federal government would not back it. And so the policy then has been established to be supported. It is the only policy that has been supported, and we're super excited about that, that the heartbeat around helping the families who've been impacted, they at least have a way to be supported to take advantage of the opportunities of returning. On the next slide.
 So here's an example of how the policy is being implemented or how it's being, the impact that it's having. So on the home ownership on the first round, that's the green box on your left side.
 The AH Collaborative, which is the African American Alliance of Homeownership, which involves Proud Ground, involves Habitat for Humanity, and a few other nonprofits who are part of that. You see the available slots, the amount of people who are referred, et cetera, et cetera. And then the other slot is PCRI.
 On the right-hand side, which you have are rental units, and specifically Garlington Place, which has 31 units, there were 736 applicants for 31 units. Of those applicants, 15 could identify eminent domain. I think it speaks to the fact for part of the conversation that's happened is do people want to move back? Here's an example. Yes, they did. So by that, you mean people who were evicted because of eminent domain? People who were impacted, absolutely, yes.
 And so 15 could prove eminent domain. And then down below you see a chart of the ethnicity of those who responded. A little hard to see. So this is the work that the oversight committee is engaged with. Again, we could drill down into specifics and particulars, but I believe we can each read. And I don't want to insult us with specifics.
 I do want to identify, though, that while the work is vital and necessary, and I don't remember the gentleman's name who came before and handed out the book. John Hollister. John Hollister. I couldn't have paid him to do a better job of setting up the reality of the weight of this work.
 So in light of that, there are things we're concerned about. We're concerned that, again, the promises made are promises kept, and we want to highlight some of those. And Dr. Bates, if you will speak to you.
 Sure. Thank you so much. And let me just take a moment to say thank you for the opportunity to be part of this committee and this important work. Thank you. Commissioner Saltzman first appointed me to this committee, and I've continued under Mayor Wheeler. And particularly thank you to folks here in the black community. I'm not from Portland, and people have entrusted me to be part of this group of people who are holding this event.
 you know, very deeply valued space in this history and families...
 really lives as we go forward, and I take that very seriously. It's really critical with this engagement that we continue in our practices, I think, around transparency, openness, and access to information about this set of programs. Certainly to ensure that folks have the right expectations and understandings of things like timelines for construction, when they can anticipate seeing units on the ground, because it has been a couple of years.
 We feel that it's very critical to have a deep community engagement around budgeting out the remainder of the TIF funds as the ICURA comes to an end. Where are we going next in the big picture with these funds? We also have our oversight committee has representation on the Hillblock Site Project Working Group.
 And I believe I can speak for everyone in our oversight committee in saying that we think that's a very critical moment to not only value community history, but to make sure that black Portlanders are in place in northeast Portland with opportunities for economic development as well as housing.
 and that we're really insistent on carrying those principles forward into the Broadway corridor, the post office site, and the Rose corridor, both sites of African American history and displacement caused by policies in this community.
 To speak a bit to our assessment around the preference policy and the specific housing programming, as Bishop Holt mentioned, as Mayor Wheeler mentioned, the preference policy is really an innovative new practice. It's an opportunity. It's being talked about nationally. It's being talked about internationally as an opportunity to think about how to repair displacement, particularly that that has been driven by public policy.
 And of course it's been well publicized here as well by the Housing Bureau's efforts. And therefore it needs to be on point. In our rental projects, we again want to make sure we're communicating timelines and opportunities so that folks are understanding when they will be able to access these possible opportunities.
 But we also have concerns about changes to some projects that seem to be in the pipeline, for example, around reducing bedroom size to zero and one bedrooms. We are building affordable housing for the very long term here. Housing is a very durable good, and we want to ensure that it accommodates families today and will continue to be part of that crucial infrastructure for family housing into the future with additional bedroom sizes. Yeah.
 On the homeownership side, as we know, there have been more significant challenges in that program. We have, I think, diverse opinions on the oversight committee about the models and tools that can be used. But we all agree that homeownership is a really critical response for the African-American families.
 whose exclusion from access to this opportunity is at the root of wealth gap, of housing instability, and is very deeply, deeply connected to the spirit of fair housing and civil rights. This is the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act, as well as a deeply meaningful anniversary around the assassination of Dr. Marilyn Luther King. And we see access to home ownership for black families as deeply tied to that cause and that movement.
 And we, therefore, are deeply concerned about the lack of progress in this area. First, a sort of limited targeting of home repair for maintaining homeownership for African American homeowners who do remain in the community.
 Second, that there have been very, very few successful buyers. There has been quite a bit of confused and delayed reporting on progress and the specific challenges that are happening in organizations and for families. And sort of a lack of real clear solution strategies being offered in that communication. Yeah.
 We have continued to press the point that down payment assistance loans ought to be forgiven over time in order to give people the best chance for maintaining their homes and building home equity.
 And finally, we want to ensure additional oversight in the relationship and communications between partners and families to make sure that people who are accessing this opportunity are being treated with great dignity and are being responded to in a timely manner and are having the best possible experience in what can often be a stressful but is also a very exciting moment and opportunity. Thank you.
 So we've been talking through those challenges over the last few Oversight Committee meetings. We've heard some responses from the Housing Bureau. I think we're very eager to hear about the particulars of how those programs will be either modified or how we'll go forward with sort of new formats working toward the same vision. Thank you, Dr. Bates. Thanks, Dr. Bates. So our commitment is to resolve each issue. That's what we'd like to see happen.
 Our desire is that there's strategic, intentional, purposeful, and expeditious implementation that's helping families get from one place to another. The hope is one thing, and hope is great, but to take a moment and to step into a little different zone that I function from, Proverbs 13, verse 12 says, "'Hope deferred makes the heart sick.'"
 And the idea of sick is that it makes you spin in a circle downward. So to live in hope is great, but hope must be fulfilled. And that's what we want to see happen. Those are our concerns. And we're looking forward to how we strategically implement the answers. I want to say thanks to Dr. Bates for your involvement and engagement, your thoughtful work. Thank you to Sheila Holden, who's a member of our oversight committee, for being here this morning. Again, we're made up of a...
 significantly talented and committed group of people who really want to see the things we've said come to pass. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much for your work. Are there specific things that you need from the city in order to take this work forward? I think part of, well, there are two specific things that I'd like to see happen. And Dr. Bates alluded to one, and I'll let you respond as well.
 The first one is the helping us to engage with the necessary partners, all of the players, from the Portland Housing Bureau to the nonprofit partners, to make sure that we are connecting in a manner that is moving forward.
 Our goal is not to throw anyone under the bus. That's not the effort. The effort is to make sure that people have what they need, that we're having the authentic conversations. We're dealing with the real issues, whoever's responsible for whatever delays in any areas. If that's permitting, we don't know, but that's where the city can weigh in. I think that's one of the areas where...
 where the city can weigh in the other area, and it's not specifically in this report, but obviously we need more funding.
 We need more dollars. It would be great to really think about strategic ways to leverage private funding, to leverage foundation funding and or other resources to really address what is significant. As you know, Portland is the most gentrified city in the nation. And so if we're going to do something about this, I think it's time for us to really ramp up our effort and take it on to address it. So thank you for asking. Thank you.
 Dr. Bates? If I could add to that, I pushed hard in Salem for the passage or the referral of a constitutional amendment to the voters.
 And that constitutional amendment would allow us to take housing dollars and leverage them with private sector dollars for exactly this kind of a purpose. And while I can't sit here today and advocate one way or the other, I will just say I pushed really hard for it, and it's a really important tool that we don't currently have.
 So I hope people give it a good, hard look when the voters pamphlet comes their way on this particular issue. Did you have another question? I'd like Dr. Bates to give her input into what else can the city and the council as individuals or a whole, what can we do to help? Well, I think we've talked a lot about resources, and certainly resources are very critical. I think...
 outside of these kind of programmatic fixes that we've been talking about, I think just being very clear about what the work is that's happening here, what the strategies are that are critical. This is costly work because northeast Portland is an expensive part of town. And to not... But yet we can't let that go. We can't let it go because of the historical...
 racial exclusion and segregation that's happened in the city, but we also can't let go because it's not a good idea to allow large portions of our city to be simply inaccessible to people who are not greatly wealthy. It's not a good idea
 infrastructure for health and resilience. I don't believe in a community. So I think just to be very clear in our conversations about this larger affordable housing topic, which we've been talking about this morning, that this work in a gentrified neighborhood is vital.
 Thank you. My last question is I was at the Parks Board yesterday where Rekhi Adams and Zari Santner did a presentation on the albino project, and I wondered how much overlap there is between your committee's work and their planning and other things that we need to be aware of that we're thinking of now that would either help or burden or continue to burden the albino community. Do you want to respond first?
 I mean, it's a marvelous plan, isn't it? The Albina vision. I would say that I think that speaks to my comment that our group and the folks in the community who come routinely into our meetings very much understand the history of the full Albina area down to the Rose Quarter. That was also a site of black homes, of black businesses that were destroyed.
 demolished for the Coliseum, that were demolished for freeway. It's not unique to Portland. It's happened in every city in America. But we may have some unique opportunities to do something about it and to have a very dynamic plan. And people behind it, it should be taken very seriously and seen as a connection and a continuation of this project.
 So either directly and or indirectly, we have levels of crossover. If it is the Community Development Initiatives Oversight Committee of Prosper Portland or now the Hillblock work that the city, Prosper Portland Legacy, is involved in, the Albina Plan or the Albina Vision or the Broadway Corridor, you name it, there is this overlap because the reality is we're defining geography by streets.
 That isn't how it plays out in real life, right? It isn't that if I live in the Broadway corridor, I don't go to this place or that place. So it's incumbent upon us to take an aggressive or an assertive role to make sure we're having conversations. And either our oversight committee has representation in these various groups or I'm engaged in communication with the various groups because the decisions that are –
 For the best practice and the best opportunity, it's intelligent of us to think together and strategize together to see how we can supplement, complement, support the work. So there's a real continuity and hopefully even a continuity of design and look and structure and feel and function and flow. So that's a great question. We are doing our part. I think that supporting from your side commissioners can help us to make that successful. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor? Oh, Commissioner Udali, sure. Hi, everybody. Thanks for the presentation.
 I can dig these numbers up later, but I think it might be useful for the purpose of this conversation to get a sense of how many individuals or households had we hoped to have served by this point in the process and how many have been served. I know homeownership, it's four, which is quite low. And the hope was for 65 homeowners. At this point, we officially now have five. Yes.
 And then on the rental side, did we have numbers? Oh, gosh. I don't remember the month on top of my head. They're on the – yeah. So the couple areas that I'm particularly interested in –
 Is the home repair loans, as commissioner of BDS, we are bringing back our get legal program where we're going to be working with property owners to address code violations and get their properties safe and habitable.
 Is this a staffing capacity issue as far as the low number of dollars that went out the door? Because I've seen families having to crowdfund on the internet to do elderly homeowners to do essential repairs to keep their homes or to refinance their homes. And we've also looked at maps of liens and we unsurprisingly see significant changes
 number of liens in rapidly gentrifying areas and those liens are typically going to be on older lower income homeowners, so We're really committed to making sure that we're not driving Displacement through BDS, but those home loans would sure help in our mission So I appreciate you asking the question what brought us to this. How did we have that? I
 In terms of our report, why were the numbers as they are? I think that a good response to that will be from the Portland Housing Bureau to be able to answer the specifics as to why and then how do we adjust that going forward. And I'm extremely pleased to hear that it is something that matters and that you're thinking through how to best serve these longstanding members, right? Yeah.
 I mean, we're talking about a neighborhood. Pardon me for a second. We're talking about a neighborhood that's been absolutely decimated, economic opportunities wiped, families and relationships separated. And I don't think we can be casual about this. I think we need to be intentional and passionate as it relates to this work. And aggressive on the timeline. Yeah. Another option – oh, Dr. Bates. Yes.
 Likewise, I think it's wonderful to hear that this program, the Get Legal program, would be sort of resurrected and that you are having an equity lens in mind in doing so. I know you have a wonderful equity manager at BDS. I cannot emphasize enough the engagement with families who are longstanding owners in northeast Portland who may have significant home repair needs, liens, and have had –
 unpleasant interactions with the bureaucracy around code violations will take some very deep work to consider how to engage effectively with those families. The trust issues, the understanding issues about what will lead someone into an enforcement path versus a remediation path,
 Communication, I mean, you cannot make communication clear enough. And sort of engaging with some trusted organizations, I would suggest, and folks who can sort of guide and help to communicate that will be very critical. I appreciate that. Another item I just want to bring up, and we don't have to really delve into it, but I haven't really heard it discussed in the context of this strategy, is...
 Could we or should we be working to preserve succession of ownership within families? I have now witnessed two of my African American neighbors, one in Irvington and one in Woodlawn, lose homes that were inherited that were at some point paid in full through what I think is unnecessary and heartbreaking foreclosure process.
 So I'm very interested in what we could be doing because it's complicated. You have maybe, you know, one surviving parent leaves a home that has appreciated
 massively in value to multiple children. None of them may have the resources to buy the home. You know, it's just, and they end up losing this asset. And it just, I've never owned a home. It makes me sick to think that someone, you know, could lose something that valuable. So I just wanted to put that out there. And then, point of clarity, have we been allowing
 people to look outside the interstate URA so far, or we're going to allow them to look outside the interstate URA for the homeownership opportunities? We made that adjustment and expanded the boundary, and so that is something we are recommending to be approved. That hasn't been implemented. Is that correct? So let me just clarify. When we initially did the RFP, Leslie Goodloe from the Housing Bureau,
 For the $5 million for homeownership, we limited it to a study area within the URA so that we could not use the funds in the entire URA. And the committee recommended and it was approved for us to be able to use those down payment assistance loans throughout the whole URA, not just within the study area. Okay.
 Because we were finding that the study area was the most expensive. And so folks were having a difficult time to buy a house and use the down payment assistance just because the prices and folks had cash. So North Portland had many more homes available within a price point that folks could use the down payment assistance. We voted on that this year.
 And then the last thing I'll put out there is I have a particular interest in ADUs and how we can make that opportunity accessible to as many homeowners as possible. So when that conversation comes back around, especially once the residential infill project policies are implemented, I'd love to...
 talk to you about that. Perfect. Because I'm really excited about the potential, but I'm concerned that it's only going to be available to relatively affluent homeowners if we don't make some big stuff happen. Thanks. Thank you. I'd like to thank Dr. Holt, Dr. Bates, Sheila Holden, and others for serving on the, and leading from day one, the North Northeast Housing Strategy Oversight Committee.
 I think when we first, you know, back in 2014, when I directed the Housing Bureau to come up with a preference policy and directed my housing advisor, Shannon Callahan, to make that happen. You know, Dr. Holt, you were there from the inception. I think, you know, it's hard work. I mean, it's fraught with peril in terms of legal definitions that can do it. And it's taken some intentionality to really even get to where we are right now, and there's still a long ways to go.
 But I think your oversight, as you said, holding our feet to the fire has really been successful. I mean, we have a long way to go, but at least now I think the preference policy is known by people who have been displaced, witnessing by 736 applicants for the Garlington Place Apartments. That's a lot of people knowing about the preference policy being there. So that's a start. That's a crucial start. People need knowledge of it.
 And I think when we first announced it and implemented it, it was sort of dismissed by many in the community, I think, as tokenism. And you could probably look at it right now and still say it's tokenism, but I think we're on a path. And we're only going to succeed on that path with your continued oversight to make sure that we, the city, and the Housing Bureau get this right because it is so important. And it's such an important part of our community.
 history of Portland, as John Hollister so well articulated earlier today, this is something that we need to be very intentional to overcome. So I just want to say we've got to work ahead of us, but I think we're up for the challenge. Let me jump in for a second. I want to join in thanking the committee for their excellent work. But let's be clear, the committee is an oversight committee. You are not charged with building the housing. You're not charged with working through the regulatory problems.
 You are not charged with going out and collecting the money. You're charged with providing oversight on a program. And I don't remember the last time we had a report come to council that documented so many failures in a program that you are trying to oversee. And processes and other lapses that are making it very difficult for you to do your job.
 You have been very diplomatic in your presentation to counsel, but the mayor began by saying how disappointed he was in this report. And I've just taken sort of the highlights of some things you put in here. As I read this report, there is a lack of clarity on some of the policy questions here.
 And I'd hate to see us come back a year from now and continue to have a lack of clarity on policy questions. I mean, that's something that we've asked you to weigh in on. And we need to call the question on a couple of things. One of them is accessory dwelling units. Two is the scope of the REACH project and has it changed beyond what was anticipated. Three is some other very thoughtful suggestions you put in here. There's questions for me around staff capacity and communication issues.
 There's questions about have we given you and the staff enough flexibility to adapt in real time to things? Because you shouldn't have to come back to council every few weeks for a change in whatever. There should be an ability to adapt to change circumstances. You've had turnover on your committee, and you're a 10-person committee, but in the last year you brought three new people on. That's disruptive by definition.
 The economic circumstances on the ground have changed dramatically. We've been hearing from the development community that costs are going through the roof,
 We're at 150% to 200% capacity in the building trades. We're bidding up the price of construction materials, of labor, of land. So as you said, Dr. Holt, you know, money is a big issue because what was envisioned in 2014 is now much more expensive to accomplish for the very same plan that was put on the table.
 I could go on and on, but I think you've done a laudable job in presenting all of the challenges that you're facing. Thank you. And what I want to avoid is coming back next year and reading a report that says we still have those challenges. And when you were asked by two colleagues, you know, essentially what I think is the most important question, what has to change? What do you need to be successful? You know, you mentioned communication and you mentioned resources. Yes.
 I want to ask you to be even bolder in coming back to us with suggestions. For example, we're in the middle of a budget process. Does the Housing Bureau have to hire another person to oversee this project? Because last time I checked, over the last 10 years, we keep asking the Housing Bureau to do more and more things, including producing reports and overseeing projects. But if you look at their staff, it has remained pretty static. It may even be on a downward arc.
 So there's a limit to what they can do with existing resources. And I have great confidence in the people at the Housing Bureau. But one of the things that you may be highlighting is we need another project manager. That may be something specifically that you want to put on the table, and that's something we should take up at budget time. There may be a – you may need someone who is helping you close on certain issues. There's a whole host of issues in here that are still drifting, and you're struggling with it.
 Well, for God's sake, we don't want you to spend ten more meetings over the next year just moving the ball afoot. We want you to be empowered to call the question, and as long as it's within the scope of your authority, have confidence that the Housing Bureau can implement it. So, and one other thing, Dr. Holt, you alluded to some of the frustrations that the committee felt around the progress of some of the developments. Yes.
 One of the things that's almost impossible to discern based on the data we've been given is what is actually the biggest obstacle or set of obstacles. Now, in our regular deliberations when we do complicated things like technology oversight, we get a color-coded chart that tells us in each of the categories whether we're on track or we're failing, and then it helps explain it. It's in red, yellow, and green categories.
 And you know what? For those of us who are very, very busy up here, red, yellow, and green is an extremely useful exercise because then we get to say, why is this still red? And if it turns out there's a backlog at the Bureau of Development Services or there isn't enough financing or there's some other problem, then we can be partners in helping to solve that. But right now the data doesn't actually, the report doesn't actually give us a lot of detail on what are the roadblocks.
 And I share your frustration. And you're going to want to know what those roadblocks are, and you also want to have someone accountable to clearing those roadblocks. So...
 A couple suggestions. Number one, I hope within the next 30 days, if you have additional suggestions for what you need, what's on your wish list, that the committee will submit it to each of us, to the entire council. Perfect. And that includes whether you believe there has to be anything included in the budget that we are now crafting to help move this thing along.
 Number two, I would love your suggestions for how we can be more transparent about what are the obstacles in the way of some of the production goals that you've established. You've set audacious goals. We all understand that the market has changed. We understand they were low-confidence goals. But what we don't know is which part of the equation is getting in your way.
 And I would encourage the Housing Bureau to come up with a chart using the, and I see Director Callahan shaking her head yes, a chart that literally has the red, yellow, green coding so we can all understand with you what's the hang-up. And if it's a hang-up that one of us is responsible for in our leadership overseeing a bureau, then you can legitimately reach out to us and say fix that.
 If it's a problem in the marketplace because the costs are becoming prohibitive and it comes back to you need more resources, that's a conversation we should have. But as I look at this report, I'm not entirely clear about what those headwinds are, but I think all of us up here want to be part of the solution. And, again, I want to go back to a fundamental point. You're an oversight body. You're not the body we designated to sort of deliver the product. So you are giving us a sober...
 report that says we're making a little bit of progress, but we're not making the progress that you'd like to see. And I think we need a little more information about what it is that needs to change, and
 for us to see more progress. I know we're all going to be very polite about this conversation, and we're all very diplomatic, but the report is actually pretty detailed in areas that I can feel the frustration in the report. And I hope you'll see us as...
 as your partners in fixing those problems so that when we come back next year, we can celebrate even more progress towards the goals that you've established. And if problems have come up along the way, we don't have to have elaborately bureaucratic complicated mechanisms to make sure you get the resources and tools you need. There should be enough flexibility built into this.
 Appreciate that. And then finally, just to the conversation that you had with one of my colleagues about the new Albina vision, I've been on the council for 10 years, and somewhere in this building there is a closet that has all the visions for the Albina district and for the Rose Quarter. And probably there's some plants that have already rooted in the dust that has settled because they just stack up.
 Each one was well-intentioned. Each one at some point had a constituency. And 10 years later, we've actually done nothing in the Rose Quarter. Now, Rekia and a group of well-intentioned people have come in with a bold vision that connects Albina, connects the Rose Quarter to historic Albina, connects the community to the river, does some justice work that's very important.
 And just speaking for myself, I've concluded that the only way that vision is going to see the light of day is if we create a separate public authority to drive that vision. I think it is beyond the capacity of Prosper Portland to handle that, and I think for historic reasons it would be a mistake to ask them to drive that vision. I think the council in the next year has to decide whether we are going to be bold and establish a public authority
 In big cities across the country, public authorities have driven big visions. And this one I don't think will happen unless we create a separate public authority with a different governance structure that allows this vision to move forward. So that's just one commissioner's view on that question. So thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. If I could just say two things. We have no reticence being very specific around what our concerns are.
 and or what we think could be solutions. You echo very clearly the frustration, and what we've been trying to discern and uncover or discover is where are the roadblocks, who is responsible for those roadblocks, hence what you see in the report. And I think you'll get some of those answers in a moment with some of the strategies. And then lastly...
 I echo and agree that if we're going to move this needle forward, it's going to take some aggressive action to do so.
 What time is causing is more delay and more displacement if we don't do some things differently. So thank you. Thank you both. Thank you. Leslie, did you have anything to add? If not, I want to bring the interim housing director forward. No, I'm just here to support them and answer questions they couldn't answer. So Shannon wanted me to stay. Why don't you hang out? Thank you both very much. Again, thank you for your leadership. Thank you.
 Dr. Bates, thank you as well. Sheila, thank you for continuing this. So Commissioner Fish spoke eloquently, and both of the bureaus he mentioned are mine. The buck stops with me on both the Housing Bureau, and it stops with me on Prosper Portland with regard to the development of the Rose Quarter. And I want to be crystal clear. There will not be another report like the one you just saw. This was created three years ago.
 In three years, five families have found housing through this program. In that regard, I don't see how I can sit here with a straight face and call it anything other than an abject failure. And I agree with you, Commissioner, that it is not the failure of the Oversight Committee. It is our failure. Thank you.
 that after now three reports, we have very little progress to show for it. There will not be a fourth report like this because I'm going to hold everybody accountable for ensuring that we see good progress. Just as a side note with regard to the Rose Quarter, I want you to know that the conversation is already underway, and there already is a consideration of an authority model to direct the
 or at least help direct the development of the Rose Quarter. We have many other master planning exercises that we're undertaking, including the Broadway Corridor and other projects throughout the city. I share your concern about capacity and capacity
 I will make sure that as we make decisions around that, we will include the council and the public in those conversations. They are in a stage that I would describe as early. So interim director, first of all, I want to set the stage. You and I have had many conversations earlier.
 with Dr. Holt and others about this report since I first received a copy of it. I want to be crystal clear on the record. You have demonstrated to me, beyond any doubt, a strong commitment to making sure that this project goes forward and that it is successful. You have articulated to me your understanding that the rest of the country and others are watching our results on this project. Therefore, it is imperative.
 that we be successful with this project. And I want to just make note of the fact, as Commissioner Saltzman did earlier, you were his point person on this project when you worked for Commissioner Saltzman. So you're not new to this game. The first issue that was mentioned was the delays in families becoming homeowners and slow production of homeownership units. What commitments can you make to us today? Thank you.
 First of all, I'd like to let you know that, as you have said, Mayor, that I and we at the Housing Bureau are committed to getting this back on track. And as Dr. Holt alluded to, there's been some questions and concerns about who's responsible. We are. It's the Housing Bureau that's ultimately responsible. So I just want to let you know that and that I clearly take that role very seriously and so do all of my staff.
 In terms of home ownership, we made a commitment to 65 families and moving them into home ownership. We have chosen two different providers, a collaborative and PCRI to provide a mix of African American Alliance for Home Ownership collaborative that includes Proud Ground.
 NAYA and Habitat for Humanity. And then we also have PCRI, who is building 22 homes. And Hacienda is part of that as well? Yes. Thank you, Mayor.
 One of the things that we are concerned about is that we have two different partnerships, two different lists, and we want to make sure that we are examining ourselves, the Bureau, the status of every single preference policy household in the pipeline to see if there is anything that we can do to move those families quicker. That means new strategies, new tools.
 For us, that also means talking to the developers that receive the homeownership tax exemption program about possibly acquiring those houses sooner.
 It means providing regular and clear and consistent quarterly reporting of the type that you indicated, Commissioner Fish, regarding not just the development process, but where all of these families are, what are any of the concerns that we have, what can we do. And who will that information be provided to and when will it be provided? How often? It'll be provided on a quarterly basis, publicly, and to the Oversight Committee. Thank you.
 Thank you. I did want to say that we have been, and I was in contact last week with Director Esau from BDS and requested assistance from her with priority permitting for the homeownership units and process. And she was very amenable to that, and I appreciate that help in advance. I think it's going to be important that we do have a city effort to keep on track.
 That was my response to homeownership. Mayor, did you want me to provide? There is one more thing I would like. Can you make any commitments today numerically around homeownership units created or loans proffered? Are we in a position to do that yet? I am not. I am not. I am not. When will we be? I will be ready to do that next month with the Oversight Committee at the May meeting. As I've said, we have staff right now looking at the files of everyone in the preference policy list today.
 to ensure where we are. The development of the units are not projected until later in 2018 and 19 by our partners, but we want to make sure those units stay on track and the families are matched up. Good. I find nothing motivates a coalition more than concrete goals to which we will all be held accountable. We will set those goals with the Oversight Committee in May. Good. Do that and add 10%.
 With regard to the loan assistance structure, Dr. Bates had suggested a modification of that structure. What say you? We agree. Okay.
 We wholeheartedly agree with the recommendation of the Oversight Committee. We believe that a family that has resided in their home for a period of 30 years should have the down payment assistance completely forgiven. We're recommending a structure that starts with a forgiveness at year 15. We'll be bringing that specific proposal to both the Northeast Oversight Committee in May and our Portland Housing Advisory Commission as we would intend to make that
 a program change available citywide, and then we would bring that back to City Council for your approval. Very good. Commissioner Udaly had articulated a potential strategy around standards in rental units, and I want you to know, Commissioner, that's well received over here. Thank you for that. There was also some questions about the loans or the outcomes for home repair loans.
 We are in the budget process, as Commissioner Fish rightly pointed out. Where do you stand on that?
 So there are two different products that are offered to homeowners in the URAs, one of which is a home repair loan and one is a home repair grant. The grants are smaller dollar amounts, usually around $10,000, that are particular to access issues or issues with seniors remaining in their homes or disability ramps, things of that type.
 We do not have a problem with getting those dollars out the door through our partners. We have had a dip in the numbers of families of communities of color that received that program last year. We know that we have proven methods that have given us better outcomes in the past that we did not use last year. We will be reinstituting those and talking with the committee because we do have proven ways.
 With the Home Repair Loan Program, which is usually about a $50,000 loan, these are much more significant, obviously, repairs to homes. We have staff that is capable of doing about 50 of those each year, and we have three of those staff. We anticipate doing and are on track to do 50 loans for next year.
 quite frankly we over budgeted and that's what the committee is seeing is we over budgeted to a level that we are not capable of reaching outcomes and it was quite frankly a budget mistake on our part.
 And we have rectified that. Okay, and that will be rectified. It is rectified through the Bureau's requested budget? Yes. Very good. With regard to the Argyle development at REACH, this has been a very complicated project. As I understand it, and please correct me if I'm wrong, Argyle,
 A lot of that has to do with changing market forces over the last couple of years. Construction costs have gone up. There is a gap that is formed as a result in part of market forces and part of federal policy.
 What are we going to do over the course of the next year to get that project moving? So what we have is REACH has submitted an application to the state for GAP funding. If that is successful, I think we have a project that is capable of moving forward on a quick timeline. Though the Oversight Committee has raised concerns about the number of family size units and overall design of that project.
 But I think that's a much simpler conversation if we have a gap already identified and filled. If they are not successful in their application, we have asked them to present a balanced budget with the amount of money that they were awarded in the NOFA. That would likely result in a significant decrease in numbers, and we would be proposing to bring those options back to the oversight committee.
 Our first goal would, of course, be to get this program moving, but sometimes you also must make tough choices about not proceeding with the program if the gap is too large. Right. And the hard work here is going to be to reach a consensus agreement that is probably going to be different than the original vision based on changes in the market. And the key here is we need to engage with the committee and find out where that –
 pragmatic compromises that gets this project moving. Yes. Great. Anything else, colleagues? Commissioner Fish. Mayor, a couple. Yes, sir. Director Callahan, I met yesterday with the home builders, and I learned some interesting things. They explained to me some of the challenges they're facing in this market right now. Rising interest rates. I think the Fed has increased rates twice, and a signal they could go higher. So their interest rate environments changed significantly.
 Cost of land is going up, affecting the cost of projects. Cost of construction, both in terms of materials and labor, has gone up dramatically, in part because there's so many projects going on right now bidding up the cost that people are getting bids from construction companies that are well above what we saw two or three years ago. Yes.
 And there's, frankly, some concern that we're going to have a – we're going to go into a cyclical shift in the marketplace because, after all, housing is not immune from cycles. And that we may be, you know, just beginning in a kind of a slight turndown. So there's a lot of factors that they're weighing in terms of, you know, their work.
 The reason I mention that is that I think uniquely this is an area where we have to have an asterisk next to our goals and say they are low to medium confidence goals because, frankly, as smart as you are and as capable as you are, you can't control the macro market forces that are affecting all of these projects. Yes.
 that are affecting individual consumer decision-making and the like. So I think if we – I like the idea of resetting the numbers so that they are achievable. But since we generally talk about low, medium, and high confidence, I think we have to be clear with people that we're talking low to medium confidence because we're not smarter – we can't anticipate all the market headwinds that we're going to be dealing with. And we should be clear to people about that. Okay.
 In the next report we get, is it possible that we could get it color-coded so that, for example, on the projects in the pipeline –
 We could see, for example, is it on time? Is it on budget? If it's not on budget, what are the factors that are driving cost overruns? Is there a regulatory hurdle that is slowing things down? I think we could come up with, you know, three or four generic categories and then color code them. Is that something that you think you can do? Okay.
 Yes, Commissioner. We committed to that and as well doing that on a quarterly basis. And if you're interested, we'll also provide it to your offices as we do to the oversight committee. I would appreciate that. It also makes it easier for us to then ask the questions, as we do with technology oversight and a number of other areas. So thank you for that. Thank you. Very good. Kids, where are you from? Where? Buckman. Excellent. Thanks for coming to City Hall. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Uh, colleagues, I will entertain a motion. I move to accept the report. Second. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman to accept the annual report from the North, Northeast Housing Oversight Committee. Please call the roll. Fish. Just three closing observations. First, um, Mayor, thank you for, uh, your leadership. You began this hearing by very clearly stating that, that you intend to,
 provide leadership and oversight over this process, that you're not satisfied with the progress we're making. And I think it's, frankly, refreshing when people in leadership positions take ownership. Two, I think we owe a great debt to the Oversight Committee. But, again, it's an oversight committee. They're not out there, you know, surveying the land and putting up siding and negotiating with banks. They are reviewing our progress today.
 And this report is, I don't think I've read a report quite like this in some time. So thank you for the care that went into it, and thank you for your candor about the challenges that you see and your appeal to this body and others to help you get it right. And then finally, I just want to go back to the underlying issue here, something Commissioner Saltzman launched and the council has backed,
 I'm proud to be on a council that has a north-northeast Portland housing strategy and has worked through some very challenging legal issues. We are about to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act. It's not entirely clear there will be a celebration at HUD, but we will be celebrating. And we all have a big stake in the success of this endeavor. Dr. Holt, you made that clear too. Thank you.
 So we owe you our best in making sure that you can achieve the goals that we've set out. So thank you for your service, and thank you for an excellent report. And I have tremendous confidence in Director Callahan and her team that they'll get it right. Aye. Seltzman. Well, just thanks again to the Oversight Committee for your service, and particularly Dr. Holt for your leadership from day one and your steadfast leadership. So thank you very much. Aye. Udaly. Aye.
 Well, thank you to the Oversight Committee. The strategy is innovative and it's exciting. Clearly, we've had some trouble getting out of the gate, but I'm still excited and hopeful. Thank you for that quote. Actually, I needed to hear that today. That we'll move forward more successfully very soon. Aye. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you, Dr. Bates, Sheila Holden, who are here from the committee, and for the other members of the committee for the enormous amount of time that you've put in doing true community engagement. And I appreciate all of the strategies that you're using to allow people to participate in this discussion, which is about that. And I appreciate the candor in your report.
 Obviously we need to do better and we need to do more. And I see you as more than an oversight committee. You've been driving the policy on this since the beginning and I hope you will continue to do that. I hope you will continue to hold the city accountable by creating these reports and coming to tell us about them. And yet I still appreciate how thoughtful you are in the way that you make your recommendations that...
 We can and must do better. Thank you very much for that, too. Hi. Wheeler. Life is short, and this is a committee that expects action, and so do I. Thank you, Dr. Holt, for your leadership on this and, frankly, many other things where you provide leadership and guidance and counsel to the city council and to me in particular.
 Dr. Bates, thank you. I always appreciate your frankness and your integrity and your hard work. Sheila Holden, thank you for being engaged over many years on many different projects, including this. Thanks for being here to all members of the Oversight Committee.
 It's one thing to hold people accountable. It's another to inspire them to do the right thing. And you do both really well. So thanks for that. Let's get on it. I vote aye. The report's accepted. Thank you. Next item, please. 316. 316.
 Appeal on behalf of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association against Design Commission's decision of approval for design review with modifications and concurrent Greenway review for the Fremont Apartments, a 17-story mixed-use building at 1650 Northwest Parkway, LU16278621, DZMGW.
 Colleagues, just a reminder, we're back into an on-the-record hearing. Do any council members have ex parte contacts or information gathered since the last hearing to disclose? Mayor, I'll start. Commissioner Fish. And I want to thank Lindley Reese for providing sort of the legal context for this.
 I have some extensive contacts to disclose. They're not all technically ex parte contact disclosures, but it's counsel's advice that we all go the extra mile in doing these disclosures. And what's a little more complicated in my life right now is that, in addition to being a full-time member of the council, I'm also –
 on the May ballot, which means I'm at community forums and events and gatherings. And that means that dozens, if not hundreds, of people are regularly sharing their views with me on many different subjects. So I'm going to read into the record, Mayor, a somewhat more extensive ex parte contact disclosure with the caveat that this goes well beyond what the law provides, but I think is designed to set a standard of transparency. Thank you.
 So since the last hearing Council held on this topic, I have had numerous conversations with people about this land use proceeding, and I have read numerous media accounts. What I have not done is solicit information or feedback from anyone about the substantive issues in this case. Generally speaking, the contacts break out into two categories. First, media reports.
 I have read news reports on this matter. Reporters have asked me to comment on the issue. In each instance, I've been clear that because we are in the middle of a land use proceeding, it would not be appropriate for me to discuss the merits of the case, and I haven't. But I have seen and read a number of media reports, as have, I believe, most of my colleagues. Community feedback. Thank you.
 Because this issue has been in the public domain for a while, and there are a number of other issues the council has taken up in addition, including Central City 2035, changes to the comp plan, and a number of things we'll be taking up today on a legislative matter, I think we can all appreciate that in the course of a day, we run into lots of people who have lots of opinions about issues involving land use in our city. Okay.
 And I think it's safe to say that since we last met, I've spoken to hundreds of community members about lots of things. And in some instances, I've been approached at meetings, forums, and candidate events with people providing unsolicited feedback. When I have been approached about the specific issues in the Fremont Apartments matter,
 I have been careful to tell people that because there's an open land use matter, I cannot discuss the substance of the matter. I can talk maybe conceptually about procedure, but this is not a legislative matter, so we are not as free to discuss the merits. This has not always prevented people from sharing their opinions with me,
 And in those cases, what I've generally heard has been in the category of either someone expressing support or opposition to the tentative decision the council made, or a broader discussion about housing in the city and the region. I have not received much in the way of feedback what I would call substantive, meaning substantive.
 I have not had conversations with people about specific design features, where a window would go, how a building would be designed, where a retaining wall would be placed, or other kinds of things, which are the kinds of issues which technically ex parte communications are meant to screen in terms of disclosure. Drilling a little deeper, I want to share some specific examples of things that could constitute ex parte contacts. Okay.
 I have spoken with a number of reporters, including Rachel Monahan from Willamette Week and Gordon Friedman from The Oregonian. I have talked generally with the mayor about the procedural posture of this case. I have heard from people, as I mentioned before, on both sides who either agreed or disagreed with our tentative decision. I have taken some care to ensure that I have not spoken directly to the applicant or the appellant about the merits of the proposal.
 That said, Mayor and colleagues and to the members of the public that are here, I continue to believe that I can be fair and impartial in my deliberations on this matter. Thank you.
 Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Daly. Similarly to Commissioner Fish, I have had no expert contact with the appellant or the applicant. I have read one or more news articles in the Willamette Week and a few handfuls of comments online with interesting speculations as to why I and we voted the way we did.
 I barely remember them, and they were not substantive either. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman, then Commissioner Fritz. Like Commissioner Fritz said, I've read media accounts of our previous decision. I read an opinion piece by Stan Pinkin in Sunday's Oregonian that was not point blank about this, but certainly referenced this. I received an email from Doug Klotz yesterday in regard to the Fremont Place decision,
 And I have received an email from a developer who took us to task about our decision, along with a lot of other issues. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. The same week as we had made the tentative decision, I had my regularly scheduled meeting with Commissioner Fish, and we talked briefly, as is the case when you think that a case is already done, that we were happy that the outcome had been as it was and that it was based on the Greenway setback.
 We also discussed that the, was on the record in the hearing that there might be a higher development in the future and that that could well happen and that we thought that the appellant was aware of that.
 The following week, I had a regular scheduled meeting with the mayor. He told me, I again expressed the same kind of general satisfaction for what had gone down. He told me that he would be moving to reconsider the discussion, the tentative vote. I believe my exact words were, are you crazy? Yes.
 And I then... I think that's right. Yes. I said that, well, then we can't talk about it anymore because it's now back in the realm of a quasi-judicial ex parte contact that we can't be having this conversation, and I changed the subject. I had my regular meeting with Commissioner Eudaly, and she...
 brought up the topic. I said that we can't discuss it because it's an ex parte. She said that she had had a meeting with, that she had talked about it with the Mayor in general but without reaching any conclusions. I've had no contact with Commissioner Saltzman. I think our meeting got cancelled in the interim.
 I've had several emails that I read immediately after the decision, again, as I thought, as I have for the last 25 years of participating, that once you have a tentative vote, that everything is pretty much done except a formality. I received emails against the decision from Ivan Robinson, Joe Recker, Ron Dew, and Rich Frank.
 All of those said, why did you vote in favour of views, to which my response was, I didn't, and it was based on the Greenway setback and other factors that there would likely be more development and a future application. I received an email from Elizabeth Hawthorne congratulating us on making the decision based on the Greenway and asking the question, would a new application be subject to the inclusionary housing policy, to which I said, yes, I believe it will.
 Those all arrived before I realized that we were back into a quasi-judicial. All subsequent emails, I've read the title and if the title wasn't specific, I've read the first line, whether for or against, I have then responded to the constituent that it's a live application, I can't discuss this and I can't read the rest of your email. I read the op-ed by Stan Penkin in the Oregonian last week,
 And I also was told by staff for the hearing this afternoon that the applicant pointed out an error in the development standards or in the new code that we'll be voting on this afternoon. And I said, well, that maybe indicates that they're planning to reapply. And that, I believe, is the extent of my ex parte contacts.
 Very good. I, too, have had various contacts over the last couple of weeks. I've had no ex parte contacts with either the applicant.
 or the appellants. I have certainly had opinions expressed to me at the grocery store, on the treadmill, at my daughter's school, at the car wash, and other places. None of them, in my opinion, went anywhere beyond what had been said already on the record. I've certainly read a number of media accounts.
 Emails have come in and again they've mostly been terse and to the point either supportive or opposed to our prior action. I had contact with Willamette Week reporter Rachel Monahan, but that was done through my staff. They delivered a quote in a March 14th article on my behalf. I supported that quote. It was consistent with my commentary on the record during the hearing.
 I also had contact with Portland Tribune reporter Jim Redden through my staff, again, who delivered the same quote that was given to Rachel Monahan, although I don't believe that the quotes that were provided were actually printed in the article.
 I am aware that my staff has had contact with the applicant, but I want to make it extremely clear that I have been screened off from those specific conversations, and I'm unaware of any information provided by those conversations. I've had conversations with my colleagues, as just very accurately described,
 mostly around procedure, including my desire to revisit this issue. But there has not been any substantive discussion around the merits or demerits.
 Does anybody in the Council Chamber wish to ask any or all of us any questions about the ex parte contacts that we have just discussed? Yes, Mayor, I'd like to ask you more specifically what you remember about your contacts with each of your colleagues that led you to believe that announcing in the press
 that you're going to move to reconsider might have a good chance of passing? So from my perspective, I have no idea and had no idea whether there would be a good chance of passing. My conversation was really around the question of procedure. And I'm sorry I forgot to mention here, I had conversations with our legal counsel around procedure issues.
 In the days subsequent, I started to wonder why other options could not be available in terms of asking the applicants specifically to address the issues which were raised on the record by us and by people in the chamber. And after those conversations, I concluded that I would tell my colleagues what my intention was procedurally with regard to a reconsideration.
 I don't think I had a conversation with Dan. I'm pretty sure with Commissioner Eudaly and Commissioner Fish I did have that conversation. Yeah, that conversation was strictly procedural. We didn't get into the details of the case. And by the way, you know, Commissioner Fritz said something earlier that I think is important. And this case, if it serves no other useful purpose as a historical case –
 will remind people that, as we've all learned, that the period of time between a tentative vote and adoption of findings is still a live quasi-judicial legal proceeding to which we are bound by the same rules. And that may be counterintuitive to some people, and it may make sense to others, but we did get clear legal guidance on that, which we have shared with the media and with people that have approached us.
 And I think that the logic of that to me is that a tentative vote is a tentative vote, and it is subject to a subsequent hearing where proposed findings come forward and we're still deliberating. And because of that, we've been advised by counsel that we're still bound by the rules that apply to quasi-judicial proceedings. And I think all of us –
 make significant efforts to make sure that we don't get into the sausage making around the design planning and other kinds of things because that's the essence of what a quasi-judicial proceeding is. That seems to me separate from listening to people who think you're either a complete idiot for how you voted or support it or wonder procedurally how these things work and how the council ended up where they landed. Thank you.
 It is a fine line, and I hope that we all strive to err on being on one side of that line. So, colleagues, I move to formally reconsider our March 7th tentative vote in this matter. Second. I've made a motion. There's a second. Colleagues, I'd like to discuss.
 This project, the area that we're talking about, and again, I'm just reiterating that what is already on the record, is it's planned for development, and development will happen on the site. So no development has never been an option for this particular site. On the record, I discussed concerns that I had for the protection of the greenway setback.
 And we heard testimony in support of the idea, which I support, which is that how we choose to do this project will set the standard for all of the other development projects that will happen in that same immediate area. And that, of course, includes the treatment of the bike and pedestrian path along the riverway.
 And it is my belief that through further discussion, we may be able to find a way to have these concerns that were on the record addressed.
 and meet the overall objectives of the project. So that is my thinking, and if there is no other discussion, I will call the roll. Oh, there is. Commissioner Fritz. I have some discussion. Thank you. Thank you. First of all, since we'll be voting on the findings, I'd like to know has everybody read the findings that were delivered to us yesterday? Yes. Yes. Commissioner, what do you mean by since we're voting on the findings? Well, if we –
 The findings outline why the council voted 5-0 to deny the application and approve the appeal.
 So this lays out why the council and our legal council believes that we should not reconsider the record or reconsider that vote, that this is the basis of our decision. So I would like to know if everybody has read it, because I believe that this matter will get appealed to the Land Use Board of Appeals and possibly in the courts as well. And if that's the basis for...
 It should be the basis for our discussion today. Are we going to approve the findings or not? So I'd like to know if everybody has read them all. So let me, can I make a comment, Mayor? Yeah, please, Commissioner Fish. Or maybe I can seek clarification from you since you're making the motion. My understanding is that if a majority of the council wants to reconsider the tentative vote, then the next conversation we would have is where do we go from here? And we would have the menu of options here.
 including adopting the draft findings, modifying those findings, and or we would have the option of giving the applicant an opportunity to make appropriate changes to the design of this project consistent with concerns that council has raised. Am I on the right track? Yes.
 Are you asking me? Yes. And that's my intention. My intention will be to, assuming there is an agreement here, if there is no agreement, we'll accept the appeal. If there is an agreement, my intention would be to continue the hearing, open up the record, and give the applicant the opportunity to address the concerns that were raised during the initial hearing, which is our right. I have a question. Go ahead.
 Well, I was just going to ask you, Mayor, what was your thinking about doing a motion to reconsider as opposed to just requiring the applicant to submit a new application? This was advice that was given to me from a procedural perspective. Maybe I should call on legal counsel at this point. We could do either from my perspective, but it was my understanding that this was the preferred legal strategy. And if that's not, I'd love to know. If we can simply direct it, great.
 So, Commissioner Saltzman, could you, what were the two alternatives you were? Well, I was asking the mayor what his thinking was behind doing a motion to reconsider and, in essence, sort of revisiting the decision and perhaps making changes, as opposed to simply requiring the applicant who, I mean, we did not, we granted the appeal, which meant we denied the application, so why not simply say to the applicant,
 Submit a new application. So part of the answer is going to be around time frame, but there may be some other legal issues here that I'm not completely aware of. If they have to go through the whole process again, is that correct? If we deny the application, they would need to reapply and start over. Correct. And what's the issue with the time frame? So from a legal perspective, either option is available. My understanding was that
 and I won't speak for the mayor, but because the issues that he had identified with the Greenway were more limited in nature rather than redesign of the entire project, that perhaps that was something that could have been addressed through a minor revision as opposed to starting over. That is correct. I was on the record with a very specific objection. Okay, then...
 If I might, I'll just continue then with why we should not reconsider the approval. Just one clarification from legal counsel. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability memorandum from March 5th, is that in the record? If you could check on that for me. And in the meantime, I'm just thinking. I don't know the answer to that question.
 So we did, I did, and the council agreed 5-0, agree with a multiple list of problems with this application. The Greenway was part of it and one of the biggest parts of it. One of the other problems was the bulk of the building, the fact that it's asking for increased length from 200 to, I believe, 230. I don't have it. Yeah.
 where, thank you, 230 feet, that's a significant change if that's to be changed. The shade on the Greenway was part of it and also the shade on the public plaza. There was no water features. There's no art. The bicycle parking is inadequate. And if I'm allowed to talk about the Bureau of Planning memo, I can add some more things. Yes.
 This was a BDS memo or a BPS memo? I believe it was planning and sustainability. I thought it was.
 And I'm sorry, I don't have a copy of that in my materials. It was a memo dated the 5th, which described... And it went into the fact that the views from the Fields Park are not protected. And that was part of the council discussion, that we all agree that private views are not protected, and that was not part of the decision. It's not part of the findings. So...
 I'm hesitant to say anything because we haven't reopened the record. I will just... So going back over those, it wasn't just...
 a small thing that could be fixed easily. It's multiple different project problems with this application that are outlined in the, are specified in the findings. If we agree to continue this application and allow it basically a new project to be submitted, that means that staff are putting all their time in with no pay. It means a very much different way of community members interacting and giving their input onto any revised projects.
 It's, as I said, unprecedented and I strongly urge my colleagues to stick with the denial and to vote not to reconsider. The rules, I won't go further because I don't know if it's in the record. Okay, so unless anybody has anything burning, I will ask the clerk to call the roll on the reconsideration.
 So a yes vote means yes to reconsider. No vote means no. That is correct. And as I understand it, a yes on the motion to reconsider still gives us all the options available to us.
 So I will walk through it very briefly. The motion to reconsider takes you back to the point in time after which Commissioner Fritz had made her initial motion. And you will then have to vote on that motion again. Thumbs up, thumbs down. And at that point, then the slate is clean and you can determine what you want to do from there if we get to that point. So there will be two votes before you get to what is our new option. Please call the roll. Fish. Fish.
 So I'm going to support the motion to reconsider for the following reasons. We, in the last hearing, Commissioner Fritz identified significant shortcomings of this project, which is reflected in a document that's in the record. And after counsel discussion, we were left with what was, in essence, a binary choice, to either grant the appeal or deny the appeal.
 In prior land use proceedings that I've been a party to, we've often had a third option, which is to place conditions on some action we take or, in this instance, to at least explore the question of whether the matter could be submitted back to the design commission for further action. Now, I understand that that is a murky legal issue that doesn't have a clear answer.
 And frankly, on that question, Mayor, I think we need to consider some code work in the future that gives the council the clear and unambiguous authority when we're faced with questions like this to send it back to the administrative body for further proceedings. I seem to recall Commissioner Saltzman, when we had this hearing last time, saying, in effect, that he didn't want us to –
 effectively become the design review commission for the city of Portland. And the truth is that a lot of these cases are being appealed to us, and we're in effect been asked to substitute our judgment for an administrative body that we've appointed, and I agree with him on that. What is not clear to me when we've identified what we think are shortcomings –
 It's not clear to me why we can't just direct it and go back to the administrative body that reviewed it with our comments and say, have another hearing on it and see if these things can be worked out. It seems to me that's at least a third or fourth option that the council should have, and I understand that the legal issue is not clear. But I'm going to support the motion to reconsider so we can have that conversation. Aye. Schultzman? Well, I am.
 you know we had a very good hearing on this lots of people testified pro and con and i really didn't have you know real strong feelings one way or the other but i was really impressed with the quality of the testimony and the quality of the council discussion on this matter and i ultimately sided with commissioner fritz and i as commissioner fish just said i was loath to see this council become the design commission and i am concerned that's exactly the door we're opening if we vote to reconsider this
 is we're going to end up being the ones to ultimately redesign this project with help from the applicant, with the applicant speaking to the concerns that we expressed. And I just don't feel that's the right way to be approaching it. It just seems to lack a certain credibility to me. And I don't think I've ever done a reconsideration on a tentative land use decision before. So I feel the best course is for...
 to keep it clean, have the applicant resubmit an application, revised application, let it go through the process, and maybe it won't end up here on appeal. But I feel that's the way we should go, and therefore I would support – I don't support the motion to reconsider. No. Eudaly. So I was surprised by the way the tentative vote went. There were a number of –
 complex issues and concerns raised very late in the hearing that I didn't feel we could adequately address in the moment and I was not prepared to offer um
 solutions to them. By the time it came to my vote, there were three votes and there's reasons to be on the prevailing side, even if you don't agree. So I voted yes, but my concerns with this project center around the Greenway. I think that a number of the other issues raised are relatively cosmetic and
 would not require a major redesign of the building. And I want to acknowledge the time and expense that the developer has put into this and what it could mean to them potentially to have to do an entirely new application process and the message that we're sending to the larger development community. I vote aye.
 Fritz. This is about this application, and this application, for the reasons that are outlined or detailed in the findings, doesn't meet the approval criteria on multiple different factors. So I share Commissioner Saltzman's concern that we are becoming...
 Actually, all bets are off. That's essentially what this means, is that no developer or no neighbourhood can rely on what happens at council or at the Design Commission. The process is completely blown apart. You've been on the council 20 years almost, right, Commissioner? It's never happened before, and it's opening the door to anybody who doesn't like a decision being
 lobbying outside of the process, getting what they want. No. Wheeler. So I've only been on the council for a little while, and I think this is probably my third or maybe my fourth design review appeal. And my recollection is we have, in fact, expressed preferences and added conditions and redesigned buildings as a council. I remember one very vividly.
 based on the input that we received. This process, as loathsome as it is, gives us a tentative vote followed by a final vote for this very reason. I share everybody's desire not to be the Design Review Commission. It is very constrained. It limits our abilities to have a discussion amongst ourselves.
 And it is highly misleading to the public because people and even the press, to some degree, interpret this as a commentary on our views around affordable housing. And the reality is that has nothing to do with this conversation. This is an appeal from a design review hearing, and we are acting as the appeal board for a design review process. And so if...
 Through later processes, I could get us out of this. Believe me, I would. But I vote aye. The motion carries. Clerk, please call the roll on the re-vote of Commissioner Fritz's March 7th motion to tentatively grant the appeal and deny the application. Fish.
 I'm sorry, Lindley, did you? So maybe just to... Yes, go ahead, please. I was just going to say, to be clear, a yes vote means that you are voting to grant the appeal and deny the application. Correct. A no vote means that you want to clean the slate. So may I please speak about the motion? Please. Thank you. So they're not minor tweaks that can be changed with small conditions of approval. That's the reason...
 Under a land use proceeding, the council is required to allow it if it can meet the approval criteria with conditions of approval. This cannot. It cannot meet the conditions of approval. And I'll give you a couple of examples of that. It's not just the greenway. It's the greenway shadow, the way the building overlooks the greenway and shades it. If you would, colleagues, please turn to the findings on page 34.
 where it talks about the modification, about the maximum building dimension. This is a standard. It has to be met unless you can find that the resulting development would better meet the applicable design guidelines. The standard under 33.510.251.D.3.B.C. says maximum building dimension. The maximum building dimension is 200 feet. This standard applies to both length and depth.
 And the findings talk about the proposed increase in the maximum building dimension from 200 feet to nearly 231 feet lies in the direction perpendicular to the river is inconsistent with the purpose. A narrower building that meets this standard would more afford visual connections to the river and its activities. The proposed modifications would serve in the opposite purpose.
 So if you're talking about changing a building dimension by 31 feet, that is not a minor tweak. That is not something that can be added as a condition of approval. The other one that also cannot be changed as a condition of approval is on pay...
 33 of the findings, which talks about the required open area development standards, the shadow standard that requires not more than 50% of the plaza area to be covered by shadows at noon on April 21st of any year. And the proposal has 84% shading. It's not possible to condition approval to require less shading.
 And this is a standard that needs to, again, better meet the purpose. And if you read the findings, you will find out why it doesn't. So it's not just let's think about this a little differently. It's going to require a fundamentally new application. And I strongly urge, even though we're now reconsidering this, vote again the way that you did last time. Very good. Please call the roll. Oh, I'm sorry, Commissioner Fish.
 So I was following very closely what Commissioner Fritz just said. Could you remind us again about what a yes and a no vote refers to? So you're voting to Commissioner Fritz's motion, which is to tentatively uphold the appeal and deny the application. So a yes vote means...
 You support Commissioner Fritz's motion to deny the application. A no vote means that you would like there to be a different motion. Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. No. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. No. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. No. The motion fails. So, colleagues, now this is next steps, and we may have more than one motion, but I'd like to put a motion on the table. I move to continue the hearing until May 10th.
 and reopen the record. The applicant would have until April 11th at 5 p.m., and I understand this is a very tight time frame, to submit revisions to their application. And by April 18th, the Bureau of Development Service staff will mail notice of the continued hearing.
 and the opportunity to submit testimony and evidence in response to any revisions. Participants may submit written testimony and evidence on the revised plans, and the Council will accept oral testimony on the revised plans on May 10th at 2 p.m. That is my motion. So, Mayor, let me address that motion for a second. Please. I have two concerns with it. The first is the timeline.
 because it doesn't seem particularly reasonable in light of the extensive issues that this council has flagged. And number two, I still want to be – I still want to have a discussion about remanding this to the Design Review Commission for purposes of having them review any changes –
 which has two potential beneficial impacts. One is we get the benefit of their review, and second, it may or may not be appealed back to this body. But it seems to me, even though the law is murky on this, I'd like to understand why...
 we're not actively considering a remand to the administrative body that has the primary role in our system for reviewing these kinds of applications? I'll tell you why. I don't want to end up in the inner circle of hell, because they have already voted on this, and I would see a likely response be that they simply take the same vote and send it right back here again. Then I'll ask a question. How do you know that the applicant can respond by April 11th? I do not know.
 Seems an unreasonable time frame. It may be that they do not. So what is driving the time frame? It seems... There is no particular driving of the time frame. I'm happy to extend it, unless legal counsel can give me any reason why that would not be appropriate. Why is legal counsel...
 Typically, I will ask the applicant and staff whether we have an extension of the 120-day clock. That's our primary time limitation. In this case, the applicant has waived the 120 days. So we could extend the time frame. Is that correct? That is my understanding. Does the appellant have any right to a decision within a certain time frame? No. So, Mayor, if we're going to follow this path and give the applicant an opportunity to provide us with a time
 different design, a design that's going to have to meet the markers that a number of us have placed down in terms of concerns we had with the original design. And in light of your concern for creating some monster here, I would strongly urge that we set a reasonable amount of time for the additional design work to be done and presentation prepared because we
 They're going to get one chance to come back to council, and it's not entirely clear that council is going to feel like they've gone far enough. So I don't want the excuse to be that they didn't have enough time to address the numerous substantive concerns that the council has on the record. Very good. That is compelling. Could we set a different date? What is an appropriate time frame, Commissioner Fish? I'm not in the – I'm not – I'm not –
 qualified to answer that. It just seems to me this is a very tight time frame for the kinds of changes we've requested. I would suggest that we give them a month or two and then come back. We have two options here. Staff tells me that the full extension expires May 24th. That would give us potentially if we're coming back on the 10th thinking through dates
 Let me back up for a moment. As somebody who used to work in private practice, one of the benefits of private practice versus being in the public sector is that architects can work day and night. I'm not going to...
 on the applicant's folks, but my sense is if council tells them a particular time frame, they will get what needs to be done done in a particular time frame. If we're going to try and get a final decision, adoption of findings done by late May, um,
 You could extend it by probably another week and give them two weeks to respond, but I don't really think that if you go beyond that, I don't think we're going to meet the May 24th deadline. I thought they said they've waived the time limits. They have waived it. One of the state law provides that they can provide extensions up to 200 –
 they can provide extensions up to 365 days i'm assuming what that means is the 365 days expires on may 24th state law does not provide a particular consequence but it is a practice to comply with state law and therefore i would tell you we would try to comply by having our decision done within 365 days okay so what what is the latest date then
 that we could give the applicant to submit the revisions, and when would we hold the hearing? That probably would be it, ma'am, because otherwise you can't get the findings back. Right. So another week out, we'd put it at the 17th. Is there time available on the 17th or 16th? Okay, it would be 4 o'clock on May 17th. Great. This is not going to be a short hearing, and there's nothing on the 16th? Yes.
 Yes, there is nothing, or yes, there is? There is. It'd be 4 o'clock on the 16th as well. So would it be appropriate? The record right now remains closed until council has voted on this, but I might recommend that council reopen the record for the purposes of hearing whether the applicant, or at least I'll ask the applicant whether they think they can get it done within a week, since May 10th seems to be a good date. Okay, that would be helpful. Thank you.
 For me. Okay. So the motion stands. Is there a second? No. The motion is just to reopen the record to get that information. Is that correct? Right now the motion is the full motion from the mayor. Which includes reopening the record. I will say that it is my understanding that seven days can work. That's your understanding? That is my understanding.
 Well, it's going to have to. That's the timeline. And that's the timeline. Second. So we have a motion and we have a second. I appreciate the list that Commissioner Fritz has given, and I want to reiterate a couple of things that I said on the record. This is not about views for me.
 There are no protected views from this particular location. My primary concerns relate to the Greenway setback, and we took lots and lots of testimony on the Greenway setback. I am personally not particularly concerned about orientation or height, and I am okay with increasing the podium size.
 Those are, from my perspective, acceptable options. I don't know if somebody... Well, I'll go ahead and just call the roll on the motion. So at the last hearing, I laid out some very specific concerns that I had, and I expect them to be addressed in any redesign. And supporting the mayor's motion, I am reserving the right to all the options that I would have otherwise when this matter comes back. But I believe that...
 I believe that in this instance, giving the applicant the opportunity to address the concerns we raised and redesign the project and come back to council is in the public interest, and therefore I vote aye. Saltzman? My concern with the timeline, and even if it's a later timeline, is bypassing the design commission. I mean, that to me really is setting us up on May 10th or whatever date to be designing this project.
 And I think the design commission, for better or worse, serves as an important check and balance on this council in these types of decisions. And so I would prefer to see some sort of expedited role for the design commission in this, and I don't see that in this timeline. So I vote. Udayli? I also want to be clear that my original stance on this had nothing to do with views, which is the...
 popular public sentiment. And I also want to be clear, I'm not particularly excited about more market and luxury rate housing. But it's not my job, that's not my job to determine
 what will go on the site. The job that remains is determining if we are making reasonable modifications and if we were getting public benefit back. So, as with the mayor and Commissioner Fish, my primary concern is the greenway and how this building is going to affect our built environment, integrate or not integrate into the community.
 I also am not concerned with heights. I'm not terribly concerned with a 230-foot building versus 200. I mean, that's a 15% increase. We have the smallest city blocks, I believe, in any major city. And we have a unique site that's sandwiched between a river and a roadway. So I don't know when we have these conversations. Is it when we come back? Okay. Okay.
 So I vote. Wait, where are we? Winley? Yes, yes to support the motion. I vote to support the motion, which I actually seconded. So there you go. It's complicated. Fritz? No, and I'd like to have a comment after you've voted. Wheeler? No.
 All right, the motion carries. Commissioner Fritz, you get the last word. Since the record has now reopened, I want to make sure that the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability memo from March 5th is actually in it.
 As we all remember, the current project is allowed to reach the maximum allowed height, including the bonus, which is 175 feet. Under the new comprehensive plan, a new project would be allowed to go up to 250 feet. So had the council chosen to have a new application, there would have been additional heights and therefore additional units potentially allowed, and I think that's very unfortunate. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Next item, 319. 319, reassign Annie Mahoney and Matthew Roman, two different membership categories, effective April 1, 2018, and appoint Ernestina Fuenmayer to the Historic Landmarks Commission for a term to expire March 31, 2022. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 So the Historic Landmarks Commission provides leadership and expertise on maintaining and enhancing the city's historic and architectural heritage. The commission identifies and protects buildings and other properties. Shall I wait for a moment for the room to clear a little? Yeah, why don't you wait just a sec? Okay. Okay.
 The Commission identifies and protects buildings and other properties that have historic or cultural significance or special architectural merit and provides advice on historic preservation matters. The seven-member volunteer commission meets twice a month for many hours to hear Type 3 land use reviews, Type 2 appeals of staff decisions, to provide design advice prior to land use application, and to provide advice on historic preservation matters to other entities, and we thank them for their service.
 Anistina Fuenmejor is proposed to fill the appointment for historian on the commission, which is a position aligned with her professional expertise documenting historic places in Portland, the state of Oregon, and abroad.
 Anistina intends to provide a sense of inclusion to the community through her role on the Commission and to help educate the public about what history means and brings to the community. The proposed reassignment of Matthew Roman from historian to public at large member allows Anistina to fill a role more suited to her expertise.
 The proposed reassignment of registered architect Annie Mahoney from public at large to architect member will fill the specified position which was vacated by the retirement of Commissioner Karen Carlson. This appointment and two reassignments will ensure that the Historic Landmarks Commission is well equipped to fulfill the powers and duties prescribed to them by Title 33. And I believe we have people here today. We want to come up to the...
 Welcome. Table, yeah. Thank you for being here. Sorry to put you on the spot. I just thought you might like to have a chance to say hello, and my colleagues might want to ask you some questions. Well, welcome. Thank you for being here. That was a really intense hearing we just had. Yes, it was. Moving right along. Who's the little one here today? Juliana. Juliana, it's a pleasure to meet you. This is the city council.
 She's not impressed at all. So thank you for your willingness to step forward. What do you see as some of the most important issues that you can help resolve on the commission for us? Say it again. Sorry. What do you see as being some of the most important issues that you can help us resolve?
 Oh, God, there's so many. I'm thinking that because we have a big pressure on the historic buildings that have already been built and the historic district that we've already been creating, the new construction that's going on is a big issue that I know we have. Yeah.
 I want to help to see how we can work with the communities and work with the city and create a good way to protect the historic buildings and define which ones are the ones that we will help to protect. Very good. Thank you. And this council has...
 A balancing act to do. As you can imagine, the city is under a lot of pressure around development, and we're also under pressure to protect our historical assets. And as a commissioner, you end up right in the middle of that. And so I just want to say personally, I'm really grateful to people who take the time to serve. So thank you for your willingness to do that. Thank you. Thank you for choosing me for doing this. Thank you. Thank you.
 And is Commissioner, can we just go ahead and take the vote then? It's a report. A report. Move to accept the report. Commissioner Fish moves. Do we have a second? Second. Second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Welcome and thank you for serving. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you so much for your service. I vote aye. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next item, please. 321.
 authorize limited tax revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $52 million to finance infrastructure improvements in city parks, transportation, civic, and other capital assets as contemplated in the city's Build Portland Infrastructure Initiative. Colleagues, this is an item on second reading. It's already been heard. There's already been a presentation. There's already been public testimony on this item. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thanks for everybody who worked on that. Item 321, please. Authorize an agreement with ABBUS, Inc. for the purchase of streetcar auxiliary power supply and low voltage power supply equipment using a sole source procurement in an amount not to exceed $1,325,000. Commissioner Saltzman.
 We had a presentation on this last week, and I think – oh, I'm sorry, we did not have a presentation on this. I don't think we had anybody here from the Bureau. Let's move it to the end of the agenda. And, Mustafa, could you see if we can get somebody from the Transportation Bureau to come and speak on 321 or purchasing, perhaps? Either one. Yeah. But we don't have anybody here. Could you help us with that? Mustafa, thanks. Next item, 322, which is a second reading.
 Adopt the allocation methodology for the local transportation infrastructure charge. Establish a maximum fee. Amend charge required code and direct staff to develop additional components of Neighborhood Streets Program. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 There is an amendment that has been circulated, and I don't seem to have it, but I hope all you do. I had it earlier, and it got lost somewhere in all this paper. But I think it just changes a shell or changes a will to a shell. Anne Hill, maybe you can help us on this.
 Yes, thank you Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor Wheeler and the rest of City Council. My name is Anne Hill and I work for the Portland Bureau of Transportation as a program manager in the development permitting and transit section. So yes, we made two changes. One thing I wanted to ask the council clerk, is this a second reading? Or is this? So it's currently a second. It is, unless you amend it then.
 So, today I will briefly review the amendments addressing the Ombudsman's concerns, along with additional language to apply the LTIC payments to local improvement district assessments. So those were the, those were the amendments that you have in front of you. So, I believe you received the joint letter from the Ombudsman and the Office of Equity and Human Rights indicating that their concerns previously raised regarding the LTIC have been addressed.
 in the latest draft presented to you today. So specifically, the low income exemption was moved from 50% to 80%, AMI. The ability to finance the LTIC assessment, so that was where we changed in the code the wording from to shall, I believe. So implying that we are going to do it upon approval.
 And that any appeals will be heard first by the Administrative Review Committee, and then they can further be appealed to the city's hearings officer.
 So those were the changes that the ombudsman wanted to see, and we're happy to make those. Additionally, based on the conversation here at Council, we did add language to create the application of LTIC payments to local improvement district assessments. So that was to address someone paid an LTIC assessment, and 20 years later there was an LID formed that the monies that they had paid—
 and the LTIC would be credited towards their LID. So those were the changes we made. We ask for you to adopt the LTIC maximum, the allocation methodology, the neighborhood streets framework, which you've already reviewed, and the associated amendments. Very good. So, Commissioner Saltzman, you move that as a package of amendments? Yes, I move that as a package. Is there a second? Second. Second. And I have a question for the sponsor.
 Dan, my understanding is both the Office of the Ombudsman and the Office of Equity and Human Rights have reviewed the changes and now support this legislation? Yes, that's correct. Okay, thank you. Very good. So without further ado, I will move this to second reading then as amended. So we have to vote on the amendment? I'm sorry, you do. I apologize. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll on the amendment package.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The motion carries, and now I will move it to second reading as amended. Thank you, everybody. Item 323, please. Vacate portions of Northeast Widener Street and Northeast Halsey Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. Very good. Commissioner Saltzman? I will turn this over to staff.
 Thank you. All right. Good morning, commissioners and mayor. So I'm here for the Northeast Weidler, Northeast Halsey Street Vacation. And I'm Sarah Johnston with the Bureau of Transportation, and I work for Right-of-Way Acquisition. So we have two stubs, and it is a city-initiated street vacation due to –
 being kind of requested by the development, by PBOT development review, that these stubs be part of the development that's already been put in place. I had some slides here, but I don't know if they showed up. It's already been put in place? Well, the development has already happened. It's already been mostly constructed. It's kind of over by the Fred Meyer and it's Grant Park Village area.
 Off of Broadway? How could they do the construction before doing the street vacation? There are no buildings built within where the streets are. They just serve basically this private development, and so it made sense for the Bureau of Transportation to no longer have responsibility over maintaining these streets to private development. Thank you. So let's see here. All right, so you can see. I don't know if you can see the slides, but...
 We show here where the streets are. Now in the center between Halsey and Weidler, there's actually a building under construction. And I think, yeah, so these pictures show it. So that street angle right there is the southern street, so the one closest to I-84. And you can see where the new building has now already been put in place. And over this street right here is where...
 Parks has a trail easement to go for access to the Sullivan's Gulch Trail that's proposed to be put in along the highway there. And that's another view. That one's Wydler Street. And that's where the New Seasons is at along Broadway right there, and that's their parking garage. Oh, and that's it. Do you guys have any questions? Yes.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. You said that there's a – Parks has asked for an easement for the Sullivan Scotts Trail. Will there be any required contribution from the developer in order to be able to actually construct that trail when the rest gets done?
 So I don't know. So the developer is going to, they have paved and they've actually given as part of the easement, they've given an easement over their private parcel that goes along there also. So they did not charge us for that as part of the negotiations with the street vacation. They're going to be paying for paving and making the passageway to it. But as far as paying anything towards the Sullivan's Gulch Trail...
 I don't think so. Are they going to be improving the trail on their property? Right, that's correct. They will be, they're doing, they have a paved portion that will be, it's still going to be paved through there as a roadway, and so they're paying to make that pavement
 you know, to put in the pavement there and the sidewalks and stuff. So as far as that goes, the developer is paying for that part. I guess, will it be clear that where the public access easement is and where pedestrians and cyclists are allowed to go is by right? Yes, the developer is the one putting in the path that connects to the Sullivan's Culture Trail. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Yes.
 There was some concern from another property owner, is that correct? Is there another property owner that's involved in this? There's no other property owner involved in it. The reason why the city initiated it was because Fred Meyer had agreed to sign, but they don't own their property where their building is, and they were in agreement with the street vacation going through. But Benderson...
 owns the property that Fred Meyer has their building on, and they said that they didn't want to sign the street vacation petition based on the fact that their tenant is what they believed a competitor with New Seasons, which was going in as part of the development. So no other property owners were in disagreement with it, and the neighborhood association was in full support. So who owns the new development? Capstone Partners.
 They've been paying for the entire straight vacation. So Bendison gets to weigh in because their property abuts it? That is correct. But it's not needed for access to their property? That's correct. Thank you. You're welcome. Commissioner Fish, did you have – oh, I'm sorry. Any public testimony on this item, Carla? No.
 No one signed up. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you very much. I understand that we have somebody here for item 321. Okay.
 321, authorize an agreement with ABB USA for the purchase of streetcar auxiliary power supply and low voltage power supply equipment using a sole source procurement in an amount not to exceed $1,325,000. Thanks, Catherine. Thank you. My apologies for not being here earlier.
 So this is a request. You say your name for the record. I'm sorry. Catherine Levine. I work for the Bureau of Transportation with Streetcar Division. This is a request for a sole source contract in order to do some very needed capital maintenance. We worked with the procurement section on the acquisition of vehicles.
 the low voltage power supply and low voltage batteries that are needed for the oldest cars. Our maintenance manager actually spent a considerable amount of time trying to find parts that would be available to make the improvements to the vehicles and was able to find two potential suppliers. The work that was done is shown in the attachment to the ordinance, so
 The bottom line is that the least expensive option is to work through a vendor who has done the very same type of work and replacement for what I would call one of our sister streetcar cities in Tacoma. So ABB has designed and replaced the inverters in the Tacoma link system
 So we know that they will be successful and that they will work. The only other potential provider is a very large firm that gave us a quote that is slightly smaller, but did not include installation and engineering, which we know to be considerable costs.
 So we worked with the procurement staff. They did a notice of intent to do a sole source contract to make sure that there weren't any other vendors available. We received no objections to the sole source, and we moved forward with the ordinance that's before you today. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Any public testimony on this item? One person signed up, Shedrick J. Wilkins. Here he is. Come on up, sir.
 Well, since I have a degree in electrical engineering from Portland State, every time I see something that says something about electricity, I get stimulated. So the thing about this is I think in the Obama years there's been an astounding amount of research into electrical cars. When I was at PSU, everything was...
 big giant generators the size of a house with AC and three-phase. But there was an underlying development idea that we would have electric cars. They would be DC, lower voltage. This is not three-phase. A lot of waste is wasted when you transmit power that way. I'd like to learn more about these systems. When Obama first came in, they made a tidal wave system.
 generating farm in the sea off the coast of Newport. And a lot of times when you have these little generators or even a streetcar, you can put these things on a truck and bring it in, but you've got to wire everything up. And these tidal wave generators only make 1,000 watts, but there are ways with power transistors to amalgamate the electricity to the point where it could push a streetcar. And in the old...
 I mean, this stuff interests me because it's real. You know, and in Halloween 2016, I saw a Tesla car at Pioneer Square, and you realize that there's probably no difference than this on some little kid's little car. And then you have the old, and it goes down the freeway, and yet you have a souped-up mechanical engine. But this thing works, and it's acceptable.
 And I find this too, mixing the two together, that someday in Newport, there might be streetcars going up and down that are powered by the ocean waves going up and down. But the miracle of the whole thing is the power transistor itself. There are transistors this big that amalgamate power and distribute power. And this is totally different than the old three-phase Tesla power.
 stuff. You know, the Bonneville Dam has generators the size of a house, which came from England, by the way. We couldn't make them. We had to bring them in. And I think, too, the Portland streetcar is another example where some of this stuff is not that big, but people can ride in the streetcar. So we're getting back to the way we were in the 1890s, but some of this new transistor stuff that didn't occur until the 60s.
 And it's more efficient, by the way. Thank you very much. Any further discussion, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for your work. Aye. Wheeler. Thanks, Catherine. I vote aye. The ordinance passes. Last item, 324.
 amend the building regulations to include building permit requirements for retaining walls over four feet in height and maintenance agreements for shared building elements across a property line Commissioning daily. Thank you mayor. I
 In 2017, the State of Oregon Building Codes Division adopted changes to the Oregon Residential Specialty Code. These changes took effect on January 1, 2018. Most of the changes represent minor adjustments to construction specifications. However, two permit requirements were removed regarding retaining walls and maintenance agreements for shared building elements across a property line. These two requirements were removed from the Residential Code as part of BCD's
 effort to focus the building code directly on housing construction and less on development that does not directly impact a building. As such, some retaining walls over four feet in height and maintenance agreements were removed from the code. BDS is proposing to add these two requirements to our local code, Title 24 building regulations. Mika Keenan and Doug Morgan are here today from BDS to discuss the proposed changes and to answer any questions you might have. Hopefully, not many. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you. And thank you all for hearing what I think you'll find is a relatively short presentation today. My name is Mika Keenan. I'm a Code and Policy Analyst with the Bureau of Development Services. I'm here today with Doug Morgan, who's a Supervising Engineer with the Site Development Team at the Bureau of Development Services. And we're here today to talk to you about two proposed amendments to Title 24. Okay.
 So as Commissioner Udailey mentioned, in 2017 the Oregon Building Codes Division released a set of amendments, about 400 of them, to the statewide building code. And since that time, our plan review staff has had the opportunity to go through training and to apply these new regulations.
 And what they have flagged for us are two significant changes to the building code that they asked be addressed. So those pertain to retaining walls and maintenance agreements. So I'll talk to you about the retaining wall piece of it first, and then we'll talk about the maintenance agreements.
 So the state building code will continue to require permits for retaining walls over four feet when they directly impact a regulated building. So if you think about new construction coming in or an addition and there's a retaining wall associated with that development, the state building code will continue to require a permit and review for that development of the retaining wall.
 However, what they removed are retaining any other retaining wall in this city. So they're no longer requiring permits for other retaining walls. So if you think about all the places that we see retaining walls in the city around sidewalks, parking lots, parks, fields, any number of structures.
 We believe that it is important to continue to regulate these retaining walls and that they go through the permit process to make sure that it's structurally sound so that they receive an inspection and basically to make sure that these structures are still safe. So we are proposing that we move that requirement into our local regulations, Title 24.
 So the second proposed amendment pertains to maintenance agreements. So maintenance agreements are legal documents that are pretty typical in development.
 And you'll see them in any number of development types when there is a shared element across a property line. So it could be a utility. It could be a driveway. It could be any facility that is shared between two property owners. And really they do exactly what you would think they would do. They spell out the maintenance requirements for that shared facility.
 any repairs, any access that's granted in that easement area. So that was required in our building code but has been removed, and we are proposing that maintenance agreements requirements also be added to Title 24. So in closing...
 Just to be clear about this, we are not proposing any changes to our application requirements. Our permitting, review, and inspections procedures will remain status quo. It's really just a way to make sure that we maintain consistency with how we are permitting and reviewing building development and these retaining walls. Great. Thank you.
 Colleagues, any further questions? Commissioner Fritz? What's the, you handed out an amendment to Exhibit A to change, add something to 247085D. Oh, what is the one that we submitted today? Yes. That was a typo that our technical expert caught this morning. So he can explain that change.
 The Exhibit A that was submitted to Council originally, excuse me, Doug Morgan with Bureau of Development Services for the record. AKA technical expert. The Exhibit A that was submitted to Council this morning had a typographical error in it that left out a portion of two sentences. So the additional document there is just a correction to that. Legal counsel, does that constitute a Scribner's error or do we require a formal motion and a vote?
 The safest thing to do would be just to adopt the amendment, but likely if what is in Exhibit A under... We've already spent too much time talking about it. I'll entertain a motion. So moved. We have a motion. Second. Second. I'd like a clarification. Is this underlined wording already in the code? Yes. The standards we've adopted for retaining walls or are proposing to adopt are consistent with past practice. No, I'm...
 I'm trying to understand the scriveness error part of it. Comparing, when I'm looking at the Exhibit D, there's no proposed changes to it. There is a proposed change. That proposed change that you see in front of you would move into Exhibit A. So it would replace what's in Exhibit A right now, the underlying portion. But this is just more specific. That's correct. Okay. It's good that we've got a motion then. Thank you. Call the roll on the amendment. Okay.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you to both our technical experts. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Thank you to our technical expert for catching that little error. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Good proofreading solves a lot of problems down the road. Thank you for that excellent work. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended and adjourned.
 All right, good afternoon, everybody. This is the April 4th, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Thank you all for being here. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Here. Fitz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Carla, could you please read items 325 through 328, please? 325.
 Adopt the Central City 2035 Plan, Volume 2A, Part 3, Environmental and Scenic. Amend the Portland Zoning Map and Portland Zoning Codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones.
 326 adopt the central city 2035 plan volume 2a part 3 environmental and scenic amend the portland zoning map and portland zoning codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones 327 adopt the central city 2035 plan action charts performance targets and urban design diagrams and 328 adopt the central city 2035 plan green loop concept report
 Thank you, Carla. And obviously we're here this afternoon to continue our work on the Central City 2035 plan. Sally, would you like to go ahead and introduce today's session for us? Yes, thank you very much. So we have three main things for you today. We issued a packet for you last Thursday, modified it slightly on Monday, and that's the packet that you have in front of you.
 Today we also have a new mini packet that has a blue voting guide on the front that says revised. And then there is a document on the back that's called Central City Block 33 City Council Amendments.
 So today we'll start with part one, which relates to discussing and voting on amendments related to Block 33. We also have on the agenda an item related to the Portland Public Schools, but that memorandum of understanding isn't complete yet, so we'll be coming back next week to talk about that.
 So part one will only include the block 33 items. Then part two will move to top of bank. We split the original amendment into two parts. E1 relates to the measure of the top of bank around structures. E2 to commentary around the default top of bank. Our office was advised by the mayor's office that those had been withdrawn. That's my understanding as well.
 So that will need to be, you'll need to formally withdraw them. And part three, we have a very few new amendments that we consider to be technical and minor related to the North Pearl Opportunity Area, bird safe glazing, and the transfer of FAR from historic structures. And we'll need to have a public hearing on those items. So we did send this out last week, and I'm not sure. Sure.
 who we have signed up for that yet. But we'll have to start by moving and seconding those items and then holding the hearing. Can I ask you a question? We've been dealing with so much stuff recently of a land use quality. When is the last time that we would be able to consider any amendments to 2035? Okay.
 we have a meeting scheduled for April 11th.
 and where we will be voting on the items in Part 3. That's the last time that we currently have scheduled for individual amendments. We do plan to come back on, once we complete this, we are going to compile a new revised Central City 2035 plan, and ordinances and findings, and bring that back to you on May 24th.
 And is there a scenario on May 24th, right? And if for some reason there was an additional item that the council wanted to take up by way of an amendment, could it be brought up on that day or is that too late? Okay.
 If staff's coming back with findings, then you would need to delay coming back with findings to reflect that amendment. So it could be further delayed for the purposes of preparing findings. And then additionally, depending on the substance of that amendment, it may or may not require additional public testimony. If it relates to something that you've already taken testimony on, you may not need to notify and provide more testimony. But our goal is to have a vote on everything else on May 24th.
 That's right. And then a final vote on June 6th. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. All right. Sorry, Commissioner Saltzman. Go ahead. I just had a question. You list on Block 33, you list Mayor Wheeler's amendment and then my amendment. I guess it seems like we should take my amendment in first because if that doesn't pass, then we go to Mayor Wheeler's amendment. So, Commissioner Saltzman, we understand there may be an additional amendment and then a modification to your amendment today. Okay.
 but I still think they should happen before we consider Mayor Whaley's amendment. With one caveat, I have an amendment for which this would be the first reading, so I'd want some advice from staff, but wouldn't we first have to have a reading of my amendment and a chance for the council to be aware of it before we took votes on the other amendments, since my amendment is an amendment to whichever amendment ultimately passes? Yes.
 Yes. We have a proposed procedure to walk through all of the Block 33 items, and so, Mayor Wheeler, I would recommend that you work through that. Yes, so this will get complicated very quickly, so bear with me. I know you will all ask questions if at any point this isn't self-evident, and that includes me, by the way. So, obviously, we're starting with Block 33, and as the Commissioner just pointed out at the last meeting I offered up,
 an amendment referred to as C-1 here on the blue voting guide. That amendment increased the height on the western half of Block 33 from 125 to 160 feet.
 During the same hearing, Commissioner Saltzman then offered his amendment, which we referred to as C2 in this guide. His amendment increased the maximum building height from 125 to 200 feet on the western half of the block. It increased FAR from 600.
 and it exempted Block 33 from the Historic Resource Review for both FAR and height.
 So those two are currently on the table. Commissioner Fish, you have an amendment. This would be an appropriate time for you to offer it up. And I also have an amendment to my amendment. So let's let Nick do his, and then we'll get to you next. Yeah, and thank you, Mayor. And the purpose is to put my amendment on the table, have staff explain my amendment, and then we can decide procedurally how this all fits together. So I move my amendment, which provides that – so –
 The Fish Amendment would allow the height increase to 160 feet on the western half of the block, but only through a bonus. In other words, we would apply the same bonus system that currently exists everywhere else downtown other than the historic district. And the bonus would operate with our existing rules, which in this case would say –
 that you get the extra height if you deliver desperately needed affordable housing. So I offer that amendment. Very good. And I'll second this. We'll call that Amendment C-3. Commissioner Saltzman, I understand you have a modification to C-2. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Well, two things. I wanted to maybe do the same thing as Fisher's amendment just did, and that was to allow the 200-foot fence.
 And FAR of 9 to 1 are earned only if all development above the ground floor on the western half of the block is residential. It sounds like the same thing we just adopted. Similar. So we'll have you walk us through. And then I'm also – I want to amend my amendment to remove the exemptions from the historic review process. So, in other words, this project would be subject to full design and historic review. Heard at the last hearing that somehow the Landmarks Commission had taken a position on this project
 prior to it coming before it, and that was wrong. So what I heard was incorrect. So that's why I'm proposing to delete my exemption from the historic review process. Very good. I will second that. We'll call this Amendment C-2 as amended. Does anybody else have any further amendments that they want to add to Commissioner Galey? I feel a little left out, but no. I'm not going to add any amendments to this. Not to this point. So, Mayor –
 Can I ask staff to walk us through my amendment? It's on the table. Commissioner Fish. And I want to, because Commissioner Saltzman, I think, is prepared to accept conceptually the same framework for his amendment, I want to make sure we're actually talking apples and apples and have staff walk us through how this would work. So take it away. Thank you. Rachel Hoy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm going to flip through a couple slides here to get to –
 your proposed amendment, Commissioner Fish. OK. So and also the packet that we provided that you have, cover page says block 33, city council amendments. There is a write up of each of these amendments. So Commissioner Fish's amendment starts on page 6 if you want to take a look at that as well.
 So the Commissioner Fish, your amendment is similar to Mayor Wheeler's amendment. It maintains the height at 125 feet on the site. The difference is the increase in height that you're proposing to 160 on the west side of the block could be earned through bonus height. And so that proposal...
 as you said, is consistent with the way we've increased height through the Central City 2035 project. When we've increased height across the central city, it's been through our bonus height system, and that is in an effort to ensure there's a public benefit associated with that increased height. So your amendment is increasing from 125 to 160 on the western side of the block using the bonus height system
 as well as the bonus that they would be required to use would be the affordable housing bonus. So there's an extra level, we have a very small number of bonuses. There's the affordable housing bonus, but there's also the option of transferring FAR from a historic resource.
 In this particular case, this would ensure that they would be using the affordable housing bonus to obtain that bonus height. And they would not be able to use the historic resource bonus? The way that this has been proposed, no. They would be required to go to the affordable housing bonus first. And where is the bonus that transfers from historic resources? How far away from the historic resources is it allowed to be transferred to? Okay.
 Well, if they needed more FAR, that would just be a secondary bonus or transfer that they could go to. For this particular case, to obtain that bonus height up to the 160, the proposal just says you need to go to the affordable housing bonus first. And they could go to the historic resource transfer after that? Beyond that, they could if they needed to.
 For the transferring site, how far away from the transferring site can the bonus be transferred to? The way we've set it up in Central City 2035, the historic resource transfer, there is no – it's anywhere in the Central City. There's no distance parameter. So, colleagues, in our last hearing, we had conflicting testimony about whether we should allow the additional height
 and there were eloquent concerns raised on cases made on both sides of that issue. What I also heard the neighborhood say, to the extent there were neighborhood folks who testified in support of the additional hike, that they wanted to see some development and they would prefer to see some residential development. As I tried to work through this, what I think is a close call,
 I went to staff and got a little primer on what our rules are generally in the downtown and then learned that we don't have this same system that applies within a historic district because I think if we're going to increase height, we need to have a clear public benefit that flows back.
 I asked them to consider essentially doing a pilot where we applied the same rules that we apply throughout the district on this site as the quid pro quo for allowing for the additional height. And that's the proposal the staff has come back with.
 So I have a couple of questions, and if anybody has any more questions specific to Commissioner Fish's amendment, I don't want to derail a good conversation, but I have sort of a question about this amendment and Commissioner Saltzman's amendment.
 So part of what we are trying to do, just thinking bigger picture here, we're obviously trying through both of these amendments to ensure to the degree that we can that housing is part of the picture. These are subject to inclusionary housing. And we are trying to bring some consistency to a district that isn't very consistent, based on sort of my –
 quick appraisal of where we are. The north part of the district was at 350 previously, and our initial attempt was to bring the 350 on the north side down to 160 so that it would be consistent with adjacent properties. It's my understanding that in the historic district, not that long ago, a building was built to 200 feet.
 And through this process, we were raising the height on the south part, including Block 33, from 100 to 125. And that precipitated my amendment was let's get it at least to 160 so that we have consistency. I actually like Commissioner Saltzman's amendment insofar as it gives flexibility. I would not have supported it.
 if it included the provision that it would bypass the historic review. I don't think that's appropriate, but it turns out I think that's not consistent with statute. And so that's off the table per the conversation. Okay.
 But I also want to be clear, if, and I'm expressing absolutely if, we go to 200 on Block 33, there is another block that we have already proposed lowering from the 350 to 160 that we would need to raise to 200 in order to preserve that consistency.
 That was a lot of talking, but is that approximately correct in terms of where we were historically, what we are attempting to do, and what would be required? That's correct. I mean, to treat both of these height changes in the district consistently, we would do just what you said. So walk me through a scenario, and let's just say we went to 200 for discussion purposes. It goes through the historic review –
 process and what does that look like? Walk me through that fairly quickly. What would be the likely outcome of that conversation? Well, it would be a Type 3 review. It would go through to Landmarks Commission and they would apply the recently adopted standards and guidelines that we've created for the Chinatown district.
 If it was an approvable project from their point of view, they would recommend that to City Council. They would have the final decision. If they do not, if they turn it down, then on appeal it would come back to you all for consideration. Okay, so here's a question I have. So we had some very honorable people from the Historic Commission come in, and they testified in opposition to some of the proposed amendments there.
 But upon doing my research in the last week, it appears that buildings have already been approved at 200 feet in the district. I don't believe it's 200. I don't think so.
 A historic resource program manager at BPS. Our understanding is the tallest building in the district is about 160 feet. 160. At the north end of the district. A datum that we use to come forward with that decision so that it would be consistent with that tallest approved building, no taller than it, so that it sort of sets that baseline. So tell me about the historic designation because there's been some –
 made about what would happen to the historic district if we did certain things. And the the
 Legal counsel for the proposed development of Block 33 had said that there were no districts that had been jeopardized by this. They pointed out historic documents for the formation of the district, which actually suggested much greater heights. Mention was made of the fact that for many years, the north part of the district has already allowed 350 as part of its height restrictions. Okay.
 And we got a fairly mushy response back from the state when we put this question to them. So it doesn't seem to me there's really any definitive evidence or even any anecdotal evidence that we would be putting the historic district at risk.
 So I'll jump in with a quick history. When this district was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1989, it was listed by the National Park Service, not by the city council. And in Oregon, we're somewhat unique in the country that we honor the National Register listing with land use protections that apply upon designation.
 So in the case of Chinatown, when that district was listed in the National Register, it automatically got land use protections that still today exist. Those are basically demolition review and historic resource review. When you put together a nomination for one of these districts, you sort of explain the case as it is at the time. And so the zoning was mentioned in the National Register nomination, not agnostic to whether or not that would be built, but saying today in this district, this is the zoning.
 In terms of the historic resource review process that the Landmarks Commission will administer on sites in the district that are subject to it, their charge is really to approve projects that do no harm to the historic district.
 And so in their review, they're using design guidelines and using their best sort of professional judgment to determine whether or not a proposal can be approvable and not harm the district. So there's somewhat of a gray area line in a historic district for any historic resource where if too much change occurs and the qualities that made it historic at the time of designation are lost, then it could be subject to a nomination to delist.
 It would not happen because of a zoning decision. It would be the sort of death by 1,000 cuts for any historic resource. If you take out all the windows and siding and change the roof of a historic house, it would probably be a good candidate for delisting. But that occurs sort of in real time, and it's on-the-ground evidence that the Park Service would use. And that's not what's proposed here is my understanding at all. What I did read into the response from the state was the message around consistency.
 And it feels to me like, you know, I'll just walk through the Saltzman Amendment, just since we talked about that most recently. If we do that at 200, as I say, we would have to be consistent. Okay.
 on the block adjacent on the north side, which we are bringing down from 350 originally to 160 based on some other height, we would raise that to 200 so the north side would then be consistent with what we're doing here on blocks 33 to the south side. That seems to meet the consistency standard that's being proffered by the state.
 Yes? No? Well, you know, I think the consistency with what is part of the vagary of the state's response. And I believe what they were talking about is the character of the district. So it's built form. That's typically what these landmark districts are about. This one's actually a cultural district as much as a built form of physical district. So that adds to the gray quality of being able to judge it.
 I don't know that it would make much difference to the State if there was 200 possible there and a 200-foot building came in. They would look at the 200-foot building. They'd look at its responsiveness. I mean, I think the argument would go more the responsiveness to the guidelines.
 the debate that takes place during the review process or the critique that Landmarks does. And then if it was turned down and appealed to city council, you all would have your own shot at that kind of discussion and consideration of the guidelines.
 what you perceive as or how you want to characterize the district and how the way this is designed you feel is consistent with the district. Does that make sense? That does. That's actually a very helpful context for me. Sorry to be absorbing this on the fly, but it's important nuance for me to understand. So fundamentally –
 From that perspective, given the important role of the Historic Commission, the work we're doing here, 160 versus 200, with different FAR and affordable housing requirements, which are effectively parallel, I don't see how it impacts the historic district one way or the other.
 There's still an opportunity through the Historic Commission to address those other issues you mentioned, taking away windows or historical treatment or whatever else. Those are architectural questions. Yes. This is a zoning exercise. The Landmarks Commission will...
 see the building that's built under this zoning and make a judgment there around the actual building design and proposal. And if, as I said, if they can't approve it, you all will see the same building proposal. The zoning just really entitles you to try to design a building that will be appropriate for the district. So if they came to the conclusion since Commissioner Saltzman for example has withdrawn his uh
 Exemption. His exemption in the amendment for the historic review process. That is the check and balance. It's the historic commission. Correct. Unless we chose to overturn it.
 And just in this central city plan, part of how we got into this circumstance is we, over the years, have created some historic districts in the central city and never right-sized the height for what, given the sideboards of what might be an acceptable height. And that was causing a great deal of confusion.
 the goalposts for developers. So we wanted to, and putting pressure on the Landmarks Commission. So we wanted to bring down the height so it's closer to what's reasonable. 300 to 160 brought it down within that realm. 200 and 160 is not of the same order of magnitude, Mayor, honestly. And we're going to set a new datum. It's 200 under this amendment. This is the opportunity for a developer and a designer to come in with a building that rocks the
 the guidelines and fits in with the compatibility of the district and to the extent that that's possible Landmarks has a say to the extent that they need to pass it on you all will have the final say That's what we've been trying to do throughout this central city project is to look at what's reasonable to expect so that if you have a good design the height is such that it's going to be compatible. If you look at the back page of the handout we got this block is literally surrounded on three sides by a hundred feet
 So if you have a building that's double the size of the buildings on three sides, it seems to me very challenging to make it compatible. One more piece of information, Commissioner, is early on in this process, we solicited advice from the Landmarks Commission about what they thought was appropriate heights in the Central City Historic Districts. And generally what we recommended and what's before you in the kind of final version of the Staff and Planning Commission plan are heights that are,
 slightly taller than what the Landmarks Commission had asked us for. And the thought there was even though the commission was feeling that being conservative with height would make their job most clear or negotiations with property owners and development teams most clear, we wanted to leave a little bit of room for proposals that maybe step back a building or do a wedding cake or apply a different design strategy. And that's what we generally advocated for through the process was
 Let's take into account the historic district, but let's not necessarily just match the historic buildings. Let's leave a little bit of wiggle room. How much wiggle room? That's where this debate exists. So we've already gone from 100 to 125. That's what the previous compromise was. So now we're compromising from the compromise. But the checks and balances are still there, but that is absolutely true. Is there another historic district that is specific to a cultural group within Portland?
 There is not one on the National Register or local historic districts. Some of our conservation districts have significance for the African-American experience, but they're not quite the same as a historic district. Right. So I want to call to your attention, colleagues, a message, an email we got this morning, which you may not have time to have seen, 1035 from Terry Chung, who says –
 The 2035 plans were developed over years by the community to allow increased heights from 100 feet to 125 feet on Block 33, with the intent to have the Landmark Commission's guidance in preserving the character of the neighbourhood to a respectful manner. This was the agreed decision by the community after much discussion. This current proposal to increase the heights on the west side of Block 33 circumvents the committee's original intent.
 While the developer has stated he has worked with the Old Town Community Association, he has not convinced all the board members, nor has he the full support of the full neighborhood, that this plan as proposed meets the original intent of the board. I understand that the developer faces many challenges, but so does the community for its preservation of time and place for the Chinese and Japanese community.
 And he says, Terry Chung says, as part of the community and neighborhood revitalization, I am a founding member of the Portland Chinatown History Foundation. We are in the midst of creating a museum in the former Keda building at 3rd and Davis Street. I've also heard from the executive director of the Lansu Chinese Garden and others in the district who are very concerned about revitalization.
 the potential disruption to the cultural place and the historic district that is vital for the Chinese and Japanese communities here in Portland. Mayor Wheeler? Commissioner Fish. So this is a continuation of what was a fascinating discussion and hearing last time, and I thought one of the more interesting conversations we've had. So I want to go back.
 And thank you, by the way, Mayor, for the procedure that you've, under your tenure, you've established around land use decisions where we actually take the time to discuss and debate actually before we take the vote. The vote is a blunt force instrument. What do you mean? Before, I could have just taken the vote. I appreciate the fact that you allow for the discussion before the vote. Because I actually think it allows for a more transparent process to the public. Thanks, Nick. I appreciate that. So –
 I want to go back to the principles that framed my consideration of this. First, we have a historic district that we've established guidelines for, and we have made commitments about what we are or are not going to do within the district. Two, we have the fact that Block 33 is,
 is essentially blighted and has not been developed for a long time, and there is a yearning, not just from the people we heard testify but others, that they'd like to see some development on that site. I think we all share that. Number three, when we are giving an owner a significant benefit, in this case additional height or FAR or both, I think we have a right to ask for some public benefit back.
 And so my amendment, which I hope we can clarify would apply, could be simply adopted as an amendment both to the Wheeler Amendment and to the Saltzman Amendment. So we have the two choices before us. My amendment ensures that...
 that this additional height and the benefit we're giving an owner is treated just as we would treat any other development within the downtown outside of a historic district. It would be subject to a bonus system, and we would have the benefit of some affordable housing. Mayor, I hope you're not withdrawing the Wheeler Amendment because I found you very persuasive last week.
 And we have not had a follow-up conversation, but I intend to support the Wheeler Amendment as amended by the Fish Amendment. But I would ask that you consider clarifying that both your amendment and Dan's are subject to the Fish Amendment, and then the council has a choice to make. Well, I think that's right, Commissioner. And so, Dan, I think technically we need a vote to just say that Fish Amendment amends both of the amendments before us, Wheeler and Dan.
 And Saltzman, and then Mayor, you decide the sequence of the vote. In terms of sequence, I think what I would do is offer up Dan's first, which was C2. If that fails, I would then offer – C3. I'm sorry, C3. Excuse me, C2 as amended. C2 as amended. I would then go back to mine, which was sort of the baseline, which was C1.
 And I do yours last because if yours passes, that would supersede mine in the process. Is that correct, legal counsel? No. Yeah, not quite. Not quite. Okay. So from legal counsel, explain to me. If we do Dan's first, it supersedes mine.
 The other two, correct? So whichever one is done last, to the extent it conflicts or changes provisions that were in the earlier amendments, that will be the controlling one. Ah, okay. And so that's one thing to think about. The other thing the council can think about is if they're able to articulate what that amendment is, we can just create a new amendment that reflects the current consensus of the council. Okay, can I simplify this for us? Would you...
 I'm agnostic as to which order you go, but it seems to me that the first order of business is to agree that the FISH amendment amends both of the main amendments on the table, and then you can decide what's next. So that is not my call. The amendment was proffered by Commissioner Saltzman. It's up to him to decide whether he accepts that premise. Yes, I do accept that premise. So I think we're in agreement on that then. So is the height 200 or 160? Yeah.
 Well, under my amendment, it's $200. Okay, legal counsel is looking twitchy over there, so let's make sure we get this right. I just want to make sure I'm clear, because Commissioner Fritz, excuse me, Fish, I have increased height to 160 through the bonus height and then require the owner to use affordable housing. Okay, so for purposes of keeping this clean, I would offer my amendment as simply requiring that any height above 125 feet be subject to the housing bonus. Okay.
 That keeps it clean, and the council then can decide what height they want. Is there a second? Second. So we have a motion and a second. And my intent is to modify both amendments on the table. Very good. That provides parallel language on C2 as well as, excuse me, C2 is amended as well as C3. Dan, is that acceptable? Yes.
 So let's call the vote on that. Okay, good. So now the next question in legal counsel, I'm looking to you again. The last one that gets a majority of votes wins, correct? Very good. So can we take a vote on my amendment first? Commissioner Fish, we will take a vote on the amendment as provided by Commissioner Fish. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Okay.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? No, because I think that the first bonus adjacent to a historic district might need to be transferred from the historic district. Also, I'm not going to support any height over 125 because that's already an increase in the height.
 There was a development that was waiting to develop at 125 and was waiting for this 125 to pass. So essentially what we're debating here is how much bonus to give to an owner of a surface parking lot. And I think that just rewards owners of surface parking lots to hold out for as much as they can. No. Wheeler. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. So next, colleagues, we can go to – I will hold C-1 in abeyance, and I will publicly –
 that I will withdraw it if either C2 is amended or C3 pass. But I want to hold that as...
 A backstop to doing nothing. Yeah. Okay. And I'll just clarify for the council. I think Commissioner Fish's amendment amended both C-1 and C-2 as amended. So C-2 has now been amended twice, both by Commissioner Saltzman as well as by Commissioner Fish. And C-2 as amended has been amended. Yeah, so it's all three. There are C-1 and C-2, C-2 being amended twice, and then Commissioner Fish, did you withdraw C-3? C-3?
 Yes. So currently you have the Wheeler Amendment and Dan's Amendment, which is C-2, as amended twice. And then you formally amend it. And the mayor now gets to decide which one goes first. And can you, yeah. Would you mind just stating for the record that you withdrew C-3? I have withdrawn C-3. Thank you. Okay. So that leaves, just so I'm not completely confused, C-2 now twice amended, once by Dan, once by Commissioner Fish. Perfect.
 That leaves C-1 on the table. Correct. Along with C-2 is amended. C-3 is now gone. It has been withdrawn by Commissioner Fish. Let's go to C-2 as amended twice. Call the roll. Could I offer a statement? Commissioner Saltzman. Yes, sir. Before we vote. Thank you, Mayor.
 So to me, what sways me and justifies in my mind the additional height increase from 125 to 200 is the substantial additional yield of affordable housing units. As we heard in testimony when we had the public hearing, developing at 200 feet produces an extra 40 affordable units, and it produces an extra...
 At 125, I believe it produces an extra – no, I'm sorry. It produces – I'm a little confused here. But the delta, the number of increased affordable housing units from, I think, 160 to 200 is about 40 additional units. And then the total number of apartments, I believe, under the 200 feet is 342 apartments total.
 versus 199. And that was all public testimony that was given last week by, I believe, an architect working with the developer. And I found those numbers to be substantial. And I think, you know, in a time of a housing crisis, we need to be doing all we can to accommodate more affordable housing, and I think this is one way to do that. But I was also, I have to say quite honestly, I was struck when I – it was a week ago tonight I was driving with my partner to go to dinner –
 someplace actually on the east side of the river, but we were going down Southwest 4th and Northwest 4th. And it was around 6 o'clock, a beautiful day. I think it was last Wednesday. And, you know, driving by, looking at Block 33, thinking, hmm, how's the sun, how's that building going to fit in with that recessing sun? You know, and I confessed, yeah, it's going to create a shadow. But then I looked around me, and I realized there was absolutely nobody else on Southwest, Northwest 4th, 6 o'clock on a sunny Wednesday evening.
 It was a ghost town. If I had my bowling ball with me, I could have taken it out at Cooch Street and rolled it all the way down to Gleason and would not have interfered with traffic or pedestrians. And I think that's the reality we have to square ourselves with here, is this old town, Chinatown, Japantown has become a ghost town, and we've got to do something to catalyze development here. I think this project does that.
 and it produces more affordable housing to boot at 200 feet. And I don't think it's going to detract from an historic district. I mean, what's the purpose of an historic district if nobody's there to appreciate it? And so I think we need to infuse this area with people and commercial opportunities and retail opportunities. And so that's why I'm offering this amendment. And how do you vote? He doesn't vote yet. I'm voting. I'm just offering my argument in support. Very good. Call the roll. Fish.
 Well, I'm in the uncomfortable position of agreeing with the mayor who now disagrees with his original amendment. But I still think you were more persuasive last week than this week, Mayor. And you offered your amendment to 160 feet. I thought that was a reasonable balance to a lot of concerns that we heard. I will tell you that having had some additional conversations with people that are much deeper thinkers about this subject than I am,
 I do find there's something frustrating about this conversation, which is we're debating numbers and matrices. We're not debating standards. And really, in a historic district, we should be talking about standards. We should be talking about light and air and texture and what's the impact of new development on surrounding buildings, and we should be looking at context. I mean, that's what a historic district is. But what we're actually doing is just talking about numbers, and it doesn't tell the whole story.
 So as I try to balance a number of things, and I'm reminded that we had this big discussion about Mr. Menasche's property, and the council was firm about not going above 160, I just don't see why we're going to move off of that. So while I appreciate the intent of this, I think it's out of whack.
 And therefore, I'm going to vote no on the Saltzman Amendment as amended, and I intend to vote yes on the original Wheeler Amendment. No. Saltzman? Aye. Eudaly? Well, Commissioner Saltzman, I wouldn't have pegged you for a bowler. I hope you won't hold this vote against me because I'd love to take you bowling sometime. Okay.
 If it weren't for the historic district, I would have no reservation about raising the heights to 200. We need more density in the central city. But I do feel that 160 strikes a more reasonable balance between those two kind of competing concerns. So I vote no. Fritz. Yeah. Wheeler. Yeah.
 So this is not an easy vote for me. I've heard really good, persuasive, articulate arguments on both sides of this. I obviously support it based on the line of questioning that I've put forward here, so my official vote on this would be aye. However, I believe my colleagues have made some really good arguments here today.
 I want to remember what we're talking about. I mean, we have vision versus reality. And the vision that Commissioner Fish just articulated is a really good vision. However, the historic asset we're actually talking about is a surface parking lot in the middle of Old Town Chinatown that nobody's been able to pencil out a development on for decades.
 And so what I want and what my hope is and what I will be working very, very hard towards with Prosper Portland is not missing this development cycle for an opportunity that a lot of people, not everybody, as Commissioner Fritz rightly said, she's correct, I've gotten calls and e-mails from people who don't like this, at anything over 125 feet, but...
 I don't think a surface parking lot is very respectful of the history and traditions and the culture of the district either. So the Saltzman Amendment fails, and we'll move to C1 as amended. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. My understanding from the chief planner is that this site will be designated with an asterisk in the zoning code maps to know. Yes.
 An asterisk, no. I thought so that we can, so this site alone has the condition that Commissioner Fish just mentioned. Oh, correct. In terms of that, it'll be, this is the one block in a historic district where that bonus provision will apply, yes. Right. So it's the very definition of a spot zone, and it's very unfortunate that it impacts the only cultural district that impacts the community of color in our city. No. Okay.
 Wheeler. So it's better than it would have been. It provides consistency with what we're doing on the block on the other side at 160 feet. It provides consistency with what staff is telling me has already been approved by the historic commission and or the city council previously. So I feel very comfortable that it will protect that.
 the integrity of the historic district. We still have the check and balance of the historic commission, and they're good people, and their intentions are honorable, and they bring a lot of experience as volunteers to the table to be able to provide not just any development but a really positive development experience
 And I will commit to the developer as the commissioner in charge of Prosper Portland that I will work with them to see if we can't get this going in the near term as opposed to years from now. I'd like to see it happen. I vote aye. The amendment passes. Thank you. So we move on to I believe it's top of bank. The amendments are...
 related to the top of the bank. We have E1 related to structures and E2 that contain commentary on the default top of bank that I support and that we don't need to move on. I want to talk about E1. This is an amendment that was introduced as a courtesy to the Port of Portland Commission
 and we're continuing to work with them to address their very specific concerns. But I've looked into this, and I've decided to withdraw the amendment. Since this amendment actually codifies the way that the Bureau of Development Services currently approaches measuring the top of bank, I think that leaving this in the code will help make things clearer for the applicant. Is there any objection to my withdrawing that amendment? No.
 So we'll move on then to move second, hold public hearings on new amendments. And this is the public hearing portion of the hearing for people who actually want to participate. We have a few new amendments that we need to move and second before we get started. Troy, do you want to start us off? Thank you. And could you introduce yourself for the record, please? That's Troy Dallas, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 I'm here to talk first and only about North Pearl height amendments. And just as a quick little history on this, these are actually provisions that go all the way back to 1990. They were part of the Northwest Triangle. And so when we adopted the North Pearl Plan in 2008, we just renamed these provisions, these height provisions, to be the North Pearl height standard. Moving forward, we fully intended to keep...
 elements of those as part of Central City 2035. And what we have right now, as you can see on the diagram, buildings that go up to 100 feet are allowed by right along the North Pearl waterfront. Once you get above 100 feet, you're required to have a maximum width north-south of no more than 120 feet. When we...
 We worked the provisions, kind of restructured them. We lost that language that said above 100 feet. And so what it really resulted in is it would say all buildings, if you take advantage of the height, you have to be no wider than 120 feet from bottom to top. And that was not what we intended. So we're coming back to say, oops, we'd like to go back to what the original intent of the regulation was, which is...
 If you get above 100 feet, the tower massing above 100 feet can be no wider than 120 feet. So, Troy, if I understand this amendment correctly,
 is a correction that returns the code to its current meeting, right? Exactly. Okay, so I move that. Is there a second? Second. Very good. Bird safe glazing. I'm moving this amendment because the intent is to apply this standard adjacent to an eco roof. It was already implied in what we were doing, but now the code will very explicitly state it so that there's no confusion. Do I have a second? Second. Okay.
 Is there anything else that we need to talk about on that one? That seems pretty self-apparent. No, that's it. Very good. FAR transfer from historic resources. You better tell us a little bit about this one.
 Yes, this is also just a minor change that you see on the screen here. After further discussions with BDS and building code specialists, we realized we needed to be very clear about somebody that wanted to come in, a historic resource to upgrade their building. They really have one choice. They have to show us that they meet or exceed the needs.
 the structural code and the way the code was worded, it seemed to give them a choice in that and we did not want that. So this is strictly just a clarification and the other small piece of this is the section in which this will be located in the building code is going to change in the future. So they wanted us to be less specific.
 All right. So that's the extent. Very good. So I'm moving this amendment because it makes clear the property owners need to provide documentation showing that they are seismically upgraded already or that they will sign an agreement with the city to do so. Do I have a second? Second. Commissioner Saltzman seconds. All right. Public testimony. Everybody's favorite opportunity, especially ours, to hear about these three new amendments we just moved and seconded. If you want to testify, find...
 Lovely Carla over here. She is our council clerk. Yeah, I think there was some confusion. They had signed up for C1, but they both left. They both left. Okay. Does anybody else want to testify on any of these amendments? All right. Very good. Do we have any other amendments that have been offered? No.
 Not that I'm aware of. I think mine comes later. Later in the day for the second part. Yeah. Okay. So that concludes our hearing on these particular amendments. I'd like to close the written record now, but leave the written record open until April 11th at 4.30 p.m. Time certain when we'll come back for a vote on any remaining amendments. So if people would like to comment on these, they're certainly welcome to.
 Sally, can you go over the next steps, please? Yes, just a clarification on that. You're closing the oral record now, but leaving the written record open. So, yeah. Yeah, that is correct. Yeah. Yes, sorry, there's a typo in my cheat sheet. I apologize. Yes. So, next steps. These are the sessions that are still on the calendar for Central City 2035, just for your review. Okay.
 So we'll be back here on April 11th at 4.30, time certain, to vote on those three amendments that you were just subject to the public hearing. All right, good. Okay, thank you very much. There being no further business, that portion of the hearing is now adjourned. Please call item 329. We're now back in session.