Tryon Creek Treatment Plan Projects. He let us know he's not able to make it. Next item, please. 314, request of Danny Robbins to address council regarding Portland divestment from Dakota Access Pipeline. Good morning.
 And if you could just state your name for the record. When you have 30 seconds left, either mic's fine. Just make sure the light is on. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light goes on, and then when your time is up, the red light comes on. Thank you. And I can't see the light, so if you can just make sure- It needs to be green, a green light on your mic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, wonderful. Thank you, appreciate it.
 Mr. Mayor, I would like to use my time this morning to urge you to follow through on your promise to draft a plan for divestment from Wells Fargo following their continued support and funding for the Dakota Access Pipeline. Portlanders took your statement a month ago very seriously. Knowing your experience as treasurer, it was clear that you understood the gravity and size of the task when you announced your intention to make moves towards divesting. Please don't let us down.
 It is imperative now more than ever that we invest as a city according to the values of the people living here. I think it's safe to say that the entire city is disgusted by the human rights abuses carried out in order to construct this pipeline. And we want nothing to do with supporting it. Seattle carried out a successful resolution to divest their funds from Wells Fargo and so can we.
 There are other cities who have done this recently as well, and Portland can help build the movement of cities pledging to manage their money with consciousness. Divestment movements are hugely powerful. They are more than a sum of their parts and have contributed to massive changes, including the dismantling of the apartheid system in South Africa. Without steps taken to recognize the harm our bad investments can create in the world, we may be contributing to something that we as a city morally oppose.
 It is our city's values to protect natural resources. My father worked for the city for over 30 years as a natural resource manager, protecting the Bull Run watershed. I grew up knowing that we as a city pride ourselves on the quality of our drinking water. Is it then not hypocritical to be funding projects that endanger others' water supplies, particularly those of Native American communities?
 Later today, you will hear a proposal from the city treasurer to bypass citizen input and oversight regarding our do not buy list. The city's conscience cannot be outsourced to a standardized list. It is obviously something that requires input from our citizens. So please, Mr. Mayor, listen to your constituents and take the promise that you made seriously. You said in your statement, I will share more information as I have it in the coming weeks. It has been five weeks and we haven't heard anything.
 Please give us a sign that this effort is moving forward, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you, and I will take the liberty- Actually- Sorry. With my few extra seconds, I'd like to say that the police crackdown in North Dakota bears resemblance to the increasing militarization of our own police force. Please address this problem seriously, Mr. Mayor.
 Thank you for your testimony. With regard to Wells Fargo, I want to be very clear, I did not pledge to divest from Wells Fargo. To make a plan. What I pledged was we would take a look in light of what Seattle did. I want to be very clear about what Seattle did and what Seattle did not do. Because they put out their press release, but when you dig and see what they actually did, they said they would not purchase additional Wells Fargo bonds.
 upon the retirement of the bonds they had, so that is anywhere between now and 30 years, depending upon what the duration of those bonds were and when they purchased them. They also said at the end of their contract, their banking contract with Wells Fargo, they would RFP the contract.
 The city of Portland has already done both of these things. The city of Portland has already passed a resolution not to invest in corporate bonds, and that has been the policy of the treasurer, I believe for about a year, if I remember correctly. And I have also made it clear that we will also RFP the contract at the termination of the contract. Ours actually terminates this summer. So we'll be doing that process a year ahead of the city of Seattle.
 So I appreciate what you're saying, but I just want to be very clear about what I did say versus what I did not say. I generally, as you know, do not support divestment as a policy tool, and I'll explain that more this afternoon when we have that opportunity. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 315, request of Cedric J Wilkins to address council regarding Willamette River cleanup, Columbia Radon. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Shedrick Wilkins and I have a science degree and I kind of want to look at things about the situation with radon in the Columbia River. I mix, there's a topic about Hanford Nuclear Reservation, but before 1943, which emitted radioactive materials in the Columbia River, was radon actually harmful to people? I went to the Kennedy thing at the Historical Society, went up to the fourth floor and asked
 was there any myths about drinking Columbia River water and getting sick? And I was triggered, too, that last month we dipped into the Columbia River exclusively. So my comment is I don't like people mixing Hanford and strontium-90 and stuff like that during the war, you know, making the bombs with –
 natural radon in the Columbia River, you'd have to make an argument beforehand for did people get sick from drinking Columbia River water? Like in Vancouver in the 1830s, did the horse get sick and kegel over dead drinking the water? So I just don't like how people are using this as kind of an anarchistic kind of thing, radon mixed with atomic energy kind of stuff. And I would like to do some more research about and find out if people, and if we continue to drink the Columbia River, maybe that's not a bad thing.
 Mr. Wilkins, can I just respond to that just briefly? A lot of misinformation is out there about radon and I think what you're referring to is the Columbia South Shore well water, which for a period of time we shifted to, we're now back to Bull Run water.
 The Water Bureau has prepared a comprehensive FAQ on this. The punch line is we are substantially below even the most conservative guidelines that the EPA is thinking of establishing. We'll get you that information, and if you have follow up questions, we'll answer them as well. Well, I feel confident in what you're saying. I'm feeling it must be below.
 I too feel too that I was sick in May 2014. I got urinary pains before the thing blew in May 2014. And then there was a water rush to get bottled water at my store. It affected me, and now I heard that we were getting close. If we kept drinking the water, people would again get sick from microbes and bull run. Yeah, and I just have to tell you, we work closely, as you know, with the Multnomah County Health Department and Dr. Lewis.
 Our water is safe. We have the luxury of the two largest supplies of safe and clean water in the state, the Bull Run and the Columbia South Shore Well Water. We test the water regularly.
 radon problem with our well water. But anyway, I've had the scientist prepare a document. We'll get you a copy and answer any follow up questions you have. Well, the fourth for the resource center, the historical site, the women librarian said she knew of no instances where people felt they got sick from Columbia water before Hanford. Appreciate it, thank you sir. Next item please. 9, I'm sorry, 316 request of Robert McCullough to address council regarding city revenue enhancements.
 Good morning. Good morning. The most efficient council clerk, the letter that Salvi-Suppler sent you last night. Thank you. Can we clap on that one? I'm supposed to say no, but the sentiment is well received. She really is the best council clerk in the world. I've offered to hire her several times. Robert, if you were to do that, it would not help your cause when you come before council.
 Good morning, thank you Mayor, thank you Commissioners. I'm going to take one second as Chairman of Southeast Uplift. As you know, for the last 30 years we've worked on the Southeast Portland Community Center. We've sent you a brilliantly written letter, written by Mary Ann of course, not myself. And asking one more time that we work efficiently to preserve all of our options. So with that, I'll take off my Southeast Portland.
 Today I'm simply speaking for myself as an economist. I promise you that I will be the most boring speaker you have today. City of Portland has three major revenue streams. Those revenue streams, of course, are property taxes, business taxes, and franchise fees. If you look at the chart that I provided that came from the city budget office, and I've also checked it with the OMF staff. We have not seen an increase in business license fees or franchise fees for the last five years.
 This is an example of us eating our own seed corn. I'm talking today to address budget issues having to do with tax collections. We have a number of manpower related issues. Those I believe will be approved. We will not reduce the number of people who are collecting taxes. We also have two other issues that I'd like to spend my time on. First is the IRS database. We do not know actually who owes the business tax fee.
 And when we go through collecting it, we have a huge number of participants here in Portland who are not paying. I periodically will review the new entries in the Yellow Pages and compare them against our business tax database. When I did that yesterday, two-thirds of the new businesses advertising in the Yellow Pages were not in our business tax database. That doesn't mean that they are cheating.
 It simply means that we're not efficiently tracking down new businesses. And that's why we're not seeing our business license fees increase the way we should. The OMS staff have wisely pursued the IRS database. The IRS database is currently every year a general fund issue rather than a budget issue. It should be a budget issue because it's our only effective tool of finding a new business who should be paying their taxes.
 One of those rare moments where coming to you with something that costs you no money will raise a lot of money, but it involves a focus on a fundamental issue. We have to collect the taxes that we have enacted. Finally, the ITS is only funded for two years. It's a three-year project. Again, that makes it difficult to go ahead. ITS is a database that collects all this data that enables us to collect the money owed to us. So the bottom line is,
 We should stop eating our seed corn. We need to go ahead, collect the taxes, and we need to pay the people who do it to do it effectively. Thank you. Thank you. Could I ask a follow up question please, Mr. McColisey? The manpower issues, and I agree that will be resolved. The second issue is the IRS database and making that an ongoing budget commitment.
 And is the ITS separate from that database? Yes. Could you explain that for a moment? Absolutely. The IRS database itself is a special database that's subject to enormous legal requirements. It is difficult to work with and it costs us money. For the last few years, we have paid for it on a year by year basis. But the key is to integrate it into our tax collection system. The ITS is the tax collection system.
 Simply put, we started out being a small town named The Clearing. We are now one of the major cities in the U.S. We are complicated. We're diversified. We have a lot of new businesses. We have a lot of new people. We need to collect the taxes they owe. That's what we do with the ITS. ITS is funded for two years at the moment. Unfortunately, it's a three-year project. As anyone who has administered a complicated project like this, and I know you all have,
 The fact is, you can't hire the right guy for two years for a three year project. You end up with a mismatch between staff and expertise and deliveries.
 The end of it is you make mistakes, there are cost overruns, etc. You need to tie that whole project together and get it done. Thank you. Can I follow up, Mayor, just with a question? Yes, sir. You bet. Mr. McCulloch, another area where we're having challenges, as you know, is collecting existing taxes from new participants in the so-called sharing economy.
 and that's in part because they are claiming exemptions or exclusions under federal law, under Internet privacy laws, under arcane interpretations of applicable law. We don't have the time today to go into it, but it is an area where there is money to be collected, and there are people who are getting a free ride at the expense of other responsible businesses. And at some point I'd welcome your thoughts on how we could do a better job collecting those taxes. Sure.
 Thank you for raising it, and I'll put back on my Southeast Uplift hat. Southeast Uplift has addressed you on these issues before. Bottom line is, when we have an Uber driver displaced as a taxi driver and doesn't pay the appropriate taxes, the city loses. There's nothing complicated about that. It's within the rights of Uber to compete with a taxi company, but we need to collect those dollars.
 Southeast Uplift is very worried about Airbnb and the simple fact is Airbnb has not gotten the licenses they committed to get. Now, Southeast Uplift is not immediately worried about the tax implications, though I am. But we're very worried about the safety implications. That registration fee covers a fire inspection. That is critical.
 Even the most honest, diligent homeowner who wants to rent out his extra bedroom is not a fire safety expert. That's what the fire department and BDS does. So the last time I checked on our data at Southeast Uplift, the vast majority of the Airbnb sites had not been inspected. They were not showing their serial numbers on the website as promised. And they are not safe until an expert goes and does that review.
 And those are the people that we represent. And I don't want to see anyone lose their life because they didn't understand the safety rules. So yes, I would be happy to work with you on this. This is a very important issue. The fact of the matter is, this is one of the reasons why the chart you have in front of you is showing no increase. We should be collecting franchise fees from Uber and Airbnb.
 We should be collecting business license fees, and we aren't. And it's not the staff's fault. Staff is underfunded and overworked. By the way, they're making good progress on the IRS database. It's showing its value every day. But this is not small-town stuff. We are now a big city, and we have to approach it in a big-city way.
 Thank you. Just so I have a follow up. I'm wondering if the issue of new businesses not showing any tax payments could be due to there's a threshold for when you have to actually register for a license, and then there's the owner exemption which is over $100,000. So could that perhaps explain that new businesses not yet showing up? Absolutely. There are a dozen different ways you would not file in the appropriate way.
 And that you've underscored the manpower problem So it's easy enough for me to have one of my staffers do an internet scrape To compare your database and the Yellow Pages database. That's the easy part of the job The hard part of the job is that you take the first name that fails the test Then you have to go to the IRS database to find out if they're actually making money Maybe it's just
 a mistake. Maybe, in fact, they have an exemption. Maybe they're a nonprofit. And so that's where we're falling down is we just have not had the bodies to do that. And I want to make clear that I've been on the OMF Advisory Committee for years. It's a very useful area to learn about the city. And I want you to know it's not a problem of laziness. It's not a problem of incompetence. It's that we've grown too fast.
 and we have not allocated the resources to collect the taxes we've already enacted. So at the end of the day here, I'm not proposing costing you any more money, but I am proposing that we collect more money on the taxes we've already enacted. So I may be the most boring speaker you have today, but in fact, this is almost the easiest decision to make. That's great. Thank you, sir. We appreciate your testimony.
 Next item, please. Item 317, request of Sarah Hobbs to address council regarding mayor as police commissioner. Chair, I'll assist in the meeting tomorrow. That's certainly fine, thank you. Give me the seat, thank you. Good morning. For the record, my name is Sarah Hobbs.
 In a 1966 interview with Mike Wallace, Reverend Martin Luther King stated, I think we've got to see that a riot is the language of the unheard. I paraphrase this to say, I think we've got to see disruptions of the language of the unheard at City Hall. I went through all the proper channels in my attempt to meet with you to this day. And over a month later, I have not been contacted by anyone in your office.
 It was not until I came into chambers and started yelling that I was heard, that it was not by you but by Commissioner Fish.
 To act like we activists of the problem is highly dishonest. You are the mayor of not just the largest city in Multnomah County, but the entire state of Oregon. You have the power to pick up the phone and ask questions of the district attorney or the medical examiner. What I do not see you having is the will to do so.
 You looked right at me as I told you in one of your down the hall meetings about the need to tell people what due process is when it comes to police shootings. And I had not even gotten up from the table when once again I saw you blowing on someone who was asking questions. I had to yell at you to tell her process before you even responded in a defensive manner.
 Commissioner Fish has asked that I give you the benefit of the doubt. I will do so when I see positive changes coming from you, not before. Thank you. And Ms. Hobbs, I am happy to meet with you.
 And I apologize if there's been a delay in getting back to you. We have, I apologize. I would be happy to meet with you. The commissioner will tell you I would much rather sit here face-to-face and talk one-on-one than being in here yelling. He has known me for a long time, so has Commissioner Fritz and Saltzman, and he was startled to see me yelling in here because he knows the lanes I will go to to always have for Fritz and Saltzman.
 That should be a big sign as to how extremely frustrated. So please, don't discredit people like Teresa or myself or others who are in here yelling. May good faith attempts to reach out. I can't speak for the others. I am here today solely speaking for myself. But Commissioner Fitch picked up on the extreme frustration that I had to be,
 Feeling for the first time in three and a half years. I have sitting here screaming. Understood, thank you. I appreciate it. Let's see, we will go to the consent agenda at this point. Mayor? Yes, Commissioner Fish. Would you consider pulling 319 so we could take it first on the regular? I'd be happy to pull 319. And take it first so we could just take care of it. Yeah, I can do that. Thank you. That's not a problem.
 Are there any other items that have been pulled, Carla? Yes, we have 318. We already had a request for 319, 320, 321, and 324. The- Yes, yes. So we've got- 318, 319, 320, 321, and 324.
 Okay, very good. Could you please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda? Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted and with that we will move at the request of Commissioner Fish to 319 first, then we'll take up the rest of the consent agenda that's been moved to regular.
 319, appoint Steven Green, Jess Larson, Susan Emmons, Todd Struble, and Alan Lazo to the Portland Housing Bureau's Bond Oversight Committee for terms to expire March 1, 2022. Director Krieger, good morning. Good morning.
 Kirk Krieger, Director of Housing. First I want to thank you all individually for appointing members to this very important general obligation bond oversight committee. Having been the largest voter approved capital bond campaign in Portland City history, this is a momentous time. And the bureau is
 assembling the charter and the bylaws for the operation of this group as we speak. Mindful that you had a study session yesterday about roles and responsibilities. This is a very clear mandate. They have a five year term, renewable. The charter will be really based on the bond language itself, but since the bond language was
 it's kind of sketchy. The voters approved a statement that said that there would be oversight and annual audits.
 So this group will have fiduciary responsibility to you, Mayor and City Council. They will function as public officials and therefore they may not have any appearance of fairness, conflict of interest or appearance of impropriety, so they can't be doing business with the City of Portland's Housing Bureau through other means or their regular business.
 Because of that very narrow role and responsibility, we have a larger stakeholder advisory group that will be reporting to me. It's some 15 to 20 people who represent various interest groups. Oregon Opportunity Network, the East Portland Action Plan, low income housing developers, both public and private, and they do have
 conflicts of interest, they do business with the city of Portland through different means. But they will not be acting in an official capacity. They will be recommending policies and program proposals to the bond oversight committee. The output of this bond oversight committee will be a framework plan which will come back to you as the city council. I feel very strongly about this because the
 voter approved ballot measure says that there will be annual audits. Well, a performance audit needs a standard by which to measure. An auditor needs some plan in which to gauge whether or not the proposal has been successful. So the framework plan that comes back to you will be essentially the guiding standards by which the auditor can then review the performance of the group.
 I'll be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Mayor, can I have a colloquy with the commissioner in charge? You may. So I'm excited today to have the opportunity to vote to impanel this oversight committee. And I'm thrilled with the nominations from each of my colleagues. In light of our work session yesterday, can I confirm with the mayor two things.
 that Judy Prosper or someone in her office will provide the initial training on roles and responsibilities and legal duties arising under the yellow book.
 And second, that Judy Prosper and the legal department will review any proposed bylaws to ensure they're in conformity with the baseline standards that we discussed yesterday. Yes, Commissioner Director Krieger and I in fact discussed this yesterday based on the work session that we had had with Councilor Prosper.
 I believe two days ago, and we've agreed that that would be a really smart thing to do. So we're looking forward to doing that, using this as a trial run for some of that oversight. Thank you very much. Any further discussion? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, Mr. Lightning would like to speak to this. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. One of the reasons why I pulled this off the consent agenda and put it on the regular agenda, I feel that...
 Due to the open meetings law, you cannot pass this and approve this today. The reason being, as the public, you're making a determination, and I need to be able to make a reasonable determination from my position, whether these people should be looking over a $200 million plus bond. Yet, on the information you provided me, there's no bio. I don't know who these people are.
 and how you can make a reasonable decision and allow the public to be here and say yes or no without a bio on these people overlooking 200 million plus dollars is completely irresponsible, again, to the public. You may have that information.
 The public does not. You have not provided enough information. I'm asking this to be pushed out another week, to be put on the regular agenda. Also provide the proper information per open meetings law and have the bios provided to the public to make a determination whether they want them to be overlooking $200 plus million to be going toward housing in this city. Issue number two.
 You have these different committees being set up and other committees coming in being set up. They're all considered public officials. Again, if they're not passing policies, they're still public officials. So again, I want to have an understanding on that other committee that you want to set up.
 MY UNDERSTANDING, YOU SAID 25 INDIVIDUALS. I'D LIKE TO SEE THEIR NAMES AND I'D LIKE TO SEE ALL THE BIOS ON ALL THOSE PEOPLE TO HAVE AN UNDERSTANDING WHO YOU PLAN ON HAVING OVERLOOK ONE OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ISSUES IN THIS CITY, A 250 MILLION PLUS DOLLAR BOND TOWARD AFFORDABLE HOUSING, WHICH AGAIN, THE CITY WILL OWN THIS INVENTORY. KEEP THAT CLEAR. AGAIN, NO PROFITS WILL BE PROFITING
 per se inventory real estate assets within their non-profit because of this bond. And I want to watch this very close on where you're putting this money and deciding to put this money and who's making that decision on this bond. Again, you cannot pass this, in my opinion, today because you have lack of information on the whole process. Thank you. My understanding is this is a first reading, so it'll go to second reading.
 This is a report. This is 319, correct? Right. And this is a report? Mm-hmm. Yeah. So we would— Sorry, it wasn't reflected here. So we will be voting on it today. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I would concur with just about everything Mr. Lightning said. There seems to be a problem with this council.
 When outside organizations look at your transparency, you get an F. And one of the reasons you get an F is stuff like this. This was on consent agenda, which for your viewers means no discussion unless we pull it. So we pulled it. And now we're having a discussion. This is called democracy.
 It's called shining the light on people that are going to serve on a committee that's going to recommend spending a lot of money for five years. And yet you wanted to put it underneath the table. And that's what consent agenda is. Underneath the table, no discussion. Let's not talk about it. Well, the citizens of Portland have a right to know who's on these committees.
 They have the right to know who Joe Walsh is, for instance, if I was on the committee. So I should come here and tell them who I am. So if you're going to appoint these people on the committees, why don't you bring them here and say, you know, give us a little bit of your bio. We know you're good guys, but how about telling the citizens how we're spending their money, how we're putting you on these committees, why we're putting you on these committees, what's the qualifications?
 Consent agenda, we would know nothing. And you pay a price for that. You lose the trust of the people in this city. And once again, the auditor told you, 80% of the people of this city do not feel like they have any influence on this council. 80%, commissioners and mayor. If that was my report card, I'd be in my bedroom with a pillow over my head crying.
 That's what you should be doing. You should be opening this stuff up. If you can't get 15 here, get 10, get five. Don't do it on the consent agenda because it really aggravates everybody. Do you understand what I'm saying? So vote on it. But it's in the record. We object to this. We will continue to object to it. We will continue to give you a hard time until you open this system up.
 Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. Sir, good morning. You have to sign up. Good morning, commissioners. As you are probably all well aware and some people at home too, I'm Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. It's interesting that the general sentiment of the two testifiers before is correct. When you go on the website to find out
 Who are the five Jane and Joe Schmoes that will be supervising the $200 million or so that's left after we spent the $50 million to buy the other apartment complex? There's just, I think, particularly since this is in the mayor's portfolio, if you all just search your hearts and your professional standards, you'll realize that maybe you could have done better. And then even when we go to the whole two pages of information that's electronically linked through the agenda,
 It doesn't seem that the presenter was Kristen Dennis. It was Kurt Krieger. And if we wanted more information, we could have called Extension 1126 and talked to Andrea Valderrama. But I really think this city, when it's putting $200 million, finally, the remaining $200 million-ish, into finally helping, there's 60 units at the other apartment, so we've still got to help people.
 1,200 families, 1,200 units of housing, we've got to get out of this $200 million that's left after we spent whatever it was, $50, $60 million on that apartment with the great grounds that's good for families. So I would encourage you to, I don't know, we can't even sense the urgency of this.
 because we don't really know what Kurt Krieger or whoever they're working with. It's not urgent for you to pass this today, because really the stakeholders, now we've mentioned Oregon Opportunity Network and some others, and up to a 15-party stakeholder board will exist. But as I've come here over the past year, you've talked about formulating rules, guidelines for stakeholder groups, and if that's happened, I've missed it.
 So I would encourage you to, even though I have no particular objection to these five nominees, I'm sure we can hopefully get an excellent result from them. I think recently we just had, in the last few months, a group of bond oversight board members complete their tasks. So it couldn't have been parks, but I know there's been good work in the past. But I would encourage you to...
 This is not an emergency. It can be set off. Maybe even sync it with the naming of the stakeholders, those 15 people from Oregon Opportunity Network. And for the love of everything good, lots of people who have lived experience in public housing, not from REACH, not from Hacienda, on the executive side, but on the tenant side, need to be part of the stakeholder groups. Thank you.
 Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I just made $26 an hour for the first time in my life last week. Thank you, Davis Bacon Act. It's the affordable housing complex going up, down by First and Arthur. And, you know, I walk there, I see a lot of people kind of lounging around, and they walk with a different pep in their step. You know, they're kind of a little bit more commanding and stuff. You know, they feel a little bit more important. They're on the government side. I don't know. But, yeah.
 It's all for what, you know? The Davis-Bacon Act, which, you know, is gonna pull a lot of money out of these bonds. All it did is created a rift in the construction industry where you got small time, you know, private contractors hustling like time is money, and then you got people who knew the right people, and they managed to get in, and they're making a ton, you know, just stand around. On the rental side of the market, you know, for a number of reasons I've already presented to you guys,
 doing more of the same doesn't really produce much of a change, and we're experiencing an epidemic in construction materials. I work in these sites. I see what's going up. The way it contrasts to what we're taking down is horrible. It's an epidemic that nobody's paying attention to. Anytime you walk by an affordable housing unit, look at all that plywood in there. That's 5% to 8% toxic glue. I was just looking at a research article the other night that's saying these are emitting aerosols,
 at levels that not even the EPA approves of. And we don't know how these things are affecting us. And as I posted on your Facebook last night, Ted, Marwa al-Sabouni, the book is called The Battle for Home. She just argued how infrastructure used to serve as a source of group identity for people in Syria and allowing that infrastructure to be torn apart, you know, by greedy developers and short-sighted mayors, no pun intended, but
 it took that group identity apart, that heritage, that sense of belonging, and it kind of opened up the gates for dissension and war to happen. My point is all that is just that we don't know how this is affecting us. And people who are, you know, funding these things, they need to be thinking about things like this. There's a lot going on that, you know, we're kind of out of touch with. I'm on that ground level. I would like to, you know, have some say, but I show up to these jobs and I just see money going out the door.
 Thanks. Thank you for your testimony and congratulations. Mayor, I move the report. Any further discussion to the report? I would like to ask the city attorney if we are in any kind of procedural violation in
 establishing this oversight committee. I'd like to make a comment while the attorney thinks that through. First of all, if we have failed in any regard on this, we have failed to clarify what the various oversight committees actually do. The committee that we are nominating today, and by the way, I've been very transparent about my nominee. I mentioned him in my State of the City speech. I also issued a press release related to my nominee.
 He is well known in that regard, or at least with a quick Google search, one could find that information. But more importantly is the decision makers for the bonds are actually sitting right here in front of you. And those decisions will be made in an open and transparent way. This is a group that we appoint as required by the terms of the ballot measure that was voted on and supported by the public in this community, and we were asked
 through that bond measure to appoint people and these are people who advise us. In addition, there will be a larger group that also works to advise
 the Housing Bureau on how bond funds should be spent. Those meetings will all be, as one of the testifiers said, subject to public meeting law. I agree with the individual who said the people serving on these committees are public officials. They will be subject to open meeting laws and transparency.
 There is nothing in this process that will be behind closed doors that people don't see at the end of the day. And ultimately, in an open city council meeting like this, we will make decisions about how to spend those dollars. So I actually feel very comfortable, but I'm always happy to be backed by an attorney. To answer your question, Commissioner Udaele, the materials submitted meet the public meetings.
 requirements for providing notice to the public that this is an item that would be discussed today. Additional information may have been provided, but what has been provided meets the minimum legal standards. Thank you. Well, I'll take this opportunity to tell...
 the audience that my appointee is Alan Lazo. He's the executive director of the Fair Housing Council and the Fair Housing Council of Oregon is dedicated to eliminating housing discrimination. Mr. Johnson asked about
 guess procedures around committees and boards and you may not know that Commissioner fish and I have begun this process of looking at all 150 of our committees and boards and setting up kind of standard training procedures Making sure that any conflict of interest is divulged, etc Yeah
 Least vulnerable. Fish. Well, first I want to say that the reason we're acting today to establish a bond oversight committee is that the voters of Portland approved a historic bond. And it happened under Commissioner Dan Salzman's watch as a housing commissioner. So Dan, thank you for your leadership on the housing bond. And thank you to Portland voters for agreeing to dig deep to fund affordable housing. This is a stellar group of people that we are appointing today.
 And just looking at the range of qualifications around business and equity, older adults, small business, East Portland, fair housing, advocacy, and nuts and bolts in expertise and development. I think this is a first-rate committee, and so I will simply say thank you to all of the individuals who have agreed to serve. And my nominee is Todd Struble, who I think will bring a unique perspective, both as a person of color,
 As an East Portland advocate, as someone helping to lead a new business district in Mid-County, and who is passionate about addressing the affordable housing crisis in our city. So thank you, colleagues. I think this is a stellar group, and I'm proud to support them. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I, too, am proud to support this committee. My nominee is Jess Larson, who is the executive director of the Welcome Home Coalition, and Jess pretty much...
 EAT, LIVES, AND BREEZE, THIS BOND MEASURE. SHE WORKED ON IT TIRELESSLY TO GET IT TO WHERE VOTERS APPROVED IT. AND SHE HAS A VERY GOOD GRASP OF HOW THINGS WORK IN THE CITY AND HOW THEY SHOULD WORK.
 I do want to say, I just want to echo the concern Mr. Lightning brought up about the lack of bios. We used to have a policy going back to Mayor Adams tenure where all boards and commissions where we appoint people there is a bio, should be a bio attached. So I think we need to get that practice back in place because I'm often looking at these list of committee members and I don't know everybody either and I look for the bio and it's no longer there. So I think we could make that more of our routine again, that would be great.
 So I wish this committee well and this is an important trust we're giving to this committee to help guide this council in making wise investments with the affordable housing bond measure. Udailey? I agree with Commissioner Saltzman's sentiments. The city could and should be doing a much better job getting vital information out to the public. Aye. Fritz?
 My nominee is Susan Emmons. In a quick Google search, turns up, first of all, Street Roots article, Susan Emmons and her beautiful career. And the first paragraph is, Portland is losing one of its most treasured and unique assets as executive director Susan Emmons retires from Northwest Pilot Projects.
 Over her career of 31 years, she has provided the moral compass that points the way to keep our poor and elderly housed. I encourage everybody to do a similar Google search and read the entire article because I'm very proud to be nominating Susan. Also support, especially Commissioner, Eudalie's pick of Alan Lazo who served as chair of the Human Rights Commission as well as the other experience he has in his professional career.
 I appreciate that we're finding these wonderful people who are willing to serve. And I do actually appreciate that they've agreed to serve for the entire five years. And that will give continuity and make sure that the committee sticks by what it said in the previous versions of anything that they forward to council. And so thank you, aye. Wheeler.
 So I will agree with my colleagues that if it is a policy to put the bios out there, I think that's an easy thing to do. So let's go ahead and just agree we're going to do that. In the same breath, I will also say I didn't know all of these nominees, and it took me a couple of minutes to Google all of them. The names have been out there now for at least three weeks.
 I apologize if people felt like they could not gain access to that information for whatever reason. So my nominee, Steven Green, is somebody who's been written about a lot in this community.
 He is a member of the Elevate Capital team. It's a venture capital fund that is specifically designed by people of color, for people of color to help minority entrepreneurs gain access to capital, which is one of the biggest impediments.
 their ability to thrive economically as entrepreneurs in this community. He also was the founder of a number of different initiatives to help gain access to capital for minority entrepreneurs. Most recently, some of you may have read about Pitch Black, was an effort for black entrepreneurs to get in front of successful black business leaders and business owners and operators.
 people with real access to capital to be able to pitch their ideas. I picked him because he is a financial expert and I believe it's important that this council be advised by people who are financial experts. Excuse me, this is a disruption that is in violation of council policy and if you do it again, you will be asked to leave.
 So the report is accepted. Next item please. I think we go back to 318. 318, reappoint Jeff Bokrock, Michelle Rudd, Catherine Schultz, Chris Smith, and Mike Houck to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for terms to expire May 31, 2021. And extend the terms of Gary Oxman and Margaret Tallmadge to expire on May 31, 2017.
 I assume somebody pulled this and wants to have some public testimony. Mr. Walsh pulled this one. Mr. Walsh, come on up please. Can you do a presentation of what this is about? I am not prepared to give a presentation on this, no sir. Well, can you hold it over until next week until you're prepared?
 Mr. Walsh, if you want to say something, which comes to the microphone, because otherwise the captioners can't show people at home what you're saying. I didn't understand anything you said. I'm asking you, if you'd like to comment, please come to the microphone. I'm speaking to the mayor. But the people at home who need to watch with captions cannot understand what you're saying. So if you could come to the microphone, that way the captioners can show people at home who aren't able to hear. I can speak to that.
 Go ahead. Mr. Walsh, if you want to hear the testimony first or if you want to speak first, your pleasure. Good. Thank you. Mayor, council members, I'm Julie Okun. I work for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and staff the commission. The five members who we are reappointing as their second term are all members of the current commission, as well as the two who we are extending their terms. They have been...
 exemplary. I have bios for them if you're interested, but we are in the concluding bits of forwarding you the Central City 2035 plan, and so we would really like the current commission to be able to finish their work on that plan, which is the extension of the two terms. These are mayor appointments, and the five that we are asking for their second four-year term
 acknowledged are the five other ones. So I am thrilled with this group of people. Is there any urgency or could I hold this off one week while we put the bios online so these people can read the bios? I would say we do have a commission meeting next Tuesday that
 Well, here's my understanding of the law. If they continue to serve at the pleasure of the mayor if they exceed their term. So as long as the mayor allows them to continue to serve, they would continue to serve. So why don't we do this? Let's hold it over for a week. Let's put their bios on the website. Where would those bios most likely be? I will, they're listed on the planning commission website so I can forward that link and have it as part of the council agenda next week.
 Great. That's great. So what you're saying is they're already up there? There are brief ones up there. We can put the full bios up there if that's required. So everybody who wants to read them, read them this week, and then we'll come back next week and we'll take a vote. Will you allow the public to speak on what they found out during the week? Yeah, I don't see why not. So you'll have public touch? So it's a report, so there will be public touch. And it will be under regular business? That's correct. Cool. Sounds like a plan. Sounds like we're all happy. Thank you.
 Next item please. Item 320, accept an intergovernmental agreement in the amount of $100,000 from Metro to develop the Southwest Corridor Equitable Housing Strategy. And authorize the director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to execute grant agreements with non-profit organizations.
 So I'll tell you what I know about this. This is an IGA that was previously agreed to with Metro. This is a $100,000 allocation from Metro to this project. We're approving it. I could add a little bit of detail to that. This is a very important effort associated with the
 future light rail line that is going to go and serve Southwest Portland Tigard and Points south and west of that and I think this council has agreed at a very early point that we want to make sure we capture affordable housing opportunities Before the land gets too pricey. So this is what really what these efforts are about working with Metro The city of Portland and Tigard and others to really Try to land bank future affordable housing options in Southwest public testimony. I
 Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner Charles Bridge, Grant Johnson. I've set my computer aside, but often when you follow the link on these agenda numbers, they don't answer your question. So let's just say it wouldn't have answered my question. The language, the short language in this lead or whatever you want to call it says,
 Okay. Authorizes BPS to execute grant agreements with nonprofit organizations. And I appreciate the mayor and Mr. Saltzman sharing the information they have. Is there an already existing list or is this just sort of a general authorization so that you can do future RFPs, RFQs? Is that clear from the information any of you have in front of you? I believe it's an effort to do an RFP or an RFQ and get those nonprofit, find out who those nonprofits are.
 There's really not a lot of affordable housing nonprofits that operate in Southwest, so that's part of the issue is trying to find them. And I especially appreciate the clarity that the corridor is going to become an increasing use buzzword as we look at mass transit light rail moving into that area. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any further public testimony, any further board discussion, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 321, extend term of franchise granted to MCI Communications Services, Inc. to build and operate telecommunications facilities within city streets. Do we have any staff to discuss this one? Let's hold this off to the end of the regular agenda. Next item, please. 324. 324.
 amend intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Transportation for design of the beer guard lumbered Lombard at North Time Oil Road project do we have any staff here for 324? Yes. Come on down. Thank you Actually, why don't we do this? Should we since this was pulled by a citizen? Why don't we hear the public testimony and find out what their questions are and that'll that'll help you director either way Good morning commissioners
 This is working. Charles Johnson. The particular concern here is actually probably stuff towards the future scoping that doesn't necessarily need to be in here. But if the gentleman has any off-the-cuff responses, citizens will love those, especially citizens
 who currently live on ODOT property. Technically, that's probably illegal, but we know it has to happen in our current housing situation. Just yesterday, mainstream media said, if you put big boulders under 205, people will still need a place to live. I'm not familiar, I didn't get a chance to Google Map where North Time Oil Road project is. I don't know if I like even the sound of that, but I think that the city,
 In light of the housing emergency that was reaffirmed and extended under Mayor Hales, whenever we engage with ODOT, we need to look at the situation for houses individuals camping on or near that land. And decide what we can do or what the community can do. If there are people that are going to be displaced, even can somebody help them move their belongings from one illegal site to a less illegal but still illegal site.
 I don't, which bureau? Transportation. PBOT, okay. So we've tried to encourage PBOT to have no engagement with using county inmate work crews to drive homeless people to other places. But let the staff person speak if there's anything that's come across in their paperwork that they know of any homeless camping situations here. Fair question, thank you. Good morning. Morning, my name is Winston Sandin. I'm project manager for this project.
 The project is going to build a left-run lane on Time Oil Road in Burgard. We're also building a multi-use path on one side of the road. And this is mostly industrial area. And it's really critical that we pass this agenda because we want to go to bid this summer and we have to do paving.
 for the project and if it gets delayed a little bit more, then we might not be able to build this project until next year. So the reason we delayed this project was that we were ready to go to bid in June, July, and we had right away issues and then we delayed it a couple more months.
 And then September was the fiscal year where the feds basically closed for a couple months. So we couldn't complete the project before the fiscal year, and then we had to delay it. And this is the only reason that we're delaying the project. But we'd like to get it built this year. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate it. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The contract is approved. Next item, it sounds like we're going to regular agenda.
 Item 326, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for elevator modernization of two Smart Park garages for an estimated $1,676,325. Very good. And I understand we have either Christine Moody or Michael Jacobs here to discuss this. Yes, no. Let's hold off on this and come back to it. Next item, please.
 authorize an agreement with LMK Enterprises to provide inversion built trenchless sewer repair liner system for five years not to exceed $5 million. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. So we jumped over 326, we're on 327. Can you start with that, the LMK Enterprises?
 Yes, Mayor. I'm here to testify for 327. Okay, very good. You weren't going to testify on 326. I was not. I can figure that out after this. Yeah, don't worry about it. We'll take care of it. Thank you. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. The Bureau of Environmental Services is responsible for providing sewage and stormwater collection and treatment services. Nineteen years ago, the city began using trenchless sewer repair.
 LMK Enterprises provides a specially designed and patent protected trenchless technology which has been found to be a very safe and efficient type of sewer repair system. As allowed for in City Code 5.33, the City may purchase goods directly from a manufacturer if the cost from the manufacturer is the same or less than the cost the manufacturer charges to its distributors.
 LMK is the only company that meets both of the required standards for the American Society for Testing and Materials. LMK is the inventor, manufacturer, and only distributor of this trenchless technology. You have before you a procurement report recommending the authorization of a five year price agreement with LMK Enterprises for a not to exceed amount of $5 million. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions. Any further questions from council?
 Any public testimony? Sorry, 327, yes. We have Mimi Germain, Lightning Super Watchdog, and Teresa Raiford. All right, so for the record, my name is Teresa Raiford. And I just wanted to say also for the record that last week we went to the burial for Qantas Hayes.
 And after the burial, we held a rally over at the Justice Center. And then we proceeded to come over here because Quannis' grandmother, Donna, wanted to provide public testimony. And we were met with force after a demonstration that we're well known for. I'm sorry. And I'm still on testimony and I'm not breaking any rules, so I would hope that you wouldn't- Okay, please bring it back to the ordinance under discussion. Right, right, and so in regards to the ordinance,
 the issues with trauma and my inability to focus, I would just like to go ahead and give my time that I have left to silence. In honor of if you don't mind. Donna Hayes, for the record, I'm sorry about your grandson and to our community. I wish we could get this together and we needed this moment of silence. Thank you. Thank you. Morning. Good morning, my name is Mimi German. My testimony today.
 It's in the form of poetry. It is nonetheless my testimony for this snow. I took a shovel to the ice before the thaw would bring the rains, before the rains would bring the flood, before the flood would raise the worms, before the worms could feed the birds, before the birds could shit upon frozen people lying dead in sleeping bags on the sidewalks of this city.
 before we continue to give more money to elevators and sewer lines and anything else that doesn't have to do with the death of our people in our city i suggest that we rethink our priorities and i have more time in my testimony and this is a poem it's very difficult for me to read this but i'm going to it's called daffodils
 He was crawling on his hands and knees when they shot him in his head with a bullet from an AK-14. They didn't tell us if he was crying or begging. Again, is this related to the contract? It is absolutely related. And when I finish reading my poem, you can then figure out how it's related. They didn't tell us if he was crying or begging for his life, but they did tell us. They laughed at him and called him nigger.
 Below a muddy hill slide in the rain, we place daffodils on his grave. One of the things in recognizing our humanity as a city and as the city council is to get rid of the things that we can get rid of immediately, and that is 11 racist cops who are now on leave. I suggest that we do that right away. That's my testimony today. Good morning. And again, please keep testimony germane to the contract that's being discussed. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is lightning. I represent lightning super watchdog. I absolutely agree with the last two speakers on everything They have stated today total agreement and the city does need to make some changes and they will Now the item that was pulled today on the LMK enterprises on the liner within the pipe one of the questions I have is that I
 being the type of process that they're using with this liner and also with resins in various ways of drilling into the ground to avoid building trenches. On this product, is there a warranty on this product? What is the longevity of this type of product? I understand you'll be, this is a order to purchase materials. I understand they're out of Ottawa, Illinois at this time.
 BUT AGAIN, MY MAIN CONCERN BY LOOKING AT THE VIDEOS ON HOW THEY INSTALL THIS PRODUCT IS THAT WE'RE DEALING WITH A LINER HERE. WE'RE NOT ACTUALLY DEALING WITH A PIPE ITSELF. AND OF COURSE THAT'S GOING TO BE A CONCERN TO ME ON HOW THIS LINER HOLDS UP AGAINST ROOTS, SHIFTING OF THE SOIL, DIFFERENT THINGS LIKE THAT OVER LONG TERM BECAUSE IT'S BEING HELD
 Into the pipe with a resin. So we're dealing with the resin there and I'm curious on how long this resin actually actually Holds it into place the warranties on that. I understand you've bought two different machines to install This liner if I'm correct I understand that these machines will push that liner up to a distance of 50 feet and
 Again, if you have, say, a 300-foot pipe, how do you install this liner up 300 feet? And again, from what I've seen on the videos here is that when I think of sewage pipes and things of that nature, normally I think of a larger diameter pipe, and I'm just curious, what is the biggest diameter of pipe that they can use with this type of liner system to be effective in what has actually been tested to be a proven...
 Again, so I'm just worried about the warranty on this project. And I understand they've challenged other companies trying to use their ideas. But so I just want to have a warranty in place to make sure that this is really a legitimate way of doing the piping system and infrastructure. Thank you.
 That's all who signed up. Just a comment, Mayor. As always, Lightning has raised important questions. Since we have the benefit of 19 years of experience with this technology, and since this, if we adopt this today, doesn't go into effect for 30 days, we'll provide Lightning with a written response to the three questions.
 both in terms of warranty, longevity, the resin, and also the diameter of the pipe and its utility as a sewer line. All great questions, and we'll get your written answer right after the hearing. Thank you. Any further board commentary? Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. I'm sorry, Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Do we have any hearing to testify for 326, item 328?
 328, extend contract with Environmental Services Research Institute Inc. for graphic information system software for three years and increase by $1,310,000 for a total not to exceed amount of $2,424,000. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of city council. For the record, I'm Jeff Behr, the director of the Bureau of Technology Services.
 Yeah, it's on. It's green. Thank you. I'm Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services, and we're here before you with me to my left is Matt Freed, who is in charge of our GIS graphical, Geographical Information Systems team, and we're here to ask for an extension of an existing contract we have with Environmental Systems Research Institute, also known as ESRI.
 is the engine behind our Portland maps. If you've had a look at that, and recently we've upgraded that. Matt is here to address any technical questions you might have or questions related to the extension. This has been in place for a number of years. This is tied to our enterprise license agreement, so it's another three year extension we're requesting. Questions for this panel? Any public testimony on this item? 328, yes, Teresa Rayford. Call this chair.
 Are we? Yeah, we have. All right. Is that the . Yes. Thanks. Teresa, were you going to testify to this? Hi. My name is John Hollister, and I live in Portland.
 I wasn't going to do this until I heard them bring up Portland Maps. I've been a student of Portland Maps of late, looking at different building heights, something I talked about last week, and what I'm finding in Portland Maps is the heights are very inaccurate.
 and they have buildings that are 100 feet listed as 58 feet buildings that are two side-by-side buildings that are both listed at 58 feet and one is 47 and the other one is 75 so with the hopefully with the extra money that they that they do they would be able to get those the heights of the buildings you know correct and that is something that is a very important to me to have a tool be be correct
 And that's all I have. Thanks. Thank you. Was there any further public testimony? No, any further comments or questions from the council, please call the roll fish I Saltzman you daily I Fritz I Wheeler I the contract is amended next item, please. I
 Item 329, amend contract with US Bank, Elevon, to provide merchant bank card services for an additional one year period and an estimated amount of $8,800,000. Good morning. Good morning. Jennifer Cooperman, city treasurer.
 City Treasury is responsible for providing credit card processing services to bureaus that want to allow their paying customers to use credit cards. So this contract is in place to provide the processing services we need to process those payments.
 The request today is to add additional funds to the contract and to extend the contract for an additional one year period in the event that with the ordinance following, there is a new vendor for these services and we need time to make that transition. Thank you. So Jennifer.
 for folks that may be new to this issue, what are the kinds of things that we routinely use these credit cards for at the city?
 So the city offers a variety of opportunities for citizens to use credit cards to make payments, whether it is for their arts tax or their business license tax, to pay using a credit card to make a public records request. We allow people to use- To pay a water bill. To pay a water bill, to pay for their on street parking, to pay for parking at Washington Park near the zoo,
 go to parks and reserve for a yoga class. I mean, it's just, we offer a variety of opportunities. And one thing that stuck out for me when we were briefed on this is that the number of transactions that we annually process has gone from 8 million to 12 million. Yes. Which I think illustrates how much now people are using their debit card and their credit card.
 to transact just regular business. And it's not just parking. It's just about every service we offer. And I would also note that that's why it was especially important for us to upgrade our security features that we did last year so that people now have even more confidence that their data is safe when it's used with the city sector. Absolutely. Thank you. Any further questions? Is there a public testimony on this item? Yes, we have. Six people signed up. Cameron Stark, Mimi Gurman.
 Teresa Rayford. Good morning. And Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Come up. Okay. Good morning, Council. My name is Cameron Stark, and I believe that black lives matter and water is life. I think that you should not go forward with...
 this contract because it has, it's through U.S. Bank. U.S. Bank has investments in the energy transfer partners, which you were talking about divesting from DAPL and things like that, and they're invested in those companies. So I believe that you should, if you're talking about divesting, that you should not go forward with this contract and include giving them money. You know, from Standing Rock to Palestine, occupation is a crime, so do not...
 do not support this do not continue to give them money because injustice here is injustice anywhere you know there's instances a police brutality going on out there in Standing Rock they're egregious and those same instances a police brutality happen here like with Quanis Hayes and you guys continue to keep killer cops on your police force like Andrew Hurst can you please keep the testimony this has to do with you know
 U.S. bank, you should divest from them. But you understand how it relates. Police brutality, water, those things. Please divest. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mimi German. And from now on, I'll be referring to poetry to respond in my testimony because it's the only way that I can handle the inefficiencies of city council and not yell about
 This is called Wheeler Days. I etch these words onto a rock with bloodied nails and knuckles worn in frozen rains and deepest snow with frozen limbs on earth below before I'm done my last breath drawn to hurl this into your heart through panes of glass protect you not for you sir are the bullet that caused a thousand tears killing more in three months than others years
 That's my testimony. Good morning. Good morning, commissioners. Charles Bridgecreen Johnson. And it's actually great that we have Mimi here setting a high bar, but she has some competition. I also want to get on point with the pick that Black Lives Matter and it's a tragedy that Quanis Hayes had to be murdered in the city by a cop who killed twice. The only thing good I can say in the city is we maybe got some poetry in section one, item one.
 The Treasury Division of the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services in the Office of Management and Finance, OMF, is responsible. It's true, I suppose, and we'll go with Elevon, which we should always – when you get a proposal from U.S. Bank Elevon, is that a real –
 thing is that a registered trademark name is that is the actual corporation that checks can be paid to or did some glitzy thing that US bank is elevand above the level of Wells Fargo which isn't very hard to do I'm it's unfortunate that these come to us yes no and there's no I have hope for the city I faith that there was probably a process that whittled out and somehow we balanced which bank is least evil
 which bank is best at fiduciary provisioning, which is going to give us rates. But Commissioner Fis raised an interesting point in that the volume is up 50%. And it's not even clear if this covers 100% of electronic transactions. Does it cover parking meters, etc. So it might be good to know. But it seems to me, we've talked about from 8 million to 12 million, about a 50% increase, but the number I see in here,
 We've got 19 million, 10 million. Probably we're not going to do better. These are all questionable operators. But where is the talk about our equity lens in this document? Which bank, which tower, the big pink tower or the one next two blocks over is really delivering minority employment? Now, a lot of us are sort of SJW. We really don't want our minority friends to have to go to work for one of those banks.
 We're not the only kind of people in Portland. So everybody in Portland should know how U.S. Bank Elevant versus whatever the fancy name for Wells Fargo's processing division is, is doing at complying with the equity goals that I don't see anywhere in this document. The Black Male Leadership Initiative, which we only fund, I think, at $100,000 right now,
 Have they gotten in? So I know you're going to vote on this, but I hope that you'll make a note to get the equity lens in the RFP process into these actual documents. Thank you. Thank you. The next two are Roger, I think it's Weidman or Weidmer and John Hollister. Good morning. Good morning. Real quick on this. My name is John Hollister.
 And the Elevon actually is a credit card processing company and they're outside of US Bank and they work together. We at our corporation used to have a contract with Elevon and we switched to Global Payments. It's Global Payments, Elevon, and First Data are the major players in this business.
 And so I totally support extending the contract for a year, but as you mentioned for some of the other things, that this is a very, very competitive market, and it's a commodity, and so the –
 know there's a lot of things to look at but it's look at potentials for saving money and that uh i would i would encourage to go for an rfp after that has been extended for a year thank you thank you for your testimony and just to be clear that's exactly what we're doing but we need a little more runway to be able to do the transfer and so this item and the item subsequent are sort of uh they're twins uh is there any other public testimony on this item uh so roger weed weber weedman is here
 I guess not. Very good. Any further council discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? I share the concerns of Mr. Stark and Mr. Johnson. The issue that we are facing as a city is that none of the banking institutions that can provide the level of service we need are more have clean investments.
 I venture to say that all of them are invested in the Dakota Access Pipeline. Mr. Johnson has suggested an interesting kind of plan B to evaluate them on another level as far as equity. I think that's a reasonable request, and it's a reason that we're looking at.
 putting together a resolution to convene a study on the possibility of a municipal bank. But that is a very long term process. It's not coming in the next year. So I am voting aye with regret. Fritz? Aye. Weyer? Aye. The contract is extended, or I guess the current contract is amended is probably a better way of saying it. Next item please.
 Item 330, authorize a competitive solicitation for merchant services for a five year contract period at an estimated cost of $25 million. Good morning. Good morning. Jennifer Cooperman, city treasurer.
 So this ordinance is to authorize a competitive solicitation for the city's credit card processing activities. The ordinance that you just approved gives us the ability to extend the current contract, should we need it in the event we need to transition to a new provider after this RFP process.
 It is a normal part of our RFP process to ask proposers to discuss their corporate responsibility. And we do allocate at least 20 points in the scoring methodology to the corporate responsibility activities, local investment activities, as well as an equity component. We did that in 2012.
 when we issued the RFP that we are working with today, and we will continue to ask those questions in the RFP that is in draft form on my desk right now.
 Thank you. Any further questions for Treasurer Cooperman? I do have a quick question. Sure. The $25 million, does that include fees taken off each transaction? Or is that simply what we're paying and it's the fees? It is a per transaction fee. And I will just point out that we can only negotiate for a very, very, very small portion of those fees.
 The majority of those fees are established by Visa and MasterCard. And they are passed straight through to us. We pay them. We do not have control over them. Okay, thank you. Yes. Any public testimony on this item, Carla? Teresa Rayford signed up. She's declining. Any further questions or comments from the council? Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 331, authorized competitive solicitation process to furnish fuel for city authorized vehicles and equipment for an estimated $6,500,000 per year. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and City Council. For the record, my name is John Hunt. I'm the city fleet manager.
 And the item before you today would authorize us to go out and do a competitive solicitation to furnish fuel to operate the city's vehicles and equipment. Mr. Hunt, I have a question if I could. It's the same question that we discussed when we talked about expanding the number of vehicles in our fleet. And in light of Mr. McCulloch's testimony this morning,
 A staunch Republican suggesting that we raise business license fees. I'd be remiss if I didn't raise the question about the vendors within Portland pay a business license fee. The vendors outside of Portland don't. If we need to have fuel, how are we structuring this solicitation so that the folks that have to pay a little bit, whose cost structure is a little higher because of the tax we impose.
 are not put at a competitive disadvantage over people who don't pay the business license fee? Yeah, I think that's a fair question and I think as we work through purchasing to go out and do the procurement process that we would include that in there. We're very fortunate here in Portland in that we have a tank farm, they call it, that's on this side of the river so it's pretty close to us and we're just using
 The vendor that provides the fuel really just has the truck, and so they go to the tank farm, fill it up, bring it over to our tanks, and just dump it into the ground. But I appreciate your point that it should be a local facility.
 I would just hope that in all of these big contracts, we take into effect, Mayor, the fact that if it's an apples-to-apples competition and there's someone outside the city boundary that doesn't pay the business license fee and therefore is able to undercut the market because they are not paying the fee, which then in turn funds roads and parks and other services, that we don't structure our solicitations to reward people that don't, in fact, pay the tax. I agree with that, Commissioner Fish.
 Could I just ask a general question? We're obviously moving towards an electrified fleet, and I understand that a lot of this fuel goes to large-scale commercial vehicles, which is a more difficult proposition in the near term. But I assume that with our EV policy, we're going to see this number decrease in the years ahead. Okay.
 Yes, sir. I would also say that over the past 10 years, we've actually seen, even though we've had an increase in the number of vehicles, the number of gallons burned has gone down significantly. And that's because of not only electric sedans, which are the most obtainable all-electric or plug-in hybrid electric vehicles that we can obtain today.
 WE ALSO HAVE SOME MEDIUM DUTY TRUCKS THAT ARE HYBRID AND THEY'RE LIKE A BUCKET TRUCK SO THEY USE THE BATTERY TO LIFT THE PERSON UP TO DO THE WORK SO THE ENGINE IS NOT RUNNING AT THAT TIME. ALL OF THOSE THINGS COMBINED HAVE LOWERED THE AMOUNT OF FUEL BURN PER THE AMOUNT OF VEHICLES WE HAVE. YOU ARE CORRECT. I'LL PUT MY CRAZY IDEA OUT THERE AGAIN EVEN THOUGH I DID IT BEFORE. BUT I REALLY WANT IT ON THE RECORD WHICH IS NOT ALL THE
 of the vehicles that we are currently using, particularly for single occupancy need to be vehicles. I still believe that we should be
 taking some percentage of the sedans that we are purchasing and replacing them with EV bikes. Because for local travel in the city of Portland, the capital cost is less, the maintenance cost is less, and the electrical usage is dramatically less. So I'd still encourage us to at least on a trial basis do that. I know we have a couple of bikes.
 I think at first in Jefferson, but it would be nice to have some here by the city building that people could access. I really believe, particularly on days like this, that people would use them instead of getting into even a sedan. I know I would, but I realize I'm not everybody. But some portion of people would. I very much appreciate your point. And you are right. We have a number of them down at first in Jefferson, and there are some that are located at different areas throughout the cities.
 and there are folks that come across the river with them, but that'll certainly be something we'll look at and can work to expand. Could we put one or two here at the city building? I mean, I guess maybe this isn't the right time in history, given what's about to happen, but maybe next door. I think you're hitting it exactly right. Director Inge and myself have talked about this, and I think given the changes that are happening to this building, we need to kind of think over the overall, but...
 But your point's well taken and we'll be working on a strategy. Great. I appreciate that very much. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Any further questions or comments, please call the roll. Fish. Aye.
 Selksman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The contract is approved. The solicitation process is approved. Before you move to the next item, we had a request from OMF to pull item 326 until next week. They are not prepared to discuss that today. Now you can call the next item.
 Item 332, authorize a contract with Willis of Oregon Inc. for insurance broker agent of record services for a total not to exceed amount of $555,917. Good morning. Morning. I'll get in here in a second.
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Kate Wood. I'm the risk manager for the City of Portland. We're a program in the Office of Management and Finance Bureau of Internal Business Services. We provide loss prevention services to all city bureaus. We handle all claims for workers' compensation and tort liability that are paid from the
 And we also purchase commercial insurance for some of the operational risks that the city chooses not to retain. The ordinance before you today would provide us a contract with a broker of record for
 for insurance services for the marketing and administration of the commercial insurance portfolio. And they also provide other services related to insurance and risk management to enhance the abilities of our staff to serve the bureaus. I'm happy to answer any questions. I just want to clarify.
 add to your presentation that it's $555,000 but it's a five-year contract yes it is it's about $99,000 a year for those services that's correct thank you any further questions is there any public testimony on this item yes mr. bridge crane would like to speak to this very good just hang out for a minute you can go sit down that's fine thank you for your testimony good morning good morning Charles bridge crane Johnson
 Our beloved people in the mainstream media have recently reported damage to 200 bikey town orange cycles, and they come in other colors too. This kind of overlaps into a couple previous items. You don't even need an electric bike, Ted. You can just take a bikey town. Does the city have a structure where city employees have accounts so that they can get on bike town bikes? And then the other thing is, it doesn't need to be covered here, but I think...
 And I don't know what this, I didn't hear any, I didn't see the denomination of the loss covered from this stupid vandalism of bike town bikes. That's a lot. But in that case, when you say a lot, you kind of open the door anyway. I would probably like to hear anybody, either staff or council, expound upon
 whether there was a provision made for possible insurance coverage there or whether it's self-insuring and such like that. Thanks very much. Yeah, thank you and I want to agree with you and I do use the bike town and
 Your point is well taken. I was really thinking in terms of longer haul or the areas where there isn't service, it's just one alternative to using a full size sedan. And also on the Coin Facebook page, somebody put forth the idea that residents of Home Forward Reach, Hacienda, CDC properties should be recruited and look at the utilization factor. A lot of days orange bikes sit idle.
 I know there's a small plan that started under Novick to get some low-income disadvantaged people better access to bike town, but I think that that should look at being expanded directly to reaching out to those service and housing providers. I think we'd love to see utilization go up.
 might be a little bit more revenue that can be generated. Thank you. Appreciate that. Any further public testimony on the item? No one else signed up. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The contract is approved. Next item, please.
 Item 333, authorize a contract with Cornforth Consultants Inc. In the amount of $139,776 for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Part 12, Dam Safety Report for Portland Hydropower Project 1 and Project 2. Commissioner Fish. Colleagues, we're joined today by Teresa Elliott, who is the Chief Engineer of the Portland Water Bureau, and Glenn Pratt.
 And they're going to give a very brief presentation. But the gist of it is the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, requires us to contract with a FERC-approved independent consultant every five years to review and inspect our hydropower facilities. And Theresa is here to walk us through the ordinance.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. And Glenn Pratt is the Hydroelectric Bureau Program Manager for the Water Bureau.
 As Commissioner Fish just introduced, the council action is to approve us to award a professional technical and expert services contract with Cornforth Consultants, Inc. This is to fulfill our five-year regulatory requirement of doing an independent review.
 And this FERC report is due December 31st of 2017. We used the city's procurement processes to do the solicitation and we had four proposals.
 Cornforth was the most responsive consultant that we hired, that we're selecting. As part of our ongoing interagency agreement with Portland General Electric, they sit on our selection panel as one of the committee members, and then they also reimburse the Water Bureau or the city for the contract work for the Part 12 report.
 Cornforth is going to be using two sub consultants. One of them is a women owned business enterprise, and the other is not. So we actually have a 50% utilization. And we're here to answer any questions you have. Any questions? Thank you for your diligence on this. Any public testimony? No one signed up. This then moves to a second reading. It's an emergency item. Next item, please.
 Item 334, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Beaverton-Hillsdale Highway Phase 1 drainage retrofits for water quality project number E08675 for an estimated cost of $787,000. Any further council discussion? Please call the roll. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The solicitation is approved. Next item, please.
 Item 335, approve an agreement with Christopher D. Duffin and Elizabeth C. Staver in the amount of $75,975 to construct sidewalk improvements to the north side of Southeast Henderson Street from 300 feet east of Southeast 78th Avenue to 545 feet west of Southeast 82nd Avenue. Commissioner Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mayor. This is a local improvement district formation for the purposes of constructing about a thousand feet of sidewalk. It's in a neighborhood that currently, Brentwood-Darlington, that currently has only about 27% sidewalk coverage compared to the citywide average of about 62%. So it's a good thing to do and a good neighborhood. I'll turn it over to our LID Administrator, Andrew Abbey.
 Thank you Commissioner Saltzman. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Just one small point of clarification. This is actually not an LID. This is something new which is a concept we've discussed for several years. It's a concept that we internally call the self-posting program.
 So when we look at forming local improvement districts, we need a certain economy of scales to go about forming a local improvement district. We don't do local improvement districts for really small dollar improvements. So I've been working with the auditor's office for a couple of years and they have an existing program which when people have sidewalks that need repair around the city and they don't property owners don't repair their sidewalks then we have an existing procedure in place and
 where kind of on a standing order basis we have a pool of contractors and the maintenance bureau as well. They go out and repair those sidewalks and we just do that as part of a large program without having a standalone capital project for each one of those projects. So the concept here is essentially the same thing. So instead of this being a standalone capital improvement project funded by a local improvement district,
 WE WILL JUST TREAT THIS PROPERTY LIKE A SIDEWALK REPAIR LINE. WE WILL SEND IT OVER TO THE MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS AND THEN THEY WILL SCHEDULE THE CREWS TO BUILD THE SIDEWALK AND WE DON'T HAVE THE OVERHEAD OF A FAIRLY LARGE CAPITAL PROJECT. SO IT'S JUST A WAY TO TRY TO MINIMIZE THE SOFT COST ON THE PROJECT. I WOULD JUST NOTE THAT ALL OF THESE EASTWEST STREETS THAT YOU SEE HERE ON THE MAP, THEY ALL INTERSECT SOUTHEAST 82ND AVENUE, WHICH HAS THE EASTWEST STREETS.
 second highest transit ridership in TriMet system. So we have a lot of people that really need to access transit and we don't have good sidewalk coverage in this neighborhood as Commissioner Saltzman pointed out. So this is a small project but we're hoping it's embryonic and it's just an incremental improvement in building sidewalks in this area consistent with the Bureau's Vision Zero initiative.
 So I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Commissioner Fish? Andrew, can I put you on the spot and ask you a curveball question? Sure. So the other day someone asked me a question and I just had no idea how to even approach it. So I want to see if you know. When a homeowner pays to replace or repair a sidewalk, does that end up being a deductible expense on their taxes or just gets added to the basis of the value of their home and property?
 I think I actually have an answer for you on that. One of the things I did when I started here was I worked with the auditor's office that we had people financing local improvement districts. And so what we started doing is sending out interest statements.
 And when people take out 20-year financing, and by the way, this project will be eligible for that, then the amount of interest paid is substantiated each year through a statement sent to the property owners by the auditor's office. So we don't provide tax advice. We don't advise the property owner that it's deductible, but we do send a 1099 each year so that if in consultation with their tax advisor they want to deduct the expense, they can do that.
 Another question. How was this particular stretch of sidewalk and these particular property owners selected for this pilot? Thank you for asking that question. I've been wanting to do this for a while the reason this one was the first one to move forward is because there's a Subdivision going in there that one lot is going to turn into two or three so we had a developer coming to the table and he was anxious to get his building permits and
 And this way, once council approves the ordinance next week, he's under section 17.24.025 of city code. He can get a building permits and he doesn't have to wait for the sidewalk to be built to go ahead and get a building permit. And it's my understanding from reading the information that this is entirely funded by the property owner, not by-
 transportation. And one other thing I would just add is moving forward, I would probably, if this proves to be successful, then we'd probably just put it on the consent agenda. The reason I put this on the regular agenda today is just because it was a new way of funding sidewalks and I just wanted to make the council aware of it. So. I appreciate that. And is there any kind of capacity problem?
 hundreds of people want to try this after it's successful will that be a problem for anybody I would love to have that problem commissioner but um keeping in mind that we have quite a few sidewalk repairs around the city I I think it's something that we can absorb so but we'll just kind of have to see how it all works out so but I I don't think it'll be a capacity issue
 commissioner you daily you called this a self-posting program yeah is that is that what we're calling i mean are you going to make up a cool name i don't know that marketing is my forte so if somebody wants to come up with something more catchy than self-posting i guess we could do that i think the basic concept here is that unlike normal sidewalk repair liens where you have a cracked sidewalk and it needs to be fixed whether you want to or not
 We're not running around and forcing this on people. There's people coming to us and saying, I have a business need to build a sidewalk so I can get a building permit or whatever. So we're just doing this strictly as a voluntary request to the property owner. Any further questions? Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Two people signed up, Teresa Rayford and Charles Bridgecrain Johnson. No. Charles Bridgecrain Johnson is on the way up.
 Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. It was interesting to hear Mr. Abbey, please remember whenever he comes up you're going to have to hear micro-socialism. It was clarified that this is not actually a LID, but this is what more of Portland City government needs. I mean, sometimes we have to spend $5 million on fancy sewer liners, but
 Ideally, more people employed like Mr. Abbey connecting neighborhoods to localized solutions. I would encourage the mayor one day, whether it's in conjunction with a town hall or not, or any of you, to take a walk from the 82nd Street MAC station, go south and east, and try and see if you can assess the level of sidewalks or streets there at even 1%. So this side of 82nd and right up on 84.
 not civilized, not to be proud of. So I hope, I don't know how Mr., the program works, whether it needs to be community initiated, but really city government hopefully has some data that's giving us the idea of where there are these neighborhoods that are, it's really distressing the level of craters and stuff that are in the streets of these people west of 82nd, so in the 80, 79, 80, 81, and just south of the MAC station to see that they pay
 you know i'm not a tax researcher i'm not bob mccullough so i can't say how badly they're getting worked over by the city of portland but it's something that i really should encourage them to talk to you all about thank you appreciate your testimony any further public testimony on this item that's all any further comments from the council then this item moves to second reading next item please
 Item 336, authorize the Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for construction of the Northeast 47th Avenue Phase 1 LID project. Through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Good morning.
 Good morning, commissioners. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Marty Maloney with Peabot Right-of-Way. This ordinance is to authorize eminent domain authority as well as to offer just compensation for needed permanent and temporary property rights associated with the Northeast 47th Avenue Phase 1 LED project.
 The property rights in question are needed to facilitate construction of stormwater facilities and bike pedestrian improvements along Northeast 47th between Columbia and Northeast Cornfoot Road would also like to add all affected property owners have been informed about The city's need for certain property rights and we're all invited to attend the readings of this agenda agenda item. Sorry I'd be happy to answer any questions council might have any further questions
 Council questions on this item? I'm Andrew Abbey, the project manager. And I just wanted to note that there was a scrivener's error on the title, but we just are clarifying the ordinance to note that there are permanent easements being acquired in addition to temporary easements.
 And those are all reflected in the body of the ordinance. And as Marty mentioned, those property owners have been notified. Okay, great. Thank you. And I'm getting a head nod from legal counsel. That's just a Scribner's error, so that's good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Is there any further council discussion on this item? Then we'll move it on to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 337, authorize a competitive solicitation per City Code 5.34.880 for an energy savings performance contract for existing buildings and structures owned and managed by
 By Portland Parks and Recreation. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. I'm very pleased to be bringing this ordinance to council. Begins the process of using energy savings performance and contracting as a way to address, or one way to address the parks bureau's unfunded major maintenance needs.
 Over the next 10 years, Parks expects that over $250 million will be needed to address major maintenance needs, and this energy savings performance contract is a way to replace aging infrastructure with energy-efficient systems that create long-term savings on energy use. I'd like to introduce Parks Asset Management Program Manager Chris Silke and Jody Golohan, the management analyst, to share more about this program.
 Great. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christopher Silke, the Asset Management Program Manager for Parks and Recreation. I'm joined by Jody Galahan from our Design and Construction Group. The ordinance before you is to authorize really a method of procurement that's already enshrined in city code called an energy savings performance contract. Though the title says energy, it does include water and wastewater utilities as well.
 This contract mechanism is unique in that the winning service provider provides an energy savings guarantee for the work that they do. And in order to provide that guarantee, they perform an audit to discover what are the technical and financially feasible energy conservation measures.
 They develop a proposal to implement the retrofits to accomplish the energy savings goals. They implement the retrofits and then verify the savings going forward. So essentially we're repurposing inefficient use of utilities and energy to accomplish major maintenance sooner than we'd be able to otherwise.
 Is that by bonding against the savings? Is that how you're doing it? Not necessarily. So what's before you today is just to authorize the procurement method for source selection. We're not financing an actual project yet that would come much later. That could be done by appropriate funds or it could be done by debt financing. There's a number of different ways to actually pay for the energy retrofit. Could we bond against the savings?
 That could be done, yes. And I've spoken with OMF debt, and that's one of the possibilities. My understanding is that PBOT has actually done something similar for the LED retrofits for the lighting. Tax exempt lease purchase is another option, although my understanding is that that's not preferred here at the city. So there's commercial loans, there's a number of different ways to do it, but we're not there yet.
 But I would also point out that there is a budget package, PK10, that was for appropriating funds to accomplish these energy savings. That would be one potential method. So should PK10 be authorized, that would help pay for those retrofits. Should it not, then we'd start looking at that financing alternatives. Thank you.
 So we've been preparing for this project for many, many months and I'm pretty excited about it. It definitely supports climate action plan goals, helps accomplish deferred maintenance earlier than we'd be able to otherwise. And focusing on efficiency definitely supports 100% renewable energy goals by making the load that the renewable energy has to carry much smaller. So with that, I'll take any questions. Thank you. Any questions?
 It doesn't appear we have any. And I would just note also that the money for this contract is in an energy savings fund, which previous savings supplied.
 There's no cost to the general fund for this particular item. Right. The audit phase, our intention is to pay for it with an energy trust account that actually was created by one-time funding that council appropriated for energy efficient measures in the past that created energy trust rebates. And we're using those fundings to pay for the audit portion of this procurement. So are you effectively pre-funding energy savings? Is that what you're doing here?
 So no. So explain this to me one more time. So there's probably going to be three council actions pertaining to this project. First, this one, to authorize the procurement method. Second, approving the contract with the winning service provider. And third, when it comes time for the big project, which is to actually accomplish the work.
 So you'll come back to council after this initial procurement action? Correct. Okay, good. I'm really interested in this strategy. I think it's a good one. And if it really holds up, and I guess we'll see after this procurement opportunity and see what we get back in exchange for that.
 There's a strong incentive here for bureaus to actually engage in this kind of energy savings if we also promise them back the bonding capacity created by the savings. If we could find a way to connect those two things, I think it would create a really strong incentive for the bureaus to save energy and get at some of the backlog on the infrastructure side if we can do it.
 Definitely. And output is what's called an investment grade audit. So it's something that could be brought to someone to finance. Interesting. Okay. And I'm glad you're asking questions because I asked very similar questions and it took me several times of being explained before I really understood what we're doing here. And I agree, it's very innovative. The other, I think, very helpful thing about this particular method is that the company who wins the contract guarantees that we'll have the savings if we follow the instructions and if they don't, they compensate us.
 So it's really a good way that the city can be sure of saving money. Can I ask just a related question then? So, I mean, a homeowner can get an energy audit and someone can come in. And what you may learn from the audit is you've got to replace all your windows and go to triple pane. You've got to.
 use insulation, you've got to upgrade your furnace. There's a whole host of things that a homeowner can do to get energy efficiency, but they require substantial capital investment at the front end. So just anticipating what the mayor was asking, what if it turns out that in order to get energy savings, there has to be a substantial capital investment to upgrade systems and to replace windows and other kinds of things, how would that be financed?
 Through debt financing would be one option or through appropriation should there be one-time money available at the time that we're ready for that step or other ways. The difference is that this project essentially creates its own cash flow to finance those savings. By reducing our future energy expenditure, we borrow forward based on that and use that for the upfront investment. No one signed up. Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, it sounds very innovative. We look forward to tracking its progress. Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? So this is another way that Parks is looking to spend taxpayers' money wisely and to make sure that we are investing in energy efficient structures. And so thank you very much, Chris Silkey, Jodi Collahan, and Pooja Bhatt and my staff for all of your work on this. More to come.
 sorry wheeler i should have asked this but i'll take the liberty here of presiding officer what is the time frame for today uh go ahead so we um this will be the first rfp that the city that i'm aware of has done of this nature and so it's probably going to be somewhere around six months okay fair enough thank you i i like the approach i hope it turns out to be successful
 I like it. I hope it turns out to be successful and I appreciate it. The ordinance is adopted. Next item please. Thank you. 338
 Increase contract with the Active Network Inc. by $1,300,000 for a not to exceed total of $3,250,000 to provide software and online services to support class registration programs and facility reservation payments. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, and I'm going to turn it over to Jeff Schaefer, our financial manager. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Jeff Schaefer. I'm the finance manager for Portland Parks. I'm here to get an extension for our ActiveNet hosted software solution for parks reservations system. Some background from us is we have about $20 million in revenues that we collect as fees from our customers that pay for our parks, a wide variety of park services.
 And about 2013, we explored a more efficient way to get our customers to be able to sign up through an online hosted software product. And when we went out and did that search, we found ActiveNet was the premier solution for providing an online hosted service.
 product for doing online registrations for our paying customers. So this is extending a contract that we created back in 2013 for those online registrations. If you want to know some history about ActiveNet, they're the premier online registration system. They are in all 50 states providing online registration.
 registrations for things like campgrounds, marathons, all types of reservations for facility rentals and events and fitness. And they're basically who we've gone with since we originally have gone with, since 2009 they provided our original software to. So they've been the dominant leader in this industry.
 Just why we're here today is for this contract. We originally anticipated there would be about $13 million of flow that would go through this online hosted software of our revenues. And when we actually started going live with it, we found out there was a big growth in our revenues that was happening at that time. We also had a much larger than anticipated revenue.
 acceptance by the public in using an online software versus we didn't suspect, we thought it might take them a little bit longer to transform into the online industry and pay the convenience fee that goes with ActiveNet. And we also had, we've grown quite a bit over the recession. We have increased our revenues up to about 16 million instead of 13 million since then in these cash flows that have gone through the system.
 And so just with all those things combined, it's just added to that small percent of convenience fee that goes and passes through to ActiveNet. That's increased this contract amount. And so now we're kind of at that midway point in the contract and truing up what we need to make us through the five year cycle here. So should be noticed that the, I just wanna note that these costs are incorporated into the user fees. So these aren't necessarily general fund payments that we have to increase out of our general fund.
 These are the customer convenience fees that go into paying for these, and we're just cycling those back through because of the way the system works. We take in 100 percent of the fees that a customer pays for something, and then we give ActiveNet back their proportional share. So this is just truing up the numbers for that contract of passing through those customer payments back to them. So I think with that, that's kind of the general overview of this. And do you have any questions? Any questions on this item?
 Is there any public testimony? Yes, we have two people, John Hollister and Charles Bridgecrain Johnson. Very good. Good morning. For the record, my name is John Hollister. And actually, this is the only one I really came to testify on, and just the others caught my interest. And just a quick message to my boss, I really am working as well today. So I'm taking calls, I'm doing all that stuff, I'm staying in touch with emails. So I just want to make that clear.
 with regards to this one and the testimony even confused me more is the wording said increase contract and then he talked about increasing contract versus extending contract and I didn't know which one it was and so is this a
 And when I heard him say this is a five year and we're in the middle of it, so that made me think it's an increase rather than an extension because it's two and a half years into a five year, but that's only my interpretation. I'm not absolutely clear on that.
 One of the things I was looking for, and back to the, I would have loved to be able to, or if I could be educated on where to find information about this contract, I tried to look through some of the public records and I wasn't able to find it. My experience on both sides of software development is there's typically a functional spec that is done, and it is, the fees are based upon a functional spec,
 And when I hear the capacity, it was not really expected to grow this much. It brings me to the same thing about the Obamacare. We weren't really expecting this high of volume and we had to pay Oracle increasing the ridiculous amounts of money.
 I'd like that better understand the Functional spec is the increase because there's additional feature creep where we're asking for more things or do they just want more money? Because they misunderstood how much they were supposed to to get and then they just want more money and then it's pushed off as well Don't worry. It doesn't cost a city anymore. It just costs the users of the park
 And so I don't think that sounds right. Mayor, if I may answer those. Those seem like good questions. But this is increasing a contract price. And since you mentioned your employer, I guess we're compelled to ask a couple questions. First of all, does your employer...
 compete in this marketplace for these services? No, I currently work for a company that just provides software to non-profits for their fundraising. And this is back to my previous lives where I worked for Digital Equipment Corporation and Yahoo. Just my previous experience in these areas. Okay, just because the contract stuff we do in this council is very formal, so I've got to ask you a couple questions. Yep, absolutely, that's perfect. So you're not seeking, your company does not seek this work, is that correct?
 Unless they're doing a charity auction. But I'm just saying, for this, it's a yes or no. You're not seeking this work. No, I'm not. And you're not filing a protest around this contract, is that correct? That is correct. But you're raising questions.
 about the scope of the contract and some of the details. Yes, and just it would be, I would love, I like research, and I would love to be able to have public access, or not that you're hiding it, not that it's not public access, just I'd like to learn how to be able to get access to that information so I could learn more. I think that's helpful. Thank you, sir. And if I might just answer your questions. First of all, you could talk to the council clerk to find out how to search through the historical documents
 It's on the auditor's website. And then the reasons, this is just truing up how much fees we've taken in, therefore how many fees are going out to the company. And the reason for the increase in contract funding is population growth in the city service area of new active net users, which exceeded the projected estimates, faster customer adoption of online use over in-person or phone transactions, increasing registrations and reservations volume.
 the addition of the teen services, which is a program run over the summer, and then increase in interagency point of sale transactions. So I actually, I like the question. And I'm not a software expert, I want to be very, very clear on that. But I like your question around the functional spec, and the question is if
 Let me see if I can paraphrase it, maybe I'm totally botching this, but you're asking the question, who bears the liability in the event that the demand is greater or the cost is greater? Is that another way of interpreting your question, Mr. Hollister? And I think that's a fair question. And I think maybe we can ask a follow up on that. Yeah, let's get the testimony. Why don't we go ahead and finish public testimony and then if we have other questions.
 Perhaps the more Mr. Hollister you have, the less bridge crane you'll have to have. He's probably also, I'm Charles Bridge Crane Johnson, and he probably also knows that unfortunate, since we're talking about better software systems, ideally if you value transparency and your citizens times, when we look at the four little pages of this that are linked to the agenda,
 We wouldn't have to figure out where else do I go type in contract number 3000 or maybe another 0729. I'm not a fan of Granicus, which is what the county uses. But for the number of times people have testified before you and the fact that it creates these two or three minute comment sections, you should seriously look at improving the transparency or the workflow for this documenting type system so
 Probably would have to listen to me for two minutes anyway. But I could say something more constructive if I could just tap and what do you know? Contract number 3000 something 729 would come up and it might even have answers for Mr. Holsters and I questions about is there anywhere in the contract that talks about customer loading beyond the expectation that was in the original RFP or RFQ.
 I don't see any reason to, he says neither him or his employer interested in protest. I don't think it needs to be protest, but I think that it definitely highlights areas for us to improve city governance and transparency.
 Thank you. And if I might just add. I'd just like to make one last question is, Commissioner Fish, I want to make an apology for my humor, or my attempted humor when you asked me the question on the yes and no, so I didn't mean to be disrespectful. No, no, you've had a lot in coming to these hearings and bringing your professional expertise. It's just because it's a contracting issue. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I just needed to make sure that this wasn't a disguised appeal or challenge or something.
 But you're a citizen with expertise helping us get it right, so I appreciate that. Yeah, my wife often tells me I misplace my humor, so I think that might have been the case there. And just so you know, in addition to looking at the files of either auditor's site, on every council agenda item there is a telephone number for somebody you can call if you have questions. So sometimes that's the quickest way to find out the answer is just pick up the phone and call.
 I'm also happy to look into, you know, just linking contracts to the agenda item. I mean, I would guess the vast majority of people don't read them, but if we have somebody like Mr. Hollister who has the time and the expertise to actually do that and give us advice, I'm always
 I'm always interested in free advice in particular. So I appreciate you being here very much, both of you. And as Mr. Fritz just mentioned, we could have called 503-444-0238 and say we were looking into this stuff where the contact name is Glen Raschke and the presenter is Jeff Schaefer. But how much better for all of us if we just clicked on 300 blah, blah, blah, 729 and didn't have to make a phone call and do all that. Yeah, we can look into that.
 It's a reasonable suggestion. We can look into that. Thank you. And back to Commissioner Fritz, it's the, yeah, I could pick up a phone. And so I, you know.
 And really the staff are very willing to explain things. And when I was in your position as a community organizer, that's actually was before the council clerk were putting everything online. That shows how long I've been doing this. But so then in those cases, I've always found that staff are delighted when anybody shows any interest in the things they've worked so hard on. So you're certainly welcome to try that route. Yeah, and I'm just trying to learn, so thanks. That's helpful. Thank you very much. We appreciate it.
 Was there any other public testimony? No one else signed up. Very good, and did we want to bring staff up to ask a few more questions, technical questions? Yeah, I was interested in that question about the functional spec and the liability and how typically do we handle those issues in contracts?
 Usually, the technical specs are done by our IT manager, Glenn Raschke, and he works with procurement who has an IT specialist that works on the liability aspects of it. They work closely through the whole RFP and the whole contract process. I'd have to get back with you if you have a specific question regarding that because I don't have- I was just wondering if there's a blanket policy with regard to our contracting
 efforts in terms of if, in this case, it sounds like things were really successful and there was more demand than anticipated. Is that on us as the purchaser of the product or is it typically absorbed by the vendor? I'm just curious to know if there's a policy there. And this is really unique. The way ActiveNet was originally designed was a customer would pay $100 for something, they would take their $3 convenience fee and then give the government entity the $97
 of the actual piece that they would have had as their revenue. With the way the ORS works with having to deposit all public funds for the state into our public banks,
 we take all those monies into our own bank account and then have to turn around and give that money back to ACTIVNET. So it's a pass-through, basically. It is really a pass-through. So it was already a really one-off type of contract for this situation. You normally wouldn't either have it one way or the other, but not necessarily this pass-through arrangement. So we had to work through a lot, probably a good year that we worked through with Treasury and with ACTIVNET on their programming on how we could flow the funds,
 and then what would that look like? And so really at the end of the day, we came up with the contract that said,
 projecting about customers would do this based on other Cities that do this based on how much revenues we have to churn through our system What do we think it would be over the course of five years and now we're really seeing oh, you know We have more yoga classes now than we had back then and we have we're using P bot revenues in our customer service center So there's just more churn that's happening through the system and customers are paying that fee so it's really a pass-through to us and
 And we're just creating that extra money and capacity in this contract so we can make it through the full five years. And so we, and just by way of board or council policy then, we're required to reflect that increase through ordinance and that's what we're doing here. We're going to have the authority to cut the check. Got it. We need to raise this. And I'm sorry I said extension. It is just an increase in the amount over this five-year term. So we're just truing up the dollar figure.
 of that projection that we made by three years ago. Okay, thank you for that clarification. Can I ask just one last question, Mayor? And maybe Commissioner Saltzman knows the answer to this, but this is about a one-third increase in the cost of a fairly substantial software project. And none of us up here are the software experts, so we rely on testimony and the presenters. What would be the trigger for this to go through technology oversight?
 Well, we went to technology oversight when we first did the contract and asked them if they wanted to be involved with the original amendment. And I think that's because it was changing the technology from a software that you would have on your computer to the hosted online software. So we did go through the technology oversight process when we did this in 2013. But because this is more of a technical true-up of the valuation and it is a pass-through, not necessarily information, you know, it's not changing the BTS structure.
 structure at all. It's just truing up the dollar figures that we're passing through. That's why it wouldn't require the oversight piece of it. And it will come back up. The contract will run up here in two years, so we will go through the full RFP process as a competitive process, and that will go through the technology oversight. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further questions? One thing I would say, just because this starts getting gray, and I'm the last person to bring any expertise here. I mean, I've been in the office for a long time, and I've been
 My daughter told me that in getting an Apple computer, that's the equivalent of buying a car to get a radio, given how little I know how to use technology. I would hope that with technology oversight on projects like this, there's a referral at the front end, potentially a referral if there's a substantial upgrade, and that there's some formal mechanism where they determine either A, there's no issue that they have a concern about,
 it falls within their wheelhouse, but there's no reason to do any further review or see they want to have a full presentation. Because I want to make sure that they have actually opined that it either warrants a review or not. And that there's some way it's reflected in the record, not that we talked to them and they said there's no need to go any further because
 Because there's going to be, not here, but the other examples where that falls into a gray. No, I agree. I think it could be, and I don't have all the details on this amendment, what was going on behind the scenes with our IT management. I know procurement was involved in this and BTS was involved in this. I know all the players were aware of this amendment for this ordinance today. Hopefully all those pieces were connected, but I agree.
 Thank you. All right. Is there any further public testimony on this item? Mr. Hollister, I think is it. I have a couple comments to what he said. Please come to the microphone. Name for the record. Thanks. My name is John Hollister.
 And one of the things in contracts, especially with software contracts, they are so complicated and there are, you know when you get into the details of them, oh we need to raise this for this and we need to raise this for this, most of the people that are evaluating them say, okay I guess that's what we have to do.
 and the the biggest and and i and i'm not even this may be the exact right thing to be doing and and all the way through uh but i do know that the um the biggest expense of contracts in in software is the same when building a house if someone comes out and builds a house and gives you a twenty thousand dollar quote and then you make seven change orders it's now thirty thousand and so the same thing is with it with the change order the um
 software companies love change orders. They love feature creep. They love because those get billed out at twice what the original one was because extra scope and time and overtime and all those things. So it's just something to explore. And once again, and I'll make the phone call and to understand more about this because everything I could be saying could be, oh okay, I see it and everything's fine. But just my thoughts and just being really
 becoming a concerned citizen. Thanks. Thank you. Good discussion. I appreciate it. Please call the roll. Fish. Yes, thank you for the discussion and the presentation. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Really appreciate the work of Jeff Schaefer, Harry Auerbach, and the whole team. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 339, amend city code to provide for towing of abandoned or derelict vessels from parks and municipal docks, subject to appeal to the code hearings officer. Commissioner Fritz.
 Thank you. The city operates several municipal boat landings that are intended for short-term use according to existing city code. There are persistent problems created by people who either disregard the rules, particularly around the time limitations, or who leave abandoned or derelict vessels attached to the landing. Deputy City Attorney Harry Auerbach is here to address how the proposed code amendments allow the city to... Excuse me.
 to address the impacts of abandoned or derelict vessels at docks. And Galena Burley, our security manager, is also here to answer questions. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, I'm Harry Arbay from the city attorney's office. I'm going to explain to you what we did to the code. Galena Burley, the park security manager, can explain to you why it matters. So we have this problem, we've experienced a problem with boats being tied to
 municipal docks and being left there, either people staying there for extended periods of time or simply abandoning the vessels. Over the years I've been asked to help parks deal with how to abate this nuisance and the sticking points were having a mechanism to tow and store the boats,
 and having a procedure whereby people can challenge the validity of our actions in towing their boats. Galena did a lot of work to help close those loops and we now have a system in place that allows us to tow and store
 derelict or abandoned vessels and this ordinance is designed to provide the the code provisions that authorize our actions and provide remedies for people who believe we have wrongfully towed their boats
 It's fairly simple and straightforward. We're largely regulated by state law, so we have taken those concepts and translated them into authority and procedures for the city to follow to help make those.
 boat docks available for their intended purpose which is transient use by recreational boaters so they're intended to be used for several hours at a time they're not intended to be used for people's residences and so we've we've we're trying to preserve them for that purpose commissioner fish
 some vague recollection of this issue going back to when I was the Parks Commissioner. And in the back of my mind, I keep thinking the State Marine Board had something to say because we received some state money at some of those docks. So how does this action harmonize with the state law?
 Thank you, Commissioner. That's a good point and one that I intended to make, so thank you for reminding me about that. Some of our boat landings, particularly the ones in the south waterfront,
 We built in part, in whole or in part, with grant money from the state marine board. State marine board requires those to be used for transient recreational use. And we have had issues in the past. It wasn't, actually we got in trouble with the marine board because we allowed the dragon boats to be there year round so we had to make other arrangements for that. But we could face similar enforcement requirements
 attempts by the Marine Board if we were unsuccessful at freeing up these docks for trans and recreational use that answer your question thank you I have a couple questions Commissioner Daly are there is there clear signage on all of these docks as to the restrictions of use yes they all of the docks are posted those that are required fees have methods for person to have pay stations
 the the we have the Rangers who attempt to contact people if They see something that they believe violates the code and contact people and try to get them to to conform their behavior this this posting and towing is a Strategy of last resort not the first thing we're going to go out and do to try to move these boats along So is the issue people abandoning vessels or living in vessels? I?
 Yes, I mean we have a variety of issues and Galena can describe them for you but so some of these vessels the registrations are not on them or their registrations have lapsed a lot of them I think some members of the public have submitted testimony with photographs a lot of them are I mean derelict and abandoned or sort of
 quaint terms used by the statute, but they are, some of these are just floating pieces of garbage. And so they're just, you know, we have, and some are just people who have perfectly serviceable boats and want to use the docks, you know, to camp out for a couple weeks at a time in the summertime. So we have a variety, sort of a spectrum of problem behavior that we deal with
 as best we can with this as our tool of last resort. And could you walk me through the process that happens before a vessel would be towed? Yes. So unless it's an immediate hazard to public safety or navigation, state law requires that we post the vessel before we tow it. So in a situation in which we come across your ordinary, it's just their too long situation.
 we will post the boat, give the person a week or 10 days to remove it. If it's still there, we'll come and tow it. Give them another posting that tells them where it is, what they got to do to go get it, and how they can appeal the decision, assuming we can identify them. If we can't, we will post that notice at the dock itself. So if somebody coming to find their boat who can't find it, we'll know where to go to find out what happened to them.
 We will, because the only way we have of identifying these folks is by checking the registration against DMV who tracks boat registrations. If it's expired or non-existent, then we just have to post the doc and wait for them to come to us. Can we hear it?
 Yeah. I'll just add a couple of points. Before any of that even happens, we attempt to make contact through our ranger program with folks on the boat to ask them to comply with rules, right? And in a lot of cases, people do follow up and they'll move to another location. It doesn't address the issue, but it's certainly our first approach. Educate them about rules. Maybe they don't know how to read the sign or didn't see the sign, so that's kind of where we start.
 I also want to add that we are required to send a pre-seizure letter to the registered owner, so that happens before the towing notices go up. And so it generally, I'll finish the walkthrough for you, it generally tracks what you do to tow vehicles. So if we have notified the boat owner or we can't find the boat owner or we've posted the dock, or it's an emergency situation and we have to just go ahead and do it and go through the process afterwards,
 We then have a contract with a private contractor who will tow the boat, and we have a storage contract for the boat to be stored and kept in the same condition we found it in until the person either bails it out or it's considered abandoned and it's disposed of.
 The notice tells people they can appeal the towing to the hearings, code hearings officer, just like a towed vehicle. If the hearings officer determines that the tow is valid, the owner's on the hook for the charges. If the hearings officer determines that the tow is invalid, Parks is on the hook for the towing charges, towing and storage charges, and then it proceeds from there.
 Is there a flat fee for the tow or is it increased daily? It depends on the size of the boat and the complexity of the issue. And really the ones that we've seen that really need to be removed immediately are the ones that are sinking and have biohazard in them and things of that nature. So it depends. We've seen them range with towing and storage from a couple of hundred dollars to an excess of $2,000. But these boats are generally smaller.
 So I'm asking all these questions because just as we know we have hundreds of people living in cars and RVs. We also have an undetermined number of otherwise homeless people living on our river in vessels. And the mayor suggested last night that we may look at creating a space for these RVs. And I'm going to suggest that we may need to consider creating a space
 for these vessels and i imagine that's even more complex and problematic than the rv park given that it is on water but um i'm concerned about these residents and um somewhat familiar with the kind of constant hoops that they have to jump through to keep their their homes on the water so yeah well and some of them are living on boats that have no motors you know they have to bring
 THE CITY IS A LITTLE BIT MORE HOMEMADE, FUEL AND WARM. IT'S REALLY DANGEROUS. THANK YOU. I THINK THE STATE DID REACH OUT TO THE CITY A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO. YES, WE DID. COMMISSIONER UDAILY, THIS IS MUCH MORE COMPLEX THAN THE RV SITUATION. THERE ARE MULTIPLE OVERLAPPING JURISDICTIONS IN PORTLAND. BUT ONE PLAYER IN A VERY, VERY COMPLEX WEB OF FEDERAL AND STATE AND LOCAL REGULATION.
 But I will say this, that the concerns that came to the Department of State lands when I wore that hat back then were often around serious environmental hazards, serious biohazards
 and serious life safety issues. And even under those circumstances, our ability as a jurisdiction to act alone are very limited. Right, because we don't have any jurisdiction over the river itself and the Department of State lands controls the submerged and submersible lands. All we have control over is our own docks. Yeah.
 I could also just pick up what the mayor said. We got, I mean there's two other issues here that should concern us greatly. One is that many of these vessels are very unsafe for the people living in them. Yes. And number two is, since the river is about the most heavily regulated entity in our community, it is anomalous that as we're trying to go through a super fund clean up and we're trying to maintain all of our permits, that we do have vessels that are putting bio hazards into the stream.
 My sense is the answer is not to do a workaround around existing law to enable this. My suggestion is we find a way to get people out of unsafe situations and into safer situations, so that would be the more humane approach.
 And I have to say we have huge and successful partnership was joined. There was a man who lived on the water. He was a veteran. He had no legs. Both of his legs were amputated. His boat didn't have a motor. I remember going down to the site myself and
 And there was lots of debris and things like that on his boat. It took a few months for Joy to find him housing, but they did. And it was a huge success story, like you said, that's the way to go. But we do have conditions from time to time when we have to take action that's necessary. And that action will include towing, especially with some of the things that we see that are sinking out there with spillage and whatnot. One last question. Last year or the year before.
 Under the auditor's leadership, we essentially waived all the fees for whole classes of code appeals in order to reduce the barrier. What is, if someone, since this is subject to appeal to the code hearing officer, what would be the cost to an applicant and is this covered by the law that we passed essentially waiving fees for classes of code hearing appeals?
 So that's a good question, and I did not double check that. We didn't used to charge anybody for park exclusion appeals. And I think that would be the same thing here. I think one of the, and I'm having only a vague recollection, so I think we need to check with code hearings about this. But I think one of the unintended consequences of doing what you did was actually there was a fee that then became payable. $10.
 The $10. So instead of charging nothing, we were charging $10 for private exclusion of fees appeals, although I think the hearings officer has the authority to waive them in individual cases. If you submit a written request to waive your fee, they're generally waived. I haven't seen people pay the $10 for us. This is an emergency item. Can you follow up in writing with that? Yes.
 I thought that reform of eliminating fees for appeals, which have been barriers to people exercising rights, was very important. And I think particularly because of the class of people this may impact, this should be as low barrier a system as possible for people to have exercise due process. I think we agree with you about that. And if it were up to us, they wouldn't pay anything. So it's a question of what the hearings office is charging for those. And I believe it's $10, but you can get it waived if you feel out to form. Thank you.
 Further questions? Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have six people signed up. The first three, please come on up. Lightning Super Watchdog, Susan West, and Marlon Bump. While they're coming up, could I ask, is there anybody here to present on item 321? If not, was that a yes? Yes. OK, stand by. Thank you. Good morning.
 Good morning, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. Again, on the tying off the boat, we're dealing with the city, the city property. Out on the water, we're dealing with the state submersible land lease. And we have to understand is that what we don't see in this ordinance today is that if that quote term homeless person on the boat
 is actually determined to be homeless, then I'm asking for an exemption on them from being- I'm sorry to interrupt. Could I ask people who are speaking, could you please keep it down or take it outside so that we can hear? Thank you. And you do not see that here. Now, when you remove a tent or something on a sidewalk,
 Although a bad how bad it is they still have a right technically to go down and try to reclaim that property now What you're doing is you're placing a two to three to five thousand dollar towing fee by your paperwork Which you know there is no homeless boater that can afford that amount of money so they have just lost their boat and I assume they've lost all their possessions and
 Because you don't allow them to tie off on these landings which are public properties for over two hours and again Multnomah County River Patrol handles this for you and their position is just get them off the river just get them off the river tow their boat Destroy their boat take their possessions and that is their position. They don't like boaters and
 people tying their boats out on the water, and they will remove them in an aggressive manner. And they will use every position, which I call the nuisance liens position, biohazards that haven't been tested,
 different things in the water that haven't been tested, no data to substantiate what you're trying to do, and this is just a way to remove them off the water and get them off the water without, again, and I've gone at it with Multnomah County River Patrol and trust me,
 I have said you need to have a solution first in place for these people before you take their boats and take their possessions and throw them out on the street. That is the responsibility of a municipality to protect the safety and the interest of the people in this city first.
 before you think that you don't want on these boat landings to have these boats tied up because it's Inconvenient to you and you don't like the looks of it Well who cares what you like this city you need to start providing these people with housing and quit taking their possessions using these type of nuisance liens in this ordinance to where you can give the authority to Multnomah County River Patrol, which is a bunch of police. Please wrap it up. I
 Please wrap it up? Yeah, you're 45 seconds over. Please wrap it up. Okay, very good. Well, I think I've made my point, Mayor. And the reality is, be cautious and work with these people that have been determined that they are, quote, what River Patrol calls homeless voters.
 And try to work with them in a reasonable manner and don't take their properties from them. Don't put them out of their boats and don't think join, which knows nothing about the marinas or out on the water or anything to do with nautical come in and try to handle this. Absolutely ridiculous. Point made, thank you. Good morning.
 Good afternoon now, actually. Commissioners, I'm Susan West from Friends of River Place and I've lived down at River Place for 25 years. And we're asking you to amend the city code to reflect the state law and give parks the authority to tow boats that are in violation of the law.
 The mighty Willamette River is the artery to our city and we tell a very sad story to the world as we allow a few difficult and from our experience, dangerous people to take our docks hostage. They dump raw sewage into our docks and into our fine river. Our park dock are public spaces and they're vitally important to our city. We are squandering our best asset and scaring people away.
 Photos that I included here in the little packet there are just one of the many hundreds of photos where they're down there in the docks for years. So you should be happy to note that I did not include photos of the human and dog excrement which are commonly seen by hundreds of people that pass every day and that we often pick up and clean. So we would like regulations, city workers, and public officials respected.
 And we want our beautiful city docks back. We would like Christmas ships to dock without being burgled, which happens recently. We want our blind paddlers, high schoolers, and elderly to walk to their dragon boats safely.
 You may not have heard our pleas and our report, certainly Galena has and probably Amanda has also, or you may have not seen Friends of River Place cleaning or working daily, or worked with us in one of our self cleanups, 12 of them this year, but we are there indeed.
 Saving the city hundreds of thousands of dollars picking up pickup loads of trash not all from the dock but quite a bit so that our city is beautiful and safe for all and
 So we feel that park rangers and park maintenance and park security, the River Place Marina and us, are placed unfairly burdened and in a dangerous situation, and we would like your backing. Thank you for your testimony. Good morning. And I want to also thank you for your partnership and the volunteer work that you've been doing for many years. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. It's a city with a big heart, and we certainly appreciate that. My name is Marlon Bump. I'm the harbor master at River Place Marina.
 and we've come a long ways through the years with your help in managing the docks here. I manage the private entity that's surrounded by the public dock, and we've seen highs and we've seen lows. This proposal to allow towing would be one more management tool to work with folks in the worst-case scenario. I think it's going to take time to get a boat towed,
 I don't see people being towed out in two days and three days or even a week. I would expect the overall process would probably take up to three weeks, a month or longer. So if there is a problem with housing, that should allow folks some time to make some adjustments to help these folks. And I think it's important on all aspects to go ahead and take care of the folks that are living on the river here like this.
 then also the docks so the docks are clean and safe and Tourist friendly it's a representation of our city. It needs to look good for families It needs to be equitable for all boaters not just a group that's taking it over Thank you so much. Thank you for your testimony. Is there any further public testimony? The next three are Laura Scott Don Lewis and Carlos Enrique Good afternoon. If you could state your name for the record, please.
 My name is Laura Scott and I'm with the Friends of River Place. Thank you very much for hearing us today. All I want to do is confirm that you got the email from me yesterday with the photograph showing how unsafe and how unclean the public dock was before we had the cooperation of the park rangers and the Multnomah County River Patrol.
 Thank you. Yes, thank you. We don't want that to happen again. So we do need the funding. We do need the support in order to keep it clean and safe for everyone. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Dawn Lewis. I'm part of Friends of River Place and also Dragon Boater. And since we've been doing the patrol for the last three years, it's really helped. It's really helped out. I'm down in the docks year round.
 And the boats that are there, from what I can see, are pretty much repeat people that have been told that know what they're to do and what they're not to do. There's a lot of them that are just being obstinate and just pushing the buttons. The boats run safe. We have literally seen them hang themselves out and go to the bathroom right in front of us right there in the marina.
 Their dogs are left. I don't know why they even have the dogs. It's so unsanitary for them. They've crapped all over the boats. The people have. It's just disgusting. And then they hop off. The dogs are unleashed on the dock, which are scary. They're scary dogs. Anything unleashed to me is. And they just dump right there on the dock because the poor dog has nowhere else to go.
 It's awful. And it is sending away a lot of our tourism. I know a lot of boats used to come in for different activities. Because of this activity, they're just not coming anymore. So I really believe in this tow effort. So I hope you really look into it and go with your best judgment. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Carlos Enrique. I'm a former journalist for the Boston Herald. So I've covered city council quite extensively. I've just recently moved here and I have to say,
 surprised at like how there's so many people that show up to City Council and just kind of like get angry at you and yell at you and stuff like that and it's it's I'm sure that that has happened before in the past when I've covered City Council but not nearly as frequently as it has here and it made me kind of wonder like
 How could someone just endure people coming and berating you every week, and everyone gets mad, and you say, I'm signing the ordinance anyway. And what I realize is that the language of resistance has not been properly translated to you. So this is for you.
 Whoa, whoa, whoa, not a good move. Not a good move, thank you. Don't do that again, okay? Not a smart move. Not a smart move. Thank you, I do appreciate it, but don't do that again. Yeah, don't, please folks, do not do that. For your own safety, don't do that, okay? I appreciate it. Welcome to Portland.
 Yeah, if this were the Boston City Council, that would have ended differently. Is there any other public testimony? That's all who signed up. Let's go to vote. Let's go to vote. Please call the roll. Fish. Here, could you bring the order please? Excuse me, excuse me. Please, thank you, good, thank you. Please call the roll. Fish.
 Commissioner Fritz, thank you for bringing this forward. Thank you to the neighbors for coming and testifying. And I believe that with the due process that's been described to us in terms of the notices, and ultimately the opportunity to have an administrative hearing if there is an issue, I think that satisfies the concerns that I would have that someone is treated fairly and that there is an independent review.
 And I do believe that there's a larger question here of the safety of people in these vessels, as well as the impact on the river. And Mayor, I appreciate that you've committed to looking more broadly at finding safer and healthier places for people to live so they don't have to make these choices. Saltzman. Thank you Commissioner Fritz for bringing this home.
 Certainly there's many perspectives on this issue and we need to be compassionate, but we also need to make sure that our docks and public places are safe and attractive for our residents and our tourists. Aye. Thank you, colleagues. I think you all know how concerned I am for people who live outside, whether they're in boats or tents or just in tarps or in the street. So I asked many of the questions that have been asked today before we brought this to council.
 Public spaces are public spaces. They belong to everybody the docks belong to everybody They cannot be appropriated to be somebody's ongoing home any more than people can have an ongoing home in other park areas and so it's a principle that is extremely
 necessary to maintain the public spaces for everybody so that everybody feels welcome. Thank you so much to the Friends of River Place for all of the work that you've done, continue to do and again thank you for reminding us about the funding for the rangers. Thank you Galina Burnley for all your work and Harry Arbach who looked into all these details and I greatly appreciate it.
 Wheeler. Aye, the ordinance is adopted and I believe we have one last item, item 321 that was pulled off of the consent agenda. 321, extend term of franchise granted to MCI Communications Services Inc. to build and operate telecommunications facilities within city streets.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. My name is Jenna Clayton. I'm with the Office for Community Technology within the Revenue Bureau. The agenda item before you today is a budget.
 an extension for a franchise granted to MCI Communications Services in 1997. Requesting an extension through February 14th, 2019 to give parties time to continue negotiating the new franchise. During this period, MCI will continue to operate under the terms of the original franchise. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Any questions? Any public testimony on this item? Mr. Johnson pulled this.
 Could you guys please close the door back, there's a little bit of noise coming in. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Charles Johnson. And especially in light of the communication we had from Mr. McCullough. I mean, here we have MCI, since the 90s, used to have to always dial 950-1022 to get my cheap MCI call. But it's hard for citizens to speak to you directly on this because
 We're talking about franchise, and in the paperwork that we have, which is only, I think, it's going to come up two pages here, there's not a dollar sign in it. That is bad governance. When a piece of communication with the public talks about a franchise and there's no dollar sign there, what are we supposed to think? I don't think it's an exclusive franchise like the situation we have with CenturyLink and POTS basic telephone service.
 and it probably may be essential services. I see there's an old maybe coordinates number 170954. And Amanda's going to tell me there's a phone number that I could have called Melvin Riddick at 3-0066. But to increase public confidence that you're really doing the best fiduciary duties with franchises, it would be easier for me and maybe for a lot of other members of the public to have that feeling.
 If there were dollar signs instead of just business as usual, extend because why? Because we weren't prepared for change this year, so we have to extend to 2019. So that's all, I appreciate you taking the time and I'm glad the staff was able to come up and present even though that doesn't cover the actual monetary value. There's services and values and goods here. We haven't, none of us have said a specific dollar amount. Thank you. Thank you and I'm sorry, I should have had you.
 testify first and then have her come up. So I apologize. Here she comes up. I realize that there are probably fixed services that can't be quickly. We are, that's why we're going to 2019, but it would be . Yeah, and again at the same point, I agree. I think we should be linking the contract for future reference. I agree with that principle. Yes, and pull it over a little further, thank you. And we have been asked to put the,
 current franchise fee amounts into the council memos that we prepare so they will be doing that going forward this was just submitted before we had that request so just in response to your specific question I looked it up before I came over and under this franchise MCI pays the city approximately
 $21,000 per year for franchisees for use of the right-of-way. So they have a route from Front Street that goes through downtown to connect to one of the network switching hotels. And so that's what the franchise is for. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Any further public testimony? This was pulled. I didn't have a sign-up sheet. Very good. Call the roll. This is a non-emergency? Yes.
 Oh, very good. Thank you. It moves to second reading, and with that we are adjourned. Thank you.
 Session of the Portland City Council on April 5th. Yes, April 5th, 2017.
 Carla, could you please call the roll? Yes. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. There is a script I read at the beginning of all city council sessions. It pertains to decorum. The purpose of the council meeting is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone and that people are treated with respect, I want to review some of the basic guidelines which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, and safe at the meeting and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 will be an opportunity in this meeting for public participation after we've heard the formal presentation there'll be an opportunity for public comment if you would like to sign up for public comment I would ask you please come up to Carla who is we heard this morning the world's best ever council clerk and she will sign you up and we'll take
 testimony in order. Please state your name for the record when you come up we do not need your address and if you're a lobbyist we need you to disclose that so we know that you're a lobbyist and if you're here representing a particular organization we'd appreciate hearing that as well.
 Individuals, I will see how many people we have signed up and then we'll make a decision about how long the testimony is. It's probably safe if you assume for right now that you will have two minutes to testify. That's probably going to be about right. There are three lights up front. I can't see the microphones on the back side, but make sure that the green light is on the microphone when you speak and we'll remind you if we can't hear you.
 you will have two minutes, 30 seconds before the two minutes, the yellow light in the center will start blinking, and then when your time is up, the red light will start blinking.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example shouting interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting the council deliberations is obviously not allowed. It's a violation of council rules. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption for any reason, I will indicate that there is a disruption. I will then.
 the person or persons making the disruption that if they do it again or continue their disruption, they'll be asked to leave. If they are asked to leave and they do not do so, they will be arrested or subject to arrest for trespassing.
 If folks would, in order to get as many people in, we try not to do applause. We never do boos. Thumbs up, thumbs down, twinkle fingers, whatever. But we would ask you not to be verbally expressive. And those are the basic guidelines. And the rule is really let's just treat everybody with respect and assume that you'll hear opinions that agree with yours today. Opinions you won't agree with today.
 We're all Portlanders. We all want to do the right thing. Let's start with the assumption that people's intentions are good. So with that, Carla, please call the item for this afternoon. Item 340, Adopt City of Portland Investment Policy.
 Jennifer Cooperman, city treasurer. Thank you. And I'll just make a brief statement in advance, although I don't have any formal talking points. My understanding, and you'll obviously confirm this, is that the city council previously had asked you to come back
 with some recommendations or with a recommendation with regard to principles around investment. So you're fulfilling that request of the Portland City Council to come back with your best shot at a policy. Yes. Thank you for being here.
 good afternoon mayor and commissioners for the record jennifer cooper could you could you slide the mic just a little closer they're not these aren't great mics sorry good afternoon mayor and commissioners thank you can you hear in the back okay no little little green lights on the other mic we seem to have had better luck with that one good afternoon mayor and commissioners much better
 For the record, Jennifer Cooperman, City Treasurer, I'm here to present the city's investment policy. As you mentioned, council direction last December was to suspend direct investments in corporate securities. And to propose amendments to the city's investment policy that would incorporate environmental, social, governance considerations.
 by adding a minimum ESG rating requirement as determined by a third party ESG research provider. Could you just say what ESG stands for? Environmental Social Governance. Thank you. Yes.
 The proposed investment policy before you today adds a minimum MSCI ESG rating of BBB, which I believe is a reasonable approach to incorporating ESG considerations, while continuing to allow investments in and to earn yield from corporate securities. As background, I'd like to highlight a few points.
 The city's investment policy describes the framework and criteria for investing the city's cash assets. The city's policy is written in accordance with Oregon revised statutes and is brought before council for adoption each year. The city's investment objectives are first, and these are in rank order. First, to preserve principle. Two, to ensure liquidity. And three, to earn a market return.
 Investment earnings make a significant financial contribution to the city budget and to the programs and services that bureaus provide. Investment earnings net of an admin fee to cover treasury's operating costs are distributed to all city funds, so we're net zero at the end of the year. In fiscal year 16, treasury distributed $11.4 million.
 In fiscal year 17 through March 31, Treasury has earned $11.7 million. Corporate securities provide diversification and an opportunity to earn additional yield over alternative investment types, such as Treasury and agency securities, U.S. Treasuries and U.S. agencies.
 In fiscal year 16, corporate securities contribute 4.5 million of the 11.4 million that was earned, which is equal to 40% of the total investment earnings. Since 2015, the city has subscribed to a research product, has subscribed to a research product, MSCI, ESG research. You're trying to turn that off, right?
 Just a second. Thank you. Technology. Yes. Sorry, continue. Since 2015, the city has subscribed to MSCI ESG research.
 MSCI is a publicly held firm that trades in the New York Stock Exchange. MSCI is an independent provider of investment research and investment tools for institutional investors.
 MSCI ESG research was selected because its methodology is comprehensive, thorough, consistent, and because its research most closely aligned with the list of seven social and value concerns that Council established in 2014 for consideration in the City's direct investment in corporate securities. We call those the Council Principles.
 MSCI's research is its intellectual property and is proprietary. The city pays $37,500 a year to have access to this research, and we've agreed in our contract not to disseminate it to other parties.
 MSCI on its website does make publicly available a general overview of its methodology. This is an 11-page document that was published in February of this year, and it's called ESG Ratings Methodology. It is a high-level overview that is publicly available.
 And I'll just read a couple points from this methodology. The reason that this research exists is that there's a recognition that ESG factors can impact the long-term risk and return profile of investments, and these ratings are designed to help investors understand the environmental, social, and governance risks and opportunities in those investments. As part of its analysis, MSCI,
 evaluates and analyzes thousands of companies on 37 key issues. Everything from carbon emissions and water stress to labor management to business ethics, chemical safety. There's a whole scheme that is written on page four of this that outlines its overview and its methodology.
 Treasury will continue to use its professional expertise and discretion to make investment portfolio decisions for the city using this research. And lastly, I'll mention that since 2013, Treasury has posted the city's investment portfolio online. These month-end line-by-line portfolio holding reports can be found at portlandoregon.gov forward slash BRFS.
 Click on the button that says review where the city's money is invested and that will take you straight to these investment reports. Thank you and I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Any questions at this time? So, Commissioner Saltzman, then Commissioner Udailey. So you're recommending that we don't purchase anything that scores less than a triple B by the, is it MSCI?
 So are those like bond ratings? So it goes like triple B, A's? The rating methodology that MSCI uses starts at triple A and goes down to triple C. So triple A, double A, single A, triple B, double B, single B, triple C. So the triple B is actually the midpoint of their rating scheme. Okay, and then just one last question. Sorry, I'm sorry.
 We earn from corporate securities about four million a year, is that what you're saying? In fiscal year 16, we earned four and a half million dollars from corporate securities. Okay. As interest rates rise and spreads widen, I would anticipate that we will earn more from our corporate securities dollar for dollar invested than we have previously, because as interest rates increase, the corporate spreads will widen. Okay, thank you. Sure. Commissioner Udaily.
 You could either put them on the table now or if you had questions for Jennifer now. Okay, I just had a couple because I want to clarify on questions that I want to put on the record. So continuing Commissioner Saltzman's line of questioning, if we were, and I know I approached you at some point last year, if we were to simply get out of corporates entirely.
 then your projection based on 2016 both interest rates and market earnings is that the effective cost of that would have been about $4.5 million. Had we done that prior? From fiscal year 16. From fiscal year 16. Right, for fiscal year 17 where we've already earned slightly more than we earned in 2016 for the full year. I would anticipate that we would leave more than that on the table. Thank you.
 I do have a question actually. So I'm concerned about the proprietary and secret nature of this information and the lack of transparency to the public. Can you speak to that?
 MSCI research is its intellectual property and it sells that research to money managers and other institutional investors who are interested in paying for it.
 That is what we have done contractually, and we have agreed as part of our contract not to share that information or to disseminate that information to other parties who have either not paid for it themselves, or in the case of the city and the members of the socially responsible investment committee and certain members of council, people who have signed a confidentiality agreement.
 It is the ratings are one piece of information that Treasury uses when it decides on how to invest the city's money. And all of the investments that we make are published in our investment portfolio statement that goes on the website. But what you're describing does preclude really explaining to the public what the criteria is before we make the investment.
 Well, there are a lot of criteria that go into the investment decisions that Treasury makes. I'm specifically referring to MSCI. To the ESG criteria. Mm-hm. We read, or we would be reading the investment reports that we are paying for and use that as part of our analysis and decision making in the- Which is not available to the public. Correct. Okay, thank you. Right. Is the information available after the fact?
 My understanding is that it is not. I'm aware that there are people who have been distributing links to reports that are proprietary. I don't know how those reports were shared, but if you read down to the fine print, there's a statement saying that the information is proprietary and that one needs the prior approval of MSCI before distributing it. Very good. Thank you.
 But the actual purchases become public knowledge, right? After the fact. When you buy, you just directed us to a site where we can look at what we've currently got invested. After you buy something according to this policy, that would show up, right? Sure, we publish.
 publicly our entire investment portfolio. So after the fact, one can read our line-by-line investment portfolio and see what we own.
 And it's my understanding that state law requires that the council adopt the investment policy every year. So there would be a backwards look at who did we invest with and is that appropriate? Yes, because we invest longer than 18 months, we're required to come to you each year for approval of the investment policy. And we understand how we need to follow the letter of the law, which is the policy. So all the decisions that we make are in accordance with the policy which you approve.
 So I'm going to put all my cards on the table, and I think they're probably pretty well known since I was the treasurer for the state for six years. My objective here would probably be to move us towards the perfect world of having no disputes or no debates about the ESG principles in which we're investing. Okay.
 And that of course would lead us towards a logical conclusion of no corporates. But as you just said, there's a real price to that, and I will quantify later what I think that real price actually is.
 On the flip side, there's continuing the SRI committee's work and having people make a decision about what companies they want to be in or not be in on the debt side. And as I've stated many times before, I think it's a very blunt instrument and ultimately for every corporate issuance, I can find you somebody who's offended by it. So I have problems with that side of the spectrum as well.
 and what you've brought us here is an intermediate solution. Ideally, somebody will be in the business with a thoughtful debt-related solution
 corporate SRI fund and I'm not sure any such beast exists yet but since we do bring this forward every year that will obviously be high on my list of priorities every year to see what's out there in the market and is there an opportunity for us to get on a corporate debt SRI vehicle that has very clear and explicit and detailed ESG principles then what we're doing is the council is
 is not cherry picking each individual security issuance, which trust me, we don't want to get into. I've been there, done that.
 But instead, we would hold a vendor accountable for living up to those ESG principles, and we would have the ability to be accountable to those principles. So I'm viewing what you're bringing us here as a thoughtful response to what the city council asked you to do and as an intermediary step. Obviously, there's lots and lots of people who want to testify and try and change my view of this. But prior to your testimony, I just wanted to be honest with people and let them know how I'm currently thinking about this.
 I wasn't here last year. I know that there was a contentious debate around our investments, and that is why you were directed to limit to government bonds. I remain a little confused about MSCI.
 I'd say it is, I guess, an improvement over an absolute free-for-all with no regard for what companies we're investing in. But MSCI is more about risk management than it is about our shared values and ethics. So just for clarity, if the investments are made public...
 the public will know that those companies fall above our floor of BBB. But that sounds like a violation of our confidentiality agreement with MSCI. It's not? No. All right. Thank you.
 So to be clear, would that be your intention then, to publish that information? We will continue to publish the month end report of the city's investments. So anyone can pull up this report and see what we own. And everything that we own will always be in accordance with the policy. Sure. Commissioner Galey, do you want to comment on the table first or let's invest money, whatever is your preference? I think I'll put them up now.
 I want to preface this by saying that while as Americans we live in a representative democracy, I think here in Portland with our 150 some odd citizen boards and commissions, our beloved Portland public process and our lively city council debates, that we have something that borders more on a participatory democracy. And I'm concerned that this
 resolution will diminish that. I want to honor the efforts of our socially responsible investment committee, and I want to preserve the council's ability to add or remove companies from its do not buy list in the future. Amendment number one. Boy, this is going to be fun. Nobody throw anything. By the way, this is how it's done. Yeah, this is how it's done. Thank you. Amendment number one.
 I would like to amend section three, item F, by adding, well, before I say this, I want to say, for weeks on end, the overwhelming number of emails and phone calls we've received at my office has been about this issue and putting specific companies on the do not buy list, and hence the first three amendments.
 Amendment number one, I'd like to amend section three, item F, by adding Nestle to the do not buy list as recommended by the socially responsible investment committee in their September 20th, 2016 report. I'm going to second all of your amendments even though I don't know what they are. And so that they can be put on the table.
 So they can be put on the table and people can testify on them. So Commissioner Udaily moves, Commissioner Fritz seconds. We'll call that Udaily one. All right, shall I keep going? Please. Okay, thank you. Amendment number two, I'd like to amend section three, item F, by adding Caterpillar to the do not buy list as recommended by the socially responsible investment committee in their September 20th, 2016 report. Again, seconded for the purpose of discussion. Commissioner Udaily moves, Commissioner Fritz seconds.
 We'll call that Udaily 2. Amendment number three, I would like to amend section three, item F, by adding Bank of New York Mellon to the do not buy list as recommended by the socially responsible investment committee in their September 20th, 2016 report.
 Seconded for the purpose of discussion. Moved by Commissioner Udalli, seconded by Commissioner Fritz for discussion. We'll call that Udalli three. And amendment number four, I would like to amend section three, item F, by reinstating the language.
 From time to time, city council may approve the addition of specific companies names to its do not buy list, at which point investment officers are not permitted to purchase securities of the companies that have been added. Any existing positions of these companies need not be sold. From time to time, city council may approve the removal of specific company names from its do not buy list, at which point investment officers are permitted to purchase securities issued by these companies.
 Second move by Commissioner you daily seconded by Fritz you daily for very good Any further questions before we go to public testimony anything else? treasurer the the revised section 3f is
 With the section that reads direct investments are not to be made in debt securities issued by colon companies on the carbon underground 200 list as updated and Walmart was meant to absorb if you will the do not buy list and
 So rather than have the do not buy list be a standalone separate document, the intention was to, I can't think of a better verb than absorb, but combine the do not buy list names with the policy itself, just for background.
 I'm sorry, so would the practical implication of supporting amendment four be to eliminate the provision around the carbon tracker 200? No, it's more a procedural comment that by adding back the language that references the do not buy list,
 it creates a secondary document called the do not buy list whereas the approach that I had put before you today was to actually embed those names in the policy itself. The purpose of the amendment is just to preserve our ability should we choose to add or remove items from the list. I'm
 reticent to give up that ability. Commissioner Fritz? I think we can always, you can't bind a future council member and also we can always add things by council vote. There's nothing that says.
 That it can only be done at the first of the year, is that correct? Or the- No. It can be done any time. Right. So I don't know that it's actually necessary to have that language because it's council's right to change its mind or add things as new information becomes available. The do not buy list would still presumably come before council as a resolution. The way that this was initially drafted, those names are embedded in the policy itself, which also comes before council.
 Don't have a copy of the carbon underground 200 list. So I have no way of knowing who's on the list. I
 That actually used to be public, and they've moved to a subscription model as well. But except for the top ten names, which you can access on their website, for our purposes, the majority of those 200 names are foreign firms that do not issue U.S. dollar debt that we would be eligible to purchase, except for two names, Chevron and Exxon.
 Those were the two names that were eliminated from the investment pool if you will for eligible investments previously and We can the intent would be to periodically go check that website unless there are funds made available to actually subscribe to the Database may I ask how much how much does that cost approximately? I haven't looked into that. I'd be serious. Thank you So I think I have an amendment. I want to offer to I
 What is the total dollar volume right now of our corporate bond investment portfolio? Right now? Just a snapshot. Between corporate bonds and commercial paper, we're at 530 million. I guess the amendment I'll put on the table is that we would eliminate from our investment policy commercial paper and corporate bonds altogether.
 And I'll second that for discussion too. Okay, so we'll call that Saltzman one. And that is moved by Commissioner Saltzman, seconded by Commissioner Fritz. Just to clarify on this, that would be not investing in any corporations, right?
 Correct. So I just want to comment to everybody. The mayor made a very astute observation when we were talking about this yesterday that that leaves investing in US Treasury. And I'm not all that confident that the US Treasury is a particularly good thing to invest in right now.
 So to my earlier point, and that's why, as you know, I have my views on this, and I'm willing to admit my view is probably the minority view here. The city of Berkeley, California has just declared that U.S. issuances are not socially responsible. So once again—
 For every investment you push across this table, I'm going to find somebody who's opposed to it. Jennifer, can I ask you a question on the Saltzman Amendment? As a practical matter, how long would it take for us to be out of corporate securities? The weighted average maturity of the city's portfolio right now is 460 days. So a little over a year.
 So it will take a little bit longer than a year for the portfolio to turn. And what will be, again I'm focusing on Dan's amendment. Given if you take those securities out of the mix and you focus on what's left.
 Treasuries, for example. What's, again, the hit to the total return, annual return in the second or third year? We are currently earning about 1.1% on the city's portfolio net of costs.
 And if we eliminate corporates, the hit in the first year is likely to be about 20 basis points. And it will continue in the second year. I would like to check on that, but I would say probably another 20 basis points. So between- What's a basis point? A basis point is one one hundredth of a percent. So there are 100 basis points in a percent. So- Thank you. I just wanted to make sure we weren't getting into treasury speak. Thank you. Yes. So just-
 I'm not great with numbers, let me just see if I get this right. So we're talking somewhere between two and four million low and high end? Probably low and high end over which time? In two or three years we'd see our income reduced by somewhere between two and four million. It's probably greater than that because the balance in the portfolio will likely be higher.
 And interest rates will likely be higher as well, so spreads will be higher. Okay, and then I guess just to complete the picture as we're thinking through all these options. Currently, the income that we get from our portfolio is used for what purposes? Every part of the city has a fund in our general ledger.
 and those funds have balances in them, whether it is Waters payments of receipts from Water Bureau customers, whether it is parks, their SDC monies, every fund has a balance, and Treasury allocates interest to those funds
 based on the investment portfolio. So we push out interest to every part of the city that has cash so that at the end of the year, we are, Treasury, is at zero. Okay, and can you give us an approximate percentage then
 the impact on the general fund as opposed to the other funds? I want to go back and check on that. I don't know the dollar. Just what's your what's your gut sense in terms of a fraction? I couldn't do that. Okay, but every part of the city will feel that. Any further questions for right now? The treasurer will obviously be sticking around until I don't feel right to public testimony if we could. I'm starting to see a show of hands how many people would like to testify or sign up.
 I've got 42 on the list. Okay, so why don't we do two minutes and see how we go with that? Why don't we start with two minutes and see how we go with that, and if you have not signed up but would like to, you still have that opportunity to do so. The first three, please come on up, are Rod Such, Diane Richardson, and Susan Haywood. They'll be followed by Diane Dullen, Richard Toll, and Dee Pujaud.
 Good afternoon, again just state your name for the record and hopefully both green lights are on the microphones. And just go ahead and start over here if that's all right. Okay, my name is Rod Such and I'm with Occupation Free Portland.
 And I would like to start off by thanking Commissioner Udailey for her amendments to this resolution. With one proviso, we would really like to see Wells Fargo added as well to the do not buy list.
 With all due respect, Commissioner Saltzman, we do believe that retaining the socially responsible investment policy and the SRIC is the best way to proceed. It gives us a bully puppet to let corporations know when they are violating our values. And we can send them a loud message, we believe, a louder message, if we retain that socially responsible investment policy. Okay.
 The main thing though that I would like to speak to today are the deficiencies of the city treasurer's proposal. We're told that this resolution stems from a desire to end a contentious and divisive process and establish an objective process for determining the city's investments. We would ask, has democracy ever not been contentious?
 Have human rights ever not been divisive? And as a retired encyclopedia editor, I always understood objective to mean all-sided. In other words, you look at an issue from all sides. But this resolution is not all-sided. It calls for us to rely solely on a Wall Street firm. This resolution is also anti-democratic because it shuts out community input,
 It's non-transparent because it's based on proprietary reports that cannot be disclosed. It relies solely on the judgment of a Wall Street firm that gives zero weight to corporate ethics, fraud, and corporate tax avoidance. This resolution may also violate the Oregon Constitution by delegating a governmental decision to a private entity.
 and I'd like to call your attention to a written legal analysis submitted by Steven Goldberg of the National Lawyers Guild that reaches this very conclusion. So just in conclusion, I would like to say that we definitely appreciate the amendments that have been proposed by Commissioner Udali. So you're all on those two minutes? Yeah, but we make up for three minutes. Good afternoon, Mayor and counselors. My name is Deanna Richardson.
 I prepared for three minutes, so this might be a little ragged. Here we go. This past week, seven of those courageous women that were on the front lines at Standing Rock traveled to Norway as the Indigenous Women's Divestment Delegation.
 to engage with financial institutions and public officials, civil society groups and public forums, press and media to share their experiences, concerns and calls for international solidarity and justice.
 Michelle Cook, excuse me, speaking about the value of the Indigenous Women's Divestment Delegation, Michelle Cook, Diné human rights lawyer and founding member of the Water Protector Legal Collective at Standing Rock, explains, quote, making Indigenous human rights abuses visible is critical in ending human rights abuses against Indigenous people. As the representatives of the people of Portland,
 Excuse me, we have a right to expect that you as the representatives of the people of Portland will not shame our city by making us complicit in the harm, in the violence being done to indigenous women and communities. To do no harm ought to be our highest priority. Finally, most of the world is coming to recognize that anything we do here
 affects not just Portland, but has effects on millions of people and on the entire planet. I urge the City Council, whatever its reservations, to accept the recommendations of the Sustainable Investment Committee and to adopt the resolution put forward by Occupation Free Portland, which directs the city to put Wells Fargo and Caterpillar on the do not buy list. Make us proud of Portland. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. Good afternoon. I'm Susan Haywood, and we are the Raging Grannies, and we are going to be singing our testimony.
 is under attack and the right thing must be done. Which side are you on? Which side are you? Human life for profits. Which side are you? They gathered first at standing and now across the land.
 To keep the water and sacred sites from deadly corporate hands. Which side are you on? Which side are you on? Planet or the pie, which side are you on? Wells, Fargo, and Caterpillar bring us death and shame. They bulldoze and they terrorize, all in money's name.
 Which side are you on? Which side are you on? The people or the profiteers? Which side are you on? The citizens, torture our grandchildren, robbing us of life, tearing our heart, family to the stride. Which side are you on? Which side are you on? Human life or profits? Which side are you on?
 Thank you, raging grannies.
 So we had poetry this morning, and now we've got musical interludes. I feel like we're getting the whole deal here. Thank you for your testimony. Next three, please. Are Diane Doolin, Richard Toll, and Dee Pujad. Welcome, and I'm sorry you have to follow that. Good afternoon. That was great. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Diane Doolin. I'm a minister within the United Church of Christ, part of the Palestine-Israel network of my church, and part of Occupation Free Portland. The proposal to delegate socially responsible investment decisions is, in my view, a lazy alternative which deserves to be rejected. The community has done its homework to
 via citizen testimony and the socially responsible investment committee. The material we have presented to you is publicly known and well established. It is no secret that Wells Fargo sold bogus accounts to unsuspecting customers. We all know that Wells Fargo invests in private prisons which house immigrant detention centers. It is no secret that Caterpillar is facing criminal charges for massive tax fraud
 No one denies that Caterpillar tanks built to military specifications are used against Palestinian homes and families in the West Bank and used for cyclical violence against schools, hospitals, houses of worship, and civilian infrastructure in Gaza. And everyone knows Caterpillar is digging the North Dakota access pipeline. The action you are considering would deepen
 a culture of deplorable business practices, a culture now ascendant in our country, where human rights take a backseat to corporate tax breaks, deregulation, and morally blind submission to profit, and where stunning silence prevails regarding socially responsible values. The Portland community will not delegate our trust
 to Wall Street and a Wall Street firm which works in secret. You have been elected to make these decisions and to do so in the open. We know when we are being told to mind our own business, and this indeed is our business. Thank you. My name is Dick Toll. I'm a retired Episcopal priest, work with Occupation Free Portland and Seville in Jerusalem, which is a Christian organization.
 And I just have returned from two weeks ago with two weeks over there at a conference in Bethlehem on the subject of religious extremism relating to Jewish, Christian, and Islamic extremism. And I would like to read something of a document that we studied while we were there written by church leaders in Jerusalem in 2009. This is the introduction, and these are voices from Palestine, Israel.
 we a group of christian palestinians after prayer reflection and an exchange of opinion cry out from within the suffering in our country under the israeli occupation with a cry of hope in the absence of all hope a cry full of prayer and faith in a god ever vigilant in god's divine providence for all the inhabitants of this land inspired by the mystery of god's love for all the mystery of god's divine presence in the history of all people and in a particular way in the history of our country
 We proclaim our word based on our Christian faith and our sense of Palestinian belonging, a word of faith, hope, and love. Why now? Because today we have reached a dead end in the tragedy of the Palestinian people. The decision makers content themselves with managing the crisis rather than committing themselves to the serious task of finding a way to resolve it. The hearts of the faithful are filled with pain and with questioning. What is the international community doing?
 What are the political leaders in Palestine and Israel and in the Arab world doing? What is the church doing? The problem is not a political one. It's a policy in which human beings are destroyed, and this must be a concern to all. We address ourselves to our brothers and sisters, members of our churches in this land. We call out as Christians and as Palestinians to our religious and political leaders, to all the people of the world. So please hear this cry for help.
 I implore you to hear these voices from Palestine. As city leaders, we should not put our faith in investments that are adding to the burden of people that are under occupation. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 My name is Deep Hujad, and I'm speaking as chair of the United Methodist Oregon-Idaho Holy Land Task Force, which was established in 2013 as a means of educating churches and individuals about the reality of the illegal Israeli occupation of Palestine.
 In 2015, the Oregon-Idaho Annual Conference of the United Methodist Church voted to divest its conference holdings from Caterpillar, along with Motorola and Hewlett Packard, which I know are not under discussion here, because of those companies' numerous and longstanding violations of human rights. If anything, those violations are even more egregious now than they were when this resolution was passed two years ago.
 In addition to the well-documented destruction of Palestinian homes and farmers by weaponized Caterpillar bulldozers, Caterpillar has the contract to construct the Dakota Access Pipeline and is definitely in the running to build the wall with Mexico, which I would like to point out will be modeled on the separation barrier that keeps the Palestinians prisoner.
 The Methodist Church joined a long list of faith bodies, many of whom you have heard from or will hear from today, in aligning our beliefs with our actions. The city of Portland should do no less.
 To abdicate its duties to make investment choices based on social principles to a Wall Street company, rather than utilize the thorough, dedicated work of the socially responsible investment committee, is lazy and irresponsible. And I believe it comes at a high price, both morally and financially. The next three are Jamie Trinkle, Sonia Kowal, and Catherine Alder.
 And they'll be followed by Thomas Billman, Roger Wiedner, and Herschel Soles. That's 10, 11, and 12. You want me to start? Hi, my name's Reverend Catherine Alder, and I'm a pastor in the United Church of Christ. And I'm also a family therapist. And I know when a family is making a choice that will make the family unhealthy. This new financial policy or proposal is just such a plan.
 It goes against the very community values that we all share. That's about democracy.
 Each one of us has voted for you because of your character, and I call on your good character, your sense of community values, your honesty and openness and compassion to reject this financial plan. We must have an open democratic process regarding our city investments, where the people have a voice prior to money being invested.
 We need to be consistent with our words when we say no to the Dakota pipeline, then we don't invest in Caterpillar. Caterpillar is listed as an A on this MSCI Wall Street firm, and it's a horrible company in terms of Palestinian human rights.
 MSCI will not accurately tell us when corporations have crossed the line in terms of human rights, environmental issues, tax evasion, worker abuse, Palestinian rights, prison investments, immigration rights, indigenous people's rights.
 We cannot be the city of Portland as a shining city if we invest in a way that crosses those lines. I urge you to accept what the SRI policy was and the work of the SRIC as they did it for December 2016. Accept those findings. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. If I may, I'd like to play the testimony of Sonia Kowal, which is by video, but probably just for audio for you. Is that all right? Very good. Can I approach with her written testimony? Yes. Thank you. My name is Noah Sy. This is a testimony on behalf of Sonia Kowal. My name is Sonia Kowal, and I am the president of 7-H. Trust me. We don't have a video. Just the audio. All right. So can you all hear this?
 My name is Noah Symes. I am delivering this testimony on behalf of Sonia Cole. My name is Sonia Cole, president of Zevin Asset Management, a firm that has been investing responsibly for 20 years. Previous to my role at Zevin, I worked for a competitor of MSCI in the ESG rating space, heading up the US office of IRIS. I am concerned by the proposed investment policy, which removes the use of the Do Not Buy LID and suggests replacing it with a minimum ESG rating.
 Using these ratings as a sole determiner of social responsibility is overly simplistic. The use of ratings such as those provided by MSCI should be just one part of a thoughtful review. Most investment managers use these ratings as the starting point for further research. ESG ratings providers typically rely on information provided by companies, but this information is often stale, inconsistent across companies, and biased because it is based on what a company says about itself, which leaves potential for greenwashing.
 High ratings are more typically associated with more disclosure rather than better behavior. And when this information is aggregated across issue areas to form a single rating for a company, large distortions can occur. I know this from my previous employment. Thus, using a single rating as the sole indicator of social responsibility is deeply flawed. Instead, I would advocate for the approach used by the city's SRI committee, which builds upon MSCI's research by incorporating additional information.
 This helps yield a more complete and reliable picture of a company over time. The proposed policy still excludes the Carbon Underground 200, as well as Walmart, despite the company's triple B rating by MSCI. This implies that the Council understands that using minimum ratings alone cannot hope to convey the intentions of social responsibility without adding subjective measures of involvement in controversies. Portland should continue to be the thoughtful, progressive leader it has built its city upon.
 In the world of investment, ratings represent the start of a conversation, not the end. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, my name is Jamie Trinkle. I'm with Enlace and the Prison Divestment Campaign. I want to thank you for your amendments, Commissioner Udeli, but would also like to press for the addition of Wells Fargo to the Do Not Buy list.
 And lastly, in 25 other organizations in the Portland Prison Divestment Coalition representing the communities most impacted by criminalization have been asking city council for the last three years to stop investing in private prisons and their major investors, and more recently to stop investing in Caterpillar as destroyer of indigenous lives and lands from Standing Rock to border communities to Palestine.
 Members of our coalition organizations are more under attack than ever. Our organizations are scrambling to deal with dozens of detentions locally to fight the Muslim bans, working 10 to 12 hours a day to deal with the violence of Trump's agenda playing out here locally.
 The proposed investment policy, the treasurer proposed backslides from a system that city council didn't give a chance to work, the socially responsible investment committee. And it replaces it with an undemocratic secretive process that will allow city investments and companies financing and profiting from the racist, xenophobic, and climate-destroying Trump agenda.
 The proposed investment policy does away with a citizen socially responsible investments committee as well as seven socially responsible investment criteria including human rights and tax criteria. City investment decisions will be based on a Wall Street company's assessment of whether a company is engaged in practices so egregious that they gain media attention and become a financial risk for that company and its investors.
 This is not in line with the city's values, and it's union of support of becoming a sanctuary city, of supporting fossil fuel divestment, of asserting support for Standing Rock. What local governments can do at this time to protect their immigrant, black, people of color, and queer and trans constituents, and indigenous communities in the environment is to create safety at the local level, which is a tall order, but also to cut off financing for the hateful and over-leveraged Trump agenda.
 So we need Portland City Council to do more than lip service for the causes that it supports. And we sincerely hope that you will take the opportunity today to adopt a robust, democratic and transparent social responsible investment policy that includes Wells Fargo on its list. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to respond to Ms. Trinkle and Mr. Such.
 Due to proprietary information, I'm not allowed to say why Wells Fargo was not included as an amendment. And I think it's an example of why this is not good public policy. And I do want to add that I fully support divesting from Wells Fargo. Next three please. Are Thomas Bealman, Roger Weidner, and Herschel Soles.
 And they'll be followed by Sandy Polshek, Ron Buell, and Harriet Cook, 13, 14, and 15. Good afternoon. My name is Tom Bileman. I'm a member of the Palestine Israel Network of the United Church of Christ. And from the very beginning in our discussions with the city about Caterpillar, I've heard statements like this. Nothing we do will have any impact on Caterpillar. Portland is so small that nothing we do will even move the dial.
 If true, that rationale would serve as a convenient excuse to continue business as usual. But the facts tell a different story. What you see here is a list of companies that have ceased, partially or completely, investing in the military occupation of Palestine. This includes some very large corporations. Some as large or larger than Caterpillar.
 Veolia Transportation, annual revenues of 30 billion, has completely exited the Israeli settlement business. G4S, the world's largest for-profit prison company with 618,000 employees, has announced plans to cease all business in Israel. Orange, the French telecommunications giant, with revenues of 44 billion.
 exceeding those of Caterpillar has completely exited the Israeli market and I could go on and on but for time let's take in all of these companies on this list have withdrawn part or all of their investments in Israeli military occupation let's take Veolia as an example like Caterpillar
 Veolia appeared to be heavily entrenched over many years in profiting from the Israeli military occupation. Yet one by one, cities and towns just like ours voted to divest their holdings in Veolia or to decline business contracts with Veolia. Cities like Boston and St. Louis, Yolo County in California, plus cities in the UK, Scandinavia, Europe, and in Australia declined.
 Which city was it that broke the back and triggered Veolia's complete withdrawal? We don't know. What we do know is that Portland has the opportunity today to be a significant voice in a struggle that will inevitably succeed. Please do the right thing. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Push this button. Is the green light on? Green light on. Thank you. It's good. Just Herschel Soles, just kind of a concerned person that's followed this issue for a long time.
 And I'm really kind of imploring to get a strong statement from the city council on racism. This kind of goes back to a production of a play, a similar situation, production of South Pacific back in 1946. They were under pressure from investors to excise a song from the play because it mentioned racism. The song that they wanted to excise was you have to be carefully taught.
 It's a song about racism.
 Excuse me. Now it turns out the producer, not the producers, but the directors and artists won out. The song was kept in. And I just want to give you the last part of the song here because it involves racism and even why it exists. This is the last part. You've got to be taught before it's too late, before you're six, seven, or eight, to hate all the people your relatives hate. You've got to be carefully taught.
 And I understand you people are under similar pressures, pressures for profit, campaign contributions, but I'm just kinda asking you to kinda go beyond the profit concerns and do the right thing. Make a strong statement in this very, very bad climate we have right now. A 5-0 vote would be a strong statement against racism. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Yes. Well, thank you, Commissioner, Mayor and the commissioners for having this. For those of you who don't know me, I'm a former attorney, public prosecutor. Forty years ago I was the government. I ran the consumer fraud department in the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office. I was the 1998 Oregon Reform Party candidate for governor. I've been going after the corruption that's going on in the system for trying to speak in these courtrooms about innocent people in this community having their children, their
 staking from the insurance star chamber type proceedings i've been arrested now twenty three times many times violently for three hundred days in jail they put me in the insane asylum holding me down sticking needles in me trying to shut this thing up as a form to keep me from talking about this problem i said
 I was the son of Leo Widener, retired deputy chief of the Portland Fire Department. I was taken home from the hospital, I'm told by father, by he and Terry Shrunk when they worked in the first aid car 78 years ago. So I've been around a long, long time in this community. Father said, leave it better than you found it, son.
 and that's what i'm focused on doing is restoring constitutional government to the citizens of oregon if you do not have constitutional courts you have no constitutional rights what we have in the courts today are administrative courts judges have told me that harlow lennon thomas tongue wallace carson that they're administrative courts quasi judicial administrative courts is how they characterize our courts that's not what i learned in law school i had as i said i had justice tongue
 Harlow Lennon, Robert Jones as instructors 50 years ago when I went through. Ethic, ethic, ethic was what they preached. That's what we the citizens are demanding. We're demanding strict, clean, constitutional government. I've left you notices that I've served on all of these public officials.
 I've had judges on the stand. I subpoenaed eight judges. When they prosecuted me, I've been prosecuted 12 times. I subpoenaed the judges in. When they came in, tippy-toeing in, I've charged them on the bench. I've named you judge, I've named you. They sat there red-faced. Four of them I've charged on the bench, and three of those, including Dorothy Baker, Lee Johnson, got up and ran out of the courtroom.
 That is not what a civil society provides to its citizens. We want clean constitutional government where the rights of the citizens are protected. The constitutional rights are strictly observed by you public employees and all the rest of you public employees on the public payroll that citizens' rights are protected. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you for your testimony. Next three are Sandy Polchuk, Ron Buell, and Harriet Cook.
 And they'll be followed by David Delk, James Olfink, and Josh Burkhart, 16, 17, and 18. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Sandy Polishek. I'm speaking, I'm with 350 PDX.
 Mayor Wheeler, three weeks ago at the town hall on climate priorities, I was delighted to hear you so strongly commit to 100% renewables. And to declare climate change our most pressing issue globally and that Portland will be the line of offense in these times when acting locally is more important than ever.
 Obviously, continuing to prohibit investments in the carbon underground 200 companies remains another important piece of our local climate strategy. We were glad to find the proposed policy does so.
 Commissioner Udailey, I was equally delighted when you spoke at the same forum of a feasibility study on a municipal bank, acknowledging that Wells Fargo is bad and all the available large banks are just as bad. We understand it will take time to disengage from Wells Fargo.
 but we can place them on the list to make clear our intention and that we are consciously moving in that direction. I urge you to do so.
 Caterpillar is another company we must have on that list. In addition to not meeting our SRI guidelines, they're helping build the Dakota Access Pipeline. To be consistent with your resolution opposing the pipeline and supporting the Standing Rock Sioux in their struggle, we need to cease further investments in Caterpillar. Anything less would demonstrate that your resolution
 was not a genuine commitment. In addition to adding these companies, I strongly urge you to keep the committee active.
 These citizen volunteers work diligently for a year doing a thorough and excellent job. Their dedication and hard work needs to be honored, but even more importantly, the city needs the committee's oversight to ensure their investments are aligned with our values. And I know my time is up, but if you would permit me, I do have the answer to your questions on the Carbon Underground 200.
 I'd appreciate that. Yeah. I wouldn't call it a subscription. I would call it a registration. And that as long as you are not asking to register for commercial purposes, it's free and it's almost instant. My...
 compatriot sitting next to me signed up on her tablet during this meeting. And we'll get full access, so you can all personally do that. Thank you. So thank you. Am I correct in deducing that the purpose of that list is to list out fossil fuel companies? What it lists are the 100 coal companies and 100 gas and oil companies with the largest
 reserves in the ground, it's part of the acknowledgement that we need to keep those reserves in the ground. And so is that what the language in the proposed resolution is acceptable to 350 PDX? That portion of it. Thank you. I think the resolution needs to go farther. Yes, but in terms of the fossil fuels, I just wanted to check. Thank you. Thank you Sandy. Good afternoon.
 Hi, I'm Ron Buell from Portland. And the Dakota Access Pipeline aside, Wells Fargo is still the city of Portland's bank, holding $35 million of the city's $40 million in current deposits, not to mention its profits from underwriting on matters like our recent housing bonds.
 Wells Fargo Bank over recent years created as many as 2 million unauthorized fake credit cards and fake checking accounts. This came about because the bank tied compensation to how many accounts employees could open. This fraud took down the bank's CEO. He was fired. But on the way out the door, Fortune reports,
 He has been given a golden parachute immediately worth $133 million to him in his retirement. And this was despite a $41 million clawback. So Wells Fargo CEO Stump first fired 5,300 mostly low-level employees before he himself was fired.
 Quote, everybody knew there was fraud going on and the people trying to end it were the ones who got in trouble, says one manager who was fired. Maybe some of you saw the movie The Big Short. In a recent speech, New York Reserve Bank President Bill Dudley compared Wells Fargo's recent problems of fraud to the 2007 mortgage crisis, which was also fanned by flawed incentive systems at Wells Fargo.
 These incentives encourage brokers to turn out as many loans as possible, even if the borrowers couldn't pay them back. Wells Fargo lobbying efforts led to deregulation, and in some policies on mortgage-backed securities, subprime homes and credit default swaps helped lead to the crash. After the 2007 meltdown, housing prices fell by a third. Families lost $7 trillion in home equity in the U.S. More than 5 million homeowners lost their homes.
 So Portland Forward is joining today with the Alliance for Democracy to ask the city to do a feasibility study on the creation of a public bank. Join Seattle, Oakland, Philadelphia and Santa Fe in looking carefully at the public bank feasibility and the success of the North Dakota State Bank. You're going to hear some more testimony on this today because
 When you're discussing a no-buy list and city investment policies, it's directly relevant to our need for a public bank. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hi. I want to thank you all for caring. That's something that's so clear, being a Portlander, in how you function.
 My name is Harriet Cook. Most of what I'm going to say has already been said. I'm a member of the Portland Public Banking Alliance, and I'm testifying first in support of keeping the socially responsible investment committee alive as an independent and essential research panel to assist the city in making sound ethical decisions about how to best invest public dollars.
 Second, I'm here to ask for the feasibility study for a Portland public bank.
 In addition to concerns about fraud and ethics that we've heard about, there are also significant risk to public dollars in banking with these institutions. Under the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 2005 and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2013, derivative holders in banks are given first priority to a failing bank's assets over depositors that includes government revenues and pension funds.
 We need some place else that's safe, that doesn't do derivatives to put our money. A Portland public bank could be modeled after the Bank of North Dakota, which was established almost 100 years ago. Benefiting from its bank, North Dakota was the only state in the
 in a continuous budget surplus since the banking crisis of 2008, generating a whopping 25% return on equity even in 2008. In 2009, it was in the unique position of reducing individual income and property taxes by a combined 400 million. In 2011, they were reduced by 500 million. Every year from the banking crisis,
 Through at least 2012, the Bank of North Dakota reported a return on investment of between 17 and 26%. Portland does have options to investing in Wall Street banks, and I encourage the city to complete a feasibility study to establish a Portland public bank that can support our values and the sustainable vision of our city. Thank you.
 Thank you. And just by way of an interesting footnote, I have spent a lot of time on the phone with the folks in North Dakota about their banking model. And certainly a number of you in this room had had many conversations with me over the years down in Salem.
 This is where these two issues intersect, interestingly. Check out North Dakota's investments and where they're making those returns. You will not be happy. I understand their connection with the oil, the fossil fuel industry, and I hear you.
 That said, in Ellen Brown's book, which is about all I have to go off of, she compares North Dakota to California, which has even greater oil reserves. And their investments and their state funds went down during this time. So, yes.
 We can model after, but we in no way want to be like the Bank of North Dakota. We have different values and we need a bank that supports those values and those businesses. Thank you, I really appreciate it. Thank you. I'd like to add that my office has begun working on a resolution to conduct a feasibility study for a municipal bank. It's going to take us about a month.
 to craft it. It's more complicated than you might imagine and it is just a feasibility study, but it's the first necessary step. Thank you. Next three, please. Are David Delk, James Olfink, and Josh Burkhart, and they'll be followed by Hyung Nam, Christopher Cutruff, and Ginny Virginia Feldman. That's 19, 20, and 21. Good afternoon.
 Yeah, my name is David Delka. I'm president of the Alliance for Democracy. I really appreciate the fact that you're holding this hearing and considering how we invest our money. It's a really important topic. I want to be really clear that I totally support including Wells Fargo and Caterpillar on the do not buy list and support the maintenance of that list.
 as it exists now. I am totally opposed to the city treasurer's proposal for how we should move forward, yet fails to take into account the criteria used by the socially responsible investment committee in making its recommendations. One concern that is always asked is if we're not going to invest and put our money with Wells Fargo, what are we going to do with it?
 the answer, at least in one state, North Dakota, was to do a public bank. And so we've already discussed some of this. So I will note that the bank helped the state escape the 2007-8 credit crisis that
 befell most of the rest of the nation. During the past 20 years, it's added nearly 400 million to the state's general fund, provides student loans at less than 2.5%, refinances student debt, saving students millions of dollars. It works in cooperation with local community banks and credit unions to fund business development and provide mortgages.
 Because of those relationships, partnerships, the Bank of North Dakota expands the lending capacity of those local financial institutions. So I have a nice little story here, I won't go into it, about how it really helped during the great flood of 1997 in Grand Fork.
 And a nice illustration of how it worked in North Dakota versus how it worked in Minnesota. So I also want to call for a feasibility study for creating a municipal bank in the city of Portland. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you so much for having this hearing and for revisiting this important topic and most importantly considering the input of the public in this decision making which I think is something that is and should be valued and continue to be valued in Portland which is why I think that Commissioner Udailey's comments about continuing to involve the public in our investments is so key and having transparency throughout.
 So I'm James Offsink and I do encourage the council to add Wells Fargo and Caterpillar to the do not buy list and to continue to maintain that list and to
 solicit public feedback in adding or removing corporations from that list. But I also feel like this exercise is a little bit like whack-a-mole. I mean, to your point earlier, Mayor Wheeler, for every investment that we could be making in a private corporation, there are likely going to be people who are unhappy with it. Which is why I think it's so important that we invest in a long term solution, which is a public bank where we have complete control and we can invest
 in accordance with our city's values.
 I think that we need to decouple what is good for us financially from what maximizes Wall Street profits, which is the investments that we're limited to right now. And if we were instead, instead of funding fossil fuel expansion, exploitive human rights abuses and corporate corruption, we should be using our investments to support local affordable housing, sustainable infrastructure and quality education.
 One of the values, as David touched on, that North Dakotans have found important since the late 1960s is education, which is especially significant to me because I spent 10 years working at PSU in the Office of Student Financial Aid, and every day I would help people mortgage their futures with companies like Wells Fargo, who would routinely charge them upwards of 12% interest rate for a private student loan. The Bank of North Dakota offers comparable loans at 2%.
 Which is not to say that that's what we'd do. Maybe here in Portland we'd decide to focus on building up our affordable housing stock, reinvesting in our schools, or transitioning to sustainable energy or something else. But the point for me is that we should be investing in line with our values and the only way to do that long term is to control that through a municipal bank. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having us here. My name is Joshua Burkhart and I tend to work with people on goal setting.
 The goal I assume today is to represent the people of Portland who have continuously voted in favor of public education, environmental conservation, and local community. These are not the goals of Wells Fargo or other large national banks. Corporate banks are only interested in their profit margins, it's how they work. While a Portland public bank would be operated for the interest of public services has been pointed out by my colleagues here.
 It would be run by professional banks, not politicians, and it would be run for the benefit of the city and community. A municipal bank can decrease costs of working with large banks like Wells Fargo, saving taxpayers considerable sums on critical infrastructure costs like roads, parks, and affordable housing. Earnings from the bank from loans and interest could then go back into feeding the city coffers rather than the profit margins of Wall Street, as we were considering at the beginning of this meeting about our investment potential.
 Our government revenues are too large to be deposited in local community banks and credit unions. A public bank would not compete with these smaller community banks, but would instead partner with these local institutions on joint loans with city money, creating jobs right here in Portland. When I work with people on their goals, we have to look at where they are applying their energy and how they can invoke their own autonomy.
 Currently, Portland is allowing its finances to be used for the interests of corporate banks and their profit margins. Meanwhile, in Washington, we have a government which does not share the same values as Portland when it comes to public education, low-income housing, the environment, and so many other parts of life that Portland holds dear.
 A public bank would increase our own autonomy in the face of this national opposition to our goals, while capitalizing on our own finances and putting them to good use for us, rather than the use of Wall Street. We would propose that a Portland public bank be aligned with the spirit and ethics of Portland, with a board of directors appointed by the city council. We have drafted a resolution proposing an independent $75,000 feasibility study, like those already approved in Seattle, Oakland, Santa Fe, and Minneapolis.
 I hope you will give it your thorough consideration. Thank you for your testimony. Next three please. Arhong Nam, Christopher Cutruff, and Ginny Virginia Feldman. And they'll be followed by Patricia Colberg, Curtis Bell, and Dr. Herman Frankel, 22, 23, and 24.
 Good afternoon. I'm Hyung Nam, I'm one of the members of the Portland Socially Responsible Investment Committee that's been in suspension since the December resolution. And I just want to say that I'm here to speak for the majority of us that are on the committee that I've checked in with. And you're going to hear from another member as well.
 all want to urge you to adopt our report that we made last September and continue the SRI process. I want to just other people have already talked about some of the points so I just want to start with just thanking both Commissioner Eudaly and Fritz for those amendments and I think that's one possible option here if we add also not only
 the companies that you already talked about, but Wells Fargo and Amazon as well. But I really think that we can go with the full list that we had, the nine companies that we came up with last September. But let me just back up and start with
 Just saying that there's no way to avoid controversy. I mean, if we want to be a fossil fuel city, if we want to be a sanctuary city, that's controversial as well. And I would like us to stay true to those kinds of values by being consistent with our investment policy as well.
 First of all, I want to point out, I mean, I'm one of the people that have spent hours and hours researching, reading, just stacks in my garage. I have stacks of these MSCI reports. And I did find some publicly available examples of MSCI reports that I sent out to all of you. And if you look at the one that I sent about Wells Fargo that's publicly available from their website, it shows that the ESG, right, has 14 categories.
 Out of those 14 categories, seven of those categories are given a zero weight. It's a dog and pony show. So it has no effect on the rating. So for example, business ethics and fraud has zero weight. Wells Fargo got a 2 out of 10 on business ethics and fraud. They also got a low score on labor management. But because it's given a zero weight, it distorts the rating that they get. But I think more importantly than that,
 What's really important is naming these companies. In terms of financial impact, we're talking about a very small financial impact, but these companies all invest millions of dollars for their corporate image, PR, and that's what matters. If we quietly just buy or not buy certain securities, no one's gonna know that. When we name these companies,
 Even, for example, Wells Fargo, none of those securities mature until, some don't mature until next year. One matures in June. There'll be so little financial impact. But saying that the city of Portland, as a sanctuary city, names companies like Wells Fargo, Caterpillar, Amazon, Nestle,
 Thank you, I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up. It's a really important difference. So I want to urge you to adopt our resolutions, or adopt our report. We put nine companies on the do not buy list. Following Treasurer Cooperman's plan, we'd not invest in 11 companies.
 By following our report, you would have more options to invest in companies to get the returns until we find a viable option. Thank you. Like creating a public bank. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Sorry to push you along. I apologize. I hate doing that. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Christopher Kutcheff, for the record. I just want to track that the one person that's spoken in support of this resolution is the treasurer and former vice president of Goldman Sachs herself.
 And so just speaking again this acronym kept being referred to MSCI MSCI This is Morgan Stanley capitalist And this is this is
 Completely anti-democratic. It completely removes any type of transparency in this process. And I really want to hear follow-up from Commissioner Udeli about exactly why you can't speak to why Wells Fargo is not included. That is offensive.
 And I just want to speak one more, like, I called days before this session was supposed to go. I've been following up since the last decision was made at the end of last year, and the responses that I got from the treasurer's office were completely, like, opaque, and, like...
 I don't understand how that is the kind of accountability we need when talking about managing public funds. I heard the treasurer refer to a lot about like potential lost profits. We weren't investing in these corporate securities before 2009, so it was a mistake on y'all's part to start doing it. It was gonna like sacrifice and compromise our ethical and socially responsible standards. So we need to figure out a way to do that.
 And again, just referring to those profits, like, at what point, like, are we cool with, like, funding weapons manufacturers that are dropping drone bombs on Syria just because, like, oh, we wouldn't want to lose those profit margins? Like, where is the line drawn? And the fact is, Wells Fargo absolutely should be that line, and these companies should be that line, and there should be transparency and sort of public accountability with this process.
 And I really appreciate your statements and the fact that you said you were considering other banks besides Wells Fargo for the city's banking. That needs to happen, but you all need to follow up with policy as well. I appreciate your time. Thank you, appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi, City Council, Mayor, thank you very much for listening. It means a lot to us citizens. I am Dr. Ginny Feldman.
 and speak as a pediatrician of 40 years in Portland. I also represent Lutherans for Justice in the Holy Land of Portland Central Church, and I'm a grandmom of two Portland youths. When I told my granddaughter I was also going to speak as a member of the group Physicians for Social Responsibility, and she said, nana, is there a group for social irresponsibility?
 I didn't want to answer, well, it's a little complex. Yes, your city might do away with, might ignore the conclusions of a citizen power. Many of your task force who determined your mommy's tax money should be invested in certain socially responsible ways.
 Your city might now have those dollars supervised by a Wall Street company with no openness and those, therefore, of unprovable commitment to the socially positive, except perhaps in retrospect.
 My church is Lutheran for Justice and the Holy Land, joined with other organizations here today because the corporate forces, which help Israel's illegal oppression of Palestine, intersect with other faces of oppression in America. Caterpillar builds that dirty Dakota pipeline and lands sacred to Native Americans, while it sells bulldozers built specifically for demolishing houses and olive trees.
 Hewlett Packard made the surveillance systems which turned Palestine into a prison while being a top US seller of weapons and mass incarceration systems. GEO influences national immigration and policing policies, turning detention centers and prisons into multi billion dollars per year profits while jailing people of color at vastly higher rates.
 The intersectionality of all this is demoralizing to me as a Christian, as well as to my Jewish husband who takes Yahweh very seriously in his concept of justice. I don't want to tell my grandkid, a child of color, that yes, her city does have an environmental school, but will now make money off banks who finance a dirty energy pipeline who disregards centuries of abuse of our Native Americans.
 Please, City Council, Mayor, don't make me try to have to explain away to my grandkids that their city is moving away from a well-studied approach to social responsibility. Thank you. The next three are Patricia Kohlberg, Curtis Bell, and Dr. Herman M. Frankel, and they'll be followed by Michael Bosley, Maxine Fuchsen, and Scott Trinkle, 25, 26, and 27.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for letting me come and speak today. My name is Dr. Patricia Kullberg and I'm speaking today on behalf of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. I had the privilege of serving for two decades at Multnomah County Health Department as medical director and assistant health officer. During my tenure there, the agency earned a national reputation for aggressively promoting progressive health measures and programs,
 often far ahead of other like communities. Some of these programs were highly controversial, for example, needle exchange, which facilitated the exchange of the dirty needles used by drug addicts for clean ones without charge and without judgment. It was a program that many opposed as encouraging drug abuse, but not only did it save lives, it got people into treatment.
 I say all this to point out that the health department was fearless in its promotion of good public health practices even in the face of political and financial risk.
 The city council now has an opportunity to model the same kind of leadership and moral courage by keeping in force the socially responsible investment committee and adopting its do not buy list. The proposal before you today closes the door on the SRIC and its recommendations,
 And leaves in its place the ESG rating of the MSCI proprietary Wall Street product that is closed to public inspection. This is neither a democratic nor transparent solution to the problem of socially responsible investment.
 Scrutiny of what is known about ESG suggests that even firms like Wells Fargo and Caterpillar could pass muster and end up in the city's portfolio. But how would we know since the rating methodology is not available for public review? This looks to me like a way to dodge the tough moral questions around how to responsibly invest the city's money. I see a lot of hand wringing in the proposal about the potential financial impact
 of adopting this or that ESG rating level instead of locking these decisions into place. Why not allow the community their right to weigh in on the potential risk and loss? Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon and thank you very much for listening to all of us. Thank you for being here.
 My name is Curtis Bell. I'm a member of Portland's First Unitarian Church and president of Unitarian Universalists for Justice in the Middle East, a national Unitarian organization that works for the human rights of Palestinians. I'd like to persuade you to reject the proposed investment policy and keep the socially responsible investment policy that you supported and voted for unanimously in 2015.
 The proposed policy does not allow for citizen input into how their money is invested. It does not even allow for city council input. It passes total control of investments to MSCI ESG, a Wall Street firm that essentially ignores the environmental and human values that are deeply held by the people of Portland.
 Regarding City Council input to investments, I draw your attention to the same paragraph that Commissioner O'Dailey spoke about at the beginning. There you'll find a deleted sentence from the current proposal. The sentence reads as follows. From time to time, City Council may approve the addition of specific company names to its do not buy list, at which point investment officers are not permitted to purchase securities of the companies that have been added.
 Thus under the proposed policy, even the city council would be constrained from making decisions on investments. I realize that Commissioner Fritz said that they could supersede this and make some decisions on investments. But why put into your investment policy this constraint and denial of the city council's ability to make its decisions on investments?
 I draw your attention to the opening paragraph on the three goals of the proposed policy that the treasurer spoke about at the beginning and the fact that all of them are financial in nature. Nowhere does it state that social value should be considered, but I think we all agree from your investment your disinvestments in fossil fuels and Walmart that social value should also be considered. I draw your attention to the fact that had this proposed policy been in place three years ago
 The city could not have sold its shares in fossil fuel corporations because the large fossil fuel corporations such as Chevron and Exxon have very high rankings, AA or AAA under the MSCI rankings. I also want to just briefly speak to the public witness aspect of this that some others have spoken to here.
 This is not just about a small amount of investments that the city has, the small amount of money, how that might affect Wells Fargo. Can you do it? Passive private divestment from Wells Fargo doesn't bear on the public witness to put pressure on Wells Fargo or to expand a movement against it. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for all that you've done for all of us year after year.
 Thank you in particular for having made the decision to formulate Portland's socially responsible investment goals. Thank you for having created a committee, Portland Socially Responsible Investments Committee, that would make binding resolutions to the council for a do not buy list. For that, I'm deeply grateful. And together with many others in this room,
 I want the people who I vote for in the future to serve on our city council to be committed to using these criteria of corporate and social responsibility when investing our money. If you take a look at the bottom line of the written testimony that Carla kindly distributed to you.
 For the next few years, as a physician, a pediatrician in Portland for the past 51 years, I want to invite you to consider, rather than relying only on MSCI reports, we must continue to make use of the work of our Socially Responsible Investments Committee.
 I don't have to say that again. That's the last line on the page that you have in your hands. Why is this important? Because the work of Portland's Socially Responsible Investments Committee consists of making recommendations based on a study of the social responsibility of a corporation's actions. The work of MSCI consists of predicting a corporation's future stock market performance, period.
 Now, if you take a look, again, next to the last paragraph on the page you're holding. If you can just close it quickly. I'll close it quickly. If you take a look at the MSCI report on a bank that is heavily invested in DAPL, the Dakota Access Pipeline.
 $365 million investment. You'll see that that company's rating was recently reduced to A from AA because of high employee turnover. The report from MSCI is silent.
 about that bank's involvement in the Coda Access Pipeline. Relying on that report would provide you and us with no information about the
 About the activities of that bank. That's why we continue to need the involvement Thank you. I believe Commissioner Fish had a question potential. Dr. Frankel It's been a while since we've seen you and I want to honor your presence here today by asking you a question And it is an honor to have you with us today And you have helped us shape good policy over the entire time of my service. So, thank you, sir. I
 I want to just ask your advice on a very narrow question. So in the fall, faced with a lot of uncertainty about where we would land and the relative weight that we would give to certain standards, Commissioner Fritz and I came to the view that we should put a moratorium on corporate securities in place. And that had its supporters and its detractors, but I thought it –
 At least I think the concept was sound. The challenge that I have is that I have a lot of friends who care about these issues, my labor friends, my...
 Look at companies and look to see how many unfair labor practices are there, how many picket lines are there. And the AFL-CIO has a do not buy list that has its own methodology. My friends who care about the environment have a screen. I was the author, I think, of the amendment that said we're going to weight human rights as a significant factor. And on and on and on. So it became clear to me that I had lots of friends who had lots of strong feelings about some aspect of this issue.
 And I began to question the utility of us being in corporate securities altogether, to honor as many of the voices as I could. But here's the narrow question I want to ask you. The treasurer's proposal, as I understand it, after you do all the screening, results in about 21 companies that we could invest in. And I'll ask Jennifer when she comes back if that's correct. But after we do all the screening, my understanding is there are approximately 21 companies that would be eligible for investment.
 Under Commissioner Saltzman's proposal, we would just say no more corporate securities. We'd look for the best returns we could off of treasuries. And perhaps someday there would be a Citibank or some other mechanism for an investment. Where do you, as between, if I had to give you, ask you to sort of force rank those two, get out of the business altogether of corporate securities.
 Or the compromise proposal on the table, I guess you would call it, or the proposal on the table which would reduce it to about 21 and then would allow us year to year to evaluate. Because our investments would be a matter of public record. Do you have a strong feeling as between those two? As a pediatrician, as much as I love the children and their families, I make my recommendations based on my understanding of the facts rather than my feelings.
 And everything that I've written on this page is in the context of, and I say, let's talk about these facts. Given the question, I would say we need more information. Given the question, and I don't mean to be running away from the question. You never do run away from questions, sir. Given the question, and thanks for the time to respond, I would say what I said is,
 For now, we have to continue to make use of the work of the Socially Responsible Investments Committee while we are gathering and not rely solely on the recommendations from MSCI. While we are seeking enough information to be able to answer your question on the basis of data rather than on the basis of feelings.
 And you know, perhaps, well, I think everyone on the council knows that I have plenty of feelings. But as far as the making of decisions that affect people's lives, the feelings that I have for the people move me to put in the energy to gather the information that makes it possible to make the best possible decisions.
 I embrace you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next three, please. Next three might be Michael or Michelle Bosley, Maxine Fuchsen, and Scott Trinkle. And they'll be followed by Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Katrina, and Will Singer, 28, 29, and 30. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Along with everyone else, I want to thank you all for taking a long time to hear us out. I really appreciate it.
 I want to thank Commissioner Udalli for her amendments, which I heartily endorse and support. My name is Michelle Bolsey. I'm a member of Jewish Voice for Peace, which should tell you that I'm here in favor of divesting from both Caterpillar and Wells Fargo. However, I want to use my two minutes to talk about governance. I want to address the proposed change from what's currently an open and fairly democratic debate about the use of our tax dollars.
 known to some of you as messiness, to a closed, opaque system in which the public is left out, and private discussions with tainted entities determine how our dollars are spent. The application of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to local governance is a fairly recent idea. I think it maybe comes out of the Vietnam War. But its role... I'm sorry. But in its role as a sanctuary city, Portland has recognized that human rights have to be guaranteed and protected at every level of government.
 and all the more when other levels of government have chosen to violate that trust. The SRI committee is a recognition of this fundamental fact and an important step in the right direction. It's done its work responsibly and carefully. As a forum for civic debate, it brought new and worthwhile voices to the forum. I can think of no worse plan of action than to dismantle it in favor of one of the Wall Street firms whose malfeasance cost millions of people their livelihoods,
 their savings and their homes and brought us to the very brink of economic disaster just a few years ago. It's the city's responsibility to examine, to debate and to illuminate for its population the use of people's money. In contrast to what the city treasurer said a few moments ago, the city also carries a responsibility to apply a vision of human rights and justice to its financial activities, something which was clearly missing in her report to you.
 where a period of financial considerations were not only uppermost, but they were in fact the only things that mattered. Yes, these are contentious issues. Sometimes it gets messy trying to reach an agreement. We live in complicated times. But if you move to offload these questions to a closed-loop process with a partner for whom profitability is the number one concern, you'll have dealt a blow to the democratic process and to transparency in the governance of this city.
 I urge you to keep the SRI committee and to reject the resolution. And if I can take ten seconds to address your question. I think there's an enormous value, as has been said by a few other people, to the public aspect of our policy and to the way in which we articulate to the country and to the world at large, in fact, because Portland certainly is on radar all over the world, the way in which we examine our
 our investments and how we align them with our principles as a city and as a people. As a people who share, I think broadly, many, many values. And I think those values are values that we can promote through the policies that we adopt, rather than simply do something privately as a city. We'd rather say publicly to the world, here's what we consider important, and here's why we consider that important. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Thank you.
 My name is Maxine Fuchsen. I'm speaking on behalf of Jewish Voice for Peace and LASE and Occupation Free Portland in favor of reinstating the city's socially responsible investment policy in ways that allow our city to align our dollars with our values. I also want to commend Commissioner Udeli for your amendments and appreciate them strongly. And more important than speaking for these groups, I want to say that I'm also speaking for over 2,000 Portlanders
 who signed petitions over the last year to put Caterpillar on the do not buy list and in support of a socially responsible investment list. Those petitions were delivered to the city council last fall. In this current political landscape where our national leaders are disassembling our democracy, our local actions for justice take on even greater importance.
 Socially responsible investment is one tangible way that we enact being a sanctuary city. Additionally, socially responsible investing is an expectation to which we hold our public institutions. So a suggestion for a robust SRI policy.
 One, decide and prioritize our local values. Through a transparent process involving city leaders and citizens, create an annual process prioritizing the values we want to see reflected in our financial decisions. Parameters such as human rights, including the rights of Palestinians, not supporting private prisons or the desecration of our environment are those that Portland has spoken to.
 That is an essential process in an SRI process, an essential step. Two, determine then how to align our investments based on those values.
 Identifying screening tools that are researched, transparent to the public, and that can be specific to the criteria and values that we Portlanders determine as important. MSCI simply is not that tool. If you want to consider human rights as just one criterion, MSCI gives Wells Fargo a perfect 10 out of 10 score on human rights. That's just not acceptable.
 If the past SRI committee was not satisfactory, make adjustments. But this policy is going 100% in the opposite direction. And sadly, it fails us and it moves Portland away from aligning our socially progressive values with our investments. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Scott Trinkle. I'm just a Portland resident.
 That's the most important thing. That's great. I can tell you the tenure of this room is much different than it was in December. In December, it was very contentious. Everything I'm hearing today is a room full of people that are looking for socially responsible investments, moving towards social justice.
 So in 2014, when the council formed the SRIC, they charged them with recommending which securities not to invest in. Seven volunteers worked two years to complete that task according to the guidance that were given by the city council. When the recommendations were made and council took no action, I saw that as a slap in the face to those individuals and an insult to the hard work they did. Instead of acting on the recommendations, the council decided to table all investments.
 Taking no action is not the same as taking a stand. Getting out of all investments ties the hands of the treasurer. Last December, Portland had the opportunity to be a leader in the fight for social justice, but instead of taking a step in the right direction, the prior council chose to stand fast and delay taking any action. The City of Seattle had the courage to act in accordance with the convictions of its people.
 There is an anti-corporate progressive movement gaining strength in this country. The people are fed up with the establishment and the corporate controlled government. Dominoes are starting to fall. Seattle was first, perhaps Portland could be the second. People want social justice, Portland wants social justice, and we ask the council to act to reflect the will of its people. What we need to do is to keep the SRIC and follow the recommendations.
 One question I do have for councilman Newdaily is if you could please explain to the room more so about your inability to talk about why Why you can't discuss
 So if she would like, I'll let her do that at the end of the testimony. But let's try and respect the time of people who are here on public testimony who might have to get somewhere. Thank you. My time is done. Thank you, sir. Just as a point of information, if we had not taken the action in December, then Walmart and fossil fuels would be, that do not buy list would have gone away. So it wasn't that we did nothing. We continued not buying Walmart and fossil fuels, and we directed that this further discussion was going to happen. Yeah, of course.
 That was just my lay opinion. Thank you, sir. Next three, please. Are Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, Katrina, and Will Singer. And they'll be followed by Carol Landsman, Ned Roche, and Ethan Skarl, 31, 32, and 33. And I'm sorry, could you remind me how many people signed up? I'm sorry, I'm too.
 We have about eight more. Oh, very good. We're doing great. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Katrina Scotto DeCarlo, and I was a member of the Socially Responsible Commitment or the SRIC committee. And I'm here today because I underwent emotional battering on that committee. You guys know what it's like to stand between the public in controversial decisions. You get beat up.
 That's not why I was emotionally battered. It's because I had to read about crap that I hope no one in this room has to read about to figure out what is the worst of the worst corporations that were possibly investing in. We did not choose every company. Like Coca-Cola, everyone knows Coca-Cola sucks, okay? So like we're talking about the worst of the worst. I had to read crap about like
 Thai fishermen that were 22 hour shifts on one meal a day They get beat up for insubordination killed if they disobey their captains They're kept on prison islands when their fancy feast cat food fish for Nestle gets pulled into court They put them on a prison island so they can't escape. That's just one example. It was this much pay
 let alone all the research that all of my committee members did outside of that committee. We're pissed off. We know what these investments support. I knew about Amazon, I knew about Walmart, and I didn't even know about LIBOR. And now I fucking hate those banks. Okay? Angry. If we keep supporting this, we are supporting the worst crap in the world and we can't keep doing it. We only put nine on the list. That's incredible.
 We went to look at, we had our next committee meeting and we looked at the list and we said, you know, we kind of got the worst of the worst. I guess we'll just go through these ones, but we might not have a recommendation this year. Unbelievable that you guys didn't adopt the report, the full report. Unbelievable to me. I cannot believe that I read all of that stuff and you are choosing to put our tax money into all of those corporations. It's appalling. So stand up and do the right thing today, right now. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Thank you very much for that. My name is Will Singer. I've lived in Portland for over 27 years. Portland's my home. But as all of us recognize, the time has long since passed when we can concern ourselves alone with local affairs, whether it's the financial and moral impact of the prison industrial complex,
 or the vast economic plundering of Wall Street generally, and Wells Fargo in particular, or the violence directed against Palestinian and Bedouin peoples, we can no longer pretend that we're not involved. Our investments, those of our city, are central to that involvement. I'm a member of Jewish Voice for Peace, and I recall learning as a child how my grandparents, with two children,
 being among the fortunate, managed to escape from Germany in the 30s. The knowledge of that family history instilled in me the imperative that we cannot know injustices against our fellow human beings and remain silent and do nothing. In 1977, I lived on a kibbutz on the border with Gaza, but it wasn't until 2003 and again in 2007 that I traveled to Gaza and to the West Bank.
 In 2007 visit to Gaza, I interviewed children who had been maimed by an Israeli artillery attack in their home in Beit Hanun. There is simply no way that any Wall Street investment advising company is going to bring that kind of experience to determining which companies qualify as socially responsible. Ever.
 I've seen directly how corporations can corrupt the very concept of social responsibility. You are infinitely better served by the advice you have heard from your constituents in these hearings than you will ever be by the institution recommended by our city's treasurer. The Do Not Buy List, the Socially Responsible Investments Committee, the people who have worked so tirelessly, thank you,
 For this, for so many months, deserve our support and must be made a permanent part of our city's governance. Thank you very much. Thank you. And Mr. Collar, I also thank you very much for your work. The next three are Carol Landsman, Ned Roche, and Ethan Skarl. And they'll be followed by Peter Starzinski, Patrick O'Hern, I believe, or O'Hallan.
 Diana Rempe, that's 34, 35, and 36. Good afternoon. That's a hard act to follow. Both of those two speakers really moved me. I'm Carol Landsman and I'm with Jewish Voice for Peace. And I have to tell you that I am gobsmacked that you are considering the treasurer's proposal.
 Less transparency going for more transparency. Less public involvement going for more public involvement. Why would you want to do that? This is Portland, Oregon. That goes against everything. It's just the wrong direction. The Socially Responsible Investment Committee, which must be an anagram for
 Morgan, well never mind. They have the same initials pretty much.
 did a fabulous job reflecting, reading, listening to people, and making decisions. And now you wanna replace it, or you're thinking, let me say, I'm sorry, you're thinking of replacing it with a Wall Street business firm, a for-profit Wall Street business firm. Why would you do that? This is Portland, Oregon. This is progressive, wonderful Portland, Oregon.
 I guess all I have to say is why would you do that? This is Portland, Oregon. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Ned Roche. I'm a member of Jewish Voice for Peace. Mr. Roche, yeah, thank you. A recent national survey found that 92% of rabbis believe investors have a moral obligation to avoid investments that harm society. Portland should lead the way in that kind of socially responsible investing.
 There are moments in life where we can take a stand and step towards greatness. We respectfully demand that you take such a step and put our money where our values are. Obviously, we need investments that yield good returns, and we need investments that reflect our social values. We do not seek one at the expense of the other. As a world-class city, we want and need both. They are not contradictory.
 We were one of the first cities to have a socially responsible investment policy, and now other cities are following our lead. Some for example, divesting from companies that even so much as bid on construction of the wall with Mexico.
 With the proposed resolution, however, we take a giant step back as socially responsible investing is not even mentioned. It needs to be. We should add to the resolution that investment should reflect Portland's values. Just as there is no reason to compromise on rate of return, there is no reason to compromise on values. Thank you.
 retain the SRI policy, divest from Wells Fargo, Caterpillar, Amazon, and Nestle, support human rights from Standing Rock to Palestine. That would be the moral thing to do and an inspiration to cities around the world. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Ethan Skarl. I do appreciate the hearing. Thank you for being here. Thank you very much.
 I'd like to speak to the risks, some of the risks involved in investment and bank deposits even, even though I do not claim any expertise in risk in investments myself. And in fact, I have some doubts as to whether such expertise actually exists. The returns, oh, there we go, the returns that
 were quoted, the multi-million dollars that we achieved from those investments. It should be kept in mind that those were achieved in the context of a rather amazing bull market. And that if we had invested in 2007, there's quite likely that we would have suffered some considerable losses.
 The market is risky and a lot of the factors that led to the crash of 2008 have not been corrected and they are still in place. So it wouldn't be out of line to see the current bull market as a bubble. So I strongly recommend focusing on the bull market.
 COMMISSIONER SALTSMAN'S RECOMMENDATION THAT WE EITHER KEEP OUT OF THE SECURITIES MARKET ALTOGETHER OR NOT INVEST ANYTHING THAT WE'RE NOT PREPARED TO LOSE. ALSO, INVESTMENT IS ONE THING, BANK DEPOSITS IS ANOTHER, AND ONE PERSON PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED THE BAIL-IN PROBLEM THAT IF A BANK COLLAPSES, IT CAN GO TO
 potentially go to depositors to recover some of that money. And some of the largest banks have been using risky instruments to make money quickly and they are vulnerable. And so our money would be vulnerable. In short, I thank you. We've got...
 You've got the recommendations of the committee, which has been thorough, transparent, and well documented. I urge you to adopt it and retain the committee. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next three are Peter Starzynski, Patrick O'Hearn or Helen, I believe is the last name, and Diana Rempe. And they'll be followed by Wayne Wignes, Ed Averill, and Ted Gleitschman, 37, 38, and 39.
 Hi, thank you for the opportunity to testify. Thanks for being here. My name's Dr. Patrick O'Haren. I'm a resident of North Portland and board president of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. I'm here to express the support of Oregon PSR and my own support for the city engaging in socially responsibly investing, for the socially responsible investment committee, and to urge the inclusion of Wells Fargo to the cities do not buy list.
 As a surgeon who takes care of critically ill and injured patients, I'm acutely aware of the need to delegate work in order to be effective and efficient. However, when a patient isn't doing well, then that's a situation where I need to be more involved. I need to do the extra work to take control of the situation and manage all aspects of that patient's care. In the case of the City of Portland, we delegate investing our money to banks like Wells Fargo, a bank that helped fund the Dakota Access Pipeline.
 and is among the banks most heavily invested in nuclear weapons, with over $10 billion invested, according to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons. It's hard to imagine we're going to see different outcomes unless we change our process. Let's just consider the MSCI briefly. I think the Morgan Stanley in MSCI speaks for itself, as other people have mentioned.
 But I certainly don't think that an informed debate can be had on, let's say, a triple B rating when citizens don't even understand the criteria that are used to determine a triple B rating. It seems clear to me that we cannot continue to delegate how our money gets invested. We have an opportunity to line our investments with our values. It's imperative that we do so.
 It's hard to see how we can do that without a public bank. So let's utilize the Socially Responsible Investment Committee as a stepping stone to forming a municipal or state bank
 Where we can not only ensure that our money is not being used poorly, but we can actively spur and catalyze positive social progress. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Dr. Diana Rempe and I'm a psychologist. I live in North Portland and I'm also a member of Oregon Physicians for Social Responsibility. Thank you so much for having us here today. I really want to thank Commissioner Udaily for her amendments and Commissioner Fritz for her support of these amendments.
 I also want to urge the council to add Wells Fargo to the do not buy list and to maintain the socially responsible investment committee rather than using Morgan Stanley to make our financial decisions. I understand that decision making around investment is complicated. But I was in Standing Rock this year for quite a while. And what I witnessed there was not particularly complicated, it was really simple.
 It was really wrong. It was wrong in regard to the utter disregard of indigenous rights and sovereignty. It was wrong in regard to repressing peaceful protest by a highly militarized and violent police force, and it was wrong in regard to environmental justice.
 So it breaks my heart that the Dakota Access Pipeline is going forward. But while I'm sad, I'm really furious that my money and our money as a community is what helped to fund the, through the city's investment in Wells Fargo is what helped to fund this project.
 As so many have described so well today, it's our moral responsibility to exert control over the way our money is invested. And to that end, I have much more trust in a committee made up by informed citizens than I do in a private Wall Street firm like Morgan Stanley Capital Investments.
 I urge you to both reinstate the socially responsible investment committee and to add Wells Fargo to the do not buy list. And I commend you for conducting a feasibility study about public or municipal banking. I think that's really exciting. So I hope that you all will do the right thing today. Thank you. Thank you.
 Was there a Peter Starzynski? I think he had to leave. Thank you. The next three are Wayne Wignis, Ed Averill, and Ted Gleickman. And they'll be followed by Edith Gillis and Stephen Denny, the last two.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. So I'm not the most educated on the issue, but off the bat I find it somewhat contradictory. One week we have a room full of people saying affordable housing, a process which companies like Caterpillar thrive off of, and then this week we're saying don't support them. But the thing is their products lie on the shelf. So I'm not the most educated on it, but I question the effectiveness of just blocking them.
 And I surmised from the testimonies that a lot of the argument against them is their involvement in Syria. So automatically, I had to run home and get this book for you, Ted, that I've been talking about so much. And I hate to be a broken record, but just so we're all on the same page in this room, this book is called The Battle for Home. It's by Marwa Al-Sabouni.
 She argues how infrastructure used to serve as a source of group identity and belonging for people over there. And developers, greedy developers and the politicians over there who didn't care, they allowed it to get ran through and this disrupted that. And she makes a very good case about how that contributed to the war. And hopefully it's obvious how companies like Caterpillar just thrive off of this whole process.
 Now, I'm a grad student in the physics program at PSU and I'm just now getting into material science and so I'm aware of how much materials have transformed our environment, our construction process in the last few decades. When you pop open these books, you find things like ways to make it more efficient, more cost effective for the producer. But you don't find them concerned about what effect this has on people.
 And so it produces a lopsided trade-off. It makes it easier for them to build, more cost effective, and then they turn around and sell it to us for an exorbitant price. That takes away our leverage. And then in turn, by her own arguments, it's killing people in Syria. So I just want to throw another tool in the toolbox, set some standard for the materials,
 and then the city of Jackson, Wyoming, I heard through word of mouth, they told Walmart, you know, we're a town that builds off of all natural wood. And Walmart said, you know what, well, I'm not okay with that. So they didn't build there. And it's funny how you set some standard and then these companies, they're suddenly not all interested. So yeah, I had one more thing, but I forgot. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Good afternoon.
 Mayor, members of council, I'm Ted Gleichman here representing the Oregon Sierra Club. And we focused on process with three main points. Keep the SRI mission and committee and strengthen it and broaden it. Focus heavily on transparency and of course maintain the legally always available options to make changes as you go down the road. I will say though for the record that
 We are on record about Wells Fargo. We're deeply committed to environmental justice, economic justice, and social justice, and evolving in all of those areas. We see those as inextricably linked. And to close out a portion, at least, of the day with
 a moment of perhaps inappropriate levity. I need to reveal that I am personally a member of a semi-proprietary corporate data network. I subscribe to the Wall Street Journal. I see the value to good quality data, but I also see the value to multiple sources. I also get the New York Times, and I have a magic phone. There's a lot of information available.
 And it's imperative that the transparency issue be front and center for your considerations. Saltzman 1 is fascinating. What might be called Udaly 0, the Wells Fargo issue, is an interesting unfinished question here. And it is, I think, in many ways shocking.
 that there is a proprietary issue that prevents you from speaking to the realities of the city's relationship to Wells Fargo. I spend a lot of time on contract law and negotiations, and there's always at least two sides of the table. And if there is something contractual with Wells Fargo at this point, please consider revisiting that. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you, sir.
 And the last two who signed up are Edith Gillis and Steven Denny. Very good, thank you. Thank you for your patience. We can make a lot of money with a short term gain from corporate investments. But we have to be careful that we don't have long term catastrophic losses and destroy our city. For example, let's build a nuclear power plant in downtown Portland.
 We would have utmost profits because we don't have to pay liability. We could have a private prison and have prisons like labor. We wouldn't have to pay for labor costs. With our federal government now, we're going to have gut and DEQ. They don't have to pay healthcare. They don't have to pay liability for their students or for the environment. We can make lots of money off of that. Let's privatize our schools.
 We wouldn't have to pay for our teachers, we wouldn't have to pay for special ed, Tom to Gifted, ESL, you know, lead in the water. We could just make lots of money. Get rid of our local businesses. Let's get rid of all these different pesky tenants and just have prison slaves, no one to pay taxes, no one to come in and fight for this being a livable environment.
 No one to support your moral development and care about you when we have the big earthquakes? Let's stick with the socially responsible investment committee. Let's get out of corporate Wall Street gambling and let's move towards a municipal public bank. Thank you for your testimony. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Eddie Rowe. I've lived in the Portland area since 77.
 I was mostly an engineer while I was here, and I became a climate activist when I found out what was going on when I retired. So my hot button amongst all these things is climate. But the morality of all of the suggestions of why you should go to the committee and support that kind of input, I believe in very much. But in terms of climate and what we're dealing with,
 You notice that the 200 companies on the 200 company list, they were there because of the amount of reserves they held. Reserves are the issue in climate. We have five times the amount of carbon that we can burn and have a planet left. And we could burn the amount that makes the difference before 2050 without blinking an eye. We've got to do things very different
 between now and 2050 in order to save ourselves. And that's a pretty high moral issue. So these companies are valued on the stock market largely on the basis of the reserves they hold. And in point of fact, those reserves establish their stock market value so much that they go out and spend tens of billions of dollars per company on having yet more for next year.
 even though we know they better not burn it. But for the sake of their value, they assert that they by golly are going to burn it. So we've got this horrible situation with fossil fuels. The other side of it is when we get to green energy, it's going to be basically no cost for the fuel. You make a capital investment and you get the energy
 just about for free. It's coming down at an exponential rate in terms of cost. The kind of burst in efficiency that that's going to produce over the next 20 years is going to be amazing. And so not only we... Every investment in fossil fuels is a bad one right now. If you're investing in the stock market in fossil fuel producers, it's bad, right?
 If you're investing in producing natural gas, so-called, a methane-fueled generation plant for Oregon, those things all are based on 30- to 50-year investment terms. They can't make it. They've got to be shut down long before then. They're bad investments. So we need to get to the other place and...
 This process can do it, and you're headed in the right direction if you do. Thank you, sir, appreciate it. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, I'm Steven Denny. A human resources manager once said to me, businesses are to be amoral. The only concern of a business is to make money for the shareholders. Like a business, the city has a responsibility to invest its funds wisely to maximize return on investment.
 The city must also recognize its moral responsibility to the citizens and to the environment in making decisions reflecting the ethics of the community. I commend the mayor and commissioners for your work in taking moral stances on issues, such as the Dakota Access Pipeline and immigration.
 Concern for our environment and ethical business practices cause previous administrations to place on the do not buy list fossil fuel companies and Walmart.
 In the proposed resolution, the elimination of the paragraph in Roman numeral 3, section F, beginning with, from time to time city council may approve the addition of specific company names to its do not buy list, is not helpful to having a civic discourse on moral issues of our day.
 Removal of this paragraph places investment ahead of ethical decision making as it relates to the city of Portland and the people who live and work here. The city is not a business, it is a government with the moral responsibility for oversight and administration on behalf of the people of the community it represents. Thanks.
 Please continue to hear the voice of local citizens. Do not eliminate your ability to make investment decisions that reflect the values of the people of this city. Continue using an open, socially responsible investment process and SRI committee. Support their work. I thank you for all the time you've taken to hear many voices today.
 Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you. Please, please, please incorporate the entire occupation-free Portland investment policy.
 Thank you for your testimony. Now before you close public testimony, are we done with the sign up sheet? That's all who signed up. I got a texted message from former Commissioner Steve Novick that he asked me to read into the record. He says, Commissioner, I didn't realize two things, that the hearing on SRIC was today and that relying on the ratings agency would make the do not buy list secret, although I should have guessed that.
 Although I sympathize with the desire to leave the socially responsible decisions to the ratings agency, the secrecy is a problem, but it's still better than nothing, but does partly defeat the purpose. Jennifer said that it was okay to say that the ratings influenced the choice. I think there were two problems with last year's process. There was no limit on the number of companies that could be named, and both the committee and the council were put through an emotionally fraught process.
 My suggestion would be that the council itself fix a number of companies, say three, publish a proposed list, and invite public comment on whether other companies are worse than those three. That limits the amount of painful process and forces a comparative discussion about the worst actors. To which I responded, are you okay with me reading this into the record? And he said, yes please, sorry I'm not there, I just realized now that you were in a hearing. So that's now on the public record.
 Very good. Thank you, everybody, for your testimony. We appreciate it.
 Colleagues, I'll leave this to your discretion. My recommendation would be that we go through the amendments first, if that suits your pleasure. Or alternatively, if we wanted to have the treasurer- Well, Mayor, I'd like to answer the Wells Fargo question first. Mayor, let's have a council discussion first. Okay, that is fine with me. I want to just clarify one thing for the record. I'm sure Treasurer Cooperman would have rather been just about anywhere else than here today.
 And I want to remind you why she is here. She's not here because she wanted to be here discussing this issue. She was here because the city council directed her to come up with a strategy and be here and present it. And I know that she and her team spent a considerable amount of time putting the proposal together. Whether you like it or not, I know that their intentions were very, very good. The city of Portland.
 is very lucky to have Jennifer Cooperman as our treasurer. She's an extremely qualified woman.
 For this position, she comes to us with a diversity of backgrounds. She has served the public as a volunteer using her expertise in many capacities. She served on the 529 College Savings Plan Board for a number of years. And as those of you who are involved in it know, it's been a really successful nationally ranked program.
 So I'm very grateful that we have her and I just don't want people to think she's coming here and espousing a particular view or value. She's doing her job and she was directed to be here to do that. Mayor, can I- So I want to be clear on that. Can I supplement that? Thank you. I just think it's, look first of all I appreciate that we've had a very civil dialogue here today and quite honestly,
 This is the way Portland has hearings and has discussions. And the last couple months have been challenging as we've tried to bring, incorporate new voices into this body, but also trying to balance the rights of other voices. And I appreciate that this has been a very profound discussion and very thoughtful, and everyone has been respectful of all the opinions.
 I do think that though I have noticed a trend, and I think it's a bad trend, where rather than challenging the substance of the matter before council or challenging the position of a council person, we have from time to time strayed to directing our criticisms to staff people. And I must respectfully dissent from that approach. Because it gets us nowhere, because staff don't care votes up here.
 And because we want to have a variety and diversity of inputs from staff. God help us if all we had was a monolithic set of inputs. We would not be making good decisions. And I wasn't planning on saying something, but I also thought it was unfair that Jennifer's credentials –
 were minimized. I know the work she did before she came to Oregon, and she was one of the chief regulators of banks on behalf of the state of New York. She was the public watchdog regulating banks using her financial expertise, and she took a fraction of the pay she could have had in another line of work to represent the people of New York. And so I would just say, and I'm not here to
 I think it's fair game to attack a proposal. It's certainly fair game to hold us accountable. But I would hope that we would give the professional staff the benefit of the doubt and not bring them into these conversations or question their motivations because I don't know where that leads other than to a very bad place. And I would say that in my experience, I am incredibly grateful for the service of the people who work for the city.
 and provide pure public service. It's not an easy time to be in public service and I am very grateful for the people who do serve. So I wanted to express that. The mayor has left us. I think he's had quite enough of this issue. But I do hope when he comes back we can have a
 Madam President, I hope when the mayor comes back, we can have a discussion before we take up any amendments, because I think this is worthy of a council discussion. I would like to address the questions and perhaps confusion regarding my statement about Wells Fargo. And I'm not trying to be coy. I'm trying to not divulge proprietary information. I support divesting from Wells Fargo. I did not...
 feel that it was necessary to specifically name them today. And the reason why is the thing that I can't discuss here due to confidentiality. But I'm happy to offer a fifth amendment. So many amendments today.
 Well, I'm going to suggest that we consider Commissioner Saltzman's amendment first, and depending on the outcome of that, I will happily add a fifth. So the mayor is back. I'd like to say a few more things. First, I want to thank the Raging Grannies. Is there a Raging Granny left here? I aspire to be a Raging Granny.
 One day, I think I might have one foot in the door already. And singing is perhaps what is going to preserve my sanity over the next three years and nine months I have left of this term. I want to thank all of you for singing. That's right. One of these days, I'm going to bust out and sing you all a song from the dais. Not today. Not today.
 I want to thank all of you for being here today. This can be a challenging and sometimes isolating job, and I definitely did not feel alone today, and I really, really appreciate you being here. And is there anybody against the SRIC or for SRIC?
 MSCI strictly adopting their standards. We received dozens of emails and phone calls from constituents, and I believe we had one that was against adopting SRIC proposals. So I do feel that the prevailing sentiment throughout the community is that
 The public wants us to put our money where our mouth is. Mayor, when we met for the first time after the election, and you were surprised to see my face rather than Commissioner Novick's, my first question was about our status as a sanctuary city due to the threat of losing federal funds as per...
 our president's first 100-day plans. And you said that Portland would be a beacon of hope and set the standard for the rest of the country. And I would argue that we have an opportunity here to set another standard for how we invest our public dollars and how those investments align with our shared values.
 I don't have any investments. For the first time, I guess I do have a retirement plan. The one and only time I've ever owned stocks was in 1991 when I got married. My grandparents gave me 100 shares in AT&T, which I promptly sold because of their investments in South Africa and weapons manufacturing. And
 I haven't spent a lot of time worrying about my financial security or future, but I certainly cannot abdicate the responsibility to think about our city's security and future. And so my personal impulse...
 would probably be to withdraw all investments from any questionable institution, including apparently government bonds.
 As a commissioner, I do have a responsibility to be cautious and consider fiscal impacts, etc. I said earlier, I fully support and want to honor the work of the SRIC. And I would certainly support adopting their report. The reason that I made some individual amendments today, adding specific companies is I felt that it was more likely to get success on those.
 than to add the entire group. I think I've covered all my bases. Thank you again. So a question to Commissioner Udaly. I understand about Nestle and Caterpillar. Why New York Mellon? This was on a list, I believe, from Enlace. Is anyone from Enlace still here? Could you come up and talk about that pink? On their website, they have a lot of good...
 There's someone coming. Okay. It's all right. I didn't mean to put you on the spot. We have actually finished public testing. I actually had also a question for the city treasurer, if that would be all right. Certainly. Please. You wouldn't mind coming up, Treasurer Cooperman?
 And I also have been very impressed with your work over the years and very much appreciate your dedication to public service. I just want to clarify that the MSCI scores are not the only thing that you would make your investment decisions on, is that correct? Absolutely. So what other kinds of things do you consider?
 We consider the liquidity of the bonds, the structure of the bonds, the maturity of the bonds and how they fit into our cash management needs. The yield on the bonds, the call features, there's a variety of issues that we consider in the investment decisions that we make.
 And you have certainly sat through all the testimony both today and previously and so you're aware of the community's concerns. Yes. Thank you. And then if we were to go with Commissioner Saltzman's amendments and continue what we put in place as a stop gap measure, how much would that conservatively cost us?
 That would likely knock off 20 basis points to the investment earnings that were projected to earn for the rest of the calendar year. And then probably another 20 basis points for the following year. And if you give me a minute, I can do some back-of-the-envelope math for you. I didn't bring a calculator. So that's about $3.5 million, that 20 basis points on the current size portfolio. For this year? Yes.
 And then additionally for the year after. Additional basis points. Yes. Next year. Right. Thank you, I really appreciate that. Sure. That's all my questions. I have a couple if I can here. Jennifer, was I correct in stating that under the proposal that you've put forward, after you go through all the screens, there are approximately 21 corporate securities which we'd be eligible to purchase? Correct. Would you like me to walk through that? Do you mind?
 Our investment policy limits us to certain minimum credit ratings and certain maximum maturities for our corporate bonds. So we go on to a service that we also subscribe to called Bloomberg. It is an information resource that is widely used in the investment world, and we plug in and we say,
 spit out for us a list of all of the outstanding bonds that meet our credit rating requirements and have no more than three years to maturity. That kicks out a list of issuers that is 60 names.
 Then if I go through that and I eliminate what I call the small issuers, issuers like McLaren Healthcare Corp that probably has $10 million of bonds outstanding, that we will never see, we will never be offered, and they are not liquid. And another threshold that the money market funds use is a $300 million bond issuance for liquidity.
 So, if I eliminate the 22 small issuers and companies that have no ESG ratings, like my alma mater, Brown University, has a, it's either a 500 or a 300 million dollar bond issue, it's not ESG rated by anyone, if I eliminate that, then we're down to 32 issuers
 Then if we eliminate the companies named on the Carbon Tracker 200 that would otherwise qualify, we eliminate Walmart, and we eliminate all of the issuers that have ESG ratings that are below BBB, so BBB, single B, triple C, we're down to 21 issuers. That's the eligible universe.
 On any particular day when we have cash, there may or may not be bonds available of those issuers. And as those issues mature, the eligible universe gets smaller. Just so I'm clear under the proposal that you put forth, that would be 21 issuers. And the council in the future would be free to further shrink that list.
 Based on some of the- The investment policy comes to you every year regardless. So at the end of the day, it is always your decision about who we are allowed to invest in and not. And the other question I have for you is of the $500 something million portfolio that we're talking about here. The city's portfolio? $1.7 billion. No, but how much is currently invested in corporate securities? Oh, sorry, $530 million, sorry. So of that $530 million,
 That's all of the funds of all the bureaus. So they're embedded in all of the 28 or nine bureaus. So it would be in our utilities, in PBOT, blah, blah, blah, as well as the general fund. And you currently don't know how it's actually-
 And what I was given by my treasury team is that the general fund receives 5% approximately of the investment earnings. 5%. So they must represent 5% of the pooled earnings or pooled assets. So that 5% in fiscal year 16 was about $570,000 allocated to them as earnings. So that's important because right now what we're going through as a budget exercise is determining how to allocate the general fund.
 So that would be about 5% of the total. But these other funds, a lower return might necessitate cuts in programs or
 at the very least, would be considered a lost opportunity? It would likely be the former. We every year in the fall, Treasury issues an interest rate forecast for the bureaus to use in their budget development. So the bureaus come up with their estimate of what their cash balances are likely to be. We give them the interest rate that they can use to make their forecasts.
 So when we come back to them, whatever the council decides, we may need to adjust those interest rate forecasts. And if there is a decrease, then the bureaus will have less interest earnings to incorporate into their budget. It sounds to me like in a perfect world, you'd rather have that effective as of the new fiscal year. It, when you say it.
 What's the- Well, if there's any revisions that have to be made to fund balances and current CAL targets. We work, that doesn't impact us because we're just providing the interest rate forecast. It may be easier for the bureaus.
 to have that at the beginning of a budget development process. Thank you. Sure. I did have one further question, if you don't mind, Mayor. And that is, why did you pick the particular company for the ratings thingy? You mean the BBB? No, what- MSCI? Yes. In the, so prior to the Socially Responsible Investments Committee, there was a temporary Socially Responsible Investments Committee. The information about that committee is still up on the OMF website.
 The temporary committee interviewed or asked various money managers to come in who are active in this socially responsible space. And we asked them, tell us what you do. And there were two companies providing research that were consistently mentioned, MSCI and Sustainalytics.
 I approached both when the resolution passed directing me to procure research and Sustainalytics was not comfortable with the sharing of information to a committee And so we couldn't get past the contractual aspects of working with them. It also seemed as though
 that the MSCI research more closely aligned with the council principles that were passed early on in the process. Thank you. That's very helpful. Sure. So, Mayor, before we – oh, sorry. Well, I just wanted to give my perspectives before we get into the voting. I guess, you know, I offered my amendment to have us get out of the business of corporate security investment altogether. Really, not out of any kind of disrespect at all for what you're here today urging us to do,
 In fact, I have a lot of respect for what you're doing. But I also have to look at the opportunity cost. And I'm not talking about interest earnings. I'm talking about the opportunity cost on my time as a city commissioner. And I've spent four hours today. We'll spend four probably by the time we're through. Probably 10 to 12 hours in December, another four or five hours last September too.
 You know, there's a lot of issues that I'm not getting work done on today. We spent a night last night in the Lentz neighborhood hearing about the overwhelming challenges that neighborhood is facing in maintaining livability or achieving livability. There's a lot of problems. We got our homework assignments last night. I haven't had a chance to work on any of those today, but I am bound and determined to do that. I'm leading an investigation into whether Uber has deliberately...
 misled Portland regulators about its practices here in Portland. Haven't gotten anything done on that today either. Fixing our streets, you all approved under Steve Novick's leadership a 10 cent gas tax that we are in the midst of trying to invest in getting our roads fixed, getting our streets safe for bicyclists and pedestrians. The concern about our children's well being and my oversight of the children's levy is ongoing.
 as is the budget discussions we're involved in. And as important as this issue's are to you, I don't think the people in Lentz would say, you should be spending four to six hours today on this issue, as opposed to working on solving our livability issues. And so that's really where I'm coming from. It may sound selfish, you know, and in fact, when I was in graduate school, I served on that school's institutional investment responsibility committee. I led the charge to get us out of investments in South Africa at the time.
 So, I fully respect and appreciate what you're saying, but I think it's the wiser course to get out of the business altogether because I don't really want to have to do this once or twice a year and have the same discussion over 21 companies. We're talking about 21 companies. This is a disproportionate use of our time, in my opinion. And as much as, you know, I fear corporate America too. I fear the directions this administration is taking this country.
 And those are all things that we are going to be pulled on as a city council to take stands on. And when you start adding up all the things we're going to be taking stands on that some would argue are tangential to fixing potholes, then it becomes a real opportunity cost. And that's what I'm most concerned about. That's why I think it's best we just get out of the corporate securities altogether. And if I might just put my cards on the table as well. The Raging Grannies sang, which side are you on, human rights or profits?
 We've just heard that going with Commissioner Saltzman's amendment would take $3.5 million from the city's budget. And so that's an additional, that money is factored into the budget office's forecast. And it's going to pay for really good things that we need to get done for those potholes and staff and taking care of people. So I'm not, I just think all of this, the banks are...
 not wise or not necessarily completely on the side of the angels. I'm not convinced that we don't have a municipal bank now. So I think that what the treasurer has
 proposed, potentially with some amendments by Commissioner Udaly, does what you're hoping for, which is to set a standard which is somewhat flexible based on whether a company does better on the ranking and then they can pull themselves up into the range without having a lot of
 contentious discussions, which today we heard a lot about people asking us to ban Caterpillar. In December and before that, we had a lot of people who were very concerned about naming Caterpillar about their work supplying weapons in Israel. I will support the amendment to add Caterpillar because of their involvement in the campaign
 things that are in this country that we know of. I know that other people say that there's people on both sides of the other issue, but certainly the Dakota Access Pipeline, the wall are not things that I want to invest in. And so that's where I'm coming from is where is the right line and which other companies do we want to put on?
 Mayor, if I could. Commissioner Fish, thank you for your patience, yes. Well, this has been a fast, I mean, this is why we serve. I'm proud to be a commissioner of a city that I love today, and we're having an important conversation. And I also just want to acknowledge what Katrina Scato DeCarlo said. I did ask her to serve.
 And she's one of my heroes. She founded Support Land. She is a local innovator. She has done more to help small business and shine a light on makers and things that are going on in our community than all but maybe two other people who are also her close friends and collaborators. So I appreciated what she said and her passion.
 I would also say though that I think through this process which Commissioner Novick launched and that you've participated in and has led to these conversations, I would hope that all of our thinking has evolved. My guess is you may be slightly disappointed with me today, but I hope you don't feel like I've disrespected your work because my thinking has grown enormously through this process.
 I also want to comment that someone, a couple people talked about, you know, the messiness of democracy and the implication being we wanted to avoid that. We live in the age of Trump. I mean, democracy is especially messy now. And the cities are really the place where things are happening. And my job description changed a little bit. It's messier now because of what's happening in Washington. And I take that as a source of pride. We are...
 We're a city that's leading in efforts in areas where the federal government is no longer going to lead. That should be a point of pride, and it's going to be messier to do what we want to do. There's risks associated. The sanctuary city resolution comes with risks. Here's where I come down after listening carefully to all the testimony and thinking about this. In the fall, I thought the moratorium was a good idea because I was beginning to think, frankly, that we should get out of corporate securities.
 And I'll tell you a little bit why. Before I sold my house and I lived on the east side, I used to go to Pete's Coffee every morning on Broadway. And there's about 10 politically active people who were there. And it's like any gathering of 10 Portlanders. It's 10 people and 15 opinions on any given morning. And what I loved about going there is they'd all read the blogs and they all had the latest information. And by the time I got there at 6 a.m., everyone was pretty jazzed up.
 But the thing that unified them, and there was a lot of divisions among my friends at Pete's Coffee, was the desire to have a city bank, to think about a municipal bank, and to plan for that in the future. And I know that there are enormous challenges to do that.
 But it is something that I want us to consider and I think we have an advantage in having a mayor who's a former treasurer. Who has, at least in my service, has probably the highest level of experience and IQ around financial matters. And I hope, and he views this, I hope, and all other things with a certain conservative view because we have to be careful about how we proceed down here.
 I think this is an idea that requires study, and I would like to see an independent assessment of a municipal bank and its feasibility. But where I land today is I'm still of the view, if there's a consensus on the council, that we should get out of the business of corporate securities. And I'm of that view because I have so many friends who have such deeply held views about the values of so many companies.
 I don't want to be the arbiter of that on a regular basis. I don't want to have to pick and choose. I would never answer the question if you posed to me, which of my children do I love more? These are very hard things. Even Commissioner Novick acknowledged that without bright lines, we're asking people to do really hard things to make judgments where there was a lot of gray.
 So that comes at a cost, but I've heard overwhelmingly from people that it's a cost people are willing to bear. And in fact, I've heard emphatically from people that cost is a factor, but should not be the driving factor. So I would be prepared to support the Saltzman Amendment and would do so not to disrespect the work of Katrina and the committee and my friends, but to honor the work and to say I would like to go a different direction.
 And if there's not a consensus on the council towards that, that's why I think these conversations are good. We do our best work, I think we have these conversations rather than just force votes. I think the treasurer has proposed kind of a compromise that does have some weaknesses. I've heard loud and clear the criticisms. But I also believe that the fact that we would be publishing for public review the securities that we purchased and that that is transparent.
 is somewhat redeeming and I would be prepared to support that. But I think I would prefer Dan's approach in that order. And so Mayor, the one thing I would ask, and I think we've done this, because I think we have become a very collegial body. In fact, many of the most controversial votes on this body under your mayoralty have been 5-0 votes, which would have been unthinkable a year ago.
 I think there's nothing wrong with doing some polling of your colleagues before a vote just to see if we can get to a consensus. because I would like to have the broadest possible buy in to whatever approach we're moving forward on. Thank you. Very good, thank you. I'll go ahead and give my comments and unfortunately they look like this. So if you actually understand them at the end, you're probably going to be a rarity.
 My view on this matter of divestment is well known. Having served as the state treasurer for six years prior to being here and the chair of Multnomah County for four years prior to that, it is no surprise, I think, to anybody here that it is not my most favored strategy. There's no question in my mind that there are a variety of tactics that can be used to support
 environmental, social, and governance standards, particularly in the corporate sector. And as your treasurer, I engaged in a number of those. I brought the state's first ESG principles to the Oregon Investment Council. So now that all the decisions being made by PERS are actually being run through an ESG lens,
 We created a socially responsible investment option for employees in the state of Oregon through the deferred comp program. So if people wanted to go a different route than what was being offered in the main pool of funding that was being run by the investment council, they could go ahead and do that.
 We were obviously very actively engaged as shareholders rather than opting out and selling our shares, we went the opposite way. We ran towards the board meetings, waved our shares in the air, got together with other large institutional shareholders and demanded change in corporations that needed changes.
 Some of the most notable example, we worked with Washington, California, and other states to actually create a set of profiles of women and people of color who could serve on Fortune 500 boards. And we actually demanded that the SEC require corporations, particularly the large Fortune 500, to publicly disclose the
 ratio relative to the average employee. Because we felt that that was an important thing to know in terms of the future dynamics of the HR system in that company. There were times when I did support wholesale divestment. I was the first, I believe the first, or certainly one of the first treasurers in the United States to say that over the remainder of my term I would not vote for any more investments in coal.
 I was very quick to say that wasn't just a social value or a climate action. I also happened to believe, because I believed some of the theories that have borne out around coal, that they were lousy investments and would get to be progressively worse investments. And that has been borne out, so I was able to justify that on a fiduciary
 responsibility. Some of you have mentioned the city as a potential city bank or a state bank. I worked with a number of you over a period of many years to look at how we can implement either all or part of
 of such a structure. What we did was we brought credit unions into parity with community banks. We passed legislation to make it possible for those credit unions to be public depositories so that public corporations like the city of Portland, Multnomah County and others could actually move their funds through credit unions. We developed a strong coalition of local community banks to help us fund our operations.
 And I feel on the whole, we did a great job. So I happen to think divestment is a blunt instrument. There are many people in this room who I respect and admire and listen to on a whole host of issues who have a fundamental disagreement with me on that principle. I have no monopoly on the truth here, but my view is there are sharper ways to do this.
 Sandy and I have had many conversations over the last few years and she's made a very profound case that it's important to make a statement. And I do agree that on all of these issues we should make a statement and particularly as mayor, I have the opportunity through my bully pulpit to make statements all the time. Seattle was mentioned.
 particularly with regard to Wells Fargo. I want you to know what Seattle actually said, and it created this national wave of goodwill. And I've had hundreds of people since tell me, you guys should do what Seattle did. You should take a strong stand like Seattle did. What Seattle did was they said that when Wells Fargo's bonds expired, they wouldn't reinvest in them. Check that box. We're already there.
 And they said that when the contract for their banking services expired in the year 2018, they would RFP the contract and see if there were better options. That was the proposal for Seattle. And we have already said that we will RFP the contract this year. So we're actually ahead of Seattle, we just don't have as much PR flair about it.
 So, again, perceptions matter in this business. The bully pulpit is important, but I want to remind people there's real costs. And as the treasurer was saying, you know, $4.5 million-ish this year, potentially more next year, I did some quick math on my own. I'm not as fast as Jennifer is.
 But 4.5 million, that's 285 new units of permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless individuals in our community. That's 850 ADA accessible curb ramps. That's 667 additional year round shelter beds based on current costs. And when I was elected, what people told me they wanted to do was
 address affordability, address the homeless crisis, improve the policing structure in our community, and fill the dang potholes in front of my house. And so those are the things that are actually the things that I do as mayor that I'm asked to do. So for me, when I hear a 4.5 million hit this year and potentially larger next year, for me I can't overlook that, that is a significant resource.
 I still believe in direct engagement. Now here's where I'm going to get in trouble with everybody. One other reason I don't particularly like divestment as a strategy is I actually think it's a very passive strategy.
 I don't think it's an aggressive strategy. It's easy to say, well, I don't want my dollars in, I know, I already knew you were going to hate this. I don't want, but hear me out, hear where I'm going with it. You know, I don't want my dollars invested in the securities or in this case the debt of a company. I want to be very clear on the security side, it doesn't impact a company at all.
 It has absolutely zero fiscal impact on a company unless it's a company issuing stock for the first time. And, of course, we would never be eligible for that. That's venture capital, basically. There is more of an overlay on the debt side, but not by much. You're basically, you know, on the equity side, you're buying and selling in a third market transaction. It doesn't impact the company itself at all. And then there's the issues Commissioner Cronin.
 address, there is no end to the list of things people ask me to divest from. Here's just the ones I remembered off the top of my head and some people mentioned some. A lot of socially responsible index funds, and I'm still interested as I said up front, Treasurer. If over the course of the next year we find a debt based SRI fund and we can agree on the principle, that to me would be a good
 mid-range opportunity. SRI up to this point has largely meant technology.
 But in this room, I bet we would find disagreements. How about HP? How about Amazon? How about Facebook and the way they use information? How about the shared economy? Uber? How about Airbnb? Are those socially responsible or not socially responsible? I bet we'd get lots of different opinions in this room. What about CEOs who don't behave well or espouse views that are contradictory to values that many but not all of us hold?
 I'm thinking, for example, about the CEO of Under Armour.
 who got into a little bit of hot water because he espoused some political views that were not broadly held in progressive communities like Portland, Oregon. Does that meet the threshold? What about boards that don't have women? What about boards that don't have people of color? Are those socially responsible investments even if they meet every other criteria of socially responsible investing? I would argue they don't, but some people here might take a different view.
 taking sides in foreign conflicts. I've been asked to divest from Iran, I've been asked to divest from Saudi Arabia, I've been asked to divest from China, I've been asked to divest from Vietnam, from Israel, and the list goes on and on. How about communications equipment?
 Communications equipment can be used by first responders like ambulances. It can be used by other first responders like firefighters. It can also be used for the military.
 In fact, there are a lot of companies where we buy the product that actually have a larger role and make more money off of military investments or supporting the military than they do our first response. And so there could potentially be a conflict between what we are actually buying and what we are saying are socially responsible investments. I'll be quick, junk food, beverages, sugar beverages, alcoholic beverages,
 Private investments in private education, animal products, airlines, Nestle's that was mentioned today, utilities. The list goes on and on. If we look at our own behavior, the sharper edge to me, and I support what you're trying to do and what this committee did. And having met with some of you, I know how much time and energy you put into this, and I do applaud it and I do respect it.
 But really, it's not divestment that changes a company's behavior. It's the bottom line. That's the product. Are we still buying the product?
 And, you know, I find it's passive to say don't invest when we walk in here and, you know, just the list I compiled. Are there people wearing Nikes, Adidas, Pumas, or Under Armour products today? All of those have been mentioned as non-socially responsible companies. Anybody here wearing a leather belt or leather shoes or carrying a leather purse? I get had requests all the time as treasurer to disinvest from companies that use animal products.
 products as part of their efforts. Did anybody drive a car here or use carbon products to get here? Again, we're buying the product that Exxon and BP and Mobile and Shell that we're saying we don't want to invest in through our Carbon Tracker 200. I'm very supportive of the Carbon Tracker 200, but we also have to stop buying the product. Coffee.
 Are you buying coffee that's fair trade coffee? Are you buying coffee that's from exploited workers? Marijuana. Do you fly in an airline? Airline stocks don't often make it into the socially responsible arena. And last but not least, and then I'll shut up, do you use a Visa or a MasterCard?
 Because if you do, according to some, you're feeding the beast. So what I would like to see us do, I'd love to continue to engage this company. There we go. I'd love to continue to engage the intelligence and the passion in this room, but start talking about procurement.
 the actual purchases we are making that go to the bottom line of these companies. And then have an activist role in changing the corporate behavior that we're opposed to in the first place by going right to the boards of the company. So that's just my view. It's not a perfect solution. Jennifer, I think you gave us the best shot based on what you were asked to do. So I feel like you've done your job extremely well.
 It's a mid-range proposal. I think I would rather get to an SRI fund. I'm a little, I really don't like the idea of completely getting out of corporates, because I just think the hit is too hard. And as I said, and I wasn't joking up front, there are people who think US government securities are also dirty. So take your pick, pick your poison. And I'm erring on the side of fulfilling what I was elected to originally do.
 Wow, that was a compelling argument against capitalism, Mayor Wheeler. There's, you know what, there is, well, you know what, that's actually, that's actually an important statement. So if capitalism has become corrupted, and I think a lot of this in this room believe there are certainly a lot of bad actors involved,
 in the capitalistic system, and every day you open a newspaper, even the Wall Street Journal, and you see example after example, is the right way to simply be out of it, or is the right way to run towards it and engage it head on? I prefer the latter strategy, but I know others disagree. So, I'm really not an all or nothing
 thinker on this issue, but I Would be comfortable supporting Commissioner Saltzman's Amendment I also would have been happy to adopt the full Recommendations of the SRIC if we could reach agreement on that I do have to respectfully disagree that the onus of the burden of Socially responsible investment should be on the consumer and
 It needs to, and this is one of the rare times you will hear me say this, it needs to come from the top down. We shouldn't be allowing certain choices to even be made. And that's a much larger conversation than we're here for today. I don't deny that personal choice is part of this equation, but
 I can't dismiss the symbolism and meaning of Portland taking a stand on these issues and saying we're either not going to invest in corporate securities or we're going to add a layer of socially responsible criteria to this baseline that's provided by the
 MSCI, I can't believe I'm starting to remember all these acronyms. So that's where I'm at at the moment. Good. Mayor. Commissioner Fish, you'd asked me to poll the council on some of these. And I'm aware of the late hour and people are sitting here very patiently. I've got some family issues. So not those issues, I have other issues. But I wonder whether we could do a test vote on the Saltzman Amendment and then see where we stand.
 So this being my first test vote,
 I want to ask legal counsel, what is a test vote? Just to put the amendment to a vote. It's an amendment on the table. So it's a real vote? The amendment's on the table. I would ask us to consider it. You made it sound fancy or something interesting, like this test vote. Okay. And as a person who introduced a similar amendment in December, I remember being roundly criticized by pretty much everybody that part of what we were trying to do in this instance was to do some public shaming and have some specific companies called out.
 So if that's still the desire, I would respectfully suggest that just not investing in any corporate securities doesn't get there.
 Okay, so and I want to be collaborative with my colleagues. Would you like to start with Commissioner Saltzman's amendment or would you like to go in a different direction? I would move his amendment. Very good. So why don't we take a vote on Saltzman one and commissioner could you restate it again for the record just so we're all very clear? Yes, it would basically say that we will no longer invest in corporate securities and corporate paper. I guess I'm not really sure.
 Just corporate security, okay. So we would remove all reference from our investment policy to investments in corporate securities. So section F, excuse me, 3F in the current investment policy would be deleted. Okay, so deleting section 3F. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for this great conversation and today I'm either going to, I'm supporting the amendment and if it doesn't pass I'm going to support the treasurer's proposal and I
 I want to get out of the business of picking and choosing. I think I would rather have a clearer line to follow going forward to guide our actions. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udailey? I'm going to support this amendment and I guess I will share that I would not support the treasurer's proposal without added amendments.
 Fritz? I keep thinking of the affordable housing and the shelter beds and the ADA accessible routes that the Mayor commented on. And I'm very worried about losing 3.5 million in a budget process that we're currently in. That will mean more cuts in places that will hurt, no. Wheeler? No, so the amendment passes to the main, do we still have to vote on the main motion?
 Very good. We have to adopt the policy as- Yeah, we do. We still are as amended. Yeah, I think we do. As amended. Good, so to the main motion, please call the roll as amended. Fish. Thanks again to everyone who joined us today and to my colleagues for the discussion, and my vote is aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you again to Jennifer Coopman. I continue to be really impressed with your ethics as well as your skill. And I know that you will keep putting both to work for the people of Portland. Aye. Wheeler?
 So I obviously did not support the amendment, but I understand where my colleagues are coming from on this. And so I will cast a friendly aye vote for the ordinance as amended since it's passed anyway. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Very good discussion. Good conversation. And I really appreciate the job that's instructed to me.
 Thank you.