Pretty much. Okay, are we ready to get started? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the April 6th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll?
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Okay, we're going to get started in a moment. We have some folks signed up for communications, and we'll take them in a moment. We then have some time-certain items at a consent calendar. We have a couple of requests to pull things from the consent calendar to the regular calendar, namely, so far, item 323...
 and item 327 any other requests to pull things from consent to regular calendar if not then that's how we'll proceed welcome everyone if you're here to speak on a council calendar item you need give us only your name and let the council clerk know that you want to speak on a subject today you need give only your name not your address if you're representing an organization let us know that
 We maintain the rules of decorum in this room, which is that we don't accept demonstrations or applause. But if you want to agree with someone, give them a wave of the hand. If you want to disagree with someone and want to make a polite negative hand gesture, that's okay too. But we reserve applause for visiting dignitaries, retiring employees, and students. And if you're one or more of those things, you might get a round of applause while you're here.
 here. First, before we start, just an update. The council acted last week on a 4 5ths calendar item to temporarily bar city travel.
 to the state of North Carolina because of an anti-human rights bill passed in the North Carolina legislature. I regret to inform us that we have another state to deal with in this question, which is that Mississippi this week passed an even more obnoxious anti-human rights statute, which was signed into law yesterday. Now, these travel bans sometimes are something of a symbolic gesture, but this time there's actually a very specific impact on
 which is that the First Lady and I are scheduled to travel to Mississippi to Pascagoula, where the USS Portland is being constructed for the United States Navy. We will not be taking that trip next month if the Mississippi legislature does not repeal this law.
 and I would be very disappointed that the mayor of Portland was not able to be there for the launching of the Portland. But obviously these travel bans, if they are to mean anything, which should mean that we will have to avoid going to Mississippi. So unless they take that ship three miles out into international waters or repeal the bill, either the second of those would be better, then unfortunately we'll have to wait to greet the USS Portland when it comes here.
 So I'll probably be coming to the council with another suggestion that we take action as we did in the case of North Carolina with the obnoxious legislation in Mississippi. So there we go. So with that, let's take our council communications items starting with 316. Request of David Keith Davis to address council regarding homeless sweeps and civil rights, human rights violations of the homeless. Come on up. Okay. So...
 So my name is David Keith Davis, founder of Multnomah County Cop Watch and also a member of Fight the Sweeps Portland. I was going to talk about homeless issues. One thing I will bring up is you have a storage bin at Hazelnut Grove that's sitting there basically vacant. These things were supposed to be used for homeless people as a day storage thing. You only have two. You have one sitting there just basically not being used.
 where people already have a place to store their belongings. Moving on to the next thing, I'm talking about this police going rogue over their little Nazi drugs and vice captain, which, you know, in itself, to have a Nazi who erected a public shrine in Portland Park...
 and who is an open Nazi and a white supremacist running your drugs and vice unit. That should be rather disturbing since the drug war is totally racist. And then you have an open racist white supremacist running your drugs and vice. You talk about human rights violations and all these other places. Well, it's time to clean up your own backyard hails, Mr. Police Commissioner, and all you people sitting up there. You know, the latest display...
 of Portland Police, PBA, Police Union thuggery, the police...
 Police Chief Larry O'Day and Police Union Head Daryl Turner have threatened to not cooperate with the IPR, the Independent Police Review Process, because some local citizens taunted a Nazi police captain, Mark Kruger, at the latest CRC meeting. The CRC meeting has been canceled tonight because, oh, they don't want to deal with community members being a little outraged about having an open Nazi meeting.
 who runs the drugs in vice and wages a racist drug war? Come on. I mean, the police technically are supposed to serve as public servants, not a rogue army with no community oversight, making up their own rules and policing their own bad behavior. Yeah.
 The overreaction of the Portland police, the police union, was perfectly timed to coincide with a recent article by Maxine Bernstein in the Oregonian about the U.S. Department of Justice lawyers telling Portland police to drop the us versus them mentality of...
 training, okay? So you have this us versus them, militarized police mentality, threatening to sabotage the Department of Justice settlement with the city, and this should be taken very serious. An anonymous survey by officers that they're doing told them that, oh, this might be open to public records requests. Thank you. Mr. Davis, you're done.
 You're done, Mr. Davis. Mr. Davis, you're done. Mr. Davis, your time has expired. You will need to sit down or you will be excluded from the council chambers. In ten seconds, I will have to exclude you from the council chambers. Nine, eight, seven, six, five.
 four three two one zero mr davis you're excluded from council chambers you're excluded we're recessed water water water oh yeah aren't we made up give me a break you guys are a joke you should be ashamed of yourself police commissioner slash mayor
 Oh, wow. Shame on you. No, shame on you for... I'm going to make sure I have my beverage. I'm going to make sure I have my... Aren't you glad you got a clock? I think you got it better. I don't have to... Don't aggravate the situation. I don't have to...
 Oh, well you offended me by your husband killing people. I didn't kill anybody. Well, thanks for not killing anyone. I've been briefed by my office.
 um good job by that would you would you have that man removed you're next you're next okay council turn to order please and we'll take item 317 request of lightning watchdog pdx to address council regarding opinion about public meeting law good morning good morning good morning my name is lightning i represent lightning watchdog pdx today i'd like to discuss the essence of freedom of speech
 The free speech being exercised by citizens during a public meeting, during testimony, is absolutely necessary for the government to conduct its day-to-day business. During a limited public forum, the Supreme Court recognized the dual function of such public meetings to conduct public business and hear the views of the citizens. It has become apparent that for those who cannot afford campaign contributions or lobbyists,
 Public meetings may be the only opportunity to speak face-to-face to elected officials and to try to influence their votes on important issues. Now, what we're getting into is the difference of disruptive behavior or freedom of speech at these meetings. Again, I see city council in the future trying to impose speech codes. These have been challenged by many judges in many courts.
 Again, we're going to determine what's reasonable. We're going to determine what people have to say, not their content, not their viewpoint, and we're going to have a clear understanding on how these meetings can be conducted. Again, I believe in freedom of speech and allowing the citizens to come forward on these issues. There have been other locations that have decided that we don't need freedom of speech in the council chambers.
 You can watch a video from another location. You can send us an email. You can send us a letter in writing, and we will continue to conduct our businesses. There have been mayors that have tried to do that. They're not mayors any longer. It's a very interesting situation here, but we need to understand that, yes, the citizens do have a right to freedom of speech. And, yes, the consequences from that speech...
 They are still liable for what they do say. They have to be very cautious and understand that, but it is imperative for them to get their ideas and their viewpoints out. Now, another issue that I have is we were talking the situation on public meetings law. The law itself requires informed public be aware of deliberations and decisions of governing bodies and information upon which such decisions were made.
 It is the intent of Ordinance 192.610 that decisions of governing bodies be arrived at openly. That is my position. Transparency, decisions arrived at openly, the citizens' involvement in freedom of speech, and remain viewpoint neutral, content neutral. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Okay, item 318. Request of Don McGillivray to address council regarding Washington High School Community Center. Yes, others I think on the same subject, so if you want to come up together, that's fine. 319 is Jeff Cole to address council regarding Washington High School Community Center, and 320 is Robert McCullough to address council regarding Eastmoreland Zone Change Request. I'm up as a trifecta and do it in order if that's all right with all three of you. Go ahead, Don. Don, I'm...
 I didn't want to get between my two. Well, I think you just did. So who's on first? With your permission. As it happens, I was already on on this subject, so I'm addressing the R7. Pardon me? Yes. I've never done this before. Robert McCullough, representing Eastmoreland. Good morning. I have a slide for you, and...
 I'm speaking to you today representing the Pecker Hatch. I won't be dwelling on the insult. I've been called much worse. A land use lawyer advised me it was simply a misunderstanding. I thought that meaningful public involvement was the phrase. He actually has told me there was mean public involvement. So the issue here is Amendment M74. M74 pertains to an R7 application that we made back in 2013, which
 submitted detailed studies. Planning Bureau agreed in writing in 2014. In 2015, the Planning Bureau changed its mind. We had filed over a hundred pages of studies. Only one short letter was filed in opposition. We were ambushed during the hearing, our studies not mentioned, and we were not able to speak at the time. Virtually every similar request was granted.
 There are no records of this reversal. No emails, no memos, no studies, no agendas. We're told they never existed. Over one year of investigation, we have found one email that states, their methodology is different than ours. In part because our desired objectives are different. We still don't know what the objectives are. We know it did not include density because we actually have the density report.
 You'll notice in the slide that the yellowed section indicates zero. That's simply because the number of lots at issue in Eastmoreland is very, very small. We do, however, know that other issues prevailed. In spite of land use law, apparently family income was a decision-making issue.
 We do have the spreadsheet. You have it there. The spreadsheet indicates that someone was interested to make sure whether West Hills family incomes would be affected. The neighborhood that was affected was Eastmoreland. Interestingly enough, Reed, an identical neighborhood directly to our north, mistakenly was given the lowest family income on the east side, and their application was approved. We're not alone in this.
 The Bureau's own poll shows that their decisions are not popular with voters. In fact, issues of demolitions, greenery, urban canopy all rank higher. Also, we're not alone in having discomforts with the question of public involvement. The chairs and directors gave you a report a month ago stating many of the same issues.
 My request is that you be guided by the facts of this matter in reviewing the amendment and not by any undocumented agendas. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Who would like to be next? Good morning. My name is Don McGillivray. I live in the Buckman neighborhood. I'd just like to go over some of the background on the Washington High School Community Center proposal.
 Proposal for the Washington Monroe Aquatics and Community Center began 35 years ago. This high school was closed in 1981 due to low enrollment. Within a year, the second Buckman Community Congress was held where it was proposed that the Washington Monroe High School should be acquired and used for much needed recreation, affordable housing, and other community activities. To do this, the REACH Community Development Corporation was created.
 In the mid-1980s, the idea of the Washington High School property was used to be used for a community center was highlighted in the Parks Futures Plan. In the 1991 Buckman Neighborhood Plan, the property was identified as location for recreation and educational opportunities in Policy 6, Objectives 5, 6, and 8.
 Then in the year 2000, the Parks 2020 plan also talked about this site for a new community and aquatic center. In 2003, Portland Public Schools formed their real estate trust. It was also about this time that this property was added to the property.
 Eastside Urban Renewal Area. They reviewed all their surplus school properties and the Washington Row property figured prominently by becoming the highest priority for disposal. A citizen and stakeholder committee was formed to advise parks about the property, which was soon followed by a second committee to delineate how much of the property would be needed for a recreation center site.
 It was determined that parks should acquire 4.5 acres of the 7.2 acre site for $5.4 million. City Council approved the purchase of the property at the City Council meeting on July 28, 2004 and work proceeded to acquire the property with the unanimous support of the many people involved from the inner southeast neighborhoods and businesses.
 Southeast Uplift shows the completion of the Washington Rural Community and Aquatic Center as their highest priority for advocacy. This remains so to this day.
 In 2010, the project advanced further with $900,000 to do a project development study. In January 2011, the Portland Parks and Recreation Washington High School Community Center 111-page preliminary design process summary was completed by Sarah Architects. Another committee was developed to review the work and make recommendations. The size of the aquatics and community center was put at
 60,000 square feet for a construction price of approximately $40 million in a two-phase construction program. New businesses and apartments are being added to the inner southeast like never before. With 1,500 new nearby apartments, the Washington Monroe Community Center becomes much more attractive for everyone.
 the washington row site is within walking distance of over eighteen thousand people need you to wrap up don it's just a bike and bus ride with it for eighty five thousand people eighty five thousand residents or ten minute drive for three hundred thousand people this is tremendous site in terms of serving people who are currently not served by a community center it will make the area safer more attractive to families children everyone it is our desire to keep the remaining
 land in public ownership in the form of a civic plaza or additional much-needed open space. We wish to thank everyone who has diligently worked on and advocated for this project. We hope that significant progress will be made within the next five years. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales. Commissioners.
 I'm Jeff Cole. I live in Sunnyside. I'm a board member of Southeast Uplift, and our esteemed chair sits to my right, where we are taking on a renewed initiative to secure our long-promised community center on the old Washington Monroe High School site at Southeast 14th and Alder. And this is really important to me, to us, that we nurture our legacy as a progressive city,
 that the real measure of our success is not population growth or gastronomic wonders. Rather, it is the layering of our civic assets that reflects a continued deepening of our heritage, whether it be our gardens, rose, Japanese, Chinese, leech, rhododendron, our museums of art, science, industry, or our parks that range from deep forests to skateboards.
 Certainly the modern community center, and company recreation, the arts, the gathering of citizens, is central to our legacy, central to our progressive mission, and it can be done. Vancouver, British Columbia, with a Portland-sized population of 600,000, has 24 community centers, while we have 15.
 parks director mike abate in his january 7th response to our southeast uplift letter indicated he would be delighted to consider a public private partnerships to support the endeavor of building this community center mr abate encouraged us at southeast uplift to cultivate these private partnerships and we will endeavor so
 Today, I'm asking Council to pursue, sooner than later, purchase of the final 1.3 acres of property from Portland Public Schools so that this land, this land that has been publicly held for decades, will continue to be so and in turn added to the 4.5 acres Portland Parks already owns at this location.
 This additional acreage is a critical element to a program that includes newly built facilities while also creating the exterior park-like ambience that open space enables. We've reviewed Ordinance 185561 that references this property, yet we have yet to see the IGA or any other contractual agreements regarding this public property and interested parties.
 As we grow and densify, our public venues become more important, for they are an essential element of our civic and civil urban life. We thank you for your support as we further develop the civic assets that make Portland truly great. Thank you. Thank you all very much. By the way, Marianne has provided you with an example of a frog. I wondered where that came from. That actually is the frog we've offered to eat for you. Thank you.
 we kiss it do it turn into a prince with 40 million dollars thank you okay let's move on please to our first time certain item unless we want to do consent let's do consent first minus the two items that we've pulled to regular so the balance of the consent calendar roll call vote on those please
 hi saltzman hi novick hi brits hi hails hi okay item 321 adopt digital equity action plan and direct the office for community technology to implement the plan with partners very pleased to welcome our team of experts to kick off this presentation about how we become a city where everyone has access to the world
 Mary Beth, welcome. Great. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Mary Beth Henry with the Office for Community Technology. I'm delighted to be here. In fact, I'm so delighted that I woke up at 3.45 a.m. this morning. I'm sure you've never had that experience. I think that most of us would agree that access to the Internet in today's digital world is essential. Jobs, health care, education, bill paying, socializing, they're all online.
 Yet we know there is a divide between people who have access to the Internet, a device and know how to use it, and those that don't. What does it look like in our region? It's the 15% of our households that don't have Internet at home. The divide rises to 18% for those with income under $30,000, 28% for those 65 and older, and 30% for Hispanic households.
 These are statistics, but there are real people behind the statistics. As author William Gibson says, the future is already here, it's just not evenly distributed. A community coalition called the Digital Inclusion Network, or DIN, formed in 2014 to raise awareness, to urge action on digital equity in our region.
 DIN is made up of schools, libraries, ISPs, the tech industry, local government, and nonprofits. DIN also served as the advisory group for this plan. The community engagement process began with five focus groups for historically underrepresented populations, Spanish, Chinese, Vietnamese, speakers, people with disabilities, and African Americans. Thanks to an Office of Equity grant,
 The focus groups were conducted in the speakers' native languages, Spanish, Chinese, and Vietnamese. The focus group findings confirmed data from national sources about barriers. The cost of home broadband, availability of affordable devices, and absence or scarcity of culturally specific training are all barriers to adoption.
 Other commonly mentioned barriers were low service in some areas, mistrust of service providers, and a lack of understanding of contract language. Three workshops were held in the fall of 2015 that brought together a broad cross-section of community organizations.
 Workshop participants' ideas and dedicated engagement in the process generated the community-based actions that are at the heart of this plan. Participants worked collaboratively to establish goals, set objectives, and identify actions for the next three years.
 Partnership opportunities emerged and organizations coalesced around specific actions, such as supporting initiatives to assist people from underrepresented populations to prepare for and find jobs in the technology economy. We're not asking for funding today, but we did submit an item for council consideration that I hope you will take up.
 In conclusion, the Digital Equity Action Plan's mission is to bridge the digital divide for excluded members of our community with affordable access, training, and tools. And it's our collective job, government, Internet service providers, nonprofits, educational institutions, businesses, and our citizenry,
 to address the digital divide in a meaningful manner so that anyone who wants to be online can get online, have a device, and know how to navigate.
 I want to call out a special thanks to Commissioner Fritz and Saltzman, who led the development of the broadband strategic plan, where digital equity was first identified as a critical need in Portland, and Mayor Hales for his leadership currently on digital equity.
 As Alan Kay said, the best way to predict the future is to invent it. We have inventors in our community today who can create a future of digital equity.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Who'd like to go next? Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I am Cindy Gibbon, the Access and Information Services Director for Multnomah County Library, and I want to thank you for the opportunity to come before you today with this Digital Equity Action Plan for Portland and all of Multnomah County. It has been a real pleasure to work with Mary Beth Henry and her staff, with other colleagues, and with so many committed community partners to bring this plan into being.
 I ask for your support today, and I'll be asking for the support of the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners and the Multnomah County Library District Board next Thursday, April 14th. Digital equity and inclusion work has been a long-term commitment for Multnomah County Library. We've been providing public Internet access and technology training in our library since 1996. This year, community members will use library public computers to get online about a million times.
 and they will log on to our public Wi-Fi about a million times, another million times as well. We provide technology training and assistance, including classroom training, public labs, one-on-one appointments, and general assistance in Spanish, Russian, Chinese, Vietnamese, and Somali, in addition to English. That's wonderful, right? And yet, it isn't enough. That does not accomplish full digital equity for our community.
 Imagine what it's like to have to go to the public library every time you need to work on a job application or a tax return, do homework, apply for college or for a scholarship. It's a huge cost in lost opportunity and time for individuals and families that are already marginalized by economic hardship, disability, language barriers, aging, and other challenges. Thank you.
 The Digital Equity Action Plan is about bringing together a broad coalition of partners from government, education, community-based organizations, and the private sector, combining our collective resources to achieve digital equity and inclusion for our community. Through collective action and shared commitment, we can make sure that everyone in our community has access to affordable broadband internet at home.
 a device that allows them to complete essential online tasks successfully and the training to use both with confidence. In today's world, digital access is essential to educational and economic success, to full participation in our digital economy and in community life, even to better health outcomes. Thank you for supporting this important work. We look forward to coming back to you regularly to report on our progress.
 Thank you, Cindy. Thanks very much. Good morning, Matt. Hi. I'm Matt Timberlake, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm the IT Portfolio Manager for Multnomah County and Multnomah County Library. And I want to thank you for this opportunity to talk with you about the Digital Equity Action Plan, which I've had the pleasure of working to develop with the library, the Office for Community Technology, and other organizations around the county. Thank you.
 Plans like the one before you are being formulated across the country. There is a growing national dialogue about digital equity. It has become recognized as a basic requirement for a society in which all people can thrive and contribute. Cities and counties across the country have found that fostering digital inclusion has direct impacts on workforce development, economic growth, educational status, and civic participation.
 We believe that the City of Portland and Multnomah County should join in this national effort, and that adoption of the Digital Equity Action Plan is an important step towards increased digital access for all of our citizens. The most recent numbers show that nationally, less than half of Americans in the bottom 20% of income have access to the Internet at home, compared to 95% of households in the top 20%.
 The degree of urgency around digital equity was recently highlighted by President Obama's announcement last month of Connect All, a national project to deliver broadband and access to technology for all Americans. The program calls for nonprofits, businesses, technology experts, and local governments to join a national effort to reach the Connect All goal of connecting 20 million more Americans to broadband by 2020.
 The National Digital Inclusion Alliance, of which the city and the library are both members, is the first national organization of its kind, consisting of schools, libraries, local nonprofits, and local governments. And it works for affordable home broadband service, public broadband access, and local trusted technology training and support.
 all of which are in our Digital Equity Action Plan. In cities and towns where local government has taken the lead on bridging the digital divide, there have been tangible social and economic benefits, as highlighted by the recent Council of Economic Advisers report issued just last month.
 In Kansas City, Chattanooga, and Cedar Falls, in Seattle and Nashville, through both private and municipal investment in broadband access, there have been efforts across the nation to bridge the digital divide. These communities have improved the lives of their citizens while enhancing their area's ability to compete in the 21st century economy.
 We look forward to joining these efforts, and we greatly appreciate your support of the Digital Equity Action Plan. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Questions for this panel? Yes. Thank you so much. I really appreciate the plan and how specific it is, the outcomes, and the fact you're going to report back. Mary Beth mentioned the budget request that's coming to the city, and I'm going to ask her about that in a moment. I just wondered, have you put in a request to the library board and to the county board of commissioners for funding, and if so, how much?
 The library already makes a very significant investment in digital equity work, and we have added a number of positions to our budget recently. For example, our East County Technology Coordinator, which is a position that's just been in the budget for about a year or so now, is making a huge effort in East County providing technology training in both Spanish and English. We've just applied to NTEN,
 for the Nonprofit Technology Association for a grant that will allow us to bring on a coordinator who we hope will be able to coordinate some of the work of implementation of this Digital Equity Action Plan. And Matt, I think...
 So, yes, the library does a tremendous amount, and the county, through their process of providing information technology, among much else, to the library, is also very engaged in that.
 providing digital inclusion and digital equity now. Multnomah County actually funded the plan, the creation of the Digital Equity Action Plan with you. We shared those costs. We have not put forward a specific funding request around the Digital Equity Action Plan yet. We are going to be presenting, as Cindy mentioned, the plan on April 14th to the county board for adoption. And there's tremendous commitment to see it through
 through and to see what funding opportunities and what areas the county can fund going forward. There's not a specific request yet. Well, I do appreciate that it has been a triple partnership and the investment that the library has been making in order for us to be able to justify a
 allocation in the city's budget, which is very constrained this year. I would want to see a similar amount from the county. And Mary Beth, exactly, well, not exactly, but generally, what would the $199,000 be used for?
 Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. We're hoping, quite frankly, we've been so busy putting together the plan and the process with all of our partners that our next step is to move on and possibly look to Seattle and Nashville as a model. In those two communities, the city, the internet service providers, and local philanthropic organizations all contributed money to jumpstart their program.
 What I'm hoping is that we could do the same here. If the city could say, well, we'll put this in and ask some other entities to match that amount. And keep in mind that this is a three-year plan. And so what I'd like to do is get a budget, you know, get the budget together, get our partners. We have a lot of community nonprofits. Okay.
 And come back and report each year. It's really a three-year commitment at this point in time because we want to be able to show tangible results. We can't wait and have a 10-year plan where we might produce something in the future. So we purposefully...
 put ourselves under a very extreme time crunch to make something happen. In terms of the actual budget package, it would be a position to help secure grants and funding, but also to provide seed money to some of our partners.
 Local nonprofits are doing incredible work, and you'll hear from today, but who need additional capacity because currently, for example, Freegeek can't meet the demand for all the devices that are needed in the community. And it's only through dedicated resource that we're going to be able to make something happen and move this needle. Thank you.
 Thank you. So obviously I've read the plan that council members have. Could you just summarize for folks at home some of the key pieces of what exactly is going to be done? Sure.
 Because what the presentation said told us how you got there and that there is a plan. I just, I was really impressed with some of the particular pieces. And maybe others are going to address that. Yeah, and we will have other speakers who will be addressing those things. But, for example, we'd like to expand free Wi-Fi from some of the schools into some of the lower income neighborhoods. There's a lot of interest in mid and east county with that particular plank.
 I mentioned one of the other ones is to help underrepresented populations be trained for jobs in the digital economy. We also, what we found is that there are some excellent programs, the libraries, Free Geek, Portland Community Media, but there's no overall strategy. And so by having an overall strategy, we're going to be able to focus resources and really make a difference. I think I focused on the process because I,
 This plan is really community-driven, and I think highlighting the process was very important so that the viewers at home and the council could understand that this was not top-down. This was bottom-up.
 So I have maybe not so much a question, because I think you just addressed it, but there's some cities that we've really learned from, Seattle, Nashville, you mentioned in particular. And I assume that's an ongoing process, right? There's sort of a virtuous spiral here of people doing more and learning from each other. Some other takeaways maybe from that interaction with other cities, because we're not always first. Yeah.
 Yeah, I'll be going to the National Digital Inclusion Alliance get-together in May. And all of us attended. There was a very large contingent from Oregon, including Mary Beth and I and many others who went to the Gigabit City Summit today.
 last year, which was really when we were at that summit when President Obama gave his speech about the connected cities. And so there is this groundswell of organizations and local governments talking to each other, and we are very much part of that dialogue and plan to continue being so. Well, then I'm really happy to hear that. That's the way it should be. Cities are good about learning from each other. Yeah.
 Commissioner Novick's Bureau, PBOT, is leading an effort right now in which we're a finalist for a project at the U.S. Department of Transportation for smart cities using technology to improve access and equity. So it seems to me there's some internal and partner connections that we ought to polish up and make sure that Maurice Henderson and your Bureau is fully integrated with not only this plan, but
 the brain trust that you've assembled to work on it. One of the things that I think is a great opportunity for Portland in that competition is that the competition is about who can use technology in the smartest, most creative ways, but then who can teach other cities well. And we already do this quite a bit in transportation and land use and other areas, but it would be great if coming right out of the gate in our application program,
 we could show some ways that we would be immediately transferring value to other cities as a good partner just like we've received good value. So I want to plant that seed because that frankly is our strategy. I hope those other cities aren't listening.
 But that's our strategy for how we're going to win this, is that Portland already teaches other cities. It's not a new thing for us to do this. And so this might be one more way in which we pass this prologue that, hey, we're already a good partner. Here are five more ways that we'll do that. So just want to make sure that discussion is underway because that application gets finalized in June, right after you come back from the national meeting. Thank you.
 Would I just take just a second to make one other response to Commissioner Fritz's question, because I want to plug our Rockwood Library makerspace.
 We just had the grand opening for that on Saturday, and that is a great example of collective action for digital equity, very much in the spirit of this plan. We started that project with a grant from the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission. Our library foundation is raising the majority of the money to support that project, but the library is also committing around $300,000 to the project as well, and then the ongoing support and funding. And that's a place where
 kids in one of the most underserved communities in Multnomah County will have access to current technology that allows creation, something that everybody in our community really needs to have access to and that we hope to really promulgate this idea of creative, connected learning in our libraries throughout Portland and Multnomah County. Thank you.
 Well, thank you all very much. I want to call another panel who's here to inform our understanding of this document, Kofi Dessou and Carol Studeman and Michael Armstrong. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales. Good morning, city commissioners. My name is Kofi Dessou. I work for the Office of Equity and Human Rights, City of Portland.
 But I also serve as president of a nonprofit called Togo Community Organization of Oregon. As a community leader, I'm deeply involved in community work, and I learned a lot about the needs in our communities in regards to digital access, and also the expectation that communities have for the city government.
 And I bring that information back to my office, share with my colleagues. So but I want to share a little story. Two years ago, a woman, a neighbor, 85 years old, knocked at my door asking me to help her connect her computer to the internet. Her husband used to do that, but her husband got ill and transferred to a nursing home.
 The woman told me that the computer became her only companion. And my wife, my daughter, and myself had to help her every day, taking turns. So it is touching. For one year we have helped her, and she moved to another residence. So if you ever go to Africa House, you will see how much
 The elders in our community are excited about learning how to use the computer to connect to the world and so on. You will see a lot of young people using the internet there to do their homework with the help of other community members. So the digital access has become a necessity.
 The technology has become a powerful tool that we can do without it. And we are embedding technology to every service that we deliver to our communities. So this is to tell you that this digital action plan is not an isolated thing.
 A few weeks ago, the business solutions from the Bureau of Technology Services here invited Judith Mowry, the acting director of my office, and myself to come and discuss the role of the technology services in equity. And it was encouraging to see that the Bureau of Technology Services has updated their mission statement
 to include, to focus on internal stakeholders and external stakeholders, meaning the community that we serve. And that means that we are doing something that city of Portland, and it's very encouraging,
 So I wanted to testify that this digital action plan is a very good thing, and that we will evaluate the success through the outcomes that the implementation will yield. And your leadership is very critical in this. And I already applaud your leadership.
 where I am asking you to empower the teams that will be working on implementation and provide the appropriate resources so that we can make this happen. That means closing the gaps,
 in terms of digital access and also achieve the equity outcomes that we want to see in the community. I want to congratulate Mary Beth Henry for leading this, you know, coordinating this, you know, thing. And I've seen how many community members, businesses have been involved in this process.
 So, again, thank you for your leadership, and I would like to ask again to empower the teams that are going to be working on this implementation. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Good morning, Carol. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Carol Studentman, Chair of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission, and I'm pleased to say that the entire Commission is very excited about the Digital Equity Action Plan and any role we can play in that. The MHCRC is proud to be a collaborative partner on digital equity, and we urge you to adopt the resolution and plan and include funding in next year's budget.
 The MHCRC already plays an important role in digital equity through our grants programs. Through the TechSmart initiative for student success, we provide funding for technology, curriculum, connectivity, and training to students in all the school districts in Multnomah County to positively impact academic outcomes for all students. Thank you.
 The initiative provides grants to school districts for technology and teacher support in order to innovate and transform teaching strategies and practices made possible by the franchise agreement with Comcast. Let me cite a few of the exciting grants we've made. Parkrose School District received nearly $400,000 to fund a robust wireless network at Parkrose High School and teacher training to support staff in learning how to use digital content to create effective learning environments.
 and one of the features of that plan was to make sure the Wi-Fi covered the entire campus so students could come on nights and weekends and connect to the Wi-Fi to do their schoolwork. David Douglas School District received nearly a million dollars to fund iPads for all preschool students, Chromebooks for the kindergarten to third grade students, and smart boards at the Earl Boyles Early Learning Center. When the students move up to kindergarten, they graduate to using Chromebooks so they can begin working on their keyboarding skills. Isn't that cool? Yeah.
 Portland Public Schools was awarded $5.1 million for third grade reading, a five-year pilot project focused on improving K through third grade student reading outcomes and closing the achievement gap for students of color and other historically underrepresented student populations.
 The grant funds instructional technology, infrastructure, related digital curriculum assets, in addition to critical teacher training and support in order to effectively use the instructional technology and digital assets in the classroom. The culture is truly changing in how students are learning to read.
 Reynolds School District was awarded $1.3 million for the Reynolds Transformation to Constructivist Classrooms and Secondary Math Project. And that's a mouthful, but it's a great program. The four-year project focuses on transforming math instruction at the middle school and ninth grade levels and improving ninth grade credit attainment in math. Studies show that if kids don't earn those important credits in ninth grade, they don't move on to graduate from school. It's really important.
 The project also focuses on closing the achievement gap for students of color and other historically underrepresented student populations. The grant funds instructional technology, infrastructure, and digital curriculum assets in addition to critical training and in-class teacher support in order to enable hands-on, project-based learning in technology-rich classrooms. Thank you.
 These grants provide the digital part of the Digital Equity Action Plan. In order for the equity part of the plan to be in place, our community needs for these students to have access to broadband Internet at home so they can do their homework with equivalent devices and connectivity as they have at school. The Digital Equity Action Plan before you today will ensure that that happens, and I urge you to support the Digital Equity Action Plan. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, my friends.
 Mayor Hales and Commissioners, good morning. My name is Michael Armstrong. I'm the Sustainability Manager for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, also part of a still-forming cross-bureau effort to coordinate smart cities initiatives across all the bureaus, which you referenced earlier and is an important need that's becoming clearer. Thank you.
 The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability strongly supports the Digital Equity Action Plan. We really appreciate the leadership of the Office of Community Technology, partnership with Multnomah County, the library districts, and the community organizations in developing this. Digital equity is a key piece of the Portland Plan, which included action specifically around broadband equity and around providing universal access to high-speed Internet devices and training. Those are the pieces that are spelled out explicitly in this new plan.
 It details how we're going to do it and with whom, and those are both key pieces to success. Digital equity is also essential for us to succeed with this emerging set of smart cities initiatives. If we're making real-time data available about transportation, about air quality, public safety events, we have to make sure that that information is reaching everyone.
 That's the organizing concept of the Portland plan. We're following that through in the climate action plan, now through the update to the comprehensive plan. Success with all of those plans depends very importantly on success with the digital equity action plan.
 The goals are solid. The actions are sound. It won't be easy, but we certainly are interested in being a part of supporting its implementation and participating in the digital inclusion network. So the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is very eager to see this move forward, and we look forward to partnering on its implementation. Thank you. Thank you all. Questions for this panel? I have a question for the chair of the Mount Hood Cable Regulatory Commission.
 You mentioned some of the grants that you're giving. Given the constraints of the city's budget, is it a possibility that the commission could allocate funding, the amount of funding that's being requested from the general fund? Yes.
 I'm not the person to talk to because our contract with our cable provider is very complicated and fixed. So I don't believe that our funds can do that, but I don't think I'm the correct person to ask. Okay. So, yes, I should have framed that in terms of just generally before we're voting on our budget, I want to be looking at where the appropriate, whether that source of dedicated funding, which does go to the same kind of things, is,
 could be used to fund the things that Mary Beth is asking for. But thank you very much. Worth finding out. It's not a right now question, because obviously this is a great plan, and we do need to figure out how to fund it. I'm looking to my friend Ben Walters to my right. He knows a lot more than I do about that. Other questions? Thank you all very much.
 i know we have a number of community partners that are signed up to speak i want to ask you to briefly come up and do that so let's call on those that are signed up please we have 16 people signed up the first three are chris smith dwayne johnson and skip newberry good morning yeah if you could try to keep it a couple of minutes that would be helpful because we just have a lot of you and a lot of other things on our agenda this morning
 I know Chris is always succinct and to the point. I'll try to be. In fact, I have to dash another appointment, so as soon as I'm done, I'm going to run away. Chris Smith, Vice Chair of the Planned Sustainability Commission, testifying as an individual this morning. Hi.
 The Internet is incredibly important to me. I earn my living helping my employer talk to its customers on the Internet. That gives me the income and the flexible schedule to be able to do my civic activism. In the nonprofit sector, I have a project that uses the Internet to help people find out when the bus is coming so they can make using transit easier. I'm very, very aware that the Internet is increasingly the gateway to opportunity.
 I was pleased to work on some of the Portland Plan policies that Michael talked about. Adding broadband equity is an important principle in the Portland Plan. And I wholeheartedly endorse today's agenda item and want to preview for you the same issue in the comp plan. So the Plan Instability Commission carried the concept of broadband equity from the Portland Plan into the comp plan. We know we're on the cusp of that.
 widespread fiber-to-the-home adoption. And we think that just as it's important that the comp plan cares that every home in Portland have good water service, we believe that every neighborhood in Portland should have good fiber access services.
 to the neighborhood and to the home. And we placed policies in the comp plan that will help the city stay focused on that. Unfortunately, there are amendments pending that would significantly weaken those policies. So in addition to passing today's item, I would urge you to reject comp plan amendments P68 and P85. Thank you. Thank you. Morning, Dwayne.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Dwayne Johnson. I am a partner at Scale Up Partners, which works on inclusion, economic inclusion regionally across the state, I mean across the country. I'm also the Deputy Director of Innovate Oregon, which works on essentially connecting the entire community to the digital economy.
 So I actually have another list of things that I do, but in this case I'm speaking as an individual contributor, so to speak. I look at this personally. I've been in technology most of my life, and the only reason that I had that life is because I got access when I was relatively young. I literally was in a bungalow in my junior high school. I walked in and I saw an old teletype, and I asked what was that, and they said don't touch it.
 which meant I had to know what that was. It turned out that it was a terminal that was connected to the San Diego City Schools, and they had a Star Trek program on it that me and my friends fell in love with, and we wanted to know how it works.
 So by the time we graduated from high school, this small cadre of friends, we learned how to program. We taught ourselves multiple languages. We were writing programs for the school. We actually talked to our timeshare coordinator at the city schools, and we were writing programs for them. So I ended up following that into a career and have started several companies because of that. And that opportunity is what's missed when we don't give access to people in multiple communities.
 So the idea is to be able to set that platform that they can't have, that we can't. In other words, making that access possible and using that as a framework to build opportunity into our future. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Good morning, Skip.
 Good morning. Morning, Mayor and members of council. My name is Skip Newberry. I'm president of the Technology Association of Oregon and also chairman of the Board of Technology Councils of North America. Just wanted to take a minute to thank the city and the county, as well as the library system, for their leadership on this initiative. Last year, to give you a sense of the impact that technology has in the state,
 The region added 10,000 tech jobs, and by comparison, Austin added about 4,500 and Seattle about 7,500. And the average tech wage is about $110K now in Oregon. Now, career pathways into technology have never been more accessible and clear. That is, assuming you have some familiarity with how to access the Internet, it's affordable for you to do so, and you know what to do when you get on the Internet.
 It's also never been more accessible or clear in terms of how you can access health-related resources, government services through the Internet. But again, it assumes that one has access to the Internet. And yet 15% of Portland's households do not have access to the Internet. So as a community, we definitely have an obligation to ensure that economic opportunity, whether in tech or in other sectors, is open to all.
 And I think that the proposed digital equity action plan does a very clear, thoughtful job of laying out a strategy for how we can connect the dots across all of our community partners, many of which are doing great work, but the resources are diffuse. This helps to address that and focus resources in a way that I think will be really impactful for the region.
 And to the mayor's point and to Michael's point, this plan, having it in place, really only strengthens the city's USDOT Smart City Challenge proposal. Equity is a big part of that. And then I think, in general, the association that I represent really thinks that because of those points, this plan should be adopted, and we encourage council to provide support for it. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Appreciate your partnership. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next three are Betty Dominguez, Colleen Dixon, and Patricia McLean. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners.
 My name is Betty Dominguez. I am the Director of Policy and Equity at Home Forward, which, as you know, is the housing authority that serves the county. Home Forward first became involved with the Digital Inclusion Network in the fall of 2014 and have followed this work because we believe it is so important to the residents and clients that we serve. You've heard previous panels describe the underrepresented populations, many of whom live with us.
 We know how important it is for children to access broadband, to do their homework, for their parents to be able to do job applications, pay their bills, and for our seniors to be able to renew prescriptions and keep in touch with their families.
 We have 9,000 Section 8 vouchers that we administer in the county and another 6,000 hard units that we own and operate. That's 15,000 households and thousands of children who we believe strongly will benefit from digital access, and it will be an opportunity for them to reach some level of self-sufficiency and to increase their quality of life.
 So you heard the folks from the library mention a little bit ago that they had applied to N10 for a grant. We have also applied for a digital fellow to help us implement our digital plan. We're awaiting word, hopefully, that we were successful. But if we unfortunately were not, we intend to move forward with this work. And if I may, I have a statement to read from Michael Bonacore, our executive director, who couldn't be here today because he's out of town. Okay.
 So that counts as two testimonies, right? It's part of the matter. Okay. Home Forward is excited to support the Digital Inclusion Network's Digital Equity Action Plan. In our forthcoming strategic plan, we will highlight our intention to increase access to technology for our residents, participants, and to create more avenues for the community to interact with us via technology.
 Our strategic plan will also continue to emphasize the importance of alignment with our systems partners. In other words, we want to make sure whatever we do in this arena supports efforts of the larger community, like these of the Inclusion Network. As the action plan points out, communities of color, seniors, people with disabilities, immigrant communities, and people with low incomes are among the most digitally excluded, and they are exactly who Home Forward serves in great numbers.
 Last summer, a focus group was held at our New Columbia property by the Inclusion Network. It was just a small example, but a great one of how we can support each other's work.
 We applaud the network's recognition that having the action plan informed by the community is a critical early step, and we look forward to collaborating to support what comes next. I also want to put in a plug. I want to applaud the library system for the Rockwood Makerspace. We have a number of properties in Rockwood, and that space is going to be really valuable to our children and their parents.
 So, in conclusion, we would just like to urge the council to adopt this digital equity action plan and any funding requests that may come afterwards. Thank you. Thank you very much. As I inadvertently demonstrated exactly on cue, I need to renew my allergy prescription. See?
 Good morning. Good morning. I'm Patricia McLean. I'm the Administrative Coordinator of Programs at Human Solutions, and we're a community development corporation and anti-poverty organization serving East Portland and East Multnomah County. Most of us take technology for granted. We get upset if it doesn't function the way we want it to. We become annoyed at having to upgrade our equipment.
 But for families experiencing poverty, most of this is out of reach. Yes, there are public spaces with Wi-Fi, and yes, the library is doing an amazing job at providing access to technology. It is not enough for families living at or below the poverty line. People who struggle to provide nutritious food and shelter for their children, who want the best for them, are truly unable to provide them with the tools they need to succeed academically.
 There is no room in their budgets for all their basic needs, much less the tech equipment and internet access needed for them to complete homework and communicate with teachers, to become skilled enough to stay current with tech trends, enough to hope to leave poverty. Hope dries up for many reasons, and when it does, it impacts us community-wide.
 Families living with very limited incomes need access to technology, and we need for them to have it. I encourage you to adopt the Digital Equity Action Plan as a first step to providing access for all. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Colleen Dixon. I'm the Director of Development and Public Services at FreeGeek.
 We are one of the nonprofits that have been involved in the digital inclusion network. We take used technology and transform it into opportunity for folks in our community. In the last year, we gave over 5,000 devices to folks in need in the community, and we have a huge waiting list of people who still need computers, and just as part of that kind of three-legged approach of needing devices, education on how to use them, and then access to the Internet.
 Doing that work, Freak Geek's been around for about 16 years, and...
 We've done that work in relative isolation, and it's very exciting to see a local movement growing for digital inclusion and digital equity work, to be a part of that planning group and that process and connecting it to a national movement that's underway. The power of that and just having support and resources to connect our work to each other, meeting different organizations, seeing where we can align and create this plan has been incredibly powerful. Thank you.
 And we absolutely are excited to see where we go with this and resources that can further that work and encourage you all to adopt the plan. Thank you. That 5,000 number is up a bit from the last report I heard from Free Geek. Yeah. Hopefully every year more and more if we can. That's very impressive. Good work. Thank you. Okay, let's take more folks that are signed up. Promise King, Chris Taylor, and Gary Hsu. Good morning. Good morning. All right, Promise, the floor is yours.
 Ten years ago, my name is Promise King, Executive Director of League of Minority Voters. Ten years ago, while I worked for Commissioner Sussman, he sent me, gave me a matching order. He said, you have to ensure that we have access, the community have access to utilities, that the rates are fair. During that process,
 I understand that there are expectations that ordinary Portland citizens have of their elected officials. They expect that when they turn on the light, the light will light up, that when they turn on their water faucet, water will come out. They also expect that when they have access to digital, it's available. Those expectations, Mayor Harris, are not unreasonable.
 Today we come because as part of infrastructure, there are communities that have no access. Imagine that a community that is water from electricity, water from water. That is where we are. That is the sad situation we are as it relates to digital equity.
 This is why at the League of Minority Voters, four years ago, we started Cool Science Express. This program was supposed to involve science, technology, engineering, math, and science in poor neighborhoods. We took off inside a bus. We said instead of waiting for these poor kids to come to a place where they have transportation challenges, we'll drive the bus home.
 to their neighborhoods. Wait a minute, that bus will require a lot of bandwidth, which we don't have. We believe that this effort, we are putting our effort to take science, engineering, math, and technology direct to those communities. Thank you. We urge you to support this bill. Thank you. Thank you. Great idea. Chris, good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the Commission. My name is Chris Taylor. I'm the head of business operations for Google Fiber here in Portland. As you know, Google Fiber has been working with the city of Portland, surrounding communities, and others to explore bringing Google Fiber to the Portland area. We're very excited about the potential benefits that deploying gigabit-speed Internet could bring to our community, and we're excited about the progress we've made in recent months towards making that a reality.
 I participated in all the public meetings leading to the development of this plan, and we commend the city and county for their inclusive process to develop this plan and seeking input from all the people you've heard from today and others.
 I would just highlight that Portland actually, relatively speaking, has a relatively low level of digital divide compared to some other cities we've worked in where the number is 30-some-odd percent. But we have a very high level of political commitment, as you've seen today, and buy-in from the community and leaders such as yourself to solving this problem. My point there is I think we actually can make a real difference on this issue in our community because we've got a high level of engagement and we've got a problem that's serious but potentially solvable, and I think this is a great first step.
 At Google, we talk a lot about the importance of super-fast Internet speeds and how it can move communities forward. You've heard today from others about the importance of this issue, so I won't go on and on. But school children applying for a job, doing your homework  I've got two kids in public school. Their homework is on the Internet. It's not a nice-to-have, it's a necessity today. And we're very committed to that at Google Fiber.
 To address the digital divide will require a variety of strategies. I think everybody else has highlighted that today. You don't just need access to the Internet. You need a device, and you need to know how to use it. We think those three components are what we've learned in our work in other cities, and we think is reflected in this plan, and we very much support that. I would also agree with what others have said, that the process to develop this plan has already had good results in terms of bringing these people together and identifying what's already happening, how we can leverage that and do better.
 The two pieces that are particularly relevant to us I'd like to highlight are the focus on providing affordable access to the Internet and public housing, something we're very committed to. We've partnered with Secretary Castro and HUD to provide free gigabit speed Internet in the public housing units that we've connected, and we hope to do that here in Portland as well and are already in conversations with Home Forward about that.
 And you heard about the Digital Inclusion Fellowship, which is actually a partnership between Google Fiber and N10, and we're providing approximately a million dollars a year in funding to support that program. We're glad to bring that here to Portland and look forward to good results here. So in conclusion, we applaud the city for developing this plan and the broader commitment it represents to addressing this important issue, and we look forward to working together to achieve this vision. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Good morning. Hi. This is the first time I've ever addressed a city, so thank you for the opportunity, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Gary Hsu. I'm an Instructional Technology Integration Specialist with Reynolds School District, and I work...
 I worked as a participant in this whole action planning process. I'm here to, as a representative of all of the teacher participants in that process as well. We all believe that regular and consistent access to the internet is essential to every student's success. I believe our community should never ever allow for things that promote any division of our community's members, especially when this involves our most important human capital investment, our community's children.
 The digital equity plan accomplishes this. In schools, basic technology skills are dependent on regular access to the internet.
 Basic technology skills, which are dependent on regular access to the Internet, should always be a byproduct of every single student's educational experience nowadays. Right now, this only happens for students whose situations afford them this kind of access. And this is not something that any of us in this room likely are missing from our lives. I don't want to see this basic access missing from any person's life.
 It's a consensus among educators that Internet access is an essential component to every student's success and should not only be available to those who can afford. This access is what will allow every student the ability to reach their goals in education, work, and positive community contribution. Existing programs that have reduced access cost are not really sufficient and won't ever guarantee consistent access to the Internet for our students.
 I have students regularly support, along with some of my colleagues, that their families sometimes prioritize this kind of payment. Sometimes they don't, and that creates inconsistency for our children. Educators all over the region share stories of students sitting on a curb or fence line at schools, working on their homework into the dark, rainy, and often cold evenings.
 This shouldn't be the only option for our children as they see to their future success, and we should do better for our children. Our community holds a responsibility to invest in our human capital, and I thank you for your time and consideration in all of this, understanding and compassion regarding what is best for our children and their future. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you. All right. Other folks that are signed up? John Washington, Samuel Pastrick, and Josh Klein. Okay. Come on up.
 Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Who goes first? Do I go first? Okay. Good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Sam Pastrick, and I'm here today as a representative of the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. As you folks may know, CUB represents the interest of residential utility rate payers in front of administrative, judicial, and legislative bodies. We've done so for over 30 years now.
 I was also a participant in the public process to create the DEEP before you're here today, and I'm now continuing participation with the Regional Digital Inclusion Network. So while broadband Internet is largely unregulated, at least at the state level, fast, reliable, and affordable access for consumers is something of particular interest of myself, but also CUBB.
 Fair inclusion in the digital world is critical for anyone needing access to employment, education, medical services, as well as wanting to participate civically in really any meaningful way. Broadband's become essential to daily life. You've heard this already, so much so that it's akin, in our opinion at CUB, to flipping a light switch, adjusting a thermostat, turning a tap. It's critical, and we believe that Portlanders and county residents should also enjoy equitable access to the Internet.
 So why deep and why now? You've heard these statistics, but I do want to recite them again. I think they're worth repeating. Fifteen percent of Portland area households do not currently have access at home. Folks of color, immigrant communities, older adults, people with disabilities, these are all communities that sorely lack access to broadband Internet. Forty-two percent of non-Internet users report  oh, I'm going to have to move quicker here. Okay. I want to go over a few things real quick.
 Economic outcomes, medical outcomes, education outcomes. Again, you know, we've heard this before. You know, really, in closing, CUB supports this work, and we really do look forward to participating in local action to address the digital divide. Really, what's good for consumers is also what's good for the community, what's good for Portland, what's good for the county.
 And the Portland area is both a regional and national leader in a number of policy fronts, namely transportation, climate action,
 equitable broadband adoption should really be no different. And with recent changes to the Federal Lifeline Program, we believe the time is now to adopt forward-thinking policy aimed at bridging the digital divide. So, you know, we hope that you all support this platform. Great. Thank you. Appreciate you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. Portland City Council members, my name is Josh Klein, and I'm the Chief Information Officer for Portland Public Schools.
 Prior to coming to the school district, I spent 11 years with the Oregon Department of Education. The last four as Chief Information Officer. I'm a Certified Information Systems Auditor and have worked in the information technology industry for 19 years. I'm here today to speak with you in support of our recently published Digital Equity Action Plan that seeks to eliminate the digital divide that exists in our city. Portland Public Schools believes that access to reasonably priced high-speed broadband for all students and families is a requirement of the modern learning environment.
 Open and ubiquitous access to the internet supports racial equity, social justice, and digital citizenship. Today's students will be our future leaders, and it is critical that we provide them with the necessary tools to succeed. When properly empowered, Portland students will create the technologies, systems, and services that our city and country need to compete in a digital economy and a connected world.
 Research shows that citizens who possess digital literacy skills will have greater access to education, housing, employment, health care, news, and other services, while those who do not are falling behind at an ever-increasing rate. The mission of Portland Public Schools is to prepare students for college, career, and participation as an active community member regardless of race, income, or zip code. We see the elimination of the digital divide as an essential step in achieving this mission.
 Portland Public Schools looks forward to continuing and deepening our involvement in the Digital Inclusion Network. The Digital Equity Action Plan identifies PPS as a supporting partner for several proposed strategies, including partnership in a computer repurposing program and an expansion of access of the school district's free public Wi-Fi network. I am truly excited about the intent and promise of this work and ask that you appropriately adopt and fund this three-year action plan.
 Thank you for this opportunity to voice my support for digital equity. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay. Anyone else on the list? Was there John Washington? I guess he had to leave. Okay. Thank you. Then the last three are Laquita Lanford, Charles Johnson, and Nancy Newell. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Good to see you all. Haven't seen you all in 2016 except for at other meetings. But there's three things that bring me here today. What's your name on the record, Laquita? Laquita.
 I'm sorry? Just put your name in the record. Laquita Lanford. Thank you. There's three reasons that really bring me here today. One was I participated in the focus group for African Americans in New Columbia last summer. And what I realized in that focus group is that the women of color, single moms, grandmothers, and women from the disabled community felt unrepresented and discriminated.
 wasn't confident about being able to help their children or their grandchildren or themselves with navigating the system because they had no access. There is a
 a couple different places that they can go in New Columbia to get on the computers and stuff, but they don't know how to navigate the systems. Second step was I took with  there was a grant that Social Justice Fund had put out, and I rallied some women together for us to  from hearing that  from hearing those women's testimonies and my own testimony, and saying that there's something that needs to be taken care of in this action, and what I can do as a community organizer 
 what I can do as a community leader to bring women together and so that we can figure out a way to utilize the resources in our communities. So we applied for a grant. Successfully, we got the grant. It was just a small seed money to start this conversation. And I also participated in the digital equity planning of this. And so I'm really 
 excited about all of the information that I heard before and the steps that we can take forward as a community. And as, um,
 Working with the women, what we saw, what we were inspired by were women from Africa and women from India. And they were doing this model in their communities going forward. And I really believe that this is something that we can do and create hub spaces so that our community of color and people can just drop in and get these tools and these resources that they need and not just have to be suggestive of going to the library and only having like an hour to be able to like.
 dig into what it is that they need to. And also if we're creating a mindset of STEM education, our kids are unable to practice those and get those hands-on experience if they don't have access at home. So I really appreciate if you guys would endorse this for us and our community because it's a need. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks very much. Mr. Johnson, I think you're next. Ladies first? If she'd like. Okay.
 Okay, two minutes. Thank you, Commissioner, for mentioning money. I have a suggestion. Google is extremely wealthy, and they can provide it for our city. Google is planning to come in. I don't know if anyone has heard John McPherson's lecture at Powell's Books. The book just recently came out. But they're planning automated robots that will replace most management systems in the city of Portland.
 And they're planning to build those robots in the Portland area. Now, what does that say? Unemployment. All the things that the balance of the rest of the people who are working and trying to keep their homes, trying to keep their water, trying to keep their electricity, have to pay for everything else with a pretty much tax-free major corporation.
 Will this really help our society? There's a doctor that will disagree with you on certain aspects that proved that high school students coming out of Hillsboro, if they took his course with handwriting, they'd be able to write at college level in three weeks. And he proved it. They were not writing at college level. And they had been on computer systems throughout their careers in the high schools.
 And I'm saying to you, this is a proven fact that human beings need a connection to have complex ability to analyze problems that our society with global warming, with corporate control in this country...
 to analyze some of these critical problems. So for them to come in and market and promote this, I would suggest you take a little time to get some real reports in about what the true facts are of the actual results of this kind of program would do and a better way to do it. And if they're not willing to give the money, you wonder why, if they want a better future for everybody and they got the money, and what are they going to do with all that billion dollars that they have?
 Why don't they spread it around a little bit? What's the problem here? Thank you. CHARLES JOHNSON, Thank you. Good morning. CHARLES JOHNSON, Good morning, commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson. And I certainly hope that I think it's Chris Taylor who's here from Google. I hope he won't be replaced by a robot soon. But I do hope that they will fund some accurate research for you. I'm not saying there's misinformation. But we know that this program from our franchised monopoly exists.
 But we don't know what research we have that shows what percentage of people on free and reduced lunch have been able to successfully engage on the $10 Comcast plan. So I hope that as we have Google and we talk about Comcast and CenturyLink, which also has Gigabit Fiber now running up onto 73rd Avenue on Mount Tabor, I hope that we can get more publicity that actually presents charts that show us which neighborhoods are succeeding at connecting their most disenfranchised and poorest people
 and which ones aren't, so that we'll have the most effective Google Fiber rollout to the least connected areas as soon as possible. I recently saw that the permit is in for the first Google Fiber Hut, so I'm very optimistic that they'll have a lot of business and customers to manage soon. And I trust that you all will work very hard to...
 create a mechanism that doesn't make them just tax-free, even if they're doing good work connecting low-income citizens.
 It's a little bit disappointing that Apple, which employs a lot of people over on Yamhill and has about $198 billion in cash liquid assets, hasn't stepped into this conversation. And I hope we can find some public pressure to make that happen in partnership with you all. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay. Very good testimony. Then I think it's time for us to take action on this resolution. Mayor, can I  can we have staff just for one sec? Sure. Mary Beth, come on up. Thank you, Mary Beth. A question for you. Okay.
 One of the casualties of the Internet these days is that there are people that are using the Internet to target other people. And I've even noticed that the city...
 despite all of our filters, we daily get appeals for money from people from other countries claiming they're in distress. We get phishing. We get spam. We get fake websites. We get quarantine emails where we're not supposed to open the attachment because it has some kind of virus in it or whatever. I've noticed even on my Apple at home, it's gotten  people have gotten really sophisticated getting around the firewall and everything else. And we know that 
 that the most unscrupulous people out there target the people that are most vulnerable. So I guess the question I just wanted to pose to you is, as we're moving towards this goal of attacking this divide and creating more opportunity for people, how do we also make sure we're not putting people in harm's way?
 Thank you for that question, Commissioner. That actually came up in the focus groups and in the workshops, identified as an issue, and we would propose to address that through the specific training that people talked about. People who don't understand how to navigate the Internet and the importance of really strong passwords 
 That was all part of the discussion, and it needs to be incorporated into our curriculum. I know the library already does some of that work. In terms of actual phishing and spam e-mails...
 That is an IT issue that our IT people at the county as well are struggling with, but there is training available that we could provide that could help people secure as much as possible their home Internet service. So I'm just flagging this as an issue that I have an ongoing interest in because I may be the least technologically competent person up here.
 But, I mean, the other day, for example, at City Hall, I got an urgent email telling me that my bank account had been compromised and asking me to click on and verify all my data. And, you know, I might have thought of doing that, except I didn't have a bank account with Chase. Right.
 So, I was smart enough to realize that that probably wasn't a good idea. But the level of sophistication and the appropriation of other websites, I get stuff now that's from other websites with emails that are all connected where somehow I pop up and they just want me to bite. They somehow want me to bite and it's clearly a fraud and a scam. And if I'm having trouble with it, I worry about someone that is more vulnerable and is being preyed on.
 I would just ask that we continue to look at that. And if I'm a test case, I'm not sure more education and training is going to help me over the hump on that. I think I'm going to have to have a firewall. I'm going to have to have software that blocks, and I'm going to have to have some other systems in place.
 I don't know what the answer is. I'm just stating an ongoing interest in looking at how we protect people from the negative consequences of being on the Internet. It's an important challenge that we will do our best to address. Thank you. I would suggest maybe engaging the Multnomah Youth Commission and establishing a buddy system. I know my parents-in-law call my son to install their printers and such, and I
 also forward stuff and say, should I do this? And he says, oh, mom, no. So I think that the youth of today are much more aware than those of us who have learned later in life. And so if there is some mechanism to encourage those kind of foster, like the foster grandparent program, the foster grandchild program, so that there's somebody to ask at 5 o'clock in the afternoon
 Great suggestion. Yeah, thank you. Other questions? Mary Beth, thank you very much. Let's take a vote, please. Yes. Thank you for an outstanding report. I really like the way it's laid out, and I particularly like the action plan goals and specific items that you've highlighted. So it's easier for us to follow, and we'll look forward over the next three years to watching your progress. And thank you also, Commissioner Fritz, for raising the questions about funding. So it's now on my radar where that's going to potentially come during the budget process.
 I think this is obviously a very important issue, and I appreciate particularly the way you've engaged the community in crafting this plan. Hi. Elfman? Thank you, Mary Beth, and your office for community technology and for everybody you engaged in working on this plan. It looks like a great action plan, and certainly it's always very important that we overcome the digital divide and try to do it better here than anywhere else. Hi. Elfman?
 Thank you, Mary Beth. Thanks to your office. I'm just so impressed by the wide variety of individuals and organizations that have been involved in developing this plan. I mean, Free Geek, Human Solutions, Street Roots, let's see, the county library, City of Resham. It's just remarkable, and thanks to everybody for testifying today. Hi. Great. Thanks.
 thanks to mary beth henry and your entire office which i continue to think should be an independent office with a bureau director and i want to credit tim crail in my office brendan finn and commissioner saltzman's and skip newberry when he was part of mayor adams's office in putting together the broadway plan initially and structuring it so that it did include
 a lot of community engagement, which you, of course, have taken to new heights in the partnerships with the library and with Multnomah County. So thank you very much for all of your work. I'm very proud to support this plan.
 Mills? Well, I'm going to steal a page from Commissioner Novick, who's constantly quoting musical lyrics or musicians, and in this case, quote Dolly Parton, who said you should find out who you are and then do it on purpose. So I think who we are is a tech-savvy city, and we also are really good at building partnerships and collaboration, and that's what we're doing on purpose in this plan. And I just want to really commend both the work itself and the partnership that you've built.
 not only to produce the plan, but then to make it real. So great work. I look forward to immediately putting it to use in lots of good ways, including that competition that we're going to win at the national level. Thank you for your great work. Bye. Thank you.
 Okay, now we have some folks here on a number of items, so we're going to take 322 next, which is the local improvement district, and then we'll move to the proclamation about national service. So we'll call on everyone to come forward and be ready and ask you to read item 322. Thank you.
 Declare intent to initiate local improvement district formation proceedings to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements west of Southwest 30th Avenue in the Southwest Dulf Court, Spring Garden Street local improvement district. Mr. Novick. Andrew Abbey.
 Good morning, Commissioner Novick. Carla, I think I switched on 322. F5? Okay, thank you. Good morning. I'm Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. Joining me today is Lauren McGuire from Portland Parks and Recreation. We'll try to be very brief this morning. I know you have a very busy agenda. I just...
 put up the map there of where the project is on the left. You can see that the area of improvement is very close to Barber Boulevard where we're planning future high-capacity transit. On the right is a more detailed map of the LID and I gave copies of the presentation to Carla to pass around to you and
 hard copy form just to give you a sense of the infrastructure deficiencies in this particular project area which is in multnomah and sweeney we have a significantly higher proportion of streets that are paved without curbs or stormwater drainage or sidewalks in multnomah and in sweeney you can see the numbers there we've got over three times the rate here that we do around the city as a whole
 And you can also see that we have much lower sidewalk coverage in this area. So we have about 61.4% sidewalk coverage citywide, but we only have about 19% in Multnomah and about 24% in Sweeney. And Sweeney has the lowest sidewalk coverage of any of the seven neighborhood coalitions. So with that context, I'll turn it over to Lauren to tell you a little bit about the park that is the impetus for this LED.
 Thank you, Mayor Harrells and Commissioners. My name is Laura McGuire. I'm the Capital Projects Team Manager for Portland Parks and Recreation. We've been asked by our colleagues, Andrew at PVOT, to provide a brief overview of the exciting new Spring Garden Park development project and to report on the successful public involvement process recently completed for the development of the park. The rendering up shows that Spring Garden Park, which is an existing
 4.65 acre park located between Southwest Spring Garden to the north at the top of the slide and Southwest Dolph Court to the south. The Spring Garden Park project purpose, as established in the 2003 Master Plan, is to further the development of the existing park with a new playground and sitting area along Southwest Dolph Court and an ADA accessible connection through the park to a gathering area and on to Spring Garden.
 Street the project will also add a picnic shelter picnic area a loo and will improve the hillside area with native and Northwest adapted grasses and plantings to protect and enhance the habitat value The primary goals of the park design are to maintain and enhance the existing character of the park which has broad vistas and open areas to provide recreational opportunities with facilities that are consistent and
 with those found in other neighborhood parks, including pedestrian connectivity within the park, and to protect and restore the natural resource areas. In February of 2016, we completed seven months of public engagement process. That included three public open houses and five project advisory committee meetings.
 We received tremendous feedback and input from the neighbors, and we heard that there's also a need for increased pedestrian access along Dolph Court, where there are currently no existing sidewalks. As part of the park development process, we learned from PBOT, I mean with PBOT, that we require frontage improvements. Those improvements include a dedication of property five feet on Dolph and seven feet on Spring Garden, and the construction of sidewalks, stormwater improvements, and street trees.
 on both the park frontages. Understanding these requirements, we're now working with our colleagues at PBOT to create an LID in which these improvements can be completed. This LID resolution by PBOT seeks to incorporate additional frontage improvements from the park east to southwest 30th Avenue. Without this expansion of the LID, the sidewalks in front of the park will stop at the property lines of the park.
 The expansion area of the LID includes sidewalk east to the Southwest 30th, which provides access from the mass transit located on Barber Boulevard to the park because there are sidewalks in that area. This is a positive development as it helps parks reach its goal of providing increased park access from neighbors within a half-mile walking radius. Additionally, based on community feedback, we have every indication that the expansion of the LID will have widespread support.
 Spring Garden Park will serve 1,359 households, 128 of which are not currently within a half-mile walking distance of a devolved neighborhood park.
 So with that, we're excited for the opportunity to deliver another developed park to Portland and this community to long enjoy into the future and support the approval of this LID to allow people to walk to the park safely. Thank you. Thank you, Lauren. I also wanted to recognize the great partnership with Travis Rubal and Parks who couldn't join us today. So just to briefly explain the LID and move on to the testimony,
 So the planned improvements are partial street improvements along the park, so reconstructing the street along the park, but along Dolph Court. So when we reconstruct the street, we're talking both Dolph Court on the south side of the park and Spring Garden Street on the north side of the park.
 We also are proposing to widen Dolf Court and put in curb drainage and sidewalk to Southwest 30th Avenue. You can see from this slide that we have two assessment zones dividing up the park contribution and the non-park contribution. The park contribution of the LID would not change irrespective of whether we move forward with extending the sidewalks and the drainage. And all single-family homes would be exempt from the LID. Those responsibilities for frontage improvements would be deferred but not eliminated. Thank you.
 And then this shows you an example of what we're trying to avoid on the left with Spring Garden Park. We don't want to set up a situation where we build a beautiful new park and then parks have to find money in their operating budget to keep up with maintaining the frontage. What we really want to do is to emulate the success that we had last year with Kunamox Park at 52nd and Alberta where we had a very well integrated PBOT capital project and parks capital project.
 These pictures here were taken on the right, December 8th of last year, and on the left a little bit later than that.
 January 17th of this year. If you look at the picture on the right, I've drawn a pink circle around where people are discharging stormwater into the right-of-way from their private property, and part of the scope of this LID will be to provide better connections for stormwater disposal. You can see from that picture on the left that that...
 that we have some riprap armor scouring and some ditch erosion. You can see the cracking in the pavement. We're at a pretty critical point right now where we can salvage this pavement if we put in the curbs and the drainage. But if we don't act now, then the property owners, in the absence of this LID, might be looking at a much more expensive reconstruct of the roadway in the future if they ever wanted to.
 pit pull a building permit or otherwise redevelop. So part of PBOT's Vision Zero objective, as you can see on this next slide, is we're trying to be sensitive to people with disabilities. And we're also trying to build good infrastructure that provides safe places for pedestrians to walk. And while Dolf Court is not going to be like 82nd Avenue, in the top picture, it does afford us the opportunity on a very steep slope of up to 10% grades.
 and a narrow roadway, as you can see from this picture, to just provide a much more comfortable walking environment for people of all ages and abilities to get to the park. So really, our objective here is not to spend a lot of money on building a wonderful park. But as you can see from this picture, in the absence of sidewalks, it would be very hard to get to, unless you drove there.
 Parks is not planning an off-street parking lot, so they will be relying only on on-street parking, and we will only have a finite number of parking spaces. So we felt that it was important to provide other ways for people to get to the park. And finally, just to wrap up, this is a slide of some frontage improvements that were done at the bottom of the hill. Very high quality. You can see that this is...
 what works really well in this area is to have good sidewalk stormwater infrastructure that for example benefit kids waiting for the school bus these sidewalks would would provide a way for these kids to get to the new park when it's built so i'm happy to answer any questions you have um otherwise i know we have some people here to
 Speak with you questions for our team. Thank you very much. Great project. Okay, let's hear from folks that are want to speak on this item I have three people signed up sue stole Jim Winkler and Donna Rose. Come on up, please
 Good morning, Sue. Would you like to be first? Good morning. Thank you all for being here and letting me talk. My name is Suzanne Stahl. I am here today representing the Accessibility in the Built Environment Subcommittee, which is housed under the Portland Commission on Disability to show support for this project. The Accessibility in the Built Environment has been working with the city over the past several years to improve accessibility.
 improve infrastructure such as streets and sidewalks to make Portland more accessible for all individuals regarding age or ability. And I feel this project supports our mission as well as the mission of the city. Installing sidewalks on Southwest Dolf will make it easier to access the park and to add importance
 to add an important piece of connectivity to the community and to those using transit. Currently, an individual is forced to walk in a ditch and wait at a poorly designed bus stop. By improving the sidewalks, not only is the city protecting its pedestrians, but it's also furthering the ADA transition plan.
 I'm glad that the city has listened to the community and stakeholders and developed a plan based on feedback. This is what the neighborhood wants, and we must respect that. Finally, I am pleased that this project involves the collaboration of two bureaus, Parks and PBOT,
 This type of collaboration does not happen often enough, and I'm excited when the city engages multiple bureaus for a project. This project is a win-win, and I urge you to support it. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Winkler, good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Jim Winkler. I'm the president of Winkler Development Corporation, which developed the Headwaters project immediately located at Southwest 30th and Dolph.
 I want to commend the collaboration, but also this LID. The Headwaters Project was driven by the desire to balance the needs of both the built and natural environment and named for the fact that it is at the headwaters of Tryon Creek. The stormwater improvements that are part of this LID are critical to keeping that creek as functional and healthy as it can possibly be. Moreover, the safety that Sue and others have talked about is critical. The slope is 10%. It is too steep.
 But, in addition, I think that one of the things I'm most proud of, there are two things that I was most proud of with the Headwaters. One was that we were able to work with then-City Commissioner Francis Coney and the Parks Bureau to dedicate our park systems development charges to begin the planning for the Spring Garden Park project.
 And it's personally very gratifying a decade later to actually see the park starting to come to fruition. Secondly, we went to great effort to get a traffic signal at Barber Boulevard so that people could safely traverse that street and get to mass transit. Providing a safe way to walk to mass transit seems to me a very good idea if you want people to use mass transit.
 All in all, I think this is a terrific idea for the environmental benefit, the public safety benefit, and the fact that this very park-deficient area will have a park that people can actually get to safely. So I want to lend my support to it as somebody who spent a number of years across the street and developed the City Lights Project, which I think you all, and to the Portland Housing Bureau, the Village at Headwaters, which is a low-income elderly project.
 and then also the condominium project adjacent there too, so that we have a mixed income, multi-generational, mixed tenure project adjacent to a park and with mass transit access, now with public access.
 with sidewalks on the other side of the street makes a lot of sense to me, and thank you for considering it. Thank you for your partnership. Appreciate it. Mr. Winkler, your project was not without controversy at the time, and so I really appreciate you coming back today to both note the success and the partnerships which have gone on over a decade or more. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak before Andrew wraps this up? Thank you, Suzanne. Donna Rowe just indicated she'd prefer not to testify today. I neglected to mention that we do have an amendment to the map that I'd like to move that amendment to substitute Exhibit B, if you could take a roll call on that before you vote on the underlying resolution. Commissioner Novick moves the amendment to Exhibit B. Second. Discussion? Let's take a vote to adopt the amendment, please. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Just a clerical amendment, aye. Hales? Aye. And now a vote on the resolution as amended. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Hales?
 I'm sorry, I have to give a small speech because I'm so thrilled about this. I lived on Dolph Court for five years when I first moved here, and so walked on that street a lot, was part of the Jim Francisco acquiring that property from the school district when the city gave money and we got those properties in return during the aftermath of Measure 5. So it's really exciting to see this project coming. I'm delighted to hear how much collaboration and
 that has been between the bureaus and with the community. I know there's a lot of excitement in the community. This is dedicating $725,000 in park system development charges to the street improvements, several million more in the park improvements. And this is construction...
 Fees that help pay for new capacity, and it's new capacity in multiple different ways. And I appreciate you noting, Andrew, that Southwest has the highest level of lack of sidewalks, and we also have several parks deficiencies there.
 And yet the community there is very supportive of my direction and the citywide direction to continue to focus most of the system development charges in East Portland. Since I've been the Parks Commissioner, we've dedicated $36 million to East Portland through a combination of system development charges, the bond measure, and general fund with the council's support. And so although that's where the greatest inequities are and everybody is 
 supportive of directing most of the money there, it is good to see that everybody benefits in some ways from growth as well as from the challenge, having to experience the challenges of growth. So thank you very much for your work on this.
 Well, I have a similar history and a similar perspective to Commissioner Fritz. Having started my civic life as a neighborhood activist trying to get sidewalks built in southwest Portland, it's great to see more of them. So this is good work. And as you pointed out with your statistics, we have many more miles to go.
 But I just want to commend, again, this particular presentation. You know, Andrew, you just bring in these little minor political miracles on a regular basis where we have bureaus cooperating intelligently and figuring out how to solve problems, enlightened property owners signing up to tax themselves, and neighborhoods getting things done. And that's how it should be, but we appreciate the fact that you make it so. Aye.
 If I may. I apologize. My mind wandered for a second. I forgot we were about to vote on the main matter, so I just wanted to thank everybody involved and everybody who testified today myself. Bye. Good work. Good work by you and your Bureau Commissioner. Well done. Thank you all. Okay. I think we can violate the rules and clap for good work. Good city employee, a couple of them. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's move, please, to our proclamation, which is item number 329.
 Proclaim April 5, 2016 to be National Service Recognition Day in Portland. We have a group of people here to celebrate this and three that I want to call up as I get started. Lone Morris, Mark Chorney, and Shirley Givens. Come on up, please, and take your places and I'll talk about this resolution. Thank you.
 and we're very happy to have all of you here about this. You know, there's a law that requires public officials to declare a conflict of interest, and so in this case I have to declare a conflict of interest, but not really, and that is I admit the love of my life because she moved to the Northwest as a VISTA volunteer years ago. So I have a special place in my heart for what you all do, and that's why this proclamation is a lot of fun. So let me read the proclamation and then turn it over to our panel.
 It says, whereas service to others is a hallmark of the American character, and whereas the nation's mayors and cities are increasingly turning to national service and volunteerism as a cost-effective strategy to meet city needs.
 and whereas participants in AmeriCorps and Senior Corps address the most pressing challenges facing our cities and nation, from educating students for jobs in the 21st century and supporting veterans and military families, to providing health services and helping communities recover from natural disasters,
 And whereas AmeriCorps and Senior Corps participants serve in more than 180 service locations in Portland, bolstering civic, neighborhood, and faith-based organizations. And whereas more than 790 National Service participants of all ages and backgrounds serve in Portland, improving the quality of life in our city.
 and whereas National Service represents a unique public-private partnership that invests in community solutions and leverages non-federal resources to strengthen community impact, including more than $3 million worth in Portland.
 And whereas the Corporation for National and Community Service shares a priority with mayors nationwide to engage citizens, improve lives, and strengthen communities, and is joining with the National League of Cities, City of Service, and mayors across the country to recognize the impact of service, now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, City of Roses,
 do hereby proclaim April 5, 2016 to be National Service Recognition Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe and celebrate this day. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Welcome. Who would like to go first? Thank you.
 Tell us a little bit about this program. Good morning, Mayor Hells, commissioners, and fellow AmeriCorps. My name is Lone Morris, and I would just like to share a brief story of my AmeriCorps service with my organization and our Portland community. For the last seven months, I have been serving at McDonald's Center, a small nonprofit that believes that no one deserves to live in social isolation.
 McDonald Center builds community through relationships that nurture the mind, body, and spirit of those living in Old Town Portland. With a focus on outreach and assistance, we lessen social isolation and help our community members to live healthier, happier lives. As a VISTA, I work to strengthen collaboration and partnerships between McDonald Center and prominent service providers in our community.
 These partnerships have helped the Center improve the lives of nearly 500 people in 2015. And we also couldn't have done it without the 190 volunteers that donate nearly 10,000 hours of community service to these individuals. With a little hard work and luck, my service will help McDonald's Center increase the impact of the marginalized members of our community of service.
 And like many people, I once regarded Old Town as one of the scariest parts of downtown, as I'm sure many people who walk through it at night will feel a little bit uneasy with all the activity that happens. However, due to my VISTA's placement, I have been privileged to catch the tenderness, mercy, and compassion that exists there alongside the illness, misery, and indifference.
 Our community is fortunate to have wonderful organizations like McDonald's Center, and I am thankful that AmeriCorps supports our organizations, our communities, and our country. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well said. Good morning. Morning, Mayor Hales. Good morning, Commissioners.
 My name is Mark Chorney, and I am a member of the Confluence Environmental Center AmeriCorps team. On behalf of my team, I thank you for proclaiming yesterday National Service Recognition Day in Portland. I joined AmeriCorps because I want to dedicate my time and energy toward work I believe in and feel inspired by. Thank you for the opportunity to tell you a little about my service. The Confluence AmeriCorps team includes 20 members serving with a diversity of regional partners to address critical environmental needs in our most underserved communities.
 I serve next door with the Bureau of Environmental Services Tree Program. Since 2008, the tree program has planted more than 40,000 trees in the city, 87% of which are in underserved communities. My mission with them is to aid in increasing that number, particularly in areas and communities that need it most.
 As you may know, Friends of Trees is a great ally and partner of the BES Tree Program, so I've been spending my Saturdays since January leading volunteer community planting crews in neighborhoods like Cully, Hazelwood, Powellhurst-Gilbert, and Lentz. In that effort, I've had a hand in personally planting more than 70 trees and working with over 130 community members. It's been an amazing and incredibly fun way to work alongside neighborhood stakeholders.
 Taking part in these community plantings positioned me to develop my own planting project in East Portland, collaborating with Lincoln Park Elementary's Schools Uniting Neighborhoods educators. We knew that additional trees on the school's property would benefit the students in a number of ways, particularly providing much-needed shade to a series of notoriously hot, south-facing classrooms.
 And so yesterday, myself, one of my AmeriCorps teammates, and two members of the tree program joined 32nd, 3rd, and 4th graders from the elementary's after-school garden program in planting and welcoming their new tree friends to the property. They even named some of the new trees, including a Jefferson elm, now known as Awesome Tree, and two bigleaf maples named Snowcone and Kevin. Okay.
 I have learned, however, that planting trees doesn't always meet the direct, immediate needs of a community. So I've developed additional ways to engage communities. This has required some thinking outside of the box and certainly a great aptitude for flexibility.
 One of the partnerships I'm most excited about is with a local organization called People Places Things, which teaches free adult English language classes that focus on cultural connection and navigation over the traditional academic style of English language classes. By working with this program, a number of very important goals are being addressed in one place.
 I fulfill my goal of working with a community that is historically underserved in terms of city services, the immigrant and refugee community, and they fulfill their need of practicing their English skills with real-world materials like tree species identification cards, Portland watershed maps, and guided walking tours of green infrastructure. Recently, I've been thinking about the opportunities for change that would be lost if the tree program didn't have an AmeriCorps member.
 It would mean an absence of the projects and relationships I just mentioned. No tree planting with East Portland elementary school students yesterday afternoon, and no real-world environmental education for that same community's immigrant and refugee population this evening at Midland Library.
 I know how incredibly important our service is as AmeriCorps members. So again, on behalf of my team, I'd like to thank you for honoring this work with your proclamation and for allowing me the opportunity to speak about how I make a difference as a Confluence Environmental Center AmeriCorps member. Thank you. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor Hales, Commission.
 My name is Shirley Givens and I'm here to represent Albany Head Start and Ron Herndon and Elaine Harrison. And we're speaking on behalf of the Foster Grandparent Program, which we appreciate. We thank you guys for allowing them to come in our classroom daily to work with our children because some of our children didn't have the access to a grandparent or the nurturing and the grandparents come to the classroom. They're there to support the children.
 as well as the families that we serve. We serve over 1,000 children as well as families, and they play a big part in our program. And they're there daily to make sure that the children needs are met by supporting the teachers as well as the children. A lot of the children don't have the opportunity to have one-on-one time in their homes or whatever, so the grandparents bring their love and nurture.
 relationship into our classroom and we're excited about them making an impact on the children that we serve and without the foster grandparents we would kind of be at a loss and so today we bought some foster grandparents with us because they're so committed they wanted to come and just stand up please is that okay of course thank you and they're there on their post every day and so
 We just thank you for the opportunity that the city have given us to have that program be a part of our program. Thank you. Well, we appreciate you all, and this is an opportunity each year for the city council, for us as community leaders to just acknowledge the amazing work that all of you do. So it's a privilege for us to be able to do this and to thank you and to recognize this work. Thank you.
 Sorry, the other comments, maybe there might be, and we want to take a photo with this group. Mayor, I just wanted, I know we have other groups that aren't represented in the panel. Can we just go around the room just making sure we know? Which programs are you with? I'm starting over here with College Possible. Yeah, College Possible. You want to stand, the College Possible folks? Ah, okay. All right, thank you. Other programs in the room? The VISTA people, you want to stand? All right. AmeriCorps. AmeriCorps. Others? Yes? Yes.
 What did we miss? ABATAP. All right. Excellent. Good idea, Commissioner. Who else? Hey. Excellent. Well, thank you all. We'd love if you all would come up and take a picture with the council. I'd like to give a shout-out to President Bill Clinton, who created AmeriCorps, although a number of organizations like this preexisted. Steve, thanks to AmeriCorps, my brother got his first job out of college. Come on up, everybody.
 Okay, right here. Would you guys maybe range around behind us? Would that be good? Ladies, just in the background. Please. Or you can take one of those seats up there, because you'll be there someday soon anyway. Bill, the seats will be very official. Okay. Thank you so much. Nice to meet you. Thank you very much. My pleasure meeting your wife on several occasions. All along fan. Change your mind. All the way. All the way. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Look at this group. You need a wide-angle lens on this. Yeah. Thank you. Hello. We're still working on it. Yeah. Hello.
 One more time. You're doing great. I have one more back here. Okay, for real though. One, two, three, four.
 Thank you.
 Appreciate you. Thank you. Nice. It's such a good thing to see all these principled young people doing good in the world. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, it's going to be hard to top that, I realize. Do you want to move to...
 items we pulled first move right to the tree code stuff first we do tree code why we got here 335 335 no oh I did 328 since we got tree but apparently there's some folks that have to leave on 335 so you want to do that first okay we did 322 council we just did it
 Let's do 335. Sounds like there's an urgent need on that one. Then we'll move to 335. 335. Change the application requirements and definition of low income within the property tax exemption for low income housing held by charitable nonprofit organizations program. Thank you, Mayor. The Portland Housing Bureau.
 administers the Nonprofit Limited Tax Exemption Program, which assists eligible nonprofit organizations in providing affordable rental housing to low-income tenants. And their tenants' eligibility is annually confirmed. And last year, a number of community organizations, including Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives and
 and Maxine Fitzpatrick may show up any minute to speak on behalf of this, but they lobbied the legislature to adjust the 60% median family income to allow people, tenants who are already living in a development, to make more money and not have to move out. So the legislation increased the amount of median family income to 80%. And...
 As I said, this became state law, and this code now we're asking you to approve today simply conforms with the new Oregon revised statute. Dory Von Bockel is here to answer any questions, or I don't know if you wanted to add anything, Dory, if I left anything out.
 As I said, Maxine, who's one of the leading advocates, may show up any second. I was just going to mention that there are over 40 nonprofit organizations providing around 14,000 units to benefit from this program annually. This doesn't change the entry threshold. You still have to be at 60%, but if you improve your circumstances, which is one of the ideas of making sure housing is affordable so people can focus on work, and make a little more money, you don't have to move out.
 Exactly right. Hopefully, you know, allowing for the stability of being in housing to occur and that once a family is reaching that 80% of median family income level, there are easier access at that point than to either enter homeownership or have...
 be able to find housing, hopefully, without the resources of the nonprofit agency. Lori, does the matter before us simply adopt what state law requires, or are we exercising any discretion in how we're drafting our rules? We did actually just adopt directly the wording that was changed through the statute. Thank you very much. Okay. Other questions? Thank you very much.
 we have some panel members that you're gonna i know maxine fitzpatrick was the only invited person and i think she's having a busy day all right so this is fine anyone else want to speak on this item if not it is an emergency ordinance let's take a vote please yes hi saltzman hi novick hi great hi hails all right good work thank you okay
 Now, I think we should go to the what's that? Pulled items. The pulled items. Okay. Let's do that then, please. Item number 323. Authorize a grant agreement with Elders in Action for arts education and access income tax outreach in an amount not to exceed $25,000. Who pulled this? I did. So I'd like to make an opening statement. Okay.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you to Thomas Lanham and your team from Revenue. I pulled this because it's a great thing, and I wanted everybody to know that we're supporting inclusion and access for elders in action to provide information about this.
 and secondly, to make sure that everybody is reminded that April 18th is coming up. Apparently it's not the 15th, it's the 18th this year that taxes are due. And so we wanted to make sure that we just outline again what Portlanders' responsibilities are for paying the arts tax. Okay, thank you very much for that, Commissioner. Again, I'm Thomas Lannam, Director of the Revenue Division. Joining me is Scott Carter, our Audit and Accounting Manager, and also Joanne Herrigel from Elders in Action.
 In brief, what Portlanders need to do by the 18th, by midnight on the 18th, is pay their tax. It's $35. It's due every year. And they can do that by visiting our website at PortlandOregon.gov slash arts tax. Sixty percent of people over the years have chosen to actually pay their taxes that way. And we're very happy that they've done it that way because it actually saves us a great deal of money in terms of the administration and the tax. Okay.
 I'll highlight a couple of brief pieces about outreach generally, and then I'll turn it over to Scott to speak about this particular grant to Elders in Action. We just completed mailing over 400,000 Portlanders tax forms, and so those were all received in mailboxes by April 4th. We actually started a month before that or so. We've also emailed 140,000 Portlanders that had previously provided their email addresses to us.
 And many of them have already chosen to pay the tax. In fact, we've already collected $3 million this year. We're well ahead of where we were year-to-date last year, which broke the previous year's record. So, in short, collections are up. Compliance overall is over 70 percent. We believe that if we take some additional collection actions this summer,
 we could see the compliance rates rise to over 80%. And so I'll be proposing a resolution for council's consideration in June to achieve that. And then I guess the last piece I would highlight is that we just inked a deal with U.S. Bank for a lockbox service. So the vast majority of the checks that we now receive for the arts tax are being processed online.
 through that lockbox service at U.S. Bank. That means that the checks are being deposited very much more quickly than we could have ever achieved internally at a very good price. And so instead of waiting for weeks for checks to cash for the arts tax, it's now a day, two days, three days at the outside. So I'll stop there unless there are questions and turn over to Scott.
 For the record, I'm Scott Carter, Revenue Division. This outreach project is funded by a grant from OMF Business Operations as a use of their dedicated public involvement funds, and as such, technically it represents a general fund subsidy of the ARTS tax. This outreach focuses on low-income elders, but it's also directed toward immigrant communities, disabled individuals, and communities of color.
 This partnership was successful in its first year, which was a year ago, which was the 2014 tax filing season. Both parties are interested in having it continue for one to three additional years, and that's as long as there's a funding source and it's the best use of those funds.
 The funded activities include educational materials, designing those materials and printing them, partner training and information. Elders in Action reaches out to their partner organizations such as ERCO and Urban League and they'll train those folks to actually provide training to the people that they serve.
 provides housing and facility training, which is onsite at low-income facilities and senior centers. They perform something they're very good at, the age-friendly review, information outreach to tax preparation sites. They lead elders and other clients to places where they can have their taxes prepared, and then they actually help those preparation
 folks, get them up to speed with the arts tax. They do media, which is e-blast, Facebook, et cetera. And for 2016, they're having a focus on the disabled community.
 So in 2015, the project reached nearly 800 older adults with face-to-face contact and information about the arts tax and assistance filling out the forms, 217 people with information shared over the phone, 1,018 people with a direct email or direct mail piece from Elders in Action, and between another 2,000 to 6,000 through print newsletters, e-news, and Facebook views. So now Joanne will...
 and speak to a little bit more about what they're experiencing. Joanne, here I'll go with Elders in Action. Thanks for letting me come today. I just wanted to give one example of the increased outreach that we've been able to do with this grant. A couple of weeks ago, as a result of information that we put in the disability newsletter as well as information that was put out by Impact Northwest,
 We had a call from an Asian community elder who asked us to come to the site of a health clinic and have our volunteers and one of our staff people meet directly with the Asian community, the community offered to help.
 translation services for us, and we were able to handle inquiries and information, sort of like just some confusion about the arts tax on whether you had to pay it or not at all, or if you did have to pay it, how should you do it for between 15 and 20 people. And the organization was very happy with it. We got some really good sort of partnership opportunities out of it, and the people that we spoke with were very relieved that they would stop getting overdue notices.
 So it's just an example of the extra work that we can do with this kind of additional funding. Great. Questions? Comments? One is every Portland elementary school now has an arts teacher, thanks to the arts tax. Every Portland elementary school. So thanks to the voters for that. And second, I want to thank Elders in Action for another role they play in the city, which is helping us redesign all of our publications so they're accessible to older adults.
 And the Water Bureau gives every new homeowner a brochure
 And we gave it to Elders in Action to look at, and of course they told us the 100 ways it fell short, mostly because the print's too small and the information was too hard to read. This is the rebranded brochure certified by Elders in Action, and I hope all my colleagues take advantage of this resource because there's a lot for us to learn about how to make sure our materials are accessible to older adults. Thank you.
 Thanks to our friends at elders in action for their great work questions. Thank you all very much anyone else want to speak on this item Come on up, please My name is Joe walls I represent individuals for justice. I'm very glad you pulled this item I
 We need to celebrate these things, you know, and to do it under consent and gender. I know it's easy and you can get it through and you had a lot to do today looking at the agenda. But these people deserve recognition, you know. You need to tell them, hey, you know, you're doing good stuff. Commissioner Fish and I disagree on a lot of stuff. We are in agreement today that people that...
 come up with creative ideas like the printing that most of us would not think about, except us older people think about it a lot. So those kinds of things. And again, Commissioner Fritz, I commend you that you pulled this item because often Individuals for Justice pulls items to criticize them.
 And we like it when you pull items to praise them. You know, it's not one-sided with us. And the citizens and the people that are watching this have a right to know that elders in action are really good people. You know, and we need that right now. We're not doing so good on a national level or a local level. We need to praise each other when we can. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, thank you. I'm Bruce Broussard. I'm at 1863 North Jansen Avenue. And I too would agree with the gentleman that it's really neat. I think it's a good thing. At one point in time, some years ago, I was also on the board.
 And so I think the idea of the fact that the tax of working changed because a lot of people had a number of opposition. Even I had some issues early on, but my wife pays it, so that's okay. But also since we're thinking about this is that I think we need to even be a little bit more creative. And I'm thinking about Commissioner Fish when he made the point about the schools and whatever. You know, we don't have voc ed in our schools anymore.
 and maybe we might consider maybe doing some things in regards to Coquette. Because when I was going to school, I did some stuff in art, if you will. We did wood shop. We had woodwork.
 We did auto mechanics. We were painting cars and things of that nature. So maybe those things might be given some consideration that we might be able to get voc ed back in the schools, in our public schools, which will help a lot of young folks that are falling in the cracks, you know, the gang members and things of that nature, get them to the point where they'll find what they will read right in the real world, take that type of thing. So that might be something that hopefully you all might want to consider, maybe looking at doing voc ed in the public schools here in Portland.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. Okay. Anyone else on this item? Then let's, this is a non-emergency ordinance, so let's have that move forward to second reading next week. And then we'll take item 327. Pay arbitration award in the matter between Portland Firefighters Association and the city for alternate payee grievance arbitration dated October 26, 2015. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners Brennan-Finn, Commissioner Saltzman's office. I'm joined by Lori Kraut from the City Attorney's Office and Jay Guo from Fire and Rescue. We're here to answer any questions. Lori is prepared to give a brief background on the case if Council so desires. Anyone need a further comment on this case? Go ahead, please. So the ordinance directs the general fund to pay this settlement.
 And it's silent on whether the Fire and Police Pension Disability Fund is going to pay it back and who's going to pay it in the future. And so I just wanted to have on the record that there is going to be that discussion and that it's not determined that the general fund is the appropriate fund to pay this. We're doing it because it needs to be paid quickly. And this is the quickest way to get the money to those who deserve it. I want to make it very clear that
 I hope that that discussion happens and that the matter returns to council for a decision as to which fund pays it in the long run, both on this one and in the future.
 commissioner fritz that is the purpose of this ordinance it is a stop gap measure so that we comply with our obligations under the pekma we do not risk an unfair labor practice charge and it allows council to have those discussions in uh whatever time period it needs laurie are we in agreement that if we can't the council can't agree as to whether it's a general fund or fpdnr it'll come out of dan saltzman's budget
 I report to this commissioner, so I better have no comments. Do we have a timeline for when that discussion will happen? We're going to be having some executive session discussion between the council and the FPD and our board on matters of litigation shortly. Good. Thank you. I think it's already scheduled. Next week, next Thursday morning. Yep. Okay. Any other questions for our team on this issue? Brendan, what's up with the timbers? I have to ask you. Ha, ha, ha.
 Irrelevant. We'll see. Give him time. Remember what happened last year. Thank you all very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Okay. Come on up. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. I pulled this item because I wanted that question that Commissioner Fritz asked, and I wanted that on a public record because we were confused when we read this. This is $138,000. Yes.
 and a $6,000 that goes on for an undetermined amount of time. So we were a little confused how the general fund gets involved in this and why there's no insurance involved in this. And the other question we have is this. Do we ever win an arbitration? Yes. Do we know what the percentage is all? Because it seems like we're losing them a lot.
 I mean, we have a person in the police department everybody wants to get rid of, and we can't do it because of an arbitrator. Some of you know that I used to be a chief steward for the IBEW. And when we selected arbitrators, if the arbitrators were terrible, we got rid of them. So it's the selection of the arbitrators that's very important. And I don't know if this council is aware of that.
 And I think maybe Commissioner Fish could help you on that because you have a labor background. We need to do better with the arbitrators. Or we have 40 lawyers and 10 paralegals and 10 legal associates, whatever that means. I don't know what that means. That's 60 people, and we can't win arbitrations. I mean, significant arbitrations we have lost.
 And this one here is irritating to an ex-union steward because the arbitrator ruled a year ago or eight months ago, and we're fighting it from somewhere. Why did it take eight months to pay these guys? These are firefighters. We like firefighters.
 They were still liars for us. If we get an arbitration award, either make the decision you're going to appeal it, and if you say no, you're not, pay them. Please, don't make them wait eight months. Look at the dates on this stuff. That's what an ex-union student does. We look at the dates. We say, why? Why are we doing this? We love firefighters. So that's our objection, and also I think,
 Commissioner Fritz obviously is in agreement with us on this, that there needs to be some discussion about this general fund. And I know you go down to the basement and you find money. I wish. You know, you keep finding money someplace. But anyway, would you pay these guys? We are not here to object about the payment. Pay them. But then look at the process. There's something wrong with the process.
 thank you very much you're welcome okay it's an emergency ordinance let's take a vote please hi saltsman novic hi chris thank you hi hey all right thank you very much okay now we'll move on to regular agenda long last item 328.
 Strengthen regulations for tree preservation in development situations. Okay. First, an apology for procedural misunderstanding last week. We need to give Commissioner Fritz the opportunity to officially change her vote on Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. I want to apologize for that confusion and say let's give it another try to get it right. And therefore, I'll make a motion to reconsider the vote for Commissioner Saltzman's amendment. Second.
 further discussion on that motion to reconsider. I don't think that's what, if you could just ask the city attorney, I don't think that's the appropriate process. So, Mayor, in conferring... I'm making another procedural mistake, so let's get it right this time. I'll slow down. In conferring with Commissioner Fritz's office, it would be appropriate for her to ask the record reflect that she would have intended to have voted no for,
 the amendment by unanimous consent the council can allow me to change my vote in the record okay that's that's correct not a motion to reconsider an objection to allowing Commissioner Fritsch to change her vote in the record hearing none by unanimous consent that is approved now let's move forward
 Given that, the amendment passed against my objections. I have a further amendment which was circulated to your offices by my staff with your staff and entered in the Tuesday memo, and that is to clarify the amendment that has passed. And I intend to support this amendment should this one pass. The clarifications are that there isn't going to 
 The council's intent is that affordable housing should be exempt from the stopgap mitigation payment requirements. So I'm proposing to delete the sentence in the City Code 1150.040.C1B4.
 that delete the sentence that says to be exempt from the mitigation requirement in B2, the applicant must demonstrate that the retention requirement of B1 and the tree protection specifications of 030 cannot be met with the proposed development. The reason for that part of this amendment is that to have
 The applicant has to demonstrate that would require hiring an arborist. It would require city staff going to verify that. It would delay the process and ultimately result in the same end, because as we had discussions, affordable housing developers are aware that trees are good for their developments.
 And then the second part of this amendment is to just clarify at the end of this section, the Director of the Portland Housing Bureau may adopt administrative rules for the administration of this section, deleting and enforcement of the exemption of tree preservation requirements because the housing director is not responsible for enforcement of the tree code. Okay, so Commissioner Fritz moves those further amendments. Is there a second? It is.
 Second. Second. Does this reflect the agreement between the two sponsors? Yes. My understanding is that all the offices have reviewed it and are in agreement with it. I know, but since you read in the record Dan has an amendment, that reflects the amendment that you've hammered out. We're fine with this amendment. Okay. All right. Any further discussion? Then we'll take a vote to adopt that amendment, please. Was there a second? Yes, there was. Commissioner Saltzman did. Yes, Commissioner Saltzman seconded that.
 Fish. Aye. Daltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Now, the whole thing passes the second reading, correct? Is there a reason, Mayor, to adopt it today, in which case I would propose an emergency if there was? I believe Commissioner Novick's not supporting it. So we'll pass it. Before I will not propose an emergency. Before it will pass the second reading next week. May I just say, for the record, Mayor, that...
 I appreciate at this point the collegial work that led to the amendment, and I also just want to acknowledge that we've had a very busy schedule as a council the last two weeks, and I have found myself going beyond the sort of normal weary boundary. I can't imagine what it's like to, on top of that, be running for office and also to be handling the responsibilities of the job. Okay.
 There are from time to time kerfuffles on this body that happen because we're all working extremely hard and sometimes also a little run down. But I also, 99% of the time, I appreciate the collegial spirit of this body as well. So thank you. Thank you. I do too. Appreciate everyone's indulgence, and I'll plead side effects from allergy medicine. Thank you. All right. Let's move on. We need to move on, please, to item 330. Okay.
 Amend code removing barriers to employment to clarify the exemption of volunteers. Rachel Wiggins is here and maybe Judy Prosper. Judy Prosper, but Rachel Wiggins, Mayor Hales' office. When the city attorneys were reviewing code in order to do the administrative rules, they noticed a contradiction in that volunteers were listed as exempt, but when defining employ, we included the language with or without pay. So this is...
 asking council to clarify the intent for moving forward with administrative rules. So we're maintaining volunteers are exempt. That's where we're going. Correct, and making sure that the language reflects that. All right. Judy, anything to add to that succinct explanation? No, and I'm sorry I'm late. I thought I had one more item before this one. I think she did a great job. Okay. Any questions for either city attorney or my staff? No.
 Thank you both very much. I just want to say thank you, Rachel. That sets a record for succinct, clear, and plus since you're a big favorite in my office, I'd be loathe to go against anything you're recommending. So thank you. Okay. We'll use that again. Thank you both. Anyone want to speak on this item? Say yes or no. Okay. Then it passes to second reading. Now let's move on, please, to 331. Authorize an agreement with the
 try met to allow construction of a building over the Tanner Creek sewer and grant a replacement easement. Good afternoon and thanks for your patience. Good afternoon.
 Elizabeth Reese Cadigan. Cadigan, yes. And I have some introductory points. I think you're probably just as capable of making them, so I'll defer to you. Okay, thank you. So as Commissioner Fish said, my name is Elizabeth Reese Cadigan. I'm the Systems Development Manager with BES. Also with me today in the audience are representatives from TriMet, if there are questions.
 Today we are bringing you an agreement between the City and TriMet that will allow the redevelopment of a surface parking lot over the Tanner Creek sewer and grant VES a larger replacement easement. TriMet owns a piece of property on Southwest Salmon between Southwest 17th and 18th, across from Providence Park and the Lincoln High School track. The property was utilized by TriMet for construction of the Westside Light Rail and has been surplus property for a number of years.
 The Tanner Creek Sewer was built in 1891, and in this location is a round brick sewer 72 inches in diameter. It crosses the northeastern portion of the site in question. In 2004, the city and TriMet entered into two agreements to allow the construction of a mixed-use building by a third party over the Tanner Creek Sewer and on this property. Due to the downturn in the economy, the property was not sold, and the project was not completed.
 TriMet currently has multiple parties interested in purchasing the subject property to develop a transit-oriented development. This agreement, which replaces the 2004 agreements, will allow such a development over the Tanner Creek sewer, subject to rehabilitation, relocation, or replacement of the sewer through a public works permit. This agreement will transfer to the new property owner. In addition, a new 20-foot easement over the sewer will be granted to the city at the time of the property sale. Thank you.
 While BES typically does not allow construction of buildings over sewers, we recognize that the location of this site in Goose Hollow near community attractions such as Providence Park and on public transit lines makes its redevelopment an overall benefit to the city. In addition, the rehabilitation of the sewer prior to building construction will improve an aging city asset and reduce the risk of an emergency failure on this 100-plus-year-old sewer line.
 So at this time, TriMet and I are available to take any questions you might have. Questions for her or for TriMet staff who are here? Well, I guess I'd like to ask TriMet staff a question or two. Okay, come on up, Dave. Where are you going to go?
 Yeah, I want to raise this issue about affordability, but it's a good time to bring it up. Okay, well, that was the issue I was going to raise. So I met yesterday. I want to go to the mayor here. All right, well, yeah, we both want to raise this issue. I met yesterday with Neil McFarland to discuss this project, and we have an understanding from TriMet that this project will meet the city's goals for affordability. Obviously, if we move forward with inclusionary zoning requirements and or an impact fee,
 And this project's developed after those rules are in place that will take care of it But even if the development happens prior to that It's important that try met as you were doing in other projects reflect the overall housing strategy of the city as we develop these projects So just wanted to get that on the record and get any response or concerns that you might have about it Yeah, good afternoon mayor and commissioners. My name is Lance Errs. I'm director of real property at TriMet and
 First, I'd like to say that TriMet is very supportive of the city's affordable housing goals. As you alluded to, we're currently working closely with the Housing Bureau on a piece of property we're getting ready to develop out in Kenton on the Interstate Max line, requiring affordable housing on that site.
 We're also interested in understanding the new inclusionary zoning laws and how those are going to affect development and working with the Housing Bureau to understand how that would affect this site as well. Frankly, due to the quick turnaround between your conversation with the GM and this meeting today, we haven't really had a chance to touch base with him on exactly what that conversation was all about, but I do have a meeting with him tomorrow to get some clarity on that.
 Yeah, and the city has two actions that we have to approve in order to facilitate the development of this project. One is this agreement that Commissioner Fish brought forward on the sewer easement, and then the second is the parking agreement that deals with the previous parking issues.
 arrangement that was negotiated and codified 20 years ago now expiring so that's really the place where if we need to attach a condition to the city's approval
 that we could do that. Mayor, can I just have a colloquy with you for a moment? Just so I understand this, my understanding is that the action that the Bureau of Environmental Services has brought to council is a discretionary action. That's correct. Therefore, the city can place a reasonable condition on a discretionary action. That led to your conversation with the GM. And if this item passes, BES is now a party to this transaction because we're securing the easement.
 and what i understand you have placed on the record and that as a condition of council acting on this is that there this this any development here will in fact uh
 to conform to the city's affordable housing goals, including the inclusionary housing guidelines to be developed. That's right. And that threshold is codified in state laws, at least 20% of units affordable at 80%. Right. And that would be my understanding in voting for this matter. It would be the condition of my entering into this easement. Okay.
 Thank you, gentlemen. Are there questions or concerns you have with that? Again, obviously we have more of this to work out over time and formalities, but it's really important that we have...
 on the record an understanding between the city and TriMet that both public agencies are going to be committed to our affordable housing goals as you are in other projects so that that would apply in this case as well and those goals are set now in state law with the inclusionary zoning standard that we have still to process into our own regulations but regardless of where we are in that regulatory development process this is an agreement between the city and the TriMet that between the city and TriMet that
 that's going to be the policy regardless of what the formalities are yet at the city in that ordinance development work. Right. I understand your position. Again, I need to touch base with our general manager and make sure that's the premise of understanding. Sure. So this ordinance, if adopted today, then directs,
 The director of the Bureau gives authorizes to direct the Bureau of Environmental Services to enter into the agreement. Yes if adopted today We'll hold off entering into that in just to Get further confirmation from you as to the agreement, right? We may bring those two things back together because we still have the park to do so. Thank you. Thank you all very much Thanks for the questions council members. Okay, and this is an emergency ordinance So let's act on it so you can start planning a project. I
 i'm sorry anyone else want to speak no okay let's take a roll call vote please aye salzman thank you hi novick hi
 Hi. Hales. That's great that this project is finally going to get done. Parking lot was not the highest and best use for this site, so I appreciate the work that you're doing to queue this up for development, and obviously it's possible in this market to make it a very successful project and have an affordability component. So best of times to do the right thing, and we look forward to being a partner with you and getting it done. Thank you. Thank you. We're excited about it too. Looking forward to it. Thank you. Okay. Let's move on to 332. Okay.
 Authorize a cost recovery agreement for $24,237 to fund an environmental analysis to renew an easement with the U.S. Forest Service for continued operation of Water Bureau facilities at Bull Run Lake. Again, Commissioner Fish. I'd like to introduce the Edward Campbell. Good afternoon, Council. Edward Campbell, Resource Protection and Planning Director for the Water Bureau.
 Today, Water Bureau is requesting authorization of a cost recovery agreement with the Forest Service. This is for the purpose of the Forest Service conducting an environmental analysis of the city's proposed renewal of our long-term easement at Bull Run Lake. The analysis is required under the National Environmental Policy Act.
 and it is the first step in our process of renewing our current easement, which has run for the past 20 years. The renewal will take our easement forward another 30. So following this process of conducting the environmental analysis, we would actually draft a new easement agreement that we would bring back to Council for approval.
 I think just to close out, I think most of you are aware Bull Run Lake has been part of the city's drinking water resources since we began using the Bull Run River for drinking water in 1895. It continues to play a role in our supply sources as a supplemental source. And with your approval, we will move forward to continue using that resource over the course of the next three decades. Thank you. That's a very important piece of work. Questions? Ready? Okay.
 thank you very much anyone want to speak on this item if not it passes the second reading okay let's take on then item 333 a competitive solicitation and five-year price agreement for water work supplies for an estimated cost of 11 million dollars roll call vote please colleagues as director stir likes to note publicly 80 of our pipes in our system are older than mike
 There are more than 2,000 miles of pipes stretching from the Bull Run watershed to every water meter in Portland. This ordinance will allow the Bureau to purchase the various parts and supplies needed to keep the system running. I thank you for your support. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Ritz? Aye. Hales? I just have to note that I think that's a fairly weak argument, Commissioner Fish. Mike is not that old. Aye. Okay. Let's move on to 334.
 amend floating structures code to add administrative appeal provisions, revise external appeal board provisions to conform to the state building codes, end term limits to boards, delete obsolete provisions, and make other technical changes. Okay, Commissioner Saltzman, you've got your team responding to the questions I think that we had last year. I'll turn it over to the team. Yes. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Nancy Thornton with the Bureau of Development Services. Mitch Nichols, Inspection Services Division Manager.
 So the question was raised about whether an electrical and plumbing permit were required when moving a houseboat from one slip to another in the same moorage.
 And the answer to that question is yes. Actually, if you look in the ordinance itself on page 3, it talks about there's an exception that's specifically called out for electrical permits. It says electrical permits are required for a connection of a relocated houseboat. And then also in the plumbing code, section 103.5.5.2, it says,
 It requires that any moved structure, it requires that a plumbing system be completely tested, and the permits are required for that.
 So the answer is yes. I don't know if you want to specifically include plumbing in that same section in the existing language. So it would say electrical and plumbing permits are required. I think that's belt and suspenders because the plumbing code already requires that. Anybody else have a concern about that? Okay, no, appreciate you clearing that up. Thank you very much. So then I want to take a vote to approve that, please. Yes.
 aye thank you aye Novick aye Ritz aye Hales very much aye okay 336 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk storm water and sanitary sewer improvements from north of northeast Columbia Boulevard to south of northeast cornfoot road in the northeast 47th avenue phase 1 local improvement district and increase project funding from Portland
 Bureau of Transportation System Development Charge revenue by $315,151. Thank you. Second reading. Vote. Fish. This is really a terrific project, and Commissioner Novick, kudos. Aye. Saltzman. Yeah, I agree. Great project. Aye. Novick. We really have to organize the parade in honor of Andrew Abbey. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Very proud of Parks for continuing to collaborate with transportation and providing much of the funding for this project, completing a sidewalk in northeast Portland on the same day that we authorized the funding for the Southwest Portland project. Aye. Niels? I thought the testimony on this particular LID was really great. That's another great effort of cooperation. Good result. Aye. Okay, 337. Aye.
 vacate a portion of southeast Grand Avenue between southeast Spokane Street and southeast Tacoma Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. Roll call vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Nozick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And 338.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Matt Dishman Community Center pool and spa repairs project. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. This is another of the projects in the $68 million Fix Our Parks bond, and Manager of the program, Mary Ann Kasten, is here to present. Thank you.
 good afternoon marianne good afternoon mayor hales and members of the council thank you i am pleased to be here once again with another uh very deserving project uh the intro is a half that this is part of our bond program and that the bonds are the way we do this kind of work we are so grateful to the voters for providing their support and out of the seven focus areas this one again has to do with pools
 In this case, we're talking about Matt Dishman Community Center Pool. I appreciated the photo I found there on the left. It's from the 1968 opening of the outdoor pool. That's Mayor Ivancy in the middle diving into the pool. And it's Miss Portland cutting the ribbon there.
 in 1968 it was an outdoor pool in the 1990s we were able to convert it to an indoor pool but the 1990s was a while ago and today we would like to replace the deteriorating pool plaster with a more state-of-the-art quartz aggregate and we would like to rebuild and expand the existing whirlpool the existing whirlpool fits about
 It's about 10 people in it. If we partner up and use some of the SDC funds, a very nominal amount, we'll be able to double the size of that spa and replace some of the very, very in-need grouting. We basically have to completely rebuild that whirlpool. It basically leaks about 1,000 gallons of water a day.
 So, the other thing we're doing as a result of this work is we're replacing pool filters. We're going to go to a high efficiency pool pump and save ourselves a lot of efficiency and utility costs.
 Once again, you'll be seeing more of me. Later this month, I'm going to bring three projects all at once. Community Center in North Portland, St. John's, is getting a roof. We say one roof, but it's actually seven roofs. That building is a complex one. Selwood Bathhouse and our Mount Tabor Yard and Urban Forestry Headquarter maintenance projects. So today we are just here for Dishman, but you'll be seeing more of me soon. Great. Sounds like a great project.
 Questions? Thank you very much, Marianne. Anyone else want to speak on this ordinance? It doesn't look like it. Let's take a vote, please. This is a chance to once again thank Commissioner Fritz for leading the effort to secure the bond and the voters for supporting it, and this is a great project. Thank you.
 In case anybody in the community is wondering, one of the goals of this project is to complete the construction within eight weeks, which will minimize the impacts on the swimming and community center areas. And the community center will be open to the public six of the eight weeks, and we'll coordinate closely with the community center. I also want to note that the Whirlpool is extensively used for therapeutic purposes and activities.
 was a promise that I made on the bond circuit to make sure that this project got done as one of the first ones, so I'm very pleased to be able to support this motion. Aye. Niels? I appreciate that project schedule as well because this is a very popular facility that we are filling up with lots of people and lots of teenagers now in the summertime. So appreciate figuring out how to get that done quickly with the least disruption. Aye. Okay, and we're recessed till 2 p.m.
 All right. Are we ready? Dan, are we ready? Okay. Good afternoon. Welcome to the afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Would you please read the two items that we have on the calendar, which are 339 and 340? Okay.
 3.39, create a local transportation infrastructure charge to fund improvements to unimproved streets and 3.40, amend contract with Eco Northwest for additional implementation work for the local transportation infrastructure charge project phase three not to exceed $340,000. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 So, colleagues, I think that maybe we should begin with I have an assortment of amendments to 339 and Commissioner Fritz has an amendment to 339. Perhaps we should start by putting those on the table.
 We approved one amendment last week already. The second amendment is City Code Section 17.88.010 should be modified as follows in order to address drafting error. An improved street means any new word local street without a curb other than a new word local street that has been formally accepted by the Bureau of Transportation as having a fully built to an adopted residential shared or residential separated city street standard does not require a curb. Second. Okay. Thank you.
 The next amendment is City Code Section 17-88090 should be modified as follows. An applicant for a, new language, new single-family residential apartment.
 end of amendment building permit for instead of a single-family home a project of two or more units One or more units are one or two one or two units Yeah, sorry one or two units or for approval to create multiple lots of them as part of a subdivision a real property within A single-family residential zone must pay a local transportation for infrastructure charge That's made in seconded
 And then the final one is to clarify the ordinance's findings for readability and re-number them. Number two, in November 2012, Portland City Council, through ordinance number 185759, Deemed read. Second. Okay. And paragraph three. Okay. Deem that read. All right. And that's seconded as well. So, all right. Is there not any paragraphs? Yes, they are. Well, then...
 respectfully should be read into the record because folks at home may not don't have it all right so go ahead
 In November 2012, Portland City Council, through ordinance number 185759, accepted the Portland Bureau of Transportation's Up Out of the Mud report and adopted the city's residential shared street standard. Number three, the city's efforts to collect fees or require infrastructure improvements from developers of property on unpaved or under-improved streets has had mixed success. Instead, such a developer will typically be allowed to provide a waiver of remonstrance, a legally binding agreement that requires future homeowners,
 to participate in any local improvement districts, parentheses, LIDs, and parentheses for infrastructure improvements. Okay. Now, those are all made and seconded. And you didn't move Amendment 1 because you have a different version that we're going to talk about. Is that right? Amendment 1 we already approved last week. We approved last week. All right. All right. So those four amendments are all before us. And then I have an additional amendment to Item 339 with Commissioner Novick's concurrence. Okay. And this is to address the concern about...
 owners who may subsequently be involved in a local improvement district. And so the new Directive C will state, as part of the next phase, PBOT shall explore the potential for coordination between the LTIC program and efforts to organize local improvement districts in order to ensure maximum efficiency and equity in the use of public and private funds for unimproved and under-improved streets. I'll second that. All right. So those are all before us.
 so those are those all the amendments to item 339 yes I guess I want to have some dialogue about geographic equity concerns that were brought up last week in testimony and like some assurance from the bureau or from Commissioner Novick that in fact when you come back to us with a product that there will be some some lens that looks at the geographic equity where the funds come from versus and where they get spent
 Yes, absolutely. I mean, that's one of the things we're going to explore in the next phase. I mean, people have suggested various ways of dealing with geographic constraints. For example, one would be to say that the money should all be kept within the neighborhood coalition area. We might wind up, in fact, recommending that. One reason we want to take a...
 think about it for a while, is you might want to have a situation where the most obvious place to spend this kind of money near the place where the fee was paid is actually a quarter of a mile away. It just happens to be across the neighborhood coalition boundary. So maybe we'll conclude that there's no other way to do it, but we want to have some discussion about what the appropriate geographic constraints should be. MR. So those will be explicitly discussed and brought back to us for recommendations? MR. Absolutely.
 Commissioner Novick, are Novick Amendments 2, 3, and 4 and the Fritz Amendment, those have all been cleared with both of you?
 Yes. And so, Mayor, I don't think there's an objection on the council. I think we can go ahead and take action to accept all those amendments. No, we've already put them on the table. So we hear testimony, and then we vote on them after the testimony. Okay. I move to reconsider. We've been doing way too much parliamentary stuff here lately for some reason. Does anyone want to speak on these proposed amendments?
 There's also one I want to just put out for consideration on the emergency ordinance for 340. I understand Commissioner Novick is going to just hold that over for voting on next week. My concern is that in the scope of work with EcoNorthwest,
 The public outreach is pretty limited to people who live or own property on problem streets as defined in the process. And there are wider neighborhood concerns beyond people who live on streets without curbs, including people who live on streets with curbs but no sidewalks.
 So I've discussed this with Commissioner Novick. His intent is to amend that scope of work. I don't know whether it needs to be done by next week or is that just something that you can direct the Bureau to do. I think we can direct the Bureau to do it. I've just talked with Bureau staff and with ECO Northwest about that. This was inartfully drafted, and the intent is, as you suggested 
 So we can either, when we vote next week, direct the Bureau to do what we intend them to do to begin with, or maybe we can, well, yeah, let's do that. Yeah, we can add that next week because it's an emergency anyway. And then that can also clarify that it's going to take into account previously adopted plans like the Cully Concordia plan, like the East Portland In Motion, the various southwest neighborhoods. Yes.
 prioritization list that the council has already accepted. And that needs to be part of going into, we already know this, we don't have to re-explore what are the priority arterials, for example, in Southwest because there's been a process to do that. All right. So we have at least one person that wants to speak on these proposed amendments, maybe a couple. Come on up if you would like to speak about these amendments. I shall Martha Johnston and Tom Karwacki. Okay. Come on up, please.
 good morning martha or good afternoon martha johnston on 9509 northeast 13th avenue portland 97211 again i'm representing myself as a as a person in the neighborhood that is directly affected by this uh the huge amount of the fees is is worth more than my property and i
 The other option that's paying the fees, the other option is to build. But we're in a zone that is the drainage district amendment that was put forth by our neighborhood association as a request did not appear today. And that disappoints us as a neighborhood.
 What that does is it leaves us no other option but to pay into the fund unless we develop an area that is very precarious on the flooding issues and has a huge amount of recreationalists, bicyclists, horseback riding, joggers, the whole bit, that use the wide shoulders. We're flatlanders in our drainage district. It's a bowl, as you probably all well know.
 And so we don't have a lot of hills and dales. We have mostly flatland, and we need our drainage systems to be working and functioning. And this is a detriment and will add additional cost to this project. And so I ask that you vote no on this amendment and send it back for reconsideration and announce to the 7,000 affected property owners that this proposal is being done, which it was never done.
 Thank you so much. Any questions I can answer for you? I think so. Thank you very much. Tom Karawacki, University Park Neighborhood Association. I'm here to apologize for my inartful comment last week that...
 when I said that nobody trusts PBOT. What they don't trust is the idea of having a tax or a fee and not knowing what it's going to be used for, and no one would like to have an idea that maybe they wait 18 months. That was, I think, the concern, so I hope that solves that issue and concern. I think it is an issue of equity that we've raised.
 If a drainage district or some area is not allowed to have these improvements, curbs, streets, sidewalks, there's a question as to whether they should be, from an equity point of view, whether they should be forced, the property owners should be forced. I think that's something that should be studied a little bit more. All right. Thank you both very much. Thank you. Mr. Schuch, can we have staff up to address that question, please? Sure.
 I think that part of the answer is that we currently can require to make people to require site-specific improvements anywhere in the city. There's no exemption for the drainage distance, but I'll leave it to staff to articulate it more thoroughly.
 Good afternoon, Council. Kurt Kruger with PBOT. Commissioner, you're correct. Title 17 today allows staff, and if an applicant were to come in with any property in the city, staff until the LTIC is proposed would be subject to Title 17, which would say if you're on an unimproved or under-improved street, you're obligated to make the improvements for Title 17, which are build-to-street improvements. Yes, I think that's, to me, that's a pretty critical point here. We're not increasing the level of burden here.
 we're just changing the method of payment and construction right net result for a property owner or a developer is that you're responsible for the street in front of your property but we might make this more fungible than that and focus on other local transportation need in the same neighborhood that will benefit more people than you building your sidewalk
 The LTIC simply would make the process less bureaucratic and less time-consuming by allowing a developer to opt into a fee rather than go to the permitting process to make the improvements. The only place where it would actually make a difference is where transportation says you have to build it and the property owner currently can appeal and then get a waiver. And the proposed process has no option for that.
 so has that been considered as to whether there's any kind of an appeal process that was debated early on in the process and what we didn't want to do is recreate a new process that wasn't going to work similar to the process we have in place today so we didn't want to move the appeal process to whether or not somebody should pay the the eltech fee or a reduced eltech fee we just simply said no we're not going to entertain an appeal over the fee any longer
 I think that we will look in the next phase. We're planning on looking at whether there should be geographic variation, for example, in the amount of the fee depending on the cost of these kind of improvements in various regions of the city. So I think that we'll have a geographic disparities discussion in the next phase. But for right now, yes, everybody, wherever they are, would have to pay the fee unless they elect to do the site-specific improvements. Okay.
 And do property owners who are planning to develop currently pay all of their system development charges with the building permit? Yes. And are any of them financed? Is there a financing mechanism for those? There is if it's a low-income. There's a low-income waiver and there's a financing program that I think is a 5 or a 10 or a 20-year option of it.
 And that's universal through all the infrastructure bureaus. So, again, in the second phase, I think that's something that we should look at as to whether we would have either of those options for this.
 Colleagues, the reason I'm going to support this when we vote next week is because of the amendment we made last week, the money is going into a separate fund locked up securely so that it can't be used until the methodology for apportionment comes back. And so if something like this does come up, there is a possibility on a case-by-case basis that something could come to council and we could say 
 whatever we could we could make a change in it so this is merely starting to collect the fees and trusting in the process to then figure out how to then use them and if it turns out we can't figure out how to use them appropriately we can say well thank you very much here's your money back and either build your street or your waiver so it's and i do trust the staff who put this together and the leadership and indeed the community organizers and activists who've been so engaged in this process so i
 I can see us getting to a good outcome, and I think this is a necessary first step. Other questions for staff? All right. Thank you all very much. And so we're going to need to send this forward to second reading, right, because of the amendments. And we can vote on the amendment, yes. We have not yet voted on the amendments. Thank you. I hope this allergy attack is over by next week so I can remember. May I propose, Mayor, that we vote first on the Novick amendments and then the Fritz amendment?
 Okay, I was going to take them as a package. All right, they came in a package. I move the package. Let's do that. I'll second the package. And let's take a vote, please, on the package of all the amendments I've described, which were Steve's Amendments 2, 3, and 4, and New Directive C, as articulated by Commissioner Fritz. Thank you.
 Thank you to my colleagues for doing the hard work of working out the issues and the differences so that we have consensus amendments. A lot of hard work went into this, and I will reserve my remarks on the merits of this package until next week. Aye. Altman. Aye. Novick.
 Thanks very much to Hurt and Christine and Bill and the EcoNorthwest team and Marianne Fitzgerald and all the other community members who worked on this issue for a very long time. Really, really appreciate it. And next week we can have a big fat celebration. Aye. Prince.
 I'll be happy to take part in that celebration. I will also note that the connecting door between my office and Commissioner Novick's has been opened and closed many times more this term than it was in my first term. And indeed, I greatly value the amount of collaboration and communication between your staff and mine as well in getting to this point. I thank you.
 Good work. All right. Okay. And then item 340, are there any amendments to that? I know it's going to move to next week, but there's no further work to be done on that? Right. Okay. So we're setting that over to next week, and we'll take action on both of them at the same time. And we are adjourned. Okay. That was quick. Wow. They started off really slow. All right.