Okay, how long are you needing for our verdict? Just long enough to read this. Oh, okay. Well, let's let you go ahead and go first. We'll get to it.
 Did you want to do a pre-gallop? Yeah, that's fine. Great. Good morning, everybody. Before we call our formal session into order, Commissioner Fritz would like to read a proclamation on behalf of Arbor Day. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you, Mayor. Good morning, everybody. Is anybody here to be honoured with the Arbor Day proclamation? If so, come up, please. Thank you.
 Whereas pioneers entering the treeless plains of the Nebraska Territory were encouraged by the State Board of Agriculture to set aside one day to plant trees, and so April 10th, 1872, was declared the first Arbor Day in the United States. And whereas J. Sterling Morton, the founder of Arbor Day, believed that other holidays repose upon the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future.
 And whereas Arbor Day is an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to preserving our urban forest and planting trees for our children's children to enjoy, and whereas Friends of Trees has planted 500,000 trees and native plants since being founded in 1989,
 And whereas community volunteers, staff and partner organisations work year-round with Portland Parks and Recreation's Urban Forestry Division to preserve and enhance the urban forest so that all may benefit from more than 20...
 220,000 street trees, 1.2 million park trees, and innumerable private trees. And whereas for the 40th consecutive year, Portland will be recognized by the National Arbor Day Foundation with a Tree City USA Award, and whereas Arbor Day is a time to celebrate the importance of diversity, not only in trees of the urban forest, but the roots of our communities. Now therefore, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland,
 Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim April 22, 2017 to be Arbor Day in Portland and encourages all residents to observe this day. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday morning, April 19th meeting of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Before we go to the consent, I would request that we move item number 380 to the beginning of the agenda. Please read item 380. Okay.
 Proclaim April 19, 2017 Jefferson High School Basketball Day. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Well, we're very honored today to have the Jefferson High School boys basketball team here who won the state 6A championship. And they did it in an unprecedented manner. They had one loss all season. So we're really proud of them. And we have a proclamation, which I'll read, and then we'll maybe get a picture with the team.
 Whereas on Saturday, March 11th, 2017, the Jefferson High School boys basketball team defeated Clackamas 70-67 to win the Oregon State A state championship title. And whereas the Jefferson boys basketball team proved that they are in a league of their own by winning the class 6A state championship title the first year the team competed in that division. And whereas the Jefferson boys basketball program proved
 has previously won eight state championship titles at the Class 5A level, and whereas the City of Portland would like to recognize Ty Warner, Sage Lay, Amari Stafford, Dylan O'Brien, Devontae Banks, Romeo Akil, Isaiah Mitchell, Kamaka Hepa, Head Coach Pat Strickland, Marcus Chihonis, Saishan Strickland, Kellyanne Vance, Gina West, Robert Ford, Thomas Miles, and
 Trevon Richmond and Solomon Campbell for their historic win in the 2017 6A Boys State Championship game, and whereas the Jefferson students continue to inspire the community and set a positive example with their good sportsmanship, hard work, and dedication, and whereas the Jefferson alumni continue to give back to their school and community, and whereas the city celebrates the 2017 championship win
 by Portland's own Jefferson Boys basketball team, and whereas the City of Portland recognizes that this championship would not have been possible without the support of parents, teachers, coaches, administrators, and community members, now therefore Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 19, 2017, to be Jefferson High School Basketball Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 I just want to check, did we get everybody's name? Excellent, good. Okay. I apologize if I didn't pronounce it correctly. Coach Strickland, did you want to say a few words or do you want to just have a picture, team picture with the city council? Yeah, you can come up there. Good morning and congratulations.
 Good morning. We appreciate you guys having us here. It's our pleasure to be here as well. I just want to thank these young men for the outstanding year that they put forward. And like you mentioned, it couldn't have been possible without our student body, administrators, parents, and the community in general. Glad to be here. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Why don't we come up and get this? Yeah, we've got to go. You can start. Thank you.
 .
 I know we have a number of people here for the 945 times certain, but we can't start that yet, so why don't we go into communications before we get to the 945 times certain. We'll do consent when we get to it. First item on the communications. Oh, wait, I forgot. I have to read this. Sorry. Okay.
 And by the way, thank you everybody for your patience. These are new microphones, so there'll still be some adjustment. And I apologize if it's hard for people to hear. And if it is, just raise your hand or something, and then we'll start trying to adjust the volumes to make it a little easier for everybody.
 The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody to feel comfortable, respected, welcome, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation during the meeting. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to briefly speak about any subject on which they would like to speak. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, we'd appreciate hearing that as well. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to flash. And when your time is done, the red light will come on.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberations or speaking off-topic will not be allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face possible ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who is disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If folks would like to show support, please do a thumbs up. If you want to express you don't support something, thumbs down. Thank you, and let's get started with council communications. Carla, please call the first item. Item 365, request of Jim D. Wittenberg to address council regarding traffic control and affordable housing. Good morning.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, it's good to see you all again. Thank you, sir. I kind of wish I wasn't here this morning because I don't feel very well. I haven't for a month or so, but did you get these things at all? Yes. Okay. I want to declare first that my sister is a landlord. She has apartments out in Vegas, where we go, where she lives, and she would be...
 Pretty much like this woman I read in the paper this morning, who, her name is Diane Cassidy, and she says that she doesn't need government regulations getting in her way of her property management decisions. So she doesn't need you people to be there, and my sister doesn't need you either.
 These are our properties, they are our business, and the government is taking away the control we have over our own business.
 I just look at that and I said, how could anybody be stupid enough to say that, to start with, but that's the way so many property managers are in this area. They think that they can do anything they want to with their properties. They don't have to abide by government regulations and rules, and they're just getting in the way. Now does that sound like someone that we have in the White House right now, that we have these regulations? I don't know, I don't feel very safe with him.
 In the middle of this thing here, I want you all to know that I realized I'm getting along in years when, you know, I knew Tom McCall and I knew Wayne Morris and I knew Mark Hatfield and Bob Straub and Edith Green and all these people. They were my generation. They were two people I worked with back then and they were all rather pleasant people. They said hello to you.
 They said, how are you doing today? What's going on in your life? And I don't hear that much anymore. I don't feel that people in the public office care about me. I just had a birthday last week. I'm 78 years old now, and I'm getting pretty creaky. Things are not working very well. I have my knees and my shoulders, and it's hard to get around.
 Finally, these people are legends to some of you, but they were real people to me. I knew Wayne Morris. I sat down and talked with him. I knew Tom McCullough. I was in his hotel room when I went to Miami Beach, Florida for the public international convention with him. He does a pretty good bunny hop there in the bars at night. He was a good guy. He's a nice guy and he laughed with us and he always asked me, are we doing okay for you?
 Are we doing what you need? I thought that was very gracious of him. Mark Hatfield would meet me in airports, and he'd meet me on Capitol Hill, different things, in a restaurant, sit down and talk with me. These are things that you don't see much anymore. Politicians so often are just making rules and sticking it to us and stuffing their paychecks in their pocket, and they go home.
 If you'll take a look at some of these things, I put them out here, is that it? Okay, there are some things in here I want you to see towards the end. The outsider, it's a great thing when people make unpopular decisions when they're in office. I really appreciate that. That means that they're real people. And unpopular decisions will get people in trouble.
 Let's get the wave up. And looking at this part right now, since we're not very popular, I asked last night at the dinner table with my family, which was a bunch of people, we couldn't come up with one thing really good about city council. Now, one thing they said is only April. Well, maybe even June or July we'll have something good. So you're not very popular right now, kind of like the Congress, and you ought to work on that a little bit. Maybe...
 Talk it up a little bit. I'm going to miss you people because I'm not going to see you much anymore. I'm in retirement. I am there because of health right now. And I just want you to know that it's important to a lot of us what you guys do up here. If you make bad decisions, we all pay for it. And my friend over there, Richard, I'm really sorry. We've got a bunch of people. I'm sorry.
 $20 million to put in that Portland building because we could use it to shore up the budget a little bit. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. All right, I'm out of here. I'll see you guys in the future sometime. I hope so. Okay, bye. Be well. Thank you, sir. Next item, please. Item 366, request of Ken Thrasher to address council regarding College Possible Portland.
 Sure, yes. And 367, request of Paige Hill to address council regarding College Possible Portland. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, I'm Kent Thrasher. I am the board chair for College Possible and I'm going to move this back a bit.
 in Portland, and I'm here to give you a bit of a report card along with Paige Hill, one of our program managers, and with us today is Emily Williams, a student who is now in college having transitioned out of high school. Excellent. And we want to thank you for your past support of College Possible last year in the education funding, and we would ask that you consider us again this year within that discretionary education fund.
 We've grown this program. We're in the fourth year. We started with 140 students in Portland. We are now over 900 students being served through the expansion of the program and investments made by the city and many other individuals. We're having tremendous results with our program. We had an average ACT increase of 26% last year for our students.
 96% of our students earned admission to college, and over 80% of our students continued on to the sophomore year, and we're working on that other 20% to continue. We will graduate students at a 10-to-1 ratio to their low-income peers, who are pretty much all first generation, 90%. 73% are student of color, and 71%, interestingly, are women.
 So we are having great results, and for the students in that cohort that enter college, we'll graduate students at a four-to-one ratio to those students because of the excess of that near-peer mentoring model.
 So I'll just tell you, the individual success, preparing these young people for the workplace of tomorrow and reducing social costs is our goal. We have great metrics, and I'm going to let Paige and Emily tell you a little bit more about it, so they can use a little bit of my time. Thank you, Ken. Thanks.
 Hi, my name is Paige Hill. I am a former AmeriCorps coach with College Possible at David Douglas High School, and I'm a current staff member. And I'm going to be quick because I want Emily to talk as much as possible. But we ask our coaches to be one third teacher, one third friend, and one third mentor to our students
 And I think that's a really rare and necessary role in the lives of young people. We're so proud of our results, and those come from a lot of really hard work on our curriculum and lesson planning, but I think most of them come from those relationships with students. So Ken just talked about our 26% ACT score increase,
 When I was a coach at David Douglas, the day before we took an exam, I had this really awesome lesson that I had worked so hard on. I think it was on quadratic equations or something really complicated. And I got the sense that my students were really nervous to take the test. So I threw out the whole lesson plan, and we all wrote raps together about our favorite ACT strategies.
 And the next day, my students set the record of the highest ACT score increase in the history of College Possible Portland. And those wraps are still hanging on my desk. They were really good. So I love working for College Possible because of our results, but mostly I do it because I think...
 we insert people into young people's lives in a really positive way. And I want to pass it over to Emily to talk about that a little bit more. Thank you. Hi, good morning. Morning. Sorry, good morning. Thank you, City Council, for allowing me to be here to testify for the College Access Program, College Possible. Thank you.
 My name is Emily Williams and I'm the oldest of four children and I'm a first generation college freshman at Portland Community College. I am also proud to be a third year member of the College Possible program. My aspirations of graduating college with a master's degree in political science and one day working as a member of Metro would be impossible without the support of these amazing leaders. I'm here today on behalf of College Possible requesting that we be included in this year's proposed budget.
 This morning I will be addressing why I believe College Possible is such an amazing program and how it has affected my goals in college education.
 Most students are confused and uncertain about what to do, preparing for college and entering it. As a young adult, it's hard to find people who can help you get ready for life after high school, especially when you're like me and you're the first in your family to go to college. I have benefited from multiple components of the College Possible program. For instance, they granted me access to amazing, dedicated leaders that are willing to advocate for me and my college journey, a journey that seemed foreign and scary without any help.
 Through the program, I learned about resources most first-generation college students never know how to find. Furthermore, College Possible gave me the opportunity to train and study for college placement, college enrollment, and scholarships. All this work came with enrichment activities and coach mentoring that I continue to receive as a college student. Without their training, I might not have transitioned so easily into the college experience. The safety net of having a community has benefited my career.
 Once again, I'd like to thank you guys, the city council, for allowing me to express my values. Emily, can I ask you a question? Do you have any family members here today? Yes, I do. Could you introduce them? Yes. My grandmother, Cindy Williams, she's been a security here for about 10 years. My little sister, Chloe, who's also trying to get into college in the next couple of years. She's amazing. Thank you all very much. We appreciate that. And congratulations. Thank you, Mr. Thrasher.
 Next item, please. Item 368, request of David Kiff Davis to address council regarding targeting of journalists and whistleblowers and activists by the city.
 Keith called me last night and asked if you would give permission for me to explain why he's not here. I know that's unusual. It'll only take me a few seconds. I'm sorry. I cannot extend that courtesy. Okay. You're denying him the right to be here. No. He's signed up, and if he's here, he has three minutes. He's going to get arrested. Okay.
 So he's not here because Commissioner Fish is standing there as a restraining order and he cannot come with violence against him in the right. I'm sorry, this is a disruption in violation of council policy. If you continue, you will be asked to leave. Please sit down. You're denying his right. Sorry. Next item, please.
 Item 369, request of Farrell Rickards to address council regarding proposed cuts to the street cleaning program at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Good morning. Thanks for being here. I wanted to start off by thanking you for the public budget hearings and for engaging in difficult conversations around the budget. It's really appreciated.
 Street cleaning, I've spoken in front of this body before, and I worked in street cleaning for 10 years with the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Currently, street cleaning is 13 men and women that work the day shift, 14 men and women that work the night shift. They keep the streets clean, the bike lanes clean, the catch basins clear, the ADA ramps clear and accessible. Mow and maintain green spaces throughout the city, clean and maintain stairways throughout the city.
 And they're the first responders in snow and ice, and those teams include some of the most skilled snowplow drivers and anti-ice truck drivers. So I just feel like it reaches into so many parts of our community that sometimes just the idea of street cleaning seems like a cosmetic, something that could get shuffled off, and it goes a lot deeper than that, and I think it's really crucial. I wanted to touch as well on the Mounted Patrol. So that would be the police officers, the horses, and the stable attendants.
 And it really goes to community policing because they're out in the community interacting with folks. They're visible and available to citizens. And depending on the scenario, what's going on, they're approachable. And folks really like that. They've been around for 142 years, since 1875. So there's a lot of historic value there. I actually had a – I just found this online, the history of the Mounted Patrols. I shared that with you.
 And it's got some great stories in there, like Tom and Jerry in 1911, the gray wagon horses. They were trying to figure out why there was a water faucet that kept getting turned on. So they surveilled the building and discovered it was Tom the horse actually reaching over there with his teeth and opening up the water and getting a drink. So they ended up having to shorten his tether to keep him from doing that. I thought that was a pretty interesting story. Finally, I wanted to speak about preschool. It's an invaluable community service.
 It's a community value, and the preschool program itself is an investment in Portland's families. The structure and the staff are already in place, and there's no limit to the amount of diversity as far as the staff. It's already one of the most diverse staffs among Portland's workers, and there's no limit to the amount of diversity.
 and the diversity of the families that can be served. I just think keeping that and trying to increase the use of it rather than shying away from it now is a really important Portland value. I appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thank you for being here. We will quickly do the consent agenda items that have not been pulled, and then we'll move to the time certain. It's my understanding. Well, first of all, 375, I am pulling back.
 And we'll return that one to the office and bring it back at the request of the Bureau, so 375. And it's my understanding 376 has been pulled onto the regular agenda, so we'll take that item up later. Have any other items been pulled? That's all the requests I had. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. The next three items, why don't we read them together? We'll have to vote separately on them. But if we could read 370, 371, and 372 together in sequence, please. Thank you.
 370, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Renewable Natural Gas Facility project for an estimated cost of $9 million. Thank you.
 371, authorized high-pressure gas service rider agreement with Northwest Natural Gas Company for a renewable compressed natural gas fueling station at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant for an estimated cost of $1,941,830.
 And 372, authorize interconnection agreement with Northwest Natural Gas Company for transporting renewable natural gas produced at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant for an estimated cost of $1,050,000. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. And we have a very exciting announcement and presentation today. And I have some opening remarks I would like to, though, invite forward. Thank you.
 Bureau of Environmental Services Director Mike Jordan, Supervising Engineer of this project Paul Sudo, and Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Susan Anderson. If the three of you would come forward as part of our first panel. Mayor and colleagues, in celebration of Earth Day, I'm very pleased to introduce an innovative venture to turn waste into clean energy while earning money for our rate payers.
 When I explained this to my 13-year-old, he told me I should describe it this way. We're going to be turning poop into power. With Council's approval today, the Bureau of Environmental Services will begin construction on a new project to capture, clean, and convert 100% of the waste methane from the sewage treatment process into renewable natural gas. According to our friends at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, this will be the city's single largest greenhouse gas reduction project to date.
 This project is a triple win for our city. Instead of burning excess methane, as we have always done, the city will capture this methane and convert it to clean fuel, dramatically reducing the carbon emissions from our sewage treatment plant. This clean fuel will be used to replace more than 1 million gallons of dirty diesel truck fuel that the city uses every year.
 and the excess fuel will be sold through our partnership with Northwest Natural. We're conservatively estimating that this will generate upwards of $3 million a year. This means we'll be able to pay back the entire project's costs in a few years and then have a dedicated source of funding for our rate payers.
 With us this morning again is Mike Jordan, Paul Sudo, and Director Anderson. Welcome, and I'll turn it over to the three of you. Thank you, Commissioner, Mr. Mayor, board members of the city council. Good morning. Thanks for having us today. For the record, my name is Mike Jordan. I'm the director of the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 We have a number of speakers today, and so my job is just to give you a little bit of brief context about the plant and what we do. And then Susan will have a few remarks, and Paul will take you through the details of the project and the ordinances that are before you.
 We treat approximately 28 billion gallons of sewage at the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant each year. That's over 120 gallons per person per day that is treated at the plant, returned as clean water to the environment.
 But in the process of doing that, we also recover other resources. We currently treat the biosolids, and they're transported to eastern Oregon as a soil amendment for agricultural purposes.
 We also currently recover about 77% of the biogas, the methane, if you will, that comes from the process. We use that to generate electricity for use at the plant, also to generate heat for the bioprocess that we use. And we also sell another portion of it to a local manufacturer.
 But that still leaves about 23% of the methane that's produced by the process that basically gets flared and emits carbon dioxide to the atmosphere. Over the last few years, we've studied a number of alternatives how to effectively, from a triple bottom line perspective, utilize that excess methane.
 Of all the options we've looked at, the highest return on that investment in a triple bottom line sense by far is the use of this methane in the way that we're proposing today. Okay.
 It would allow us from a rate payer perspective, as Commissioner Fish has noted, to get a significant return to the rate payers from an economic perspective, an environmental benefit for reduced carbon emissions, and then additional.
 a social benefit chiefly for reducing the harmful health effects of diesel emissions in our community. So this is really, as the commissioners noted, a triple bottom line kind of approach.
 You have three ordinances before you today. One, to build the facility itself at the treatment plant. Second, in a partnership with Northwest Natural, to put an on-site fueling station at the plant for compressed natural gas. And then lastly, a monitoring facility, which will allow us to be able to inject that gas directly into Northwest Natural's infrastructure for its distribution and sale of the renewable product.
 A couple last points before I turn this over and give up the microphone. One, the...
 I can't say enough about how essential the partnership with Northwest Natural is to make all of this happen. Without being able to access their infrastructure, we would not be able to receive the economic benefit. We would also not be able to realize the health benefit of distribution and displacement of diesel fuel in a broad sense to the community. Secondly...
 there has been discussion of this project for some time, both at council and at the staff level. And one of the real unknowns has been, is this market really real? Can we really get the return on this investment? Council should know that we recently went through an RFP process. We received seven proposals from different quote-unquote off-takers of the fuel. We've awarded...
 to one proposal, clean energy fuels, who will buy our renewable natural gas product and sell it on the energy market via traceable credits. It's very important that that term be there because those credits do two things for us. They allow us to get a premium price for the product, but they also allow us to assure through a contractual arrangement that our product displaces diesel fuel and goes into the transportation sector.
 So with that, in closing, a couple of thank yous. I want to thank Susan and BPS for their partnership. Without their assistance and advice over and research that they've done over the years, we wouldn't have gotten this far. Danny Grady on BPS staff is the person who's worked most closely with us.
 But I want to particularly thank Paul Sudo and Vu Han, who have been working on this project long before I got to the Bureau and have really done yeoman's work to get us to this point. And with that, I'll turn it over to Susan. Okay.
 Morning, Mayor. Morning. Council Members, Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'm really pleased to be here. This is a project that's been a long time coming. I think we talked about it when I worked for Commissioner Saltzman several years ago. And I think it's a great project in terms of pushing forward on the mayor's new 100% renewable energy goal. I've worked with Northwest Natural Gas.
 For, gosh, more than 20 years now, off and on, and different projects, this is by far my favorite one. It showcases the company's commitment to sustainability. It showcases their commitment to the Portland community and very much their commitment to understanding and moving some of their products to be renewable energy. BES has done a great job at looking at all of the different...
 benefits of this project, not just this one, but also the electricity generation that they've done for years there. If they had to buy that power on the market, it would be about a million dollars a year, so it's a huge savings. There are great economic, environmental, and social equity and public health benefits to this project. As Commissioner Fish mentioned, the
 The project will generate about $3 million in annual revenue. It will pay for itself in four years and then produce significant savings for BES ratepayers for many years to come.
 From a social equity and public health kind of point of view, renewable natural gas will be used in vehicles to offset the use of diesel fuel. And as you know, diesel is particularly a problem for north-northeast Portland in terms of particulates. North-northeast Portland has the highest particulate matter counts in the state. And as the renewable natural gas market grows, those that are living along our major transportation corridors will definitely see these benefits.
 Finally, from an environmental point of view, it's not just about our local air quality. As Mike mentioned, it's about reducing carbon emissions significantly. As we look for ways to get to our 100% renewable energy goal, reducing the total city government carbon footprint is essential. We need to walk our talk. We can't be out there trying to work with companies and residents and everyone else. This project alone will reduce...
 our carbon footprint by one-third, so significant. We absolutely need innovation in the transportation arena. We are moving fast and furious in the electricity generation area, but on the gas side and in transportation, we need a lot of work, and this is a great project that showcases that.
 We're going to need solutions in every shape, way, and form. There's no silver bullet on this to get to 100% renewable energy worldwide and or right here in Portland. We're going to need wind and solar and geothermal and biofuels, and this is a piece of...
 the project and really a part of the package. So I'm thrilled to be a partner with Mike. I'm really glad he took this, push it. And Paul and the other staff have been working on this, Vu and Danny on my staff. And there's a gentleman some of you know, Dave Tooze, who worked on this and these projects for years. He's retired now, but I'm sure he's hopefully watching at home. And I'm thrilled that this is finally coming together. So thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Good morning. For the record, I'm Paul Sudo, supervising engineer with BES.
 So I'll walk you through the project. Just a quick overview on the presentation today. I'll just talk about basically what biogas and renewable natural gas or RNG are, just to get folks oriented on the terminology, give a couple of highlights of biogas use at the Columbia Boulevard Treatment Plant, and then get into the key project elements today that we're presenting as ordinances for you to consider for approval.
 And then I'll give a quick recap, hopefully, of the financials, project schedule, and also the benefits that have already been stated on the project. So what is biogas and what is renewable natural gas? Basically, they're related as part of the treatment process at the plant. Biogas consists essentially of about 60% methane gas.
 It's produced continuously as we treat the solids in wastewater at the treatment plant in a very slow biological process, hence the term bio with biogas or some folks also use biomethane. This is done in the absence of air, so it's what's called an anaerobic process. So there's these little bugs or bacteria in the process that convert these solids to methane, carbon dioxide, and some other trace compounds.
 So after the biogas is produced, it then needs to be converted to renewable natural gas or RNG. So that's basically chemically identical to natural gas. And this is done by removing that carbon dioxide that I mentioned and then eliminating or reducing some of these trace compounds.
 All right, so history of biogas use at Columbia Boulevard. Just two quick highlights. So even back when the plant was originally built in 1952, we'd already been using the waste biogas to heat the digesters for the process and also the administration building at the time. And in recent history, we added the cogeneration facility, which was able to produce heat for the plant.
 and electricity, and it powers about 40% of the power's electrical needs. However, we still had about 23% or so of the gas remaining that still was flared, so we wanted to find a solution for that. So here we are with the project goals. Basically, our ultimate goal was to reduce the amount of gas that was being flared or eliminate it and achieve 100% methane recovery at the Columbia Boulevard plant.
 And then, as mentioned before, we didn't just want to recover the methane. We wanted to get the best value for the ratepayer in terms of the triple bottom line analysis, economic, social, and environmental. So it was a key part of the project. As Susan mentioned, we wanted to align with the Climate Action Plan as well. And as Mike had stated earlier, we found that converting the biogas to renewable natural gas had the best upside or benefits for us in terms of
 Cleaner air, greenhouse gas reductions, and revenue. So this kind of cartoon and aerial of the plant is basically showing the concept of the facility that we plan on building here. So what's shown in yellow is essentially the existing digesters. These are large tanks. These are...
 They each hold over about 2 million gallons of the waste material. But what we need to add is this methane processing facility that's shown in green to produce that renewable natural gas. And then we can actually connect to Northwest Natural's distribution system as well as build a fueling facility on site.
 for the project. And then once it's in the distribution system, it opens up a vast network of opportunities for us in terms of where to sell the renewable natural gas as a vehicle fuel. This is just kind of a general map that shows you there's actually a lot of activity in the country, but we do need some more activity here in the Northwest with respect to CNG fueling.
 So this next slide shows the plant overview with the facilities that we're presenting here before you.
 We've got what's called the Future Production Facility on here for renewable natural gas. And then we've got basically a piping system that connects to what's labeled as the custody transfer, which is the Northwest Natural Receipt Facility. So that's essentially the gatekeeping part of it, where we want to make sure Northwest Natural also wants to make sure that the gas product that we produce meets their standards.
 So then once it's in, passes through that facility, meets the standards, it goes into what's shown as an additional pipe in pink there that we'll need to add. And then ultimately we're going to connect to the existing Northwest Natural Main that's shown in yellow there at the top of the screen. And then I also want to point out the fueling station location is planned to be located near the existing fueling station that we have at the plant that uses gasoline and diesel.
 So here are just some photos to show what these facilities will likely look like. This is a picture of the equipment that we're expecting to install at the plant. Basically, it's a large container. For one part of it that you see there, that kind of lower half of the screen,
 and that houses most of the equipment, motors, electrical equipment, pumps, and so forth. And then there are two towers associated with the Renewable Natural Gas Treatment Facility.
 And that is one is to actually remove the CO2 and other trace compounds from the methane or the biogas. And then we've got another tower that helps regenerate that water. So inherently that process is actually pretty green itself, that it is able to regenerate the water used in the gas cleaning process. And then the next component is the on-site renewable CNG fueling station. That's item 371 on the council agenda today.
 And this is just kind of a simplified rendering, essentially. So it's got some key components here just to highlight. One is that large box kind of in the upper right corner. That's the compressor. So we have to get it to a high enough pressure so it can actually be dispensed into vehicles. Okay.
 And then on the right there, there are three cylinders that are horizontal, and that's where the gas is stored. And then there's those fuel dispensing stations. So our goal here with this facility is to enter what's called a Schedule H agreement with Northwest Natural, where they design, build, and maintain the facility, and we'll reimburse the cost for that facility over time to Northwest Natural.
 And we do plan on using an Oregon Department of Energy alternative vehicle fuel infrastructure tax credit for this part of the project. And the last key part is the Northwest Natural Monitoring Facility. It's also referred to as the interconnection or receiving facility. That's item 372 on the agenda today. And this, as I showed in the map earlier, it's going to be located on the plant site. It will be on BES property on the plant site. And it will be...
 designed, built, and operated and maintained by Northwest Natural, and we'll be paying the cost for that to them. All right, now the financials part of this. So just a little recap on a previous approved council item a few years ago for the design of the project. We were approved $1.29 million.
 And then the ordinances before you today, item 370 is for the renewable natural gas facility, treatment facility. That's estimated to be about $9 million. And then we have the Northwest Natural Interconnection Facility, item 372, estimated to be $1.05 million. And the Renewable CNG Fueling Station, item 371, that's estimated to be $1.94 million. So...
 Total project costs are estimated to be about $15.5 million. And then just to highlight here, the revenue, as Mike said earlier, we found an off-taker buyer for it. And we expect a range from $3 million to $10 million. So we're just showing the range here, but we're planning on the more conservative side of $3 million. The market today would be $10 million. If we had built this facility already, it would be that substantial. So we'll see where the market heads with that.
 And this is tied to both federal incentives and also state incentives in the state of California and now the state of Oregon. So we're very fortunate to have Oregon also have a clean fuels program where there are credits available on the environmental attribute market. Could I ask, what are the most significant variables or the most significant risk factors to these financials?
 It is essentially that renewable identification number, the RIN market.
 At the federal level, it's a federally supported program. But what we've seen over time is the volume targets, meaning the amount of renewable credits that need to be purchased, those typically have increased. That's what's driven the market. But that would be the risk if there's a change in that. That's why we're falling on the more conservative, so say the $3 million side. So even in the absence of those credits, it's still viable at the $3 million level? That's your projection? Yeah.
 Let's say if the federal program disappeared, theoretically, and assuming the state of Oregon and the state of California programs were still in play, then we'd be around that $3 million target. What's the time frame?
 And if that's later, forget it. Yeah, I've got one more slide on that. So let's see. So schedule, just the thing that jumps out here is the fueling station. That's tied to an ODO, Oregon Department of Energy tax credit. We want to be able to compete for that or get it reimbursed for that. We're trying to push pretty quickly on that to have that in the ground by the end of this calendar year.
 And then building the facility and also the interconnection facility, our goal is to get that completed, have it all aligned, and be done by the end of next calendar year, December of 2018, which is why we're here presenting this as an emergency so we can maximize the revenue return for the rate payers.
 And then lastly, just to kind of bring home the benefits of the project, the triple bottom line, of course, that's been mentioned already, the greenhouse gas benefits of about 21,000 tons of CO2 per year eliminated, estimating on a conservative side about $3 million in annual revenue. And then to put that into another context, from an environmental standpoint, basically replacing enough diesel fuel to –
 power about 154 garbage trucks per year. So that's the end of the presentation. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Commissioner Fish? Mayor, we have one more panel after this panel. Very good. Any questions for this panel? I just have a technical question that's going back to high school chemistry, and that is the byproduct of this is carbon dioxide. Have we looked at how are we going to fix that? To fix, you know, push, I think it's...
 H2O plus the carbon dioxide and you have chlorophyll and it gets fixed and can be used for that so would there be a capturing of that byproduct? Not yet?
 Yeah, I think some folks are theorizing about it, but we haven't seen anything practical on that side yet. The main issue is that methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas, and so anything you can do to get methane into CO2 is a huge benefit. And all the other projects we do around carbon sequestration and other things try to get at the other carbon issues. It's a huge council to keep going because it's really terrific work.
 Thank you. Do we have compressed natural gas vehicles in our fleet? We are working on that. At BES, we have some in the budget coming up this year, and we're trying to line up this fueling station. So we can operate this fueling station at the end of the year on natural gas to start using the vehicles we plan to have on site in the coming year. So the plan is to start phasing those in.
 And will this fueling station be open to public? No, it will not. It will just be available for city vehicles and city-contracted vehicles at the Columbia Boulevard site. Can this be used for – I thought I heard you say it, but I'm not positive. This can be a replacement for the diesel vehicles to the heavy industrial vehicles. Is that correct? That's correct. Good news. Good. Glad to hear it.
 Thank you very much. Mayor, let me introduce the next panel. Please. We're honored to be joined today by the President and CEO of Northwest Natural, Mr. David Anderson, from the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, Janice Thompson, and from Oregon Environmental Council, their Climate Director, Jana Gasolam. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Who wants to go first? Mr. Anderson? Yeah, I'd be happy to. Mayor Wheeler, Commissioner Fish, and members of the council, thank you for having us here. Exciting day to be here with the state champs, too, so I didn't know that that was going to be the case. But I'm here to provide testimony about this groundbreaking project. My name is David Anderson. I'm the president and CEO of Northwest Natural, and we've been proud to serve the city of Portland and the surrounding region for almost 160 years.
 Actually, we've been serving customers here longer than the state has been a state. Most people don't realize that. So because this is our hometown and we pay close attention to the needs and priorities of our customers and communities we serve, we take pride in our Northwest roots and the environmental stewardship that drives us to tackle complex problems and hopefully to lead the way for others to follow. And this Renewable Natural Gas Project is a perfect example of this pioneering spirit.
 Through this project, we're able to take an environmental challenge, which you just heard, which was wastewater, that produces greenhouse gas emissions and turns it into renewable energy that can be delivered through our existing pipeline system. And that's a system that is one of the newest and tightest pipeline systems in the country.
 We've been collaborating with the city's team for a long time to make this project a reality. And once the direction was set, Northwest Natural worked through a number of technical and regulatory issues, including the engineering challenge to design a quality specification for the renewable natural gas that will flow into our system and, of course, into the trucks, as you just heard about. And with your approval today, we will move forward to build and maintain the infrastructure needed to serve the facility.
 Needless to say, we're incredibly excited that our collective efforts would culminate in the largest climate action project Portland has ever done. It's through partnerships like these that our pipeline system can be used in new ways. We can help communities close the loop on waste, substantially reduce emissions, and improve air quality. That's a value proposition, frankly, that's hard to beat. And it's why we believe this will be the first of many other renewable natural gas projects to come.
 We, and I personally, would like to thank the Bureau of Environmental Services and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their leadership on this effort. We look forward to partnering with the City of Portland on other innovative projects that drive us to a low-carbon future in ways that are equitable of all of our communities that we serve. With your vote today, Portland takes an important step forward toward that future. And thank you from the company and a personal thank you from me. Thank you very much. We appreciate it. James Thompson. Thank you.
 Citizens Utility Board. Thank you. Janice Thompson, Oregon Citizens Utility Board, or CUB. CUB fully supports Portland's triple bottom line approach and I want to concur with earlier comments about focus on transportation sector projects in terms of addressing greenhouse gases. We've been pleased to support at the state level the low carbon fuel standards and are doing quite a bit of work in that whole transportation arena at the state level.
 Regarding this project, our analytical emphasis, though, was on the economics and ensuring good value to Portland sewer and wastewater customers. We were always very intrigued by the revenue generation potential of this biogas project. But in order to make money, you have to spend money. And so our concern was ensuring an acceptable payback at an acceptable level of risk.
 Along the way, Cub asked lots of questions. I appreciate all the responses from BES. For example, related to Mayor Wheeler, you mentioned several of the risks. Those are exactly the types of questions, or good examples of the questions I was asking in terms of like, do the risks,
 are acceptable. Another point about risk is that this is not, this is technology that's not unusual or untried.
 But the market is this environmental incentive driven market which requires careful analysis. And so it was really great, as Mike and Paul I think mentioned, when the response to the offtake RFP really confirmed kind of everybody's best hunches along the way that the economics were really going to pan out quite well.
 So the attention to detail and careful analysis of costs and benefits by BES along the way is commendable. The effort has taken persistence because it's been a complicated project development that, in a good way, has taken time to get all the pieces lined up. So the various progress project elements, however, are aligning with...
 good analysis of the risks, and a quite acceptable payback period. And DUTCUB does urge your support for the ordinances before you this morning. Thank you. We appreciate your hard work on this. Mayor and City Commissioners, my name is Jana Gastelum. I'm the Climate Program Director at the Oregon Environmental Council. And I'm pleased to be here in support of the Bureau of Environmental Services proposal to capture and convert waste biomethane into renewable clean transportation fuel.
 The largest share of our climate pollution comes from transportation emissions at both the city and state levels. And local actions to address climate change are becoming more important than ever for three reasons. One, global CO2 levels continue to skyrocket, surpassing levels not seen for millions of years. Two, climate impacts are increasingly being felt here in Oregon in the forms of melting snowpack, warming rivers, dying fish, and more extreme heat that harms people.
 And three, the government is rolling back climate and clean air protections at the federal government at a startling rate. And as Earth Day approaches, I think Americans are sorely in need of leadership. With Portland's action today, the city of Portland steps up as a climate and clean air leader. Thank you for that.
 Portland has an opportunity with this project to make significant climate pollution reductions. Over the past seven and a half years, I've been working on that statewide clean fuels program. It requires really rigorous greenhouse gas accounting of the full life cycle impacts of transportation fuels.
 And we know from this accounting that biomethane from wastewater treatment plants, like the project proposed today, when compared to diesel fuel, can result in a 70 to 90 percent carbon intensity reduction. That's an astonishing reduction and is excellent for the climate. So utilizing those waste streams, particularly as a transportation fuel, is a huge benefit for the climate. Okay.
 Of equal importance are the air quality benefits this project can provide for our area. Diesel is one of the worst culprits in polluting our local air quality. Diesel soot, or that particulate matter, is exceptionally harmful to human health. Those toxic substances in exhaust are able to hitch a ride on those particulates and enter the body. They go into our bloodstreams. They circulate through our entire bodies.
 Diesel exhaust is linked to strokes, heart attacks, asthma, and other diseases. Its impact on local air quality is personal to me. I have two kids who attend a preschool not far from I-84. They're outside playing, jumping, running, being creative. But I think about their developing hearts and lungs. I know that kids all over the city, from an equity standpoint, are also playing and living and breathing near busy roadways. Thank you.
 So we need solutions to harmful diesel pollution, and converting vehicles to run on cleaner fuels like renewable natural gas or electricity is essential. And unfortunately, the state legislature earlier this week gutted a bill to clean up dirty diesel. So again, your local level leadership matters a great deal.
 And finally, not only is relying on petroleum problematic for the climate and air, but it's also not so great for our pocketbooks. Every drop of gasoline and diesel that we consume is imported into the state, which means that we export our energy dollars. This project keeps more dollars circulating locally in Portland. And it's not every day that you have a proposal that significantly addresses Portland's climate pollution, reduces toxic air pollution, and enhances local economic activity.
 So every step we make at the local level to address climate change and rain and diesel pollution matters for health now and our future. I thank you and encourage the port of this project. Thank you. Any questions for this panel? Thank you. We appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, I have four people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Lightning Super Watchdog, Nancy Newell, and Matthew Denton. Very good. Thank you.
 Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. As you know, I have done communications in the past on diesel particulates. My main concern was having a daycare center just outside in the Portland building where the buses came by every few minutes, and it was going up in the air, floating into that daycare center playground. Yes.
 I have a real problem with action not being taken by Mayor Hales when I brought that to his attention. Now, I understand the daycare center is no longer there. So this project here, like I say, is a very amazing project pertaining to the climate change and the issues we're dealing with the diesel situation. Again, change.
 I haven't heard any costs on the retrofitting of the vehicles. I'd like to have a little more data on that, overall cost, how that will be paid. Are there tax credits, incentives to go in that direction? Again, if we decide not to retrofit the vehicles, will Northwest Natural Gas still be able to market the renewable natural gas in an efficient manner to where we'll still meet our projected gross income?
 Again, I'm amazed on the overall cost of this project, also looking at the cost recovery. And I know Commissioner Saltzman is looking at the numbers here and going, this is impressive. And the reality is that why this project hasn't taken place sooner. But again, I understand Northrest Natural Gas may have had a lot of the control position on this.
 Again, my position also pertaining, if we decide not to use this on city vehicles, is Northwest Natural Gas in the city also looking at possibly doing airplane fuel? Again, that's the highest dollar paid out. I don't know if you can go in that direction from this. I don't know if an analysis has been done and if Northwest Natural Gas being close to the airport has looked at that situation yet.
 Because these numbers here are so impressive. I mean, if you're talking $3 million up to what I heard market of $10 million per year on an annual basis, paying your project off in two years and then just what I consider pure profit is absolutely amazing. So it's an amazing project. I'll be candid with you. It's a win for the city. Thank you.
 And a win for the environment. And again, my main focus, it's a win for the young children in this city that have to breathe in this diesel particulates. And it will affect them in their future years. And that's why I've made a stand on that to shut down any diesel vehicles.
 in at least the central city location in the urban area for the children. Thank you. Lightning, can I just say that, as usual, you've raised a lot of great questions. We'll get you written answers, and I'm pleased that you flagged the issue of whether we could partner with the port.
 because they have vehicles, and that's a question we're going to pursue to see whether if we have enough capacity, we can actually bring them in as a partner and sell them the natural gas. And I want to make it very clear, I'm also talking about airplanes, and that's the highest dollar amount per se, especially if you can send it to China. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Good morning. My name is...
 The button, I'm sorry, on the front there. Lightning, can you help with the button, please? Thanks. Sorry, they're new. Thank you. My name is Nancy Newell. I've worked on these issues for years. I raised it here, and Eric Sten was one of the commissioners. Susan Anderson was a visionary, has done tremendous research. You have a real honorable citizen in this, and I'm so glad she's still here. Okay.
 And the main reason I'm here is I'm concerned about whether the bank held the interest on some kind of loan for this project to go forward. And if it did, I think we should get that interest back and give it back to the taxpayers because they're supporting Standing Rock. If it's the same banks that are supporting Standing Rock,
 Let's make a real point to them that their policies are detrimental and we don't want them to profit in excess like they have in the past. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Matthew Denton. I live in the Portsmouth neighborhood and I serve on the citizen advisory committee for the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. I'm speaking in favor of the...
 project to produce renewable natural gas, to get renewable natural gas into the Northwest natural gas system, and to build a renewable natural gas fueling station. Back in 1905, there was the first transcontinental automobile race from New York to Portland. These were the first motorized vehicles to travel the Oregon Trail. The winner completed the race in 44 days, arriving just in time for the Lewis and Clark Exposition.
 The cars ran on gasoline, but gas stations didn't exist. The main use of gasoline back in those days was dry cleaning, so the cars would stop at drugstores and buy dry cleaning supplies. Over time, more cars were made and gas stations came into existence, but the trip was only possible because you could buy gasoline.
 People buy gasoline-powered cars today because gasoline is readily available. Yes, you can buy an electric car, but people worry about where they will charge it. Even though we have made huge improvements in the electric vehicle charging infrastructure, it doesn't compare to over a century of gasoline. This is a chicken or the egg problem. People don't want to install more charging stations unless there are more cars to use them, and people don't want to buy electric cars until there are more charging stations.
 Natural gas fueling in the city is much like electric car charging was 10 years ago. It barely exists. You also can't walk into a car dealership and buy a natural gas car. You have to convert it. The conversion isn't difficult, but with very few fueling stations, very few people do that. Compared to gasoline and diesel, natural gas is cleaner in almost every regard. Less CO2 and no particulates, which is good for the planet and good for the people that live nearby.
 The natural gas from the sewage treatment plant is a renewable fuel that comes from decomposing sewage. Currently, the treatment plant burns some of that fuel in an engine to make electricity. And while we could use that to power electric vehicles, it's far more efficient to burn the gas in the vehicles directly.
 First, we have to solve the chicken and egg problem of fueling stations and vehicles. Portland has the opportunity to be on the leading edge by running city vehicles on natural gas. We don't have to wait for the rest of the country. We are big enough to build our own fueling stations and convert vehicles. And because most of our vehicles stay inside city limits, we won't have to worry about other natural gas stations.
 This project is great for the city's long-term goals of getting more renewables, but this project also fits in the goals of the Citizen Advisory Committee. The CAC was originally formed because the sewage treatment plant smelled bad. Prior to the 1980s, the sewage treatment plant had no odor control facilities at all, and longtime CAC members recall trucks of damp sewage coming from the Tyrum Creek plant or leaving the plant head in eastern Oregon with uncovered decomposing sewage that you could smell all the way across north Portland.
 Thanks to a lot of work by the plant, things are much better. So now the biggest air quality complaint is diesel exhaust. By getting city vehicles converted to use renewable natural gas, we can make positive steps towards cleaner air. But first, Portland needs to be the leader and build a renewable natural gas fueling station. Thank you. Thank you for your service on the CAC and for your testimony. Thank you. The last person who signed up is Star Stauffer. Morning. Good morning. Isn't it nice to have our building back? Yes.
 Yes, it is. Well, you all know who I am. I'm Star Stauffer. I have a few concerns about Northwest Natural Gas. First of all, where is the emergency plan? And who's checked it in regards to the safety of this facility, should there be an explosion or a leak, considering not far down the street is an entire community of marginalized community members, and then there's the river right there. And, of course, that is a high-traffic area.
 My other concern with Northwest Natural is not extremely related to this project, but considering it's going to affect the community members that have to pay for Northwest Natural Gas, I need to bring it up. They have almost no programs for people who have trouble paying their bill. And while I have their attention here, you guys need to do something about that. I can't tell you how many people this winter that I know went without heat.
 because Northwest Natural shut them off for being past due and would not work with them. And it was extremely cold outside. So if we're going to be building a new facility and we think it can pay for itself in four years, I don't know, my math isn't the best if you look back at my transcripts, but it seems to me that what you're saying is that this is going to be an extremely profitable facility. But for who? The white leaders of Northwest Natural Gas or the actual community that it's being built in?
 because you're not going to sit here and profit off this community and then not work with them to keep their heat on. That's not going to work. I'll just fill the place up with protesters and shut it down day after day, if that's how it's going to be. But they need to work with the community instead of just shutting off their gas. These people need to have heat. In this last winter, with people dying of exposure, it's extremely crucial that they come up with some type of program that,
 and some kind of outreach to get to these community members who have trouble paying their bills. Shutting them off is not acceptable, and it should never be an answer. Shame on Northwest Natural. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Bridgecrane. Thank you. I'm a little concerned that each of these items, the three items when we talk about –
 When we look at the first item, the $9 million, and it says at the end of each of these budget items, it says the last line is, oh, it's not on the last line, the other one, but 370, yada, yada, at perfectly even $9 million. So that's kind of a suspicious estimate of $9 million. I guess that's close enough.
 But then when we go down to 371, which is a fueling station, the gentleman that's on the Columbia Wastewater Board just talked about a fueling station. So perhaps there will be a provision for privately operated natural gas vehicles to be fueled there. That's almost another $2 million, $1.9 million. But those first two things are real capital expenditures that have actual costs.
 The next thing is an agreement. Admittedly, there will be a disbursement by the city, but an agreement cost is different than a capital cost. It's just like sometimes cities pay huge millions of dollars in agreement to build a stadium. They're not really worried about the cost. They just make agreements. So when we look into the only five pages on these items, we see that the estimated cost recovery is somewhere between three to eight years.
 That's really not a very impressive fiduciary assessment. An impressive fiduciary assessment would be selling – I don't even remember the units. I don't know if they're selling these in therms or what they're going to be sold in. But it's disappointing as citizens, even though we have the Citizens Utility Board, which is generally credible, that there's no real document saying we expect to sell –
 X volume of gas at X price. And that's why we have this huge 100% window. It might be three years we recover it. It might be eight years. I don't really think that you've, that type of brief summary here serves the citizens. And there's no pointer to who's got the actual data so that other outsiders can make a judgment of, are these reasonably adjusted? Or is this really just a boondoggle? The city's getting a neat green thing.
 Direct cash is going to – on the first item, we're going to award a contract for the building, correct? So none of these payments – which of these three items pays directly to Northwest Natural? I don't know, but the proceeds come back to ratepayers. If there are proceeds that – once the proceeds exceed – and that would be interesting for you to inform the people is like the proceeds –
 Eventually, if this remains a continually profitable project, why is the initial outlay from the city? That's not the way. This is a glorified capitalism society. This was such a great deal. Why is it Northwest Natural, who's going to go to a more expensive office building, able to put this up themselves and give us revenue in the first year? Thank you. Appreciate it. We should shut them down. Here, this is the first.
 All right. And we'll have to do them separately. Is there any further council discussion or questions? With that, Carla, we'll vote on these independently, please. Item 370, first, please call the roll. Fish? Well, Mayor, I'll give my closing remarks on this one, and they'll apply to each of the items before us. In the four years that I've had the honor of leading the Bureau of Environmental Services, I've learned a lot.
 And one of the most important lessons I've learned is that what's good for the environment is frequently good for our rate payers. This project is a triple win for Portland. We'll be eliminating 21,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions every year. We will be reducing our reliance on dirty diesel. And we will be earning millions of dollars for our rate payers. There are a lot of people I need to thank that brought us to this day. I want to thank Director Michael Jordan and his team at the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 And I particularly want to call out the two people at the staff level who embody the meaning of perseverance. This project, we could spend all day talking about all the hurdles that we had to overcome.
 legal, regulatory, practical, financial, but Paul Sudo and Vu Han have worked tirelessly to get this right. They don't usually get the kind of attention and gratitude they deserve, so I want to thank both of them for their exemplary public service. I want to thank Susan Anderson and the team at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 For as long as I've been on this council, Susan has been the quarterback guiding this council on our ambitious climate action plan and on all of the sustainability programs of this city which have generated not just national but international attention. Thank you, Susan, to you and your team for being just key partners in doing this. I want to thank my colleague and friend, Dan Saltzman.
 An odd feature of our form of government is that good ideas usually start here, but they usually are brought to fruition under a commissioner that wasn't there at the first meeting or wasn't there with the original idea. And so it takes a team. I remember when we did the big pipe, I think it was Earl Blumenauer that was sort of at the beginning of that process, but it was Dan Salzman that brought it home. So, Dan, thank you for the work that you've done to make this day possible.
 Mayor, I want to also thank you. And the other day, you and Susan set a very high bar for our city to get to 100% renewable energy. And today, the Bureau of Environmental Services is making a big statement about doing our part to help you get to that audacious goal. I want to thank our partners at Northwest Natural.
 Not just for this venture, because it took a lot of work to get through all the regulatory stuff and all the legal and practical challenges, but we've been very conservative, correctly so, I think, about what we think is the return on this project. But as you listen to the PowerPoint, the upside on this is astonishing. And I think the – Mayor, I think the insurance policy we have is whatever goes on in D.C., it's likely that Cascadia –
 the Cascadia region will continue to be leaders in creating markets for our product. So we've put a threshold here of a fairly modest number of 3 million, but it could be substantially more if we continue to have this robust market for this product. So thank you, Northwest Natural, and thank you, the President, for joining us, not just on this but for your partnership on Superfund, which is going to be crucial to making progress on cleaning up the harbor.
 I want to thank everyone who took time to testify today, and I particularly want to thank the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon. People need to know that CUB is a residential ratepayer advocate, and they represent residential ratepayers statewide against private utilities. We are the first city in Oregon where the CUB has served as a ratepayer advocate for residential ratepayers in the context of a public utility.
 And because of Janice and the expertise that Cub brings to the table, we've been able to save ratepayers a lot of money. So we are very grateful for that relationship. Thanks to the CAC and our friend from North Portland for being here. We made a lot of progress since the days people complained about the odor. And we're going to even do better on the odor by not flaring any of that methane gas.
 I want to thank my colleagues for the support they've given the public utilities over the years. A number of years ago, we were in a situation where the public wasn't so clear about our direction or about our discipline and how we spent their dollars. I think that narrative has changed dramatically, and I thank the council for the support they've given over these past four years. This Earth Day, the environmental movement is facing unprecedented challenges on a national level.
 But whatever may be happening in Washington, D.C., today the city of Portland is making very clear that we will continue to lead by example on clean air, clean water, and clean energy. It is a proud day for the Bureau of Environmental Services. And finally, the guy on my team who does all the work and gets none of the glory is Jamie Dunphy. And I want to thank Jamie for his great service as well. Saltzman? Well, congratulations, Commissioner. Congratulations, Commissioner Fish. Thank you.
 Bureau of Environmental Services, Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Northwest Natural. This is a great accomplishment. As Commissioner Fish alluded to, I was the commissioner in charge of BES...
 in 2008 when we got the cogeneration capacity going, but I was always frustrated by that remaining 23% that were just of wasted methane that's just flaring. And indeed, worldwide, you see methane flaring all over the place, landfills, oil pipelines, everywhere, and we are wasting a tremendous amount of untapped energy. So I'm really proud that we are today...
 taking the steps to capture all that methane and to put it to good productive use, whether it's fueling vehicles, generating electricity, selling it to Malarkey Roofing. Let's not forget them. They're a good industry here in Portland as well. And I also wanted to just recognize Dave Tooze, who was mentioned earlier, with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. He is the go-to person over the years for making renewable energy projects possible.
 pencil and understanding all the complicated things like schedule h whatever that is but there's all these schedules and tariffs and things like that it's a very complicated world so i'm really happy that you've managed to work this all out and that this will be a reality so thank you all hi you daily
 I'd just like to quickly thank Mike and Susan and Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Saltzman, everyone who's worked so hard on this for many years as a resident of a.
 in northeast Portland with high levels of air pollution. I thank you as the mother of a child with asthma and someone who has been recently diagnosed with asthma myself. I want to thank you. And as a very disappointed resident of the state of Oregon,
 in our legislature for dropping the ball on dirty diesel, I want to thank you. And I also really appreciate the buy local aspect, which hadn't really occurred to me until today. So happy, very happy to support this idea.
 Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Salzman and Commissioner Fish. This is a wonderful project. I've been happy to vote for it every time. Components of it have come to council. Looking forward to seeing the money returned to the ratepayers. And just a fabulous project. Thank you. Thanks to all the staff. I was particularly happy to see that there was already a citizen advisory committee established for the treatment plant.
 and also joining the thanks for their Citizen Utility Board and the Portland Utility Board. So this process has certainly had robust community involvement, and I appreciate that. Wheeler. So I want to add my thanks to Commissioner Fish for bringing it home, Commissioner Saltzman for starting this process without...
 Your leadership, this would not have happened. And in many communities around the country, it wouldn't even have been started. And Commissioner Fish, I just want to say personally I admire the work and the partnerships that you've created to help
 bring this to fruition. I want to thank all of the appropriate acronyms from the various bureaus to the CUB, to the CAC. This was very much a community-engaged process. I wish Jim hadn't left as early as he did. He came up and he was feeling a little depressed during communications and said he couldn't think of anything that the Portland City Council had done that was positive. I
 And I've been sort of mulling over that comment ever since. And it occurred to me virtually every vote we take here is controversial. We're goring somebody's ox.
 No matter what we do or how good our intentions are, how much of the homework we have completed. And this is one of those rare circumstances where I think Commissioner Fish, the community has come together, worked really hard over a period of many years to bring this home. So the promise is good. As we were admonished during public testimony, there's a wide range of
 of potential outcomes here, at least on the fiscal part of this. So I am going into this with my usual sense of reserve, but the main thing for me here isn't actually the financials, even if it's the worst-case scenario, the 8-year payoff, or let's say it's 10-year payoff here.
 I still think it is imperative, as Commissioner Udaly just said, that we move forward on our carbon reduction goals. And I share her concern that the state is not taking dirty diesel nearly as seriously as the state should take it. It should be a top climate priority for the state of Oregon.
 And I think it's important that we keep pushing them from the local level to do the right thing. So thank you to all of you who made this a reality. Commissioner Fish, in particular, I vote aye. And the ordinance is adopted. And now I assume we'll go to 371 and 372 relatively quickly. Fish. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Ordinance 371 is passed. Next item, please.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Item 372, the ordinance has passed. And with the consent of my colleagues, we'll still hold off for a minute on the pulled item from the consent agenda. Go to items 373 and 374 that are time certain. If we could go ahead and have those read together. And again, we'll vote on them separately. Thank you.
 373, recognize May 23, 2017, to be Mayor Harry Lane Day in Portland. Perfect. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor and colleagues. If Liam Frost and our good friend Jeff Curtis would take seats.
 We have two items before the council today. One is a proclamation honoring a famous figure from Portland's past, which we're going to get a quick introduction on, and then the mayor can read that. And second, we're going to take up a memorandum of understanding to formalize the relationship between the city of Portland and our official award-winning festival.
 Liam Frost. Mayor. You've got a new suit for this day. Just for today, Commissioner. So in honor of that, why don't you tee it up?
 Thank you. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Morning. For the record, I'm Liam Frost. I serve as Policy Director for Commissioner Nick Fish. Among the many hats I wear, I have recently become the liaison to the Portland Rose Festival in January, and I've thoroughly enjoyed jumping into the renewed energy around the Rose Festival, working with Jeff and Marilyn, Clint, and their team, as well as Matt Grumman, Commissioner Saltzman's office, and Jennifer Argonzoni, and your office, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 So today before you, there are two Rose Festival related items, the first of which is a rather special proclamation in honor of Mayor Harry Lane. Here to tell us more about Harry Lane is Jeff Curtis, and in spirit at least, Harry Lane himself. Mayor Whaler, Distinguished Counsel, Jeff Curtis, for the record, I'm CEO of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation.
 Ten years ago, in our centennial, thanks to some funding, grant funding from the City of Portland and other sources, under the leadership of Marilyn Clint and Angel Ocasio, we developed our Living History Program, which was designed to take the history of the Rose Festival, combine that with the magic and history of the City of Portland, especially around the turn of the century.
 If you look back at Portland's history, what was happening between 1900 and 1910, there were some rather visionary things taking place in our community.
 And one man was at the forefront of that, and that was our mayor at the time, known as the father of the Rose Festival, Mayor Harry Lane. Why this year matters is that on May the 23rd will be 100 years since his passing. It's right on the eve of the 2017 Rose Festival, so we want to celebrate his legacy and proclaim a special day. And we want to take the education that we've been doing with kids in schools. Mr. Lane has been in...
 taught thousands of kids in our schools over the 10 years the history of Portland, specifically around the turn of the century, and his vision. I want to let the citizens of Portland know a little more about it and thus this proclamation kind of celebrates that. With that said, I want to introduce Distinguished Mayor Harry Lane.
 Thank you, Jeff. It's a pleasure to be back here in City Hall, which was built in 1895. And I can't remember where my office was, but I served for two terms from 1905 to 1909. And I had an interesting council because we had 15 members in the city council, and they were elected by their political party. I was a Democrat, one other person a Democrat, the other 13 were Republicans. Right.
 It was a very interesting time. But nevertheless, we came together, and following the...
 wonderful exposition, Lewis and Clark exposition, was held here for five months in 1905. We brought a million point six people to this city to visit all the expositions. And we met in October of 1905 to congratulate ourselves, those who had invested in the exposition,
 And as mayor, I issued this proclamation to about 1,000 people at a dinner meeting on October 14th, 1905. I'd like to read that to you at this point. And this would be regarding the success of the Lewis and Clark Exposition and what we could do next. And I was recommending a Rose Festival.
 It would be the greatest permanent advertisement for this city that was ever attempted and would make Portland's fame as a rose city worldwide. Let the city improvement spirit take hold of the people. Let them plant roses, which will grow in the summer. Let them plant hedges of trees. We will then have a beautiful green and red city, green with fur and red with roses. Let the people paint their houses and continue public improvement.
 Let the great railroads make this a center and a great seaport, and we will soon have the most wonderful and most famous city in the United States. Let us maintain a permanent exposition which would attract thousands every year to our city and would be the greatest advertisement for Portland that could ever be instituted. What Los Angeles is as a winter resort, Portland with its delightful climate...
 would be as a summer resort. And that was passed, and the festival was incorporated in 1905 through the state of Oregon, and we've continued, and continued much because of the support of the city council, and we're now in our 110th year. Thank you. Thank you.
 And we, too, have a proclamation. And, Mayor, I was pleased to see here is our formal proclamation. But it's nice to know that some tricks are timeless, like printing it out in larger type. This is the Mayor Harry Lane proclamation.
 Whereas Harry Lane served as Portland's mayor from 1905 through 1909. And whereas prior to serving as mayor, Harry Lane was a physician, an advocate for public health, treating many Portlanders without charge, and working for clean water, pure food, and disease prevention.
 And whereas Harry Lane was a supporter of women's rights and appointed a woman, Esther Pohl Lovejoy, as Portland's first city health officer, and also appointed one of the first female police officers in the nation, Lola G. Baldwin, whereas Harry Lane battled machine politics and was unafraid to challenge corrupt business practices wherever he found them,
 And whereas Harry Lane was a man of vision who called for a permanent Rose Carnival to be held annually during the summer season and is thus known as the father of the Rose Festival.
 And whereas Harry Lane began the fundraising for the Rose Festival with a $100 contribution of his own money, encouraging others to give because, quote, they'd be aiding to maintain a permanent exposition which would attract thousands every year to our city and would be the greatest advertisement for Portland, unquote.
 Whereas in 2007, during its centennial celebration, the Portland Rose Festival recreated Mayor Harry Lane as a character in the Rose Festival Living History Program, and whereas for 10 years, Mayor Harry Lane has been portrayed by David Rionda, a Portlander with a deep appreciation for history.
 for Harry Lane's heritage, who has taken his story to thousands of students and adults in the Portland area. And whereas Harry Lane passed away 100 years ago on May 23, 1917, and is buried in Portland's Lone Fir Cemetery, whereas the city of Portland desires to collaborate with the Portland Rose Festival, Portland's official festival, to honor the legacy of Harry Lane.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of Portland, do hereby recognize May 23, 2017, as Mayor Harry Lane Day, and invite citizens to celebrate the life of Portland's 35th mayor. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. And I will give you this proclamation. We will move quickly. Commissioner Fish? Yes, sir. So we're going to go. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 So we have a second item before us. And, Mayor, I want to begin by thanking you for assigning me the role of council liaison to the Rose Festival. It is our official festival, and it's a great honor to work with Jeff Curtis and his crack team. As you may know, in 2010, the council declared the Rose Festival to be the official festival of the city of Portland. It serves as the city's premier annual event, attracting people from all over the world and showcasing the best of Portland.
 The work that Jeff and his team put in all year round make each festival bigger and better, and it's just extraordinary. It's an honor to work with Jeff and the board, and we look forward to continuing to build on a strong foundation.
 Here to tell us more about the MOU that's before us is Liam Frost. Liam got a new suit for this occasion. And Liam is my liaison to the Rose Festival. Liam. It's good to see you all again. Excuse me. I need to read the title first. Sorry, Carla. The 374 authorize a memorandum of understanding with the Rose Festival Foundation to assign and outline the city and foundation's roles and responsibilities for the annual Portland Rose Festival.
 Liam? So for the record, Liam Frost, Policy Director for City Commissioner Nick Fish. Before you is a memorandum of understanding between the City of Portland and the Rose Festival Foundation, which memorializes the collaboration between the city and the Rose Festival Foundation.
 This MOU was originally passed in 2012. It has since been updated, reviewed by city attorneys, and also by relevant staff at the city. Before I hand it over to Jeff and Brett, I do just want to give a shout-out and acknowledge Alison Madsen of PBOT, who is the Special Events Coordinator for the city.
 So any massive event that you see downtown on the weekends throughout the year, Allison has her fingerprints all over it. And she's an unsung hero because she doesn't like to be recognized as much, but I did it anyway. So I think she's here somewhere. So thank you, Allison.
 Thank you. For the record, Jeff Curtis, CEO of the Rose Festival Foundation. I want to thank Distinguished Counsel for this opportunity to bring this forward, our MOU, because it's a significant step in the building and maintaining of our relationship. I want to introduce Brett Baker, Chairman and President of our Board of Directors. And I think his role is appropriate given our theme, which is brilliant this year,
 But brilliant in this context, in this room, relates to leadership, relates to the values and principles of bringing an idea forward like Mary Lane did, and thus we are celebrating and at the same time acknowledging the growth and development of today's festival. So I want to introduce Brett Baker to say a few words. Thanks, Jeff. Hey, as Jeff said, my name is Brett Baker. I have the honor of presiding over the board of the Portland Rose Festival right now.
 And I just wanted to relate a little bit about why the Rose Festival is special to me. You know, like so many folks in Oregon, you know, I'm a native Oregonian, grew up in Salem, and I had the privilege of coming up to the Rose Festival almost every year. My grandparents came to the Rose Festival, you know, almost when the festival started, you know, around the turn of the last century. And they really shared their love of the Rose Festival with me. And I think that started very early in my life, you know, to have...
 a great love for the organization and the festival. And then as I became older, as a younger adult, going back about 20 years, I was a young commercial banker and I became the banker of the Rose Festival organization before I was on the board.
 And then I started to really realize not only all the fun stuff about the festival and the family stuff about the festival, but really the huge economic impact it has on the local economy and driving positive feelings about Oregon on the national stage.
 And the combination of those two things really make the organization special to me. It really bonds families together, generation over generation. It's really unique because it bonds the community together. It's a large secular event. Even in this day and age, we have 500,000 people that come in person.
 to these events. No place else, not only in Portland or Oregon, but in the entire Northwest United States, did that many people come to an event. So I think that really speaks to the relevance of the organization still today. And I have to mention, very sadly, we lost one of our legendary leaders, Hillman Ludeman, or Ludi, as he was known by many, many, many, many friends.
 He had a unique...
 heritage of service to the organization in that his dad, Hillman Ludeman Sr., was president of the Rose Festival in 1934, and then Lutie was president of the organization 40 years later. And then he went on to serve for decades on our executive committee. And his day job was he served for five decades as an executive at Portland General Electric.
 He was always a very humble, human, and caring individual. And it's a real honor for me, and I assure I speak for the rest of the board, that we get to follow in the footsteps of men and women like Ludi who are able to work with this organization to still give this gift to the city of Portland. So with that, I'm going to turn it back to my friend and CEO, Jeff Curtis. And with that, I'll just play the mic for a second. So this MOU was actually approved by the council in 2012? Yes.
 It probably took us a little longer than necessary to actually get to this point, but we're going to ask the council to take really the formal action of approving the MOU, this updated version, which was previously approved in 2012, and then ask you if you would join Jeff and actually sign the original document and present Mayor Lane with his proclamation. Thank you.
 Thank you. I just want to be brief and offer some more context to the MOU and the spirit of what it means. It's a practical document, but I think it shows what's not shown and to some degree is the vision and leadership about what it means and how we work with the city as its official festival. I mean, it talks, what makes Rose Festival unique and different? There are too many to name in this room.
 but essentially there's no other celebration that draws over 1.5 million people, an economic impact of 65 million annually, not to mention it is the signature event of our great city.
 And we do this with a philanthropic purpose, arts, youth, education, volunteerism, stewardship of the environment. But the main reason we do it is we do it for our community, for Portland. There's nothing like it. As the official festival, we celebrate Portland, its great way of life, and it brings the community together. So that, in essence, this document is the nuts and bolts of that, but it's up to us, myself, Brett, our community,
 our staff, volunteers, to celebrate the legacy of Mayor Lane's vision with the thousands of people that have led it prior to this year to the volunteers that dedicate their time and efforts. That's what this document kind of memorializes structurally, but it takes a lot of vision and leadership and positive thinking going forward.
 Now, it was mentioned that this MOU is not a new thing. I like to think it's 110 years in the making because it did just 105 years ago we were in front of council with the same purpose. And it happened to be the last council meeting in December. And thus, it stuck in a pile of paperwork under the new administration in 2013.
 While the festival continued, we still felt strongly that as we continued to move this festival forward, that having this document signed by our mayor matters. And I appreciate, Nick, for your leadership as you took over the council liaison role to make this a priority. Mayor Wheeler, thank you for acknowledging the purpose and importance.
 And Amanda Fritz, thank you for, you created the whole official festival status. So thank you for that. And Commissioner Udaly, we look forward to working with you on your vision of the city and how the Rose Festival can incorporate those things. We actually have events picked out for all of them to be ambassadors for the council. That is correct. We'll be letting them know later.
 So as I close, I just want to say that I'm up here as CEO, but there's a lot of people in our past and our present that are committed to the focus and development of this festival. And it takes a partnership with the city lead council to make it happen. It absolutely takes a true partnership. And this symbolizes that on a go-forward basis. So thank you very much.
 I was wondering if you could just touch on the information that you gave us in terms of the economic benefits of this Rose Festival. I think many people love it because it's the Rose Festival, but this handout that you gave us is a very impressive list of why it benefits every taxpayer in Portland and every resident of Portland. So could you just do some of that, please? Sure.
 Yeah, you know, we get that question a lot. People see the events. They see the fleets come in. They see the court making their appearances. They see the concerts on the waterfront. But what's Rose Festival Foundation's true purpose? This document and this infograph, I think, does a good job of exemplifying that. But economic impact. Mayor Lane, when he started the festival in 1907, he said he wanted to put Portland on the map, create a carnival of roses, symbolize our city. But there was another purpose. That was to bring people to Portland and celebrate.
 have a significant economic boost annually. And thus, $65 million is an independent study that was done six years ago. We're in the process of updating that in the next two years.
 that is spending in Portland during the entire time of the festival. So we're very proud of that annually. But not to mention what we give back to the city, what we expend to the city in direct parks resources, and bring people together with our parades and things of that nature. So this does a good job of kind of putting that in paper. And what doesn't get talked about is our cultural side, the sister city relationships that use the Rose Festival as that platform to come together, as well as our environmental stewardship. Thank you.
 thank you any further questions for this panel commissioner
 Can I make a little request? Of course. As a downtown business owner, former downtown business owner that did not particularly benefit from the Rose Festival but just took the opportunity to take a break from holding events and open late the day of the Rose Festival, I'm going to suggest that we might want to invest in a lot more public restrooms because that was my main experience with the Rose Festival. Okay.
 as a business owner. Other than that, thank you. And what does this memorandum of understanding say about that? Because, of course, Commissioner Randy Leonard, who was the liaison to the Rose Festival, famously had the restroom duct tape resolution way back...
 in my first term. Does that resolution address that? Not directly. No, that's not directly. Those items tend to come up on a other document basis, year-to-year cases, whether there's city support in that. But this document does not address a specific number of port-a-potties. It addresses the context of how we work together, how we use the resources of PBOT and parks and what we invest and what city invests, but it doesn't cover specifically that topic. Thank you.
 When I served on the duct tape committee, which I think was before I got on the council, there was...
 it came with a promise that there would be more city-funded porta-potties. So I know over time it's been back and forth as to how many and who's paying for them, and that's important. Yeah, absolutely. I take out for the record that is a topic, an ongoing discussion we want to continue to have with our liaison and council because that's a topic that the funding has been eroded from that original attempt from that task force. And so we want to continue to talk about that.
 Very good. Any further questions for this panel? Carla, do we have anybody signed up for public testimony on the Memorandum of Understanding? Yes, we have eight people signed up. Very good. The first three, please come on up, are Mimi Gurman, Cameron Stark, and Nancy Newell. Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and should I wait for more people to come in so that this is an actual quorum? Sure.
 I know you can continue. We just can't take the vote without the quorum. Should we stop? We don't have a quorum. Here's Commissioner Salsman. Thank you. My issue... Is this mic on? Thank you. My issue with the Rose Festival isn't the Rose Festival itself. My issue is Fleet Week. And if we can sit here and talk...
 sanely about the need for more porta-potties, which is a necessity, I think that we can honestly have a conversation now about if Portland is this city that we all love and we're all trying to do best by, especially in this time of Trump,
 Why are we still including Fleet Week warships in our river to glorify war, which is what they do? Because every year the news gets on, all the media says, hey, families, come take your kids out to show them all these warships because it's great.
 We need to rethink what it is we're doing when we talk about making Portland the place that we believe it is. I personally do not believe that we should be glorifying war, especially in Portland. So I wanted to have my testimony be that the people and planners of the Rose Festival defund Fleet Week completely. You can use all that money for 10,000 porta-potties.
 You can use that money to support the peace efforts, the anti-Trump efforts that we seriously need to be doing rather than boosting up internal security here against protesters, which is, again, what Trump is busy doing. And have a new look at where we are right now in this time of 2017 in this era of Trump in our city.
 So my request is to be taken seriously that we start to defund Fleet Week. Now, I know that that can't happen for this summer, but I think that this is something that needs to get looked at. Why are we in any way, shape, or form glorifying war and warships in this city? It's insane.
 It's my testimony. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Cameron Stark, and I'm a resident of Portland. I want to back up what Mimi said about defunding Fleet Week. I have to say that the Rose Festival does not bond families. Those ships bomb families. It's what they do, okay? So...
 It does not send a very good message to the people of our country and to the outlook of our values in Portland, Oregon, when we have these massive warships sitting outside a big festival where it's supposed to be the pride of our city. That's just egregious, and it's insane that we think that that's appropriate, that we normalize war and bombs, and it's just terrible.
 I understand that the Rose Festival brings a whole bunch of money to the city, but it can be done in a more appropriate way that doesn't include the slaughter of innocent people. Bombs are not...
 What we want to be reflected on. We do not support that. I know as a whole, we don't support war out here. I know the Democrats are probably out there voting to go to war with Syria, but the people of America do not support it.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Nancy Newell, and I also agree that having the military in the fleet week is the wrong message. And we have the only university in the country that offers peaceful conflict resolution certificates in a master's program, and we don't honor that program or advertise that program, which our city stands for,
 in as many ways as possible. The military budget is now 60% of our entire budget. We are causing havoc, environmental havoc, in our country, all over the world. We're sending students into the military because they're not getting jobs in other sectors because so much of the money is going into that element of destruction. I understand that you're trying to honor the people that provide service, but warships...
 definitely are a terrible message, and especially because their pollution rate is the highest in the world and their fuel use rate is extremely high. And here we are, a city that's trying to lead everybody else into other answers, and we're promoting this kind of honoring of something that is totally against our principles.
 And it doesn't make any sense. And we have so much better use of money in this community. And many people that would come out on a peaceful conflict resolution parade, and although it's very popular, that's the problem. We're now dropping massive bombs with a crazy president in Afghanistan. What do you think that's going to do to the security of this part of the world where we speak out against war particularly? Thank you.
 Do you think with a nuclear power plant operating on the river and the nuclear storage that we're not a major target? I think we are putting our own people into a form of almost panic because of the nature of the dangers of the existence of citizenship today. And our message should be continually, this is not appropriate. We believe that other answers, war is never the answer.
 That kind of emphasis on total destruction is horribly unanswered, and I think we can be stronger about it. Thank you. Thank you. Next three, please. Our star staffer, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson and Teresa Rayford. Morning. Good morning. Star staffer, I'm going to go ahead and back up what they said about Fleet Week. We need to defund that, and I quite frankly don't really see why we can't park those huge, disgusting things somewhere else this summer. Okay.
 I mean, considering the obvious lack of diversity in the Rose Festival right back here, and the lack of diversity on this council, and the lack of diversity in the Portland Police, the lack of diversity in our military, the fact that we're bombing people who are, I don't know, innocent, just because they happen to be brown or white.
 worship something different than what we're used to do you not want any marginalized community members to attend the rose festival at all just white people because when you have portland police officers walking around and military men walking around and warships parked right outside i don't know how anybody who is muslim black a refugee immigration status is supposed to feel safe
 How are they supposed to partake in this wonderful community event that, by the way, it's not a gift when you eliminate all of those people from being able to enjoy it. What is this? This is like some white supremacist circle jerk. Are you kidding me with this? Really? Warships? Police? Do you guys have any indication of what's going on in the world around you? We are aware that 11,000 people were bombed by us last week, right? I mean, we haven't forgotten that.
 We are not forgetting that people of color are being gunned down in the street because they weren't lucky enough to be born white. But hey, let's sit here and talk about a mayor that's been dead for God knows how long and honor this one more white man. Another white man not go without honor. Thank God for him. What's he doing today? Who cares about that right now? Who cares about it today? I mean, we have a president who doesn't know which Martin Luther King.
 is dead and which one the day was for and this and that. Are we serious right now? Warships, police, military men do not communicate safety. So I don't know. I won't be partaking. I'll probably be protesting because screw your festival. It ain't a gift to me. It ain't a gift to my friends. It ain't a gift to our marginalized community members. I don't care what he did for women. What good does that do me now? What good does that do her?
 What good does it do all the people that are hiding out right now because they're afraid of being picked and shipped off because they don't belong? You know what, white people? You don't belong here either, just so you know. Oh, yeah. Why don't you go back to where you came from? Oh, yeah, please. If we're going to honor somebody, why don't you honor Native Americans who, by the way, have nothing to do with the Rose Festival? Oh, yeah. You did steal the land from them. Oh, yeah.
 Don't sit here and park ships on their rivers and try to tell them it's a gift. Thank you. Shame. No, no, you're not welcome. Thank you. Good morning. It's Charles' turn. Good morning. Good morning. Most likely, no person of color, no black resident of Portland has spoken yet today. So if Ms. Rayford's ready to go, I would like to have her. Oh, no, go ahead. My name's Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Bridgecrane. So...
 You know, I kind of grew up all that white privilege and entrenched in white media, so I'll read you something from the white media. From Rose Festival Court to death on frozen streets. Karen Batts, Lonely Struggle. There's another headline that comes up. It says that a few months before the publicly co-financed non-profit that evicted her sent her to her death, she was on a police-connected mental health hold. So...
 I look forward to the Rose Festival Foundation next year coming back with a big commemoration for the late great Karen Batts. She was one of yours. She was one of yours. She was one of yours. Honor her. Maybe we'll even get that in this year. So the women and men that spoke before me adequately, well, I saw there's so much to say about Fleet Week and the military industrial complex. It's changed a lot.
 Mr. Raybridge, what's up here reminds me that before we got rid of the draft, the military industrial complex was used as a genocidal execution machine to get black African-American males to go die in Vietnam. So the – and even now, regardless of a veteran's race, but probably almost certainly worse for black veterans –
 They have a hard time getting the essential services they were essentially lied to and deceived about to take their low-paying jobs where they may or may not have gotten skills that rated them for the workforce. So I think that as a city that talks some high aspirations, when we have the Rose Festival coming in Fleet Week, even though we think we've housed all of our homeless veterans, it's a great chance for us to review how well we are serving people who have –
 gotten into that boondoggle of serve your country and then either die or get out and don't have your country serve you. So it's okay to have little parties and stuff where we try and find equitable goodness. When there's just been goodness that benefited white men, we don't really need to have a party about that. That's pretty much 365 days a year. Mm-hmm.
 So I hope that also a lot of times when we have issues come before this council, we try and apply an equity lens and talk about minority businesses, women-led businesses. Minor priorities. But...
 I haven't heard any syncretism between that and the Rose Festival. So I know that upon reflection of that, we'll redouble our efforts. Thanks. Thank you. Next. All right. So for the record, my name is... Oh, I'm sorry, Teresa. Okay. For the record, my name is Teresa Rayford. I'm a native Oregonian. My great-great-grandmother was born here in McMinnville, Oregon. And my great-grandmother was raised in Portland, Oregon. She lived in Southwest Office 2nd.
 We are the roses.
 Now, while we continue to proclaim and to celebrate white supremacy and the leaders in this state and the leaders in the city of Portland, mayors that have put in policies and mandates that continue to support state-sanctioned discrimination, I would hope that we would come to a point where we would recognize that in empowering white supremacy, that on this day last year, I was actually next door at Multnomah County on trial for protesting.
 And one year later, progressiveness, which Mr. Lange was noted for, does not exist here because today it's illegal to protest in City Hall, correct? Is it illegal to protest in City Hall? City Hall is actually a public space. Right, but is it illegal to protest in here as of today? I can ask the attorney. Okay, so. Will you all pass the ordinance? I'm sorry. No.
 So I believe that it's illegal to protest in here because when I came in, I was stopped by guards. And when I walked up here to come into the chambers, I was told that it was filled to capacity, including the balcony, and that I could be moved into a room across the hall where I could watch this on a streaming live TV set. Right? Right.
 I didn't get it either because some of my comrades that came in after me were actually sitting in city council chambers when I took my grievance up to the mayor's office with the students that I came here with so that they could file an appointment with you. Hopefully you'll do that.
 But again, when we go back to the Rose Festival and we talk about we are the roses and we're talking about our most vulnerable citizens, the ones who are usually swept away so that we can have Fleet Week. Thank you guys for opening up Schleifer right in time to make sure that you guys don't have that type of embarrassment this year when you sweep our comrades off the street. That's not a long-term opportunity, but I hope that you guys look into more developmental partners.
 That might change some of the building infrastructure that's here, and instead of demolishing them, that they do rehab and restoration like Restore Oregon did. Remember? Okay, so thank you guys again, and I'll be testifying on other matters. But we are the Roses. Thank you. Next three, please. Feel free to come pitch a tent with Ibrahim Mubarak, who's also been arrested in the city. The last two are Steve Entwistle Sr. and Sam Resnick. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, City Commissioners. My name is Sam Resnick. I'm a citizen of the City of Portland, and I would like to propose a change to the proclamation of
 Of Mayor Harry Lane Day, I would like to propose that the day be changed to Kiff Davis Day. I'm actually sorry. This isn't regarding the proclamation is done. This is the MOU. No, it's actually not. This is regarding the MOU. I understand, but this isn't. As you can see, it says agenda item 373 and 374. I'm testifying on agenda item 373.
 We're still on agenda item 373. We are not. This is wasting my time, so could I have my clock reset? I will give you extra time, but please stick to the MOU. Thank you. Yeah. You know what? I think I'm not going to pass. Very good. Is there any other public testimony? Hearing none, call the roll. Excuse me. This is a disruption in violation of
 of city council rules. If you do it again, you will be asked to leave. Are you going to testify? No, I'm just going to sit here. You get three minutes to sit there. Okay. Let's have three minutes of silence for Qantas Hayes. Can we go for Fred Grayson?
 Yeah, I'd like to have three minutes of silence for Freddie Gray, three minutes of silence for Qantas Hayes. Folks, no, this is not related to that. This is related to the MOU, and council rules are very clear. The testimony is related to the item under discussion. And if you are not going to speak to the item under discussion, Ted, it's very rude to speak during a moment of silence for someone who was murdered by your police force. It's very rude for you to violate council policies and disrupt everybody else's opportunity to speak. Sir, can you ask him to leave, please? No.
 I heard him. He speaks... I don't need you to come back. Sir. Okay. Security. Hello. Greetings. Yes, he is violating council rules. Can you please ask him to leave? You can't tell the people. You're a maggot. Just fuck your cunt's name. Fuck you, Ted Wiener. You're a little bitch, and so is your wife. Yeah, stay here. Oh, I got this. Excuse me.
 Folks, we're going to have to take a brief recess. So we're clearing the chambers. I'm sorry, we're going to clear the chambers for about five minutes, and we'll be back. Thank you.
 All right, good. Sorry for the disruption. We're back. Sorry, Commissioner. So I was in the middle of casting a vote. And thank you, Mayor. And again, I want to close by thanking Jeff Curtis, the Rose Festival. I'm sorry. Legal counsel is raising a flag here. That's correct. Oh, that's right. Okay. Liam, could you go ask Commissioner Fritz to join us? Lindley, was your mic working? It didn't seem very loud. Is it green? It's green.
 Sorry, go ahead, try again. Can you hear me now? Yes. Yes, okay. We're not in council right now. We're not. But I'm glad you're paying attention to council rules.
 Bill O'Reilly leaving Fox News. He's leaving? Good. Well, I mean, he's not sitting at it. With a $50 million severance package? Oh, wow. Or $100 million or whatever. All right. When did that happen? This morning? Today. The news picked me up. Thanks. Okay, but we're not actually in session. All right, we have our quorum. We have our quorum, so we are now back in session. Commissioner Fish.
 So, Mayor, again, I just want to thank our friends at the Rose Festival and particularly Jeff Curtis, the leader, for a wonderful partnership in executing the MOU today. We are signaling an even stronger relationship between our official festival and City Hall. And it is an honor to be the liaison to the Rose Festival, and we're looking for...
 for many good things for years to come. So thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues. Aye. Saltzman. Thank you, Rose Festival Association. Udaly. I think members of the public brought up some valid points that we need to consider in the future. This MOA certainly doesn't preclude those conversations, and I look forward to further discussions with the Rose Festival and my colleagues. Aye.
 Fritz. Yes, it was unfortunate we had the disruption because I was going to ask for some more information about the funding of Fleet Week. And obviously we can continue to have those conversations and also about safety for people coming downtown during the rest... during the...
 and the potential impact of the staff on the ships interacting with folks on land. And I know that the festival has been working on that. I'm particularly proud of having sponsored the resolution with Mayor Adams and Commissioner Randy Leonard, one of the few that I can remember that I sponsored with those two members of their 2010 council, to make it possible.
 the official festival of Portland. And I appreciate Commissioner Fisher's work on the memorandum of understanding and also the conversation that there's still some things that are not completely tied down. So that's good. We will continue to work.
 I very much appreciate the economic impact of the festival. Also, the efforts of the festival to diversify participants, particularly on the Rose Court, and that's one of my favourite programmes of the festival because it's not a beauty pageant, it's not just for show. The young women who are selected generally have absolutely phenomenal academic records. They...
 there's a participatory way to have them nominated to the court. And they're given a business mentor and a lot of training on things that will serve them well in whatever they choose to do in the rest of their life. So it's really a leadership training as well as acknowledging the leaders they've already been in their particular high schools. And so I look forward to all of the events this year. Thank you very much. Hi. Wheeler. I very much support the,
 Rose Festival folks coming in today, I want to appreciate the work that went into the MOU. It was a long process, and it is, of course, a living document, which means it is always subject to change at the request of the council, at the request of the Rose Festival. And I want to appreciate their efforts, particularly those who volunteer.
 their time and their talent to help support these efforts in the city. So I vote aye. The ordinance is passed. Before we move to the first item that was polled, item 376, I've been asked to reread the statement of conduct. I'm not going to read all of it. I'm just going to get to the portions that people may have missed the first time.
 People may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter that's being considered at the time.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. People who disrupt meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subjected to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 Please call the next item. Okay, sorry, thank you. 376, authorize a grant agreement to accept $25,000 from Drive Oregon Foundation to support low-cost air quality sensor work and air quality sensor project in the Powell Division Corridor. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kevin Martin. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I manage the city's team there as well as...
 supporting smart cities work across the city. Your microphone is not on.
 Should I repeat myself or did you all get that? Okay. My name is Kevin Martin. I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I manage the Smart Cities team there as well as supporting bureaus across the city with their Smart Cities work. I'm here with Christine Kendrick who's on the BPS Smart Cities team and leading a national conversation around the design, deployment, and evaluation of low-cost, real-time, Internet-connected air quality sensors. Okay.
 which we are about to start piloting here in Portland. Christine will give a quick overview of the project, reference in item 376.
 Morning, almost afternoon, Mayor, City Commissioners. The funds in this ordinance are to support an ongoing project being led by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. It's a project funded by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, where we are going to be deploying three different types of lower-cost air quality sensors that are connected at signalized intersections.
 The idea and goals of this project are to understand how this technology can be used to increase the density of air quality measurements for the city of Portland, to understand how we can use these technologies to better understand the changes in air quality and climate as a result of other city of Portland projects. And the goals of these funds are also to develop a community engagement plan about how to share the data, how would we expand to other locations past this pilot project.
 Thank you. Thank you. Any questions for the commission? So was this pulled just to tell people about it? Mr. Lightman pulled it. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? Mr. Bridgecrane wants to testify. Very good. Come on up, sir. Good morning, commissioners. For the record, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And thank you. I hope that the city will take this very seriously. We know that the state, by some reports, is facing a $1.6 billion revenue shortfall.
 It's no bueno for the Department of Environmental Quality. Many of us have severe doubts and concerns about the Department of Environmental Quality. So I think that it's actually incumbent upon you commissioners, perhaps with a little kick in the keister from the public, to talk about new air quality public health safety structures. So this is a good start. You'll be positioned to move quickly. The technology that's here should be...
 cost-effective to place in the neighborhood community centers. And, you know, we could always wish that when our tax dollars go to Washington and come back or go to Salem and come back, that we can do good with them when they come back. But we're learning, at least for the next four years, that we really sometimes have to seize the initiative like we've done with the biogas project. And so I hope that all of you, regardless of how it matches with your portfolio as commissioners,
 We'll look at this project, and even if you only think about your home neighborhood, because God knows we want clean air around your house, Ted, if we ever have to come visit you again. So with the crisis we've had with the DEQ, the fact that it was the United States Forest Service, almost independent work studying moss that led us to learn about the toxins from glass plants in our city, etc.,
 This is a great opportunity for city leadership on an even smaller micro-community scale to let people participate in and be engaged with what's killing us in our area. Because there are things, you know, we've failed on the state level to deal with diesel particulates as far as banning, but we can at least know and develop an open data network
 that affirms where the problem is the worst and see what action can be taken on the municipal government level. Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you for the presentation and for your good work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. Item 381, authorized chief of police to sign lease agreements of real property for police bureau criminal investigation needs.
 Good morning. Almost. Thank you, Mayor and Council. My name is Dave Hendry. I'm a commander with Portland Police Bureau in the Detective Division, and today we're bringing forth an ordinance that would allow the Chief of Police to sign lease agreements for real property in the city. How this came about is my recent move in, I guess it would be July of this year, into the Detective Division. Okay.
 looking at some of the ongoing long-term cases, criminal cases that we had. I started reviewing the need to actually have long-term ability to lease real property for confidential investigations that are going forth. And then upon reviewing it, I thought we had the authority to do that, and I realized, no, we do not have the authority to do that, and it runs through a very kind of an arduous task to get it approved, and it has to be approved outside of our bureau chain.
 which in our confidential investigations brought some concerns to light, namely in any investigation you try to keep the investigation and those who know about the facts of it fairly well contained in order to keep the confidentiality of it and the integrity of the investigation. And in this case, in reviewing what would happen to happen, they would leave our office and obviously fall through and ultimately be signed off through multiple folks, including the Director of Internal Business Services.
 And so we decided that we would like to put forth an ordinance that would allow the chief of police to be able to do that, keep it in-house, protect the confidentiality. And the need for the long-term lease, there's a timeliness factor there with our investigations when we need to have a place to put something up. Sometimes it's immediate.
 And there's also considerable cost savings in the long term, as we're well aware with the markets here for housing and for retail space, that the ability to actually have a lease agreement saves the city a considerable amount of money, specifically our bureau, versus doing daily or weekly rates for rentals. So that's the sum of why we're here today. Thank you. Questions? Any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we have 15 people signed up.
 The first three, please come on up, are Mimi Gurman, Cameron Stark. Thank you. Thank you. And Lightning. Let's go with Nancy Newell then. Cameron, you want to start? Sure. One moment. So hurry. Okay.
 Okay, we're going to lose our quorum, so can I ask people to please be, and I'm really sorry about this. I don't like limiting public testimony, but again, we had a disruption, so we're way off schedule. Can we please limit to two minutes? Thank you. All right. My name is Cameron Stark, and I'm a resident of Portland, Oregon. I don't agree that we should be giving police informants information.
 maybe even a hotel room to stay in under this leasing agreement. I think that given the relationship that the Portland police have with informants and that they have with the community in the past...
 And I mean, we were just talking about last week how that there is a lack of accountability in the Portland police system. How are we sure that some of these officers in these projects aren't sexually exploiting these informants? I mean, there is a huge compiling evidence that they do, you know, these horrible things, you know,
 Some of the Oregon Democrats, I know that Terry Bean, and I know some of his victims personally, were sexually exploited by the state of Oregon. So I think that these leasing agreements make those easier for the Portland police and whatever other jurisdictions of law enforcement that you're trying to implement with this. It's a dangerous precedent that you can set forth. I think that it...
 It's not safe. Even messing with informants in the first place is just egregious. I used to live in Seattle, Washington, and an officer up there told me that
 They lock their criminals up in Washington. Okay, that means that here in Oregon, we don't lock our criminals up. We use them as informants. That's what those kids with the ankle monitors are doing. That is not safe. When it comes to community safety, that should be the number one concern and priority. And if you have informants staying in apartment complexes like the Columbia Villa or the St. John's Woods or something like that, that it creates dangerous situations.
 You know, it's a dangerous precedent, and I don't agree with it. I don't think that it's safe, and I don't think that it's morally right to even use informants in the first place. Thank you. Thank you. I agree. Oh, no, you go.
 I agree with what Cameron said. The best way for me to express myself at this point, I've said this a couple of council sessions ago, is through poetry because this back and forth conversing in minutes, it's too hard to say what I want to say, and this is specific to this issue. I wrote a poem for today, and it's called Crayola in Shades of White.
 may or may I challenge you to a duel a duel with no guns or informants or tasers or flashbangs or billy clubs no tear gas, no pepper spray no nerve gas at all no bike cops, no riot cops no cops at all, no checks or credit cards, no money at all
 This duel is a shakedown of ideas, using words like seeds, sown into hillsides, growing truths instead of flowers, compassion instead of stones, where uninhabited promises and blue blood debauchery are surely a recipe to lose this battle, this duel, this duel to end the uninspired anemic protocol.
 this business as usual and the perverse standardized norm of unconstitutionality which paints this town in Caucasian white straight out of the Crayola crayon box where politicians are almond or peach or KKK or desert sand suffocating our
 kids along with a reserve bottle of privilege circle long, long ago because white wealth creates ill health, you know, shit storms, Mayor, for the less than white mostly, and dollars in the pockets of cops, of jailers, of hangmen on LRAD. Of mayors like you, Mr. Wheeler, this duel is about now because it
 because if there is a later, it is indiscernible. So let us duel in truths known to the downtrodden, not the rich, in truths met on the streets atop sewer gutters where steam is the only warmth for a truth so cold it killed six or seven or 100 this winter in our little hamlet of lily-white dreams for white homeowners angered by homeless people bothering them for change. I challenge you, Mayor, to a duel of truth. Will you meet me in the streets? Thank you.
 My name is Nancy Newell. Oh, thank you. My name is Nancy Newell, and I'm really opposed to this because it shouldn't be even on the agenda. It's not constitutional. It is making the police judge and jury.
 They take the power of being judge and jury. Ever since COAB has been collapsed, and you were in favor of that idea and actually told us that you didn't think it had any function whatsoever, the police have become very aggressive on taking away the rights of individual citizens. And it's been proven.
 And it will be proven in this case as well. And it wastes a lot of our time. Instead of facing the issues that originally came up from a federal judge and is still in process where the mentally ill are being killed in this city. And a third one happened not too long ago. So let's get back to the base of the issue. The community voices have been tremendous. We have a county commissioner who was part of that process, trying to work with her budget, the largest in the county, to help the mentally ill situation. And let's get off this track of the police –
 insisting that they're the only judge and jury in this town. This town is not allowed to become a town like that. We are not going to allow it. And I don't know why they want to spend all this money for a building when they're not even upholding the Constitution or the law. Why would we give them a building to hide all the people that are innocent? That's terrible. What an indicator of our chief's mental state.
 I think you better have him checked. And I'm serious about that. He is not making sense at all. He is not talking about humanity. He's talking about an orderly situation, which we know about under Hitler. And we don't care for that kind of policy. And we don't want that kind of policy. And we will stand our ground every time. Thank you. Thank you. The next three are Star Stauffer, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Teresa Rayford. I'm Star Stauffer. Thank you.
 I'm really confused. I don't know why the Portland police need more stuff.
 It's like every single week that I come here, the police are asking for more stuff. I thought we were having a housing crisis. I thought we were in the middle of a crisis where we had no place to even house the houseless. And here we've got the police asking for more stuff. What was it a few weeks ago? Bullets, which you never readdressed. And then it was before that, the collective bargaining agreement, which they beat the hell out of us to win, and they were successful. And now it's...
 They want to lease buildings so that they can hide for investigations and so the informants can hide? No.
 Oh no. We will find these buildings. We will tell everybody where they are. We will release the addresses of these buildings. We will let the neighbors know. Whatever it takes to let them know that killers are living next door to them. That child killers are leasing properties next door to them. Everybody who's a sex offender has to let everybody know. When they are living next door to people. So I want everybody to know that murderers. Racists. Clowns.
 clan leaders, rapists, liars, criminals, and thugs that you sanction on the streets to unleash their fury on people of color, trans people, houseless people, and
 protesters exercising their rights. I want everybody to know that they are next door. So wherever they lease, we will find out. Wherever they buy, we will find out. And we will tell everybody. And we will make sure that they are not comfortable enacting these investigations behind these closed doors. Not on my dollar. They're not going to get away
 to get away with it on my dollar. I'm not going to pay for it and not tell everybody what the hell's going on. I don't know what game you guys think you're playing, but not with us. Don't give these fools any more money. I'm sick and tired of watching you shell out money to these criminals. No for the $2 million for bullets, no for the leasing of properties, and they can go to hell with their collective bargaining agreement. Good afternoon. Want to follow that up? Good morning. Charles Bridgecrane. I got a green light, so it's going, I guess. Bridgecrane Johnson. And uh,
 Ms. Stauffer has really summed up the ethical and moral reasons why you should just vote no. But some people would say those aren't persuasive here, so I'll go with the more pragmatic argument. Look at the page of information you've been given from the police department and try and convince your voters that that was an adequate motivation for you to write. It's apparently a blank check. There's no dollar figure in the piece of paper.
 I don't know whether, I mean, are we going to have a Trump hotel here and we're going to have people go into the police permanent Trump suite and get the Mary and Barry treatment? It's just not practical. You know, inside public housing, there are different views about residents have about interacting with the police. I know people right now in Northwest Towers that would like to have a permanent police presence. They should transfer some money from the police bureau.
 into the housing bureau or home forward, and give people who are concerned about lawbreaking and danger there protection rather than some roaming racket where we're finally going to get the heroin kingpin only if we can lease an apartment in the yard or in the dumbbell or the bridgehead, that Death Star monster thing there. I just think that fiduciary duty...
 Requires you to get more clarity from the police bureau that even though they need to have these super top secret addresses, that there can be caps. And you also need to really review the ineffectiveness of previous confidential informants. Confidential informants who would be in Kansas City phoning in their fake leads like George Taylor.
 So especially the police commissioner would be wise to advise the rest of the council to not pass this at this time until Marshman, who's just re-gearing up from his little vacation, to provide actual dollar figures, some caps, some floors, and some real outcomes for this mysterious boo-ha measure. That is an interesting replacement for the $2 million of ammunition they're not getting, hopefully. Thank you, Mr. President.
 For the record, my name is Teresa Rayford. I'm a native Oregonian. I am the mother of two children. One of those children was born to me when I was 17 years old and I was living in foster care.
 His dad was a 27-year-old gang member from California that was working with other informants in our community, which I found out recently after the death of my friend, Darren Ezell, who was killed by this murderer, who is now free because our district attorney felt like there might be bigger fish to fry. His name is Vincent White. You can Google him. Him and two of his friends murdered my friend. But because there were informants along with other informants that actually got some of my friend's
 pregnant, why they were also in foster care, and used the opportunity to be informants for, I don't know which ones were federal agents and which ones were just gang task force from California working in partnership with Portland Police Bureau, but those informants basically infested our entire community at the time when gang members came here in the 80s, a lot of us didn't know about gang violence. We still were going to Myron Franks and Nordstrom's and Frederick and Nelson's for our clothes. We were wearing penny loafers.
 we were wearing tennis shoes and take ease but after the portland police in the city of portland decided that they need to focus on gangs which they didn't have any but they created the opportunity and i believe that with leasing property uh... you have this informant gang person uh...
 Eddie, Fast Eddie, who was working with Roy J., who was actually one of the members on the PDC, along with a lot of other black people that you guys are very familiar with, and I know Dan probably knows them too. But those people could be considered informants as well, like Roy J., when he used to pull guns out on people like Ken Berry and Donnie Adair, who was a former employee here at the city of Portland. Back in those days, when he was a gangster, before he became a very role model of our community with Project Clean Slate and other gang-related organizations,
 opportunities. I just think you guys need to audit this thought. I think you guys need to think about what could happen to the community, the most vulnerable people, when you allow that type of leasing to happen in our community. I remember when my friend who lives right across the street from Rosemary Anderson, this lady who's been shot twice because her grandson was affected by gangs.
 She lives on Borthwick. She got shot twice. I remember in the 90s when she said that the police kept coming to her house because they had a camera going right into her kitchen because they were using the house right next door to her. They told her that if she did not sell her house, and we already know lots of the deputized officers from 25 years ago used to be in construction and development, but...
 But they told her if she did not sell her house, that they would take her grandson to jail and he would never get out because of Measure 11. I think you guys really need to rethink this because if the vulnerable children in our community can come infested with gang opportunities because these informants are usually the ones with the drugs and the guns and all that other stuff and the motivation for pimping these young girls in these strip clubs and getting the okay from their foster parents.
 I think you guys might want to think about it. I think we've been saying a lot about it for a very long time, but your stakeholders' voices matter more than ours. Thank you. Next three, please. Next three are Chanel Hart, Shailo Franklin, and Alex DiBlasi. Those three people. Good afternoon. So y'all can go first. No, y'all can go first. Go ahead. I do think we would have had more time if we hadn't had that stupid little costume party earlier.
 But here we are with two minutes to go. Maybe next week I can bring in a Chuck Berry impersonator and hog testimony until we get to an important agenda item. So first up, how on earth does this establish or build trust between the community and the police? This has been talked about a lot in the previous weeks, and then along comes this. Two, in the ordinance's impact statement, it says, quote, "...utilizing leases of real property will have a significant savings to the city on long-term investigations."
 Despite this, the impact statement says that this will not change appropriations. How is that possible? Third, I believe that this is state terrorism, and it's going to create a culture of fear in our community that a house that's for sale, an apartment unit that's up for lease, could very well be inhabited by infiltrators from law enforcement. Kind of reminds me of that Twilight Zone episode, The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street, where a community is divided in half due to a lack of trust.
 That you're doing this during a housing crisis is straight up immoral. You should be cracking down on human trafficking. You should be keeping cops in hotels, not going into residential units. That said, I will greet my new neighbors with a plate of cookies and a plate of cheese. And if they go for the cheese first, I'll know where they're coming from. 14 weeks in, Mr. Wheeler, you're no humanitarian. You stole your campaign platforms from the best of your competitors, including Jesse Sponberg, talking about police reform and
 Caring about the homeless you're showing us that you don't care and if you won't resign then maybe we should look into a recall vote That's all. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Shalva Franklin and I go to Alisont middle school And I just wanted to talk to you about That I don't like the idea having cops just parking around because it's really scary for like us people with a
 like colored people because um we don't know what to expect well we do know what to expect but it's just kind of i don't know i don't like the idea thank you appreciate your being here good afternoon hi my name is shawneel hart and um i just witnessed my mom being arrested and i still don't understand what she did because you said well he him him
 He said that my mom was trespassing in a public building. You said that this was a public building. So how was she being – how was she trespassing? I don't know because I did not see what happened in the hallway. But you said this is a public building, and he said that she was trespassing. So how was she trespassing? In the council, as I just read, we have council rules, and everybody in the room needs to abide by the council rules. I get that, but how was she trespassing? I give ample warning to people, and if they don't comply, then we have to remove them.
 Believe me, I don't enjoy doing it. I don't like the disruption. I don't like the time and the inconvenience. And I certainly don't like her being arrested. But if people violate the council rules, that's what we've got going. So unless you have testimony relevant to this issue. So she was violating the rules, not trespassing, right? You know, I don't even know who your mom is. Is she the one who was making comments about my wife on her way out of the chamber? Wow, are you close to having a child, Ted?
 Well, she's asking me a question and I'm answering her question. I don't know. Well, listen, is this certainly happy to do that? But is this related to what we're talking about? Thank you. Next three, please.
 I have, sorry, I don't want to say it. Qantas Hayes, Dan Handelman, and Steve Entwistle, Sr. Thank you, ma'am. Greetings.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch. And it seems like this is ordinances about officers that can't make a case without entrapment. It seems like if we're having detectives look into cases, they should be able to make a case without lying to the community and posing as other people. And as other people have said, using very limited rental spaces is,
 or lease spaces for police work, which could be done in other ways. Also, in terms of accountability...
 Uh, there's nothing in here that says that the commissioner has to sign off on this or approve what's happening. So if there's some kind of shenanigans going on, there's only the police and the police chief are the ones that are saying that this is an okay undercover operation. So I think that it should at least require you as commissioner to have to sign off on these properties if you're going to go through with this.
 You shouldn't rush things through the council agenda where we're not having long discussions about how it saves money. You can save money by not doing entrapment stings operations at all.
 and using the money in better ways. I just also want to make a quick comment about your new security measures. I understand why you don't want people rushing your dais. I think it would be better for the media, as a member of Flying Focus Video, who taped a council meeting here two months ago, to move the desk back so the media can tape the faces of people talking, because right now they can only tape people's backs, and I don't think that's going to help. Yeah, I think that would help.
 Okay. Quite a bit. And then just lastly, you know, I was expecting amendments to the IPR ordinance. I'm hoping they're going to consider some. We talked about changing investigative, supervisory investigations, non-disciplinary complaints, and making it so the IPR ordering an investigation when there's a deadly force case. I hope that you'll consider those amendments today when you get to that item. Very good. Commissioner Fish, do you have an amendment? Mayor, would you like me to take the emergency call? No.
 Is your microphone on, Commissioner? Would you like? You know, I would prefer not to. I was going to suggest that we, Officer Henry, come back to answer some of the questions that have been offered. Any further public testimony? Very good. Come on back.
 And Mayor, I have some questions which I'm not sure we want to take the time to look into, to ask in public today. Why don't I take the emergency order? Well, what I was going to suggest is we could leave the emergency order on, but just carry us over until next week for the vote. Either way. Whichever you prefer. Why don't we just go ahead and carry it over, but do people have questions right now? We'll have those in the in-room. Okay. Okay.
 If I could just tee it up, I guess, from you and from the officers. What are the safeguards for the public when there are these undercover assignments? How does the commissioner in charge, the mayor, know about what's going on and give authorization for that? So it's those kinds of questions that I'd like some more information on. Thank you.
 Mayor, can I just make a comment that might help clarify a little bit, just very briefly? Yes. The ordinance is specific to real property and the leasing thereof. There is language about confidential informants. There is also language about the confidentiality of investigations. What I would like to say, and forgive me for not providing this information earlier, is that we're trying to, I guess the way I look at it is trying to future-proof the organization in that
 We have victims of crime. We have witnesses who've seen horrific things that at times cannot be within the city, cannot be where they're at. It's not a safe place. The passage of this ordinance is really at the heart of the matter of what we're trying to be able to do in those cases.
 there's also parts built into it, absolutely, about the criminal nexus, neighborhoods, drug house complaints, specific to long, ongoing investigations of criminality that is happening throughout our city. But I do not want folks to get sidetracked completely on the belief that this is about confidential informants only. The driver of this has been cases that we're working on long-term investigations that involve serious crime against people in this community, where we need to actually be able to find places for folks to go that are safe.
 Now, as far as frequency, I think that's another part that should be understood. I have 23 1⁄2 years of a police officer here doing a lot of those, doing gang investigations, drug investigations, robbery investigations through the city. This is not something that we have to use very often. A long-term strategy, most cases, you know, you can work through in a short amount of time. I'm simply trying to provide access so that when we do have the ability to work a long-term case, that we have to be able to do it in a way that is clear, transparent.
 concise, expedient, safe, and also saves money. If I were to do a long-term lease at, say, a long-term stay location, it may cost me $1,500 a month.
 If I do a daily rate for somebody, for instance, it could cost me up to $100 a day. And if you do the math on that very quickly, you realize $3,000 versus $1,500. And so that is also part of that, and it's sustainable. Again, very few times do we need this type of resource for a long-term investigation. I'm simply trying and asking for the ability to do it when it's necessary. Excuse me. I'm going to ask people, please, to not disrupt the questions.
 Go ahead. I believe you said earlier that there's a cumbersome process you have to go through in order to do a long-term lease presently. Correct. Can you...
 Walk me through that? Well, I'm probably not going to be as good as the people that do it day to day, but what I understand is that the ability to enter into lease agreements through the city has to be approved for by the Director of Internal Business Services, which means it has to go through the police burial chain of command, through their people that do the actual work of the filing of the contracts, et cetera, and then finally signed off. The concern with that is even...
 You know, like, again, anytime we have an investigation, the fewer people that know about what that investigation is, the better it is. And for people's safety, and I say that with all seriousness, we try to be very... Excuse me. Please do not disrupt the testimony. We try to take that into account for victims and for witnesses, et cetera.
 So the fewer people that have access and hands-on to that, in the Bureau we deal with confidentiality all the time. We're used to that. And it's not uncommon for things, once they leave the building, for folks inadvertently maybe to discuss something that they have no idea of the implications of it, but that could be heard or listened to by somebody who might have that information and use that in a different way. We have had investigations that have been compromised, and that's always a concern of mine.
 Could you give me an estimate of how many of these rentals you might need on an annual basis? One. I realize it would vary. Probably one or two. Like I said, very, very, very little. And how many times have investigations been compromised due to having to go through that process? Well, I...
 Commissioner, I can't specifically say they've been compromised by going through a long-term lease process. I can say that we've had several, over my career obviously, criminal cases that have been compromised because of information that was released either inadvertently or purposefully that have compromised investigations. But not necessarily related to a lease? No, but as I started looking at the process, the amount of people, the eyes, the email strings, etc., trying to figure out how to do this, it became very...
 aware to me as in charge of the criminal investigations for the city that a lot of people would have access to this information and we're trying to eliminate that. So who has ultimate oversight of how many leases...
 There are, and for what purposes they're being used, whether it's for undercover investigation or housing informants or housing victims? Well, if this ordinance is passed, it ultimately would go to our chief of police. He would be the signer that would allow it. Being that we report to the mayor...
 I would imagine the mayor would have a say in that. It can be comprised of any of those situations as necessary. So given the rarity of these situations, I'd like somebody to offer up an amendment, please. I offer an amendment, Mayor, that would simply... Excuse me. Excuse me. I would offer an amendment that simply states... Is your mic on? Let me pull up the ordinance. I offer an amendment...
 the mayor that would be at the, now therefore direct sub A, and the amendment is as follows, that the chief of police insert with the approval of the mayor, comma, is authorized to execute lease agreements, blah, blah, blah. And I'll second that for purposes of discussion. Is there any further discussion on the amendment? There should be. Could you call the roll on the amendment, please?
 Fish. Hi. You daily? I have questions and concerns. Excuse me. You're disrupting our deliberation. Please do not do that again. I have repeatedly warned you. Please do not do it again or I will ask you to leave. Thank you. This is the problem with what is happening in this room.
 We can't ask more questions of experts and city employees. We can't ask more questions of community members. And we're not being allowed to deliberate. And what that gets you guys is weaker policymaking than we could be delivering. So what I have to say is that I have questions and concerns that can't be addressed today. I'm voting no on the amendment, and I would vote no on this amendment.
 Ordinance. Very good. So are there any further questions for the commander? If not, I'll carry it over. I'm going to finish.
 Oh, I'm sorry, of course. Fritz. I will vote for the amendment. I'm not ready to vote for the whole thing, so we can either take the emergency off or pass. Probably should do that. But anyway, yes, aye on this amendment. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Commissioner, do you want to make another? This matter now, Mayor, is set over until next week. That's correct. So, colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman is now gone and will not be here. Is your mic on? Yeah.
 Commissioner Saltzman has now left and will not be joining us this afternoon. We've got five items that are second readings. I have a conflict I have to go to shortly. May I respectfully propose that we take up the seconds and we hold 382 for the afternoon, and I would suggest we take it up at 330 at the end of our afternoon session. And so that would be my request.
 I don't have any objection. Does anybody else have any objection to that? Sounds good. Yeah, very good. I just wanted to clarify, Mayor, your preference is to carry this over as an emergency ordinance or to take the emergency off? The impact is the same. So let's carry it over as an emergency ordinance. Obviously, the public testimony record is closed on it. We will move 382 off the agenda. But move it to the afternoon after the 3 o'clock time, sir. That would be great.
 after the time's certain. And with that, Carla, could you take up 383, please? Accept a grant in the amount of $1 million from Oregon Department of Transportation for the regional signal system concept of operations and implementation. This is a second reading. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The grant's accepted. Next item, please.
 384 authorize a purchase order from with Pierce Manufacturing Inc. for the purchase of three emergency response apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2 million.
 This is a second reading. Vote only. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The purchase order is adopted. Next item, please. 385. Amend marijuana business regulations.
 Definition of wholesaler and use of temporary certificate of occupancy. Second reading vote only. Call the roll, please. Fish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The definition has been changed or amended, sorry. And next item, please. 386, assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The assessment is adopted. Next item, please. 387. Amend independent police review code to revise filing process, investigation, and appeal provisions of complaints of police officer misconduct.
 Second reading vote only. Please call the roll. Excuse me. At the end of the public hearing, Commissioner Udaly had said that she might be bringing in amendments. I just want to clarify if you're asking for that. I am actually not asking for that today after receiving a lot of feedback from a variety of people and groups last week. My office reviewed all the testimony, both written and oral, to clarify the ways in which we could suggest meaningful change to the code that meets the needs of the community and our legal mandates.
 became clear to us that suggesting changes in a piecemeal fashion may end up doing more harm than good, and I understand that the auditor's office will be bringing these code changes to us over time, but I think it would be beneficial to the council to engage in a broader conversation about the overarching plan and how this plan supports the DOJ settlement, as well as how we can incorporate the recommendations of stakeholder groups.
 In that light, I will support the changes and amendments as proposed today thus far, but will be requesting a work session to get clarity on how to engage moving forward. I think that IPR has immense potential to be a true asset to the city and the community, and I want to make sure that we as a council understand it completely before making decisions that may or may not help move it in the right direction.
 And, Mayor, could I please clarify that there was a discussion last week where you and the auditor said that you would convene such a process. So we don't need to put that as a formal amendment. That's correct. And the auditor is here. That's a head nod yes that she and I are in agreement on. And that was in conjunction with considering or reconvening the stakeholders committee. Thank you.
 Is that correct? I'm sorry. That's in conjunction with reconvening the stakeholders committee who've been doing some work. They asked for another process to provide further amendments. I will leave that up to the auditor since this is her code revision. So my concern is that, as I said last week, this is my ninth year on the council. We continually put things off in terms of changes to the independent police review. And
 A little while ago we had that appeal at council where for the first time I've been able to see we actually got a timeline of when things went through the different stages of the review. And my concern is that there's a lot of talk about whether the Citizens Review Committee is responsible for delays and for their process on appeals.
 The fact of the matter is, at least in that case, that it was not the CRC that delayed things. It didn't get through the process correctly. So I'm very concerned about accountability of the independent police review, because that...
 We depend on that in order to be able to have more confidence that investigations internally have been done correctly. Mayor, may I be heard on this? Please. So I appreciate the concerns raised by my colleagues, and I share a number of the concerns. And I have had a meeting with the very able chair of the CRC, who has also shared a number of her concerns. The matter before us...
 addresses the issues that were brought by the auditor. I'm going to second the request made by Commissioner Udaele that we have a work session where we have our key advisors at the table and I would like to have a comprehensive understanding about what's next, what's the timeline, and an opportunity for my colleagues to raise these questions.
 I'm not prepared to address them today because I would like the chance to hear from the leadership of those bodies, and I would like to hear from the auditor and the mayor as to how they wish to proceed at a work session. Thank you for stating the intent of the council. I agree with that. Thank you. Very good. So we'll take a vote. Call the roll.
 Mayor and colleagues, I thought the hearing we had on this issue was enormously helpful. And based on the testimony, I was persuaded along with my colleagues that we should not change the public comment period to after a vote. And I understand that there have been some issues raised by our legal team about potential risks.
 I was persuaded that those were outweighed by the public interest in having people have a chance to speak to the CRC. And I also think that the risk can be cured by the CRC chair reading a statement that effectively reminds everybody that anything outside the record is not evidentiary. Thank you.
 I do think it's important that people have the chance to speak to the CRC. And this is an issue where we had unanimous testimony, but I particularly appreciated hearing from the chair of the CRC, from Dan Handelman and Copwatch, and a number of other advocates who I think made a very strong case that we should not change this. And so respectfully, I disagree with the order on that point. And on balance, I'm going to support this package. Aye. Uday Lee.
 I agree with Commissioner Fish. Last week's conversation around these amendments was immensely helpful and one of the most productive ones I've gotten to participate in.
 Since joining council, while I have deep respect for the auditor's office and I did not take the input of the city attorneys lightly, I'm deferring to the CRC in this matter and supporting their desire to include public testimony before a ruling. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I believe we're at a pivotal stage here with what's happening with the Department of Justice and the federal mandates. We need to show that we are going to continue to improve the complaint process and its processing and continue to seek ways to be more open and transparent to the extent possible. So I appreciate the amendments. I certainly appreciated the public testimony, which did make an...
 major change in the policy, not only did we affirm that public testimony should take place before the vote, we put it into the code so it's very clear moving forwards. So this does strengthen the process and with the work session that's been promised, I hope that we will hear from League of Women Voters of Portland, Portland Copwatch and others as far as
 How do we get past this continually coming back with what are framed as minor changes and don't get to the bigger substance of issues, which have been going at least since 2010?
 I want the council to show that we are going to do the right thing and improve the process whether or not the settlement agreement is being enforced by the Department of Justice. So I know that Mayor Wheeler, that's one of your primary purposes of running for mayor and of taking this huge task.
 on behalf of the city and I appreciate all the work you do to that end. I'm here to help as much as I can. I also want to thank Christina Nieves on my staff who goes to many of the community meetings and who has helped me analyse what was being proposed here and what still needs to be fixed after this.
 Wheeler. I want to thank Auditor Caballero and Constantine, the director of IPR, for their hard work. And I know the auditors here, and I think Constantine is behind one of these many columns. It's been a long haul, and I think, as my colleagues have said, the work isn't done yet, and I think you'd be the first to...
 admit that this is a process that will continue to be improved over time, and we have lots of different factors coming into play here, different stakeholders, including the Department of Justice, which is not a trivial stakeholder in this overall process. But I really appreciate the conversation we had last week, and the public input, I thought, was great, and I
 I learned a lot from the conversation that I had with my colleagues. And I feel like, frankly...
 Whereas we might have moved a little bit off of the target set by the auditor and her team, I actually feel like we landed in a really good place. I will take up the challenge put forth by my colleagues to schedule a work session with the stakeholders, but I want to caution us at the same time. IPR is inherently designed to be independent from this city council.
 and independent from the police commissioner, and that is why it is in the auditor's office. So I want to continue that engagement, but I want to do it with full partnership from the director of IPR and from the auditor to make sure that in the process we're not inadvertently usurping that independence. If anything, I'd like to see his error on the side of strengthening that independence.
 But I think we landed in a really good spot. I appreciate everybody's efforts on this. So I vote aye, the ordinance is adopted. And we are adjourned until 2 o'clock. See you then. Good afternoon, everybody. This is the Wednesday afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council on Wednesday, April 19th. Carla, please call the roll. Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Here. So here is the statement that we need to read at the beginning of meetings. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings.
 To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everyone feel comfortable, welcome, and safe at the meeting, and also ensure that decorum is maintained.
 People may sign up for public testimony on first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time. Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. And if you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. If you're part of an organization, that's also helpful to know. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light comes on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting others' testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting.
 If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show your support for something, thumbs up, please. If you don't want to show your support, thumbs down. So with that, we'll get started. The first item is a time-certain item.
 Item 388. Sorry. Accept the Portland Design Commission 2017 State of the City Design Report. Commissioner, are you daily?
 Mayor and colleagues, it's a pleasure to introduce the Portland Design Commission's State of the City Design Report. The first item of business is to thank the dedicated volunteers who serve on that commission. This commission has met three times a month in 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, sometimes more pending retreats, appeals, or the State of the City that we're here for today. Thank you.
 And often for many hours as they review land use cases and provide design advice. They're a dedicated, hardworking group that include David Wark, the chair, Tad Savinar, vice chair, Julie Livingston, Don Vallister, Jessica Molinaire, Andrew Clark, and Sam Rodriguez. Please all stand up so council can recognize you. Thank you. Thank you for your service. Thank you.
 This commission will be presenting their fifth report before council, but they have been operating in the city of Portland since around 1980, providing leadership and expertise on urban design and architecture and on maintaining and enhancing Portland's historical and architectural heritage. This report comes to council at an important time for the city and its design overlay districts as development and construction is unprecedented in the history of design review.
 These neighborhoods deserve the appropriate protection and predictability of quality infill that meets our density goals and inevitable growth. I look forward to hearing more today from the Commission members and interested public, and I'm committed to supporting the Commission in all of its efforts. Commission Chair David Wark, please come forward with your presentation. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Welcome. Welcome.
 Thank you. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for giving us this audience to share with you what's been happening in our great city for the last year and about three months. So to start off, Portland, our little big city, is experiencing, as you said, Commissioner, experiencing perhaps the most dramatic changes in its history. People and businesses are moving and visiting here at a record pace, and new buildings are going up rapidly.
 in every neighborhood in response. And this is what it feels like to most of us these days, in most neighborhoods, a sense of hyper-growth. Fortunately, Portland, unlike many other American cities, has a plan for this growth called the Comprehensive 2035 Plan and also a mechanism for guiding the quality of development, which is the Portland Design Commission and Design Review.
 And here are the seven current volunteers serving on the commission. Julie Livingston, project manager for Home Forward, focusing on affordable housing projects. Architect principal, Don Ballester with the Ballester Coral Architecture Firm. Sam Rodriguez, who's our public at large member. He's a senior managing director for Mill Creek Residential Trust. Myself, David Wark. I'm the RAC appointee, and I'm a principal with Henneberry Eddy Architects.
 Jessica Molinar, talented design architect with CoLab Architecture and Urban Design. Andrew Clark, the founder of Hue Development, focusing on Northeast Enfield residential projects. And Tad Savinar of Tad Savinar Studio, Urban Design. Thank you.
 So where does design commission and design review in the type three zones in the city fall? In the central city, in the area in red, that's called the central city district. Downtown, South Waterfront, Pearl District, Conway, which is our newest district per se, Boyd District and the central east side. And then the pink area to the right is the Gateway District. These are the areas in which the cases that come before us are constructed.
 And so I'm sorry to interrupt. Does somebody have a radio on? I think it's outside. OK, thank you.
 And so the primary purpose of design review and the commission is to help development in terms of planning, planning documents, policies, buildings to meet the larger goals of the city. And those goals are exemplified in the central city plan design goals. And the bookends of these goals, I'm not going to go through all of them, but the first one is just urban design excellence, the qualitative aspects of design. And four out of the next eight talk about the human condition.
 pedestrian experience, humanization, humane, and human scale. And it is through this lens, along with design guidelines, that we review projects. And I just wanted to kind of do a summary of what we've been experiencing, what we've been seeing, what's been coming before us. And they break out into about three different types of categories. We've approved seven significant public projects. On the upper left is the Knight Cancer Research Building,
 Next to that is the Center for Health and Healing South. Multnomah County is just starting their new large health building near the train station. And the Multnomah County Courthouse is being proposed. I think they've started Broken Ground at the Hawthorne Bridgehead. And maybe just a pause for a moment in remembrance of the VQ that was on that site.
 And so the lower left is the Oregon Convention Center Hotel, which is the largest hotel in Portland, a public-private joint venture. The PSU Stott Center, the basketball pavilion on the campus and the park blocks. And then the new PSU School of Business, which is under construction also. Can I just make a comment? You said you referred to the Multnomah County... Commissioner, your microphone's something wrong. Sorry, I hit the wrong button.
 Just a quick comment on the picture of the Multnomah County Health Department building. Right. And you described it as being near the train station. Of course, at the city, we say it's near Bud Clark Commons. Oh, sure. The reason we say that, and Julie is smiling, is that Bud Clark Commons won the award as the best designed building of its kind given by HUD. Right.
 And originally, Bud Clark Commons was designed to be a suburban-style building that filled the whole lot. And it was, in fact, a couple of designers and developers who said, that's not urban form.
 And so it was redesigned and restacked as a half-block urban form building, which freed up the other half for the health department building. So I think another example of good design thinking informing opportunities. And you can see the corner of that building to the right of the county health building in the image there. The next type of projects we've seen are just a jump in scale.
 Some in height, others in area, some occupying four city blocks, and one actually occupying 33 acres in the South Waterfront. The Lloyd District on the upper left is a 5 over 1 with 689 apartment units. Perhaps the most densified section of the city is this four blocks of Oregon Square in Lloyd Center.
 Burnside Bridgehead has a bookend to the yards project at 5th MLK. And then the upper right is the Zydale Shipyard, which will, when fully built out, include 2,600 apartments, 1.5 million square feet of office space, and meaningful recreation access to the Willamette River. And then the others on the bottom are in the Pearl and downtown, except...
 In Sleepy Goose Hollow, on the bottom right, a 250-foot tower on the former Oregonian press blocks is proposed. So we're seeing change, as I said, in every neighborhood. And this may not be much of a surprise to anyone, but by far the most common project type that we reviewed is the mixed-use housing type in every part of the central city and gateway. Thirty-three projects in total with just over 4,000 apartment units.
 And you can see the diversity of that type of architecture, which we'll refer to in a little bit relative to the guidelines. Do you know offhand how many are in Gateway? I'm sorry, what? Do you know offhand how many of those projects are in Gateway? Well, there are more than the one upper left is the one pictured, but there are three others. Great, thank you. But I didn't show every project. Otherwise, we'd be looking at little...
 We couldn't discern what they are at that point. It's just a question for information, not criticism. Thank you. This is more for effect, just a scale of the projects, the number. And then the next project type, affordable housing. Out of those 33 mixed-use housing projects, five included affordable units. And of the 4,000-plus units that are in those projects, 482 were affordable units. Okay.
 or approximately 12% of our new apartments or living units were affordable housing units. Two of those are...
 Well, let me start by saying the one in the middle is actually partly a design commission result of the Broadway Tower behind it, which was identified as a public benefit associated with that project. So the second phase of the Broadway Tower project actually includes affordable housing units that were part of that public benefit to give them more FAR in height.
 And so, which brings us to the design guidelines. And when we kind of saw the variety of architecture that's been proposed, that's a result of the design guidelines, which are intended to be flexible in how they're met. And they do not prescribe us a specific type or style of architecture. And I'd like to dig into two guidelines that will illustrate how they help shape significant projects in the city. And the first is architecture.
 contribute to a vibrant streetscape, and the second is about context. And as Jane Jacobs said, streets and their sidewalks, the main public places of a city are its most vital organs. And so just to give you a sense of what the city was, where it was headed before design review, this is the character of many blocks in our city in the pre-1980 era, where there were very blank...
 lifeless corners and anti-pedestrian areas marked by the automobile. So, uh-oh, what happened there? Out of memory. I'm not sure what that means. Uh-oh. I have my technical. Just when I was rolling, too. I don't know what happened there, but it didn't download the whole thing or something. She came in earlier and downloaded it. Let me just put that in there. Okay, and then view.
 Okay, we'll catch up here. There we go. I think that's it. Yeah. So, okay, here we go. Starting back up. So this was pre-design review and design commission, and this is post-design review design commission, which transformed something that was very unengaging, very removed, very anti-pedestrian, to something that is now pedestrian-centric and something we almost take for granted these days, that this is what our city is going to continue to build.
 And so when we have a – this was for a project at 13th Avenue in Overton, a large 250-foot high high-rise, which in and of itself was probably fine, but related to contribute to a vibrant streetscape –
 That being a primary guideline, this project still proposed something much different than that. And what it proposed was a basically an auto court drop-off area and driveway that also did not have any active streetscape, storefront, active ground floor use. And so after helping point out that this was actually a guideline that we were would like them to follow,
 giving them advice on how to change their approach and the first floor. That, what was a former automobile court in this area, then became retail, a nice small kind of recessed courtyard for a major entrance, and then on this corner, another area for retail and active use, and then tucking in a garage entrance within the building form itself.
 And so what came out of that was what was going to be auto-centric and obviously not a part of the guidelines now is on its first floor, one of the more successful projects in the Pearl District relative to access and openness to live work units, individual housing units. And while it's not in this picture, that is the retail to the right there. The second...
 example of application of the guidelines is a project at Forth and Harrison, which was proposed to take advantage of a massive amount of FAR and bonus height. Actually, I'm not sure it did the bonus height, but definitely FAR. And it abuts a very important historic place that's on the National Register of Historic Places in the city, the new
 Halpin open space sequence district and which probably was perhaps one of the most important and influential in urban landscapes of the 20th century and therefore deserving of its listing on the national register. And so, uh, that little red square is the site, uh, in each of these diagrams. And so relative to massing and context, the proposal came in, uh, this is, uh, Pettigrew park, uh,
 at that northeast corner. It came in with a lot of bulk associated with that corner, robbing this park of its natural light and space, and also not setting back from it like the other buildings in that district. So after that first DAR, we offered up our comments on how they could better respond to the park.
 This was their second DAR, which was only a sliver of maybe movement in this area relative to our remarks about how to treat that historic district. And then they finally kind of began shaving off some of their bonus FAR. And then we encouraged them to continue in this direction. And then the final design actually is an L-shaped building with active...
 use on this lower level and then kind of townhouse band above that. So much improved building overall and definitely a much better response to what is a very important open space in our city's history. Could I ask you a question? Sure. Could you go back and here's where I always just sort of have some questions about
 And I trust your judgment, but the difference obviously between the first and the second and the third and fourth is obvious. Sure.
 From a design guideline perspective, what's the difference between the third and the fourth? When you looked at the third, you said that's not quite right. What is it you're seeing there? Right, right. Well, it was in comparison to the other buildings around it also, where there is much more open space and breathing room and set back from what I would call the kind of east and the north property lines. The Cyan is right over here, which is a building about the same height, which is...
 really just a bar that is parallel to uh fourth avenue over here and so uh we just felt that um since we were talking about bonus far and not the base far that they were able to better respond to i think light and air and open space okay thank you sure and and the other guideline
 I won't get too deep in the weeds here, but there is the other guideline that talks about enhance, embellish, and identify areas reflecting the local character within that district. So there's more than one that went into that. I appreciate that. Thank you. And this is kind of the result where I think most everyone came away pretty satisfied with the result of this process. And I think you will hear from someone of –
 Probably that you recognize their name that is going to read a letter to that effect. So some of our accomplishments. In addition to meeting as often as we are now, and we review and comment on such planning documents as the mixed-use zone, residential infill planning document, the Central City 2035 comprehensive plan,
 the Design Overlay Zone Assessment Program that has been in the works for about a year, and I think you'll get a briefing on that within the next week or two. And then we've also mediated solutions with PBOT and other stakeholders relative to trying to help applicants get through the process much easier. Some archaic or otherwise...
 I guess impediments to getting approved earlier. We've kind of flushed out many of those, including what you would think would be kind of a basic kind of thing is a cover in a utility vault, and that being basically negotiated over a year and a half of an acceptable utility vault. Parking garage entrance doors. There's a condition where PBOT preferred to have the door set back 20 feet so that a car could queue up when it's going in so it wouldn't block the...
 Wouldn't block the sidewalk. However, that sets up a very unappealing urban condition of a 20-foot dark hole on every block where every garage door would be. So finally recognize that there are doors called speed doors out there. And so that allowed the door to come out to the sidewalk and satisfy that condition and also satisfy PBOT's need to get cars in and out of buildings quicker.
 These are very, very detailed issues, but they become significant impediments in terms of time and money for applicants. So we very much try to work within that system and change it. The Arcade District also had a major encroachment process that added six months to projects if they wanted to meet the guideline, which we encouraged, which is to build over the sidewalk in that Arcade District.
 So that was eliminated through negotiations with PBOT and through a former commissioner. I have worked on identifying public benefit for projects that ask for extra FAR in height. The Broadway Tower is an example I cited a few minutes ago, in which additional affordable housing units were part of the deal, along with...
 funding for the study and improvement of the parks blocks that immediately east of that second phase project. And we also authored the best practices document, which has been retitled a guide to the city's Portland design review process, which outlines many aspects of the process that gives insight into applicants on how to better, more easily get through
 the design review process and expectations of design commission of the design commission relative to, uh, different topics. And we can go into that in a little more detail if you'd like, but basically it gives them the current views and expectations of design commission. Um, and then in terms of design advice and, uh, with our pay scale, you can consider, consider this free advice. Um, and so one of the things that we've been working on and, and, um,
 With DOSA also is to simplify the design guidelines. And that might occur under these kind of five or so headings. Under context, massing, active ground floor use, quality. Quality in terms of design quality of ideas and also of materials. And perhaps a sustainability guideline in some way.
 consider a minimum development threshold. We're seeing a lot of projects that are underbuilding in our already crowded city, and as each site builds upon itself in an underdeveloped,
 utilized way, it just puts more pressure on other sites. So that's just something to consider in the future. Also establish a comprehensive strategy for truck loading and service. We're also seeing larger projects which require larger and more number of loading bays. So that takes up more space in a building's facade, which then hands that over to a less active space that then minimizes or reduces the amount of active space on a block.
 As we get more of those, we lose the activity on the street that's so critical. The idea of creating a citizen academy to be more inclusive and provide information to neighborhoods and individuals about how to participate in the process. And then the arcade district, as we stated before, there is a guideline that requests...
 and their designers to build over the right-of-way as part of that historic expansion of Burnside. There is a lease fee associated with building over the right-of-way, which to us doesn't seem fair that the city asks people to build over the right-of-way and then charges them for it.
 and also to simplify that agreement between the city and the owner. That has been a thorn in the side of applicants because the rate of that lease often tilts it in an unfavorable light relative to their pro forma.
 Is that specific to the East Burnside District, or is that in general? That's just the Arcade District, right. Right. Right. Because the others, you can do a major encroachment elsewhere, but that's still that long process. But for the Arcade District, because we're asking applicants to design over it, the impediments and the burden to do that should be removed.
 I agree. It feels like we're playing on both sides of that equation. Yes, right, exactly. And it took a while to just parse out the issues when applicants would come in and be very reluctant to do that when it's such a positive aspect. They can actually gain square footage, but they didn't want to do it. And so as we dug into it, we kind of figured out that, oh, here's the problem. Well, and we want to keep your process going.
 And when there's a financial incentive to potentially design them in that direction, it doesn't look good. Right. Agreed. Agreed. Right. And so these recommendations will help clarify, simplify, and streamline the review process for design teams. It would be a process that is more accessible to the public, listens more closely to neighbors and applicants, is fair, and is more predictable. In other words, a process with legitimacy. Right.
 It will result in better buildings and an even more active pedestrian realm while helping us realize that the Portland we have prescribed in our 2035 comprehensive plan. And then I want to actually, with much enthusiasm, kind of end on this note about design excellence. And periodically a project comes before Design Commission that truly stands out among its peers. And...
 The framework truly impressed the design commission. It embodies everything Design Review is seeking, including a meaningful expression of that often head-scratching guideline emphasized Portland themes. In this case, themes of creativity, innovation, and social responsibility. To begin with, the framework is an exceptional design that openly embraces the pedestrian realm with a significant amount of glazing and canopies.
 It also incorporates a public community room and terrace on the second floor, contributing more life and energy to the streetscape. The exterior facades have depth and interest and are composed of a high-quality and well-detailed metal panel system. It neither needed nor requested special consideration from the city or the design commission during the review process, instead relying on the experience and creative talents of their project team.
 which included co-developers Project and Home Forward, Lever Architects, KPFF Engineers, and Walsh Construction. Secondly, Framework is an affordable housing project located in the Pearl District, which we all know is expensive real estate, addressing our city's urgent need to house our most vulnerable citizens. Framework represents itself as a confident addition to the Pearl, offering a dignified home for its residents.
 And finally, Framework incorporates an emerging sustainable construction technology, CLT, or cross-laminated timber construction, made from a renewable resource and one of Oregon's most abundant resources, which is trees, and specifically Douglas fir. When completed, Framework will be the tallest wood building in the United States constructed with CLT technology, which will be manufactured in Oregon, a watershed movement for our state's timber industry and its evolution into a 21st century industry.
 For these reasons, exceptional design, specifically raising the level of design for affordable housing, and innovation with potential far-reaching impacts to Oregon's economy, the Portland Design Commission is pleased to present its first-ever Design Excellence Award to Framework. And in closing, if I might, as our little big city continues to attract more and more new residents and we continue onward,
 Building to accommodate them, high quality and innovative design becomes an imperative if we are to achieve higher density while also enhancing the livability of our urban environment. At a deeper level, for us to hold on to the essence of Portland. And design review in partnership with visionary planning will help us achieve this. So thank you. Thank you. So I'm going to go to the next one. So if you have any comments, questions, or otherwise I'd be glad to address those for you. Comments or questions, anybody? Okay.
 Usually, or often in this report, you reflect back on some of the accomplishments of things that have been on the list for a long time. Right. And I'm wondering, were there any landmark processes that fulfilled that for the Design Commission this year, this past year? That brought up the – I'm sorry, I didn't quite –
 Well, I'm thinking, for instance, of the Skidmore Design Guidelines, which you asked us on multiple occasions or multiple years in a row to adopt, and we finally got through that process. I think that was the year before last. Was there anything else that had been on the Design Commission's to-do list? Well, I think one of the to-do lists was to actually have the study for the design overlay zone assessment. I mean, that uncovered a lot of aspects to Design Commission that we'd been
 recognized could improve by design commission and design review, whether it's with the commission or with staff under the type two process. So I think that's a real positive step for everyone. And I think you'll hear this, but we had a briefing last Thursday that everyone recognizes the contributions of the design review process, whether it be with design commission or staff, and that our
 Our city is no accident the way it's in its present form. It's through a deliberate series of decisions that started about 1980. And that's why our city is very special and why people come here in droves to experience it, because it has such a specialness to it.
 And so with that, it also has issues that we could improve upon. And I think to every person associated with it, whether it's staff or the design commissioners, we're committed to improving the process for everyone as long as the qualitative aspects of it remain intact.
 Thank you very much for your work over the whole commission. You mentioned that you were involved in the comprehensive plan. Did the design commission feel that their advice was respected and incorporated into the comprehensive plan? Yeah. It's such a huge and complex document. But, yes, we had several briefings with them and felt we were pretty much heard. I think there's still a couple of little things that we presented last time about –
 Active use, housing is active use everywhere or not. And I think we pointed out some of those examples in 2015 at our state of design report. So, but overall, yeah, I think it's a solid document. Same with the mixed use zone, which is well, was extremely well received by design commission and will be very impactful relative to
 projects that are outside of the D overlay zone. It just sets up a new standard of quality expectations and of density. And so once that's implemented, that will start to, I think, really gain traction in the outer areas, the outer neighborhoods. Thank you. So we get some criticism from time to time about the quality of affordable housing in parts of the state. Generally...
 Sorry, Commissioner, your mic's not on. Oh, it's the mute thing. And generally, in my experience, it's private sector housing, like in East Portland, that was designed to last about 15 years without any sense of how it integrates with the neighborhood.
 And by contrast, we get virtually no pushback from some of the beautifully designed affordable housing stuff that's going in now in Gateway and Lentz and everything. There might be a debate about who we're serving and location, but the design is an enhancement. So I think we all agree that you can have deeply affordable housing that's beautifully designed and you can meet both goals. Okay.
 I'm struck that you've given your first award to an affordable housing development that Home Forward has been a party to. Right. And Home Forward serves the very poorest people in our community, so they'll have as many zero to 30 units as they can afford there. Right. So with that in mind, the debate we've had over the last couple of years is how to cut red tape to get more production.
 And the area where I think developers have probably gotten the most traction is to somehow cut red tape, including design commission review, of projects that serve low-income people. And so there's the specter that we're going to see a degradation of design and quality. Right, right.
 So what is the state of that question? And, I mean, here you are. You're giving an award to a project that shows that you can continue to have high-quality design and deeply affordable. But since there's a tension and we're being told to get more affordable housing out the door, we have to cut red tape, and design review is an area where there's been efforts to –
 either bypass you or streamline. Sure. What is the state of that question? Well, I would, yes, obviously that's an affordable housing project, and that makes it even more remarkable. I will say that that project would have gotten through on the first hearing if it weren't for an issue with the Bureau of Environmental Services. And it actually – I had to call you. Right. Oh, is that it? Sorry. Well, since I'm talking to you. Sorry, DC.
 No, because it didn't really have that much of an impact on it. It was actually a water bureau problem that they passed.
 Probably, right, right, right, right. And so that can be part of the problem is parsing out when it's design review and when it's interagency approvals and coordination. So it's such a long process, and design review is a small part of the overall process in terms of time. We did dug up some numbers because of trying to –
 understand what the time delays might be. And so by law, unless the applicant files for an extension, there's a 120-day fast track that has to occur. You have to be done in 120 days. On average, I think all these projects were at 103 days.
 So you're always going to have projects that get through less than that and some that get through more than that. And there are a series of factors that you could probably guess what they are. It's whether or not a team...
 comes in fully embracing the process instead of trying to maybe do a workaround. You know, what's their pro forma? What is their mission? I think that it's kind of dangerous to identify one mission above others when we've got so many important issues relative to our city. So those are some of the things that we've been kind of kicking around. Well, I'll just say, speaking for myself, when I take visitors into the River District,
 And I asked, which has one of the highest concentration of deeply affordable housing in the city. And I asked them to identify the affordable housing. Right. More often than not, they can't. Can't. Right. And I hope that that is a value that in Portland we continue to honor. That we believe good design and affordable housing can go hand in hand. And we shouldn't sacrifice the one for the other. Agreed. And these are really long-term investments, right?
 And so everyone's been in a building that isn't that well-maintained and one that is and one that's easier to maintain and one that isn't. And so the smallest cost of a building is actually building it. The largest cost over time is the energy use and its maintenance. So these are long-term decisions that have really significant impacts. Great. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Were you calling up Tim? Were you going to call the other people up first? No.
 Will do. I think about 12 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are John Carroll, Phil Bell, and Tiffany Schweitzer. Good afternoon and welcome. Name for the record, please. We don't need anybody's address. And at 2.30 in, you see the yellow light go crazy. Three minutes, the red light goes crazy. Shut up. Okay.
 I didn't say that. I will. Very good. Whoever would like to start. Go ahead. I'm John Carroll. I'm a developer. Excuse me. They had to be late green. Push. There you go. Yeah, it's good. Good to go. Again, I'm John Carroll. I'm a developer, developing exclusively here in Portland for the last 20-plus years. I've been involved at the request of...
 at the time of Commissioner Blumenauer to give him three months to talk about streetcars. I've been at it now for 23 years, and you put the transportation and the infrastructure in a community, and you put that in the context of creating a city, creating appropriate housing, working on increasing the quality of the community through the design review process.
 That has been my background, and I can tell you that I have been very, very pleased with how the city, over time, over the last 23, 24 years, has really taken the leadership in keeping the development community, myself. Of course, Tiffany can address that as well. But it kept me focused on whatever building we've looked at, whatever building we've designed, we wanted to bring it to the commission. We wanted to get through the process, but we also wanted a building.
 and creative environment that when you're walking down the street, you want people to say, how did they build that building? Wow, that feels good. What's this all about? And I think that is a theme that from our development perspective, we try to utilize over the years. The whole design review process, people will tell me they complain about it, but I'm very pleased and very comfortable with the process. David Wark is a
 uh... our last project i've never had a conversation with him directly before that but he brought some perspective and created a better building and i think the city's going to be proud of it and i say compliment the commission right now that much more
 Maybe I'm complimenting too much, but they are helping create a city that is safe, that is walkable, that is livable, that is enjoyable, and all of those things. I have evolved. I've been involved with Streetcar for 20-plus years. I'm now the chairman of First Stop Portland, which has communities come from all over the world.
 to look at Portland. And they ask invariably the questions, whether they're from Sweden or Adelaide, Australia, or wherever they are, come around the world, how did Portland do it? And telling the story through the commission and design review process is very, very important. Thank you.
 Next month we have 145 people from Denver, Colorado that want to come and find out how Portland's doing it. I've just gotten an invitation from Andalusia, Spain, to go and talk to their communities about how you develop infrastructure, how you develop communities with density. Thank you.
 And so I can say, as my time is running out, that I think the process is very good here. I compliment the staff, which I've worked with for many years, and I appreciate having been involved with that process. Thank you. Thank you so much.
 Good afternoon. My name is Phil Bile. I'm the president of GBD Architects. Thanks for having the chance to come and testify in front of you, Mayor Wheeler and members of the city council. I wrote you all a nice letter, so instead of trying to ad lib it, I'm going to read it to you very quickly. It's a three-minute letter, I promise.
 My company, GBD, has been practicing architecture in Portland Central City since 1969. We've completed literally hundreds of projects, small to large, that have navigated the design review process before moving forward to construction. We've presented our projects to virtually every design commission since the first one was formed in 1982. We're actively engaged today with the commission. We have six major projects that are under review right now. So my point is we're pretty familiar with the process today.
 While a lot has changed during that 35 years of history with the process, some elements haven't, one of which is our respect for the volunteer commissioners who graciously give their time to protect our built environment. They've always been charged with a very, very challenging task, which is to be the final judge and jury in what qualifies for quality in our built environment. This can be a daunting task, highly subjective in nature, and oftentimes substantiated by opinion rather than fact.
 Does the process work? I think I can say in my own opinion and many of my peers, absolutely yes, it works. I'm going to borrow a quote from the upcoming Dozer report, which I think you guys are going to review next week, which is to say that there is no question that design review has had a central role in guiding the high-quality development that Portland is known for today. I couldn't agree more with that. And it very simply describes my opinion as well.
 But as aspirational as the design community might want to be about being completely in control of the design qualities of our projects, there is a very powerful force out there that is often pushing back every step of the way, demanding that we build our projects bigger, build them faster, build them taller, and build them cheaper. Design review is one of the very few tools that we have to push back against and resist those forces. Design review gives us the very distinct advantage.
 that we often need as one of the few tools, I'm sorry, as we often need to push our projects to meet a benchmark of quality that the market by itself would not otherwise achieve. Could the process be improved? Of course it can. Every process can. In fact, I've had a chance to thoroughly review the Dozer report that you will be seeing, and I think there's some very good work in there
 And there's actually very little in the report that I would take exception to, some terrific ideas that could be implemented. But let me be clear, design review is not broken. If anything, it's overwhelmed. Never in my 40 years of practice here have we seen the intensity of development that we still are very much in the middle of here in Portland. The impact has been a sudden transformation of our neighborhoods, bringing big city challenges that stretch far beyond how best to design our built environment.
 will the intensity subside anytime soon? I don't think so. I think demographics are telling us otherwise. We've created a very livable city, and people are attracted to it. Looks like I'm done. I'm sorry. That was very good. Okay, thank you. You're a good reader, too. I'm not a fast reader. That was well done.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for having me. I suspect I was asked here today Because I've taken quite a few projects through design review My 14th project just went through the city the process. Could you state your name for the record? Oh that would help. Sorry, okay Tiffany's whites are Hoyt Street properties have apologize Commissioner and on top of that
 Hoyt Street has also taken through two master plans that also went to design review as well as increasing FAR from 2 to 1 to 9 to 1 and unlimited height when we were limited to 75 feet.
 20 years ago. And so I agree with both Phil and John. The process is very good. I do think it works. I do think it can be frustrating at times. But I think overall the commission does a very good job. Countless hours that they spend that they don't necessarily get the credit for are
 And I usually go away with something better than I came in with. What I've seen lately, and to Phil's point of so much projects being shown and going through the pipeline, is a lot of people that are ill-prepared, they come in to the, whether it's DAR or design review, and they're in a rush to get their project through for whatever reason, be it cost or timing or trying to...
 get around some amendments that may be in the pipeline. And what I've seen sitting there as I'm waiting for my own turn is not a lot of thought given, not the same thought that we're asking design commission to give. People don't take the time to think about all the things John described, what really makes a neighborhood, what does it feel like at the street level, how does transportation work with it.
 And so I think that's where design review really comes in and is very effective because they're thinking not just of the building but how it works for everything else around it and I think it is an important tool that we need in this city and I've had quite a lot of success with this commission as well as others in the past and
 And I suspect that will continue as long as, you know, we care about the city that I think the three of us here do. And I think the commission does as well. So I appreciate them spending, you know, many hours listening to all of the progress that's happening in our city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Could I just ask one question? You said design review is not broken, but you said it was overwhelmed. Are there some concrete steps we could take to alleviate that in the near term? Well, it's a daunting challenge all by itself because we're in such an unusual period in our economy. It's terrific for Portland in many, many ways, but it's also pretty detrimental to Portland and others.
 The changes that would be necessary are often, there are several of them that are listed in the report. One of which is to, for example, add a second commission so that we could expand the number of people who are able to review the cases that are coming through so quickly. What we ask of the commission is unbelievable. They spend three to four days of their month, every single month,
 upwards of eight to ten hours at each commission hearing reviewing these cases, and it's not slowing down. We're beating them up, and they need relief. So here's a question I wanted to ask with regard to that specific recommendation. So you asked a provocative question. You asked the question, what does the community look like?
 And there's some subjectivity to that. So my question is this. If we took your commission, which presumably has its own history, its own culture, its own norms that are established within the context of the design review standards, if we created a completely different commission to take up the slack, if you will, do you think they would be looking at the projects the same way? Would they have the same outcomes that your commission has, or is there a particular culture to the commission? Sure.
 Oh, I think we could expect that there would be some strong alignment, and it would really be incumbent upon the staff to communicate that consistency between the different commissions. It would really be detrimental for the two to take divisive roles and look at projects differently than one another. It would be very, very counterproductive. Or have different standards. You don't want one commission to be seen as the one that you want to draw as opposed to the other one.
 Well, there's certainly the opportunity for different standards to happen outside the central city, standards that are a little bit more appropriate to outline neighborhoods, and certainly a different commission that is well-versed in those criteria could be very, very successful and serve as a second commission. Thank you. And I apologize. I don't typically ask questions because you raise some really interesting issues. I appreciate that. Very quickly.
 The next committee you'd form would be an arbitration committee if you created two commission mechanisms. And that would, my take is that would slow the process down further. I agree. John, I have a quick question. I've been on the council since 2000. We're actually starting to get more appeals of design, commission, decisions to the council, partly because... Your microphone, Commissioner Saul. Hi, sir.
 My understanding, Commissioner, is that we can leave them on the whole time, and they've got this new technology that they figure out if you're talking or not. I've been pushing this button on the stem to turn it on. I think I'll finally get the hang of it by the end of the year. Different strategies. I'm sorry. But we've had a few appeals in the last year, and frankly, the rules allow for it.
 I'm not sure it's a great thing, in part because of all the land use things we do, I find it in some way the hardest because it has the most discretion. It has the most subjectivity. I mean, you know, other land use stuff we do is heavily prescribed, and the lawyers are walking us through each of the criteria. So any thoughts on why we're getting more and then how we can perhaps reverse that trend? Because just speaking for myself, I don't want to be the city council that has –
 on a regular basis has the final say on that because I don't think it's the best use of our time, and I'm not sure we're the best equipped body to make those judgments, just my view. Two quick things. One, the appeal process is picking up because you have what I would describe as more out-of-towners coming to Portland, Oregon. I'm going to get this project. We're going to get it through the commission. We're going to get it built, and we're going to sell it and flip and make some money.
 I mean, that's one of the mindsets that I'm starting to see. And, Tiffany, you might chime in on that. I think that an appeal process is important because if something is grave and it's just horrible, then I think it needs to be dealt with. But I would tend to give the commission a little bit stronger hand in that in terms of making those decisions final and not have to kick it up to the commission level.
 We had – That's an important point. It's about whether we view ourselves as de novo and we start doing the design thing and what level of deference we give and whether our job is to make sure there hasn't been some significant procedural lapse versus –
 casually substituting our judgment for some big design question. I agree. Just a parting comment. There was a project I was in here while somebody brought an appeal to the council many years ago, and I forget who said it, but this person said, well, you know, where I come from, and the council member at the time said, do you know what city you're in now? And he shut up. Yeah.
 I thought we have to, our fingerprints around the world, around the United States are becoming more, greater and greater as we continue to grow well and grow smart and on and on. Thank you. Next three, please. Thank you, Jim. Thank you. John Russell, Tad Savinar, and Julie Livingston.
 I think John Russell is appearing by letter. Oh, you're John Russell? I'm going to do my best to be John Russell, but I am Tim Herron with the Bureau of Development Services, and I could start if you would like. Jump in. Thank you. Thank you. John asked me to read this. Unfortunately, he's in San Francisco on office hours.
 on business and really felt it important that this be read into the record. It's less than three minutes. If you don't know who John Russell is, I kind of asked him to coach it himself because it's hard to describe John Russell. But relative to this matter, John let me know. I'm not sure anyone has more experience than I've had, starting with eight years on the Landmarks Commission, four years on the Planning Commission, and three years on the Development Commission as chair. I also served as chair of the Mayor's Business Roundtable for 10 years with former Mayor Vera Katz.
 So with that, I will read his letter. Gentlepersons, I have a vested interest in the success of Designer View because it was my idea when I was a member of the Portland Planning Commission. The project that stirred us to action was the building now known as the Congress Center, which in our opinion failed its responsibilities at the pedestrian level. At that time, we members of the Planning Commission had only three criteria for approval, height, four-area ratio, and parking.
 I believe then, and I believe even more now, that in order to make certain that buildings will last for a century and more are credits to the city, we need a more subjective level of scrutiny. I've seen some wonderful examples of input by the Design Review Commission that resulted in dramatically better projects. In particular, the campus housing project at 4th and Harrison initially turned its back on the Pettigrew Park. Commissioner Wark talked about that project earlier.
 In the course of several hearings, the building improved to the satisfaction of everyone, even, I believe, the developers. Having said that, no matter how well a regulatory statute is written, there are inevitably exceptions that don't fit the rules. In the case of designer view, I don't believe there are sufficient exceptions in the statutes that could save both the applicants and the city significant time and money.
 As a recent example, we were spending $1.5 million on the reconstruction of the tenant improvements inside the Cushman and Wakeman office on the terrace level of the 200 Market Building. We considered recessing the doors to the outer terraces some 18 inches. Had we done so, we would have been subject to design review, and thereby the project would have delayed for a minimum of eight weeks. We and the design review staff agreed that the change was both de minimis and invisible to the public, but the staff had no authority to approve it.
 In my opinion, city staff needs to be empowered to make common sense judgments about the applicability of certain codes. The safeguard, I believe, is that staff's decision, although final at the time it is made, would need to be sent out via notice to the same group of neighbors who would receive notification as part of the normal process.
 In closing, I know most of the members of the Design Commission and I admire each of them. The city owes them personally a great deal of thanks for the many hours of volunteer time devoted to make our city a better place. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Tad Savinar. I'm the Vice Chair of the Design Commission currently.
 David Wark likes to tell the story of visiting Portland many times during the 70s and the 80s before he ultimately decided to move here in 1988. And he moved here, as he tells the story, specifically because of its architecture and its built urban environment. He's been the chair of this commission for two and a half years. He has served on the commission for nine years. The role of the chair...
 is part traffic cop, part city attorney, part architect, part historian, part mediator, part rally squad, and many other parts. When I came back from college in 1973 to my hometown of Portland, I decided that I would give a third of my time in volunteer services, which I have done up until this day.
 And during that commitment to my city, I've sat on a lot of panels and task forces and committees, and I've seen a lot of chairs and leaders and facilitators. Never have I seen a citizen volunteer so even-handed, so accurate, so visionary, so considerate, and so thorough.
 The city and its citizens have been fortunate to have a uniquely qualified individual participate and ultimately lead the design commission. And I wanted to acknowledge this as a peer, but I wanted to acknowledge it in front of you in this room today. We have many thanks for David Wark. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Julie Livingston, and I have just a few comments to make this afternoon that may not rise to the same level as Tad's. Thank you, Tad. The first is I wanted to follow up on a point that David made in his presentation. The Doza report makes a recommendation that we roll out something akin to a Citizens Academy program.
 When you receive the dozen materials next week, you'll see a recommendation that we better communicate the role of urban design and the D overlay tool.
 And DOSA actually recommends that we do this through improving the public information and education process and that we also hold applicant orientations on a regular basis. So this is going to be one of the big goals of the design review staff and design commission during 2017. We want to roll out better tools for public involvement. The goal is better participation from applicants.
 from neighbors, from neighborhood associations, and from all citizens of Portland. Greater participation by the public and a greater understanding of the D overlay will hopefully lead all of Portland citizens to be advocates for the design review process because I think that it's fairly clear that the reason we love the city that we have today is largely due to how active design review has been over the course of the last 30 years.
 So also you will be seeing more appeals. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for asking the question about appeals. I wanted to be sure to touch on this. Because we are hearing so many more cases now than we ever have in the past. The appeals, I believe, are proportional to the quantity of the cases that are in front of the design commission now.
 Of the four cases that have been appealed since I have been a commissioner, three of them have been appeals of conditions. So the cases have been approved, but they've been approved with conditions. Only one has been an appeal of a denial.
 And third, Commissioner Udailey, you made reference to density goals and inevitable growth in your introduction. I wanted to take just a minute to focus on the increase in density that we can expect in close-in neighborhoods. There will be a great change in the central city in between now and 2035. The Portland plan, I think you know, the expectation is 135,000 additional households by 2035. Okay.
 Central City will have a great number of those housing units. In 2016, there was one housing project in the central east side, 85 units, that was approved. So far in 2017, 433 housing units have been approved in the central east side.
 So the central east side is going to change significantly, and we are going to see a major uptick in both the scale and the density of the housing that is proposed in that area. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Next three, please. Are Thomas Robinson, Bob Hastings, and Teresa Rayford. Good afternoon. Go on, Oliver. Do you need to pull up your presentation? Oh, no. I'm just testifying on the island, but I was the third person. Okay.
 I'm Bob Hastings, agency architect for TriMet, and I'm here to share some acknowledgments about the design review process with my colleagues, Theresa Boyle with PBOT, and also Tim Herron with Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I want to quickly scroll through my slides for the benefit of everyone. The main points I want to make is that we have established a role of collaboration between our bureaus and with TriMet.
 We have created a document over the years, a compendium of elements that have gone before design review, and this benchmark has now established a level of quality in the city. This is where we go from, not where we go down. And we've done this again in collaboration with the process of design development through the design review advisory process.
 We've worked with several of the commissioners or commissions over the years. So it's an iterative process, but it was established back in the time when we recognized that we had things that we needed to do for our transit projects in terms of the elements of consistency, how it runs, how it works, how people understand how to use it. But we also had an opportunity to do elements of distinction. And these are the ways that you heard the term context relates to the projects that we have done over the years and will continue to do into the future projects.
 knock on wood. So on the left you have a view of the new shelters on the orange line that provide the basic shelter protection for our patrons as well as the first-ever eco track that was put at the Lincoln station and that was not Hubris that we did that that was something that actually came through the design review process with the commissioners about how do we test and innovate on light rail projects that actually contribute to the quality of the neighborhoods in which they travel.
 We also received early assistance with the commission when we were looking at alternatives for a big, long structure that's going to go over Harbor Drive. Again, this is a way that our infrastructure projects, this sort of linear building, if you will, of seven and a half miles, could contribute every foot of the way to the quality of the streets in which we operate.
 We have developed this as a process because the commission trusts that we have understanding of what quality is in the public realm. And they also see that we are so engaged with our public and with both our users as well as our neighborhoods in how we implement these projects. Just to roll through some of the projects, some that you're probably familiar with, the mall revitalization project in downtown, bringing even more public art onto the thoroughfare.
 changing the nature of the streets and the stations so they become more active, as David was talking about in terms of the streetscape for people. And then the Orange Line, South Waterfront, which has really helped move forward some of the other projects that you'll see from Zydel Yards and OHSU. But we continue to take that level of quality, not just in the D overlay, but through the whole system that we design. We do... So, just in making my point is that
 When I hear about the Dozo report and wanting to have a Citizens Academy, creating a capacity within our neighborhoods, within the neighborhoods that we go in, inside the D overlay, outside the D overlay, this is extremely important because that's where we really hear what people value and what they both are concerned about, what are their hopes.
 We bring that into the commission process, and sometimes they're helpful making those points to the commissioner, but also that sense of engagement that we have with each commission that we went through. As we look down the road to the future, we are going to be building on the successes and the relationships that we have established into the future. How those projects play out, you'll see them coming through on the commission in the future. For sure, for sure.
 I just wanted to say, because you're very heavy on the orange line here, that just a compliment for how you put it up. I now live downtown now, and so it's Pavlovian or something. I mean, it's like...
 So I lived downtown in a rental apartment with my family, and on Easter, for example, we got on our bikes, and we went down Tom McCall, went over to Tilliken, took the Orange Line as far as the infrastructure would take us. That's another issue because I hope we build that bike infrastructure out further. Went through the neighborhoods, got to Crystal Spring, which is an amazing destination, then worked our way back to...
 through East Moreland, and then did some zigging and zagging, and then came back through the Orange Line infrastructure, and then ended up in the River District, then home. But what you've created, some of these pictures illustrated along the Orange Line with the plantings, the infrastructure, the public art,
 I love the public art is just off the chart. And the way it integrates into the neighborhood is just extraordinary. And it's become every weekend our destination because it's a safe place to ride a bike, but it's also so beautiful. And it does feel of the place. Yes.
 So if some of that comes through the collaboration with the commission, then I would say that's a hugely successful collaboration. Thank you. To extend that a little bit too, I made the comment earlier about the collaboration with the different bureaus. And in particular, this way I can throw a bone, Bureau of Environmental Services, we've had extraordinary success in kind of, again, raising the bar on what we can do with stormwater treatments and with the landscaping along the streetscape. So again,
 We've had some very early tentative steps. The eco track at the Lincoln Station was, again, that effort. That actually took an eco roof technology and put it into a public street. So that is now our common benchmark, and we're looking to extend that and do more of that into the future. But those opportunities to innovate comes with the collaboration that we get to do with the Bureau of Development Services, PBOT, and the other ones too. So kudos to them.
 Thank you. If I might also add my thanks for your collaboration and admiration for the beauty of the designs. If there could, and I want to say this while you're here and the Design Commission, if the shelters could provide more shelter that would be really helpful.
 are lovely to look at, but there's only a couple of spots on them where you can stand and not get wet. And then when it's windy, it doesn't have all that much sideways protection either. So as we're continuing to refine our plans, thinking about that, I'd really appreciate it. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon. Do you want to talk to him?
 Good afternoon. My name is Thomas Robinson. I'm the principal of Lever Architecture. I just first wanted to thank the Design Commission on behalf of our team for the award today. That was sort of a surprise, so it wasn't part of the thing. But one of the things I wanted to sort of address is we've been through Design Review a number of times.
 of things but instead of talking about designer you want to talk about design as a whole designer is essentially about making sure the buildings are well designed and i think that that and that good design whether it's public or private whether it's housing whether it's office
 is about creating great experiences for everyone in the city. And good design is an expression of a democratic and open society. And I think if a project cannot get through this commission and be approved by the commission, it is not good design. Thank you.
 And I think it's because we have probably one of the most experienced design review commissions I've ever experienced anywhere in the country. And we work nationally. And we have never had any issues getting our projects through design review.
 Actually, I think the design review has improved our projects, and I think that if people focus on design and what good design is, this idea of an expression of our culture, that everyone deserves it, whether it's public housing or any of these other projects, it will be a benefit to our city. So I just want to say that and express my support for the work that the volunteers have done here. Thank you, and congratulations. It's a very impressive project. Yeah, thank you. Justifiably earned.
 Thank you. And for the record, my name is Teressa Rafer. And again, I'm a native Oregonian. And when it comes to design review, I want to focus on that really quick because that promotes accountability and effectiveness because of the process that it takes to build those committees that join together to have accountability and oversight for long-term goals of the entire project. So I want to go ahead and say akudo on what he said. I want to second that.
 uh... award but at the same time when we talk about the ability for all in the design review and the whole process of the process of including all people uh... one of the comments that next set about that the poorest people
 and then this relativity with tri-met. As a person that has been marginalized in my community, in the hometown that I was born in, that my parents were born in, and my grandfather was born in, I've not been able to release myself of the marginalization, the criminalization
 the perspective that my brown skin makes me poor. And so what we say in design review and in building a culture of inclusivity, uh, we have to acknowledge that, you know, partnerships with bureaus that lead to like prisons that are partnered with tri-med and the increased, uh, criminalization of people that are in those communities that as bureaus, you have to be very respectful to the longevity and the,
 and the demarginalization of people that are using their voices and civic engagement to bring these issues to the table. Because in our communities, there is no one speaking to that. And so again, I want to commend the people that came up to this table before us because they're talking about doing a more diverse and more inclusive
 additional committee so that maybe they'll be able to bring in that type of prospectus and so I think that on your end as the city commissioners that you have to have that type of lens and not be so quick to fund programs that incarcerate
 and isolate and criminalize. I think that the partnership that you have with TriMet, the design review in my mind, and what I could look at for the next 20 years, is additional children having their IDs removed from officers that are working in partnership with you. I can see more children coming to me for advocacy because they've been tased or handcuffed while riding TriMet.
 included and then those same parents losing their children to foster care services and ankle bracelets because they got arrested together for not pulling out their id in a timely fashion in areas that have been redesigned and so to get that on the record is very important because i don't see anybody from any of those communities that represent social justice and the demarginalization of people of color here for this agenda item but i think that it's very important
 because as a state we pass legislation to end profiling and earlier today in the first session we were talking about funding housing for people that might be informants and working with the police to basically investigate people illegally so thank you for the opportunity. Thank you thank you all for your testimony. The next three are Cameron Stark, Kristen Calhoun and Noel Johnson and those are the last three who signed up. Thank you.
 Cameron's passing. Is there a Kristen Calhoun or Noel? Noel, sorry. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Noel Johnson, and I'm a developer here in Portland, and I'm pleased to be here because it's an important subject. I want to first start just by acknowledging a few things, kind of echoing the previous developers here in terms of the huge...
 volunteer civic commitment and past and present members of the commission have made. I am unbelievably impressed by what professional caliber and sort of genuine focus and commitment is here. You've heard from the commission members here themselves, and I think that extends to all of them. I also think it's important to mention the trade-offs that we face in this discussion right here because there is this dynamic where
 If you don't know what Portland was like before design review had its influence and really had the ability to prevent the bummer of buildings that so often do occur, you don't know what you don't know. And so I'm 38. I've developed over 20 institutional-scale large projects, and that makes me somewhat weird. But I can tell you that the architects and engineers and developers that are my age are younger now.
 don't share and don't sort of have some of the context that the developers you've heard before me benefit from. So if we seek to emulate what some of those individuals have accomplished and try and keep the bar high, we also get very frustrated. And I think you're not hearing some of the concern or lack of frustration that they have as their projects go through the system. And what happens in my concern is that they're going to
 without appreciating the benefits of the system, demand that the system be thrown away. So, you know, GoBlocks is one project that I worked on with a great team, and we didn't put 200 additional units, even though it was allowed outright, on top of the grocery store that we were building.
 That's a bummer from housing affordability and or supply standards and or comprehensive 2035 standards. It took 19 hours of design review hearing. Undoubtedly, the project got better. But 19 hours over 303 days, which is a bit longer than the 120-day goal. That has been really hard for me to explain the tradeoffs to my sort of
 my peers in my age. And I sort of want to raise the red flag that we're all aware of that going forward as we seek to improve the system and make it better because it is valuable. And so I just want to share that perspective. Thank you. And that's an important perspective. I appreciate that as well. Thank you. So mayor, I moved to accept the report. We have a motion. Second. We have a motion by commissioner fish, a second by commissioner Fritz. Is there any further discussion or questions? Yes.
 Hearing none, please call the roll. Fish? Well, first, thank you for an outstanding report. And I love this PowerPoint, and I've been struggling to figure out where all these buildings are located. But now I have some homework. I love the fact that you've chosen an affordable housing project with your first Design Excellence Award. And I especially love it because while Home Forward is one of the partners on this project, many years ago,
 HomeForward, then called Housing Authority of Portland, was thinking about a signature building in the same district and at that time was toying with the idea of partnering with Frank Gehry, which I thought in concept was an okay idea, but it turned out it would have been the most expensive affordable housing development in the history of the world and would not have been good for HomeForward's brand to do that. And so I think it's especially wonderful. Thank you.
 that you're honoring a building that is using innovative technology, keeping the costs down, and delivering a beautiful and cost-effective building without the glamour of some international architect. Not to say anything, a wonderful architect firm, but I thought the Gary thing was a bit too much on the vanity side myself. And so the fact that it's affordable and beautiful is really wonderful, and I hope that sets the standard for other people doing affordable housing, because in my view...
 Our value system should be very simple. We build train stations for people, and they're beautiful. We build libraries for people, and they're beautiful. We're going to spend a fortune to rebuild our high schools and our public schools to make them functional and beautiful. Where is it written that low-income people have to live in buildings that are not beautiful? And why should we ever subscribe to that as a values proposition? They're public resources. They should be built to last. They should be energy efficient and sustainable. And they should be beautiful. Thank you.
 If I take one thing away from this hearing, and it's been reinforced in a couple of appeals we've had, it is that you need more resources. And I'll be interested to hear from the commissioner in charge whether that's a combination of staff resources and an expanded commission. But since we're going through an unprecedented building boom,
 It kind of almost felt, as you were describing it, it felt almost like what happens when the Senate doesn't fill judicial vacancies and you have a smaller number of judges doing twice the amount of work. That doesn't seem fair. And by the way, if people choose to opt out of the system because they're frustrated, I think the council is going to start sending a message that you've got to go back and work with Design View because we don't want to be the opt-out with people that don't actually engage the process, and we can't set that precedent.
 So if we need more resources and more commissioners, I will look to the commissioner in charge to make that recommendation. But that seemed to me to make sense, at least for this period of unprecedented growth. It really is a wonderful presentation. I appreciate everyone who took time out to testify. And I'm proud of your work and pleased to support it. Bye. You, Daly.
 I want to thank the Design Commission once again for their service to our city. I also want to thank the people who came here to testify today. It was especially nice to hear from local developers and architects speaking out in support of our Design Commission because, as is often the case,
 The detractors are often the loudest in the room, and it's gratifying to hear from people that have decades of experience with this process that they're supportive. I had a really hard time deciding what I wanted to be when I grew up, which is part of how I ended up here. But archetypes.
 Architecture and urban design is of special interest to me. My favorite comfort reading is A Pattern Language by Christopher Alexander. So I am thrilled to get to work with you, get to know you, and be involved in this process of improving, expanding our service to the city, as well as helping create better...
 design commission customers or consumers. I think that's an important part of this as well. So thank you again. Thank you everybody who came today and for this great presentation. Thank you very much to the design commission for all the work you put in and David for your leadership. I don't remember having a vice chair coming in spending his entire time saying how much he appreciates your leadership and leadership
 Obviously heartfelt. So thank you on behalf of the council as well. One of the legacies of former director Paul Scarlett is in the design commission reflecting the faces that are in our community. And I hope that if there is a second one that has similar attention to be making sure that broad spectrum of Portlanders get to serve on it will be paid by everyone. With Tim Herron still at the helm, I'm sure that will happen. So thank you very much for all of your work. I actually have found...
 appeals that we've had coming to council fascinating and always helped me understand more about why we prefer to have you doing a lot of the hard work because it's not my area of specialty but it's certainly an area of interest. So thank you very much for this report. Wheeler? I'd like to thank everybody for bringing this forward and Commissioner Udaly I appreciate the good hard work you've done early on on this and this was a very timely report. I think it's important for us to hear
 The good things that are happening with regard to the design review process, I want to applaud the leadership and remind everybody it does not pay very well as a gig. And in many cases it's thankless and it takes hours and hours. And I want to applaud all of you for your service. I want to be mindful of two things we heard during the public testimony, both of which I think are really important messages for us to hear. This is a good platform.
 And it's one that we can build from. And we heard former Chair Russell describe what he thought were some of the strengths and some of the evolution over the years. We heard the current design review commission members talking about some of the great architecture that's being built in the city and that's even being enhanced. We heard from some developers through this process, which I think is a great strength. But we can never be too confident in architecture.
 our own views of what community really is and who community is. And I know there's an effort on your part to try and diversify the design review process and be more receptive to voices that maybe have not historically been around the table when we're describing what the community's look, feel, and character is.
 And so that's an important statement that we have to keep front and center. The second one that I think I heard, and I don't want to misspeak, but I thought I heard a generational question being raised as well. By design, if I can use that word, the Design Review Commission has people at the top of their game who are illustrious and highly qualified professionals.
 And yet there's a lot of young people in this community who seek to follow in your footsteps. And they have a lot to learn and a lot to benefit from your experience. And I think there's an intergenerational sharing opportunity here. And one individual testified that maybe we aren't quite getting that sharing opportunity quite right, and therefore it's manifesting itself as a bit of frustration. Like, you know...
 what's with these guys? I'm trying to build a building, and they're asking all these pesky questions. I'm filling in the blanks. So maybe there's a real opportunity there, and I'd look forward to exploring that in a little more capacity, particularly as people in your field get to the end of their careers and like you say, you know, I want to start giving back something to the community. I can never stress enough the intergenerational values
 and sharing is so important to this young generation, as is the diversity question. Like everybody else, I look forward to any suggestions or thoughts or ideas that Commissioner Udaly has with regard to this process and working and collaborating with all of you. It'll be an interesting conversation in the weeks, months, and years ahead. Thank you. I vote aye, and the report is gratefully accepted on behalf of the City Council. Commissioner, thank you.
 Just for the record, we had an item 382 we didn't finish this morning. Because we're late, do you guys mind if I put it at the very end of the agenda? It's an HR issue. I will be here. Perfect. Good. Next item, please. Thank you.
 Item 389, accept progress report regarding commitments with Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association for Mount Tabor Park Reservoirs. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much. I'm going to invite four speakers. Is your mic on? We're going to invite forward four distinguished guests, the Deputy Director and the Principal Engineer of the Water Bureau, and Stephanie Stewart and John Larson from the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. Thank you.
 So if you could all come forward. Dave, is it just you? Okay. There you go. So is Mary Ellen? Okay. So let me just tee this up as follows. Colleagues, following the decision to disconnect the Mount Tabor reservoirs from our drinking water system in 2015, Council passed a resolution committing the city to ongoing work to preserve the reservoirs. And I want to thank Commissioner Amanda Fritz for her support.
 genuine partnership in helping to reach that agreement. That resolution directed the Water Bureau to partner with the Tabor Neighborhood Association on planning and implementation and to present regular updates to Council. This is the first annual report to Council. We've had six-month reports. And so I want to turn it over to our guests who will be presenting the report that's in your packet. Thank you so much, Commissioner.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Gabriel Solmer. I am the deputy director of the Water Bureau, and it is a true pleasure to be here with this particular group today to bring this report to you. I'm delighted to sit with this particular group of presenters, which would not have been feasible two years ago or 14 years ago, as you know. So I'm joined by Mary Ellen Collentine, our principal engineer, and John Larson.
 to my right, and Stephanie Stewart of the Mount Tabor Neighborhood Association. And I want to apologize to Mary Ellen. My notes kept saying Teresa Elliott, and so I was having a psychic. I was trying to figure out how this was working. So we're joined by the principal engineer, but the chief engineer of the Water Bureau, if you can raise your hand, Teresa Elliott, is in the back just to make sure we get it right.
 Excellent. And I was going to introduce our distinguished guests, our chief engineer, Teresa Elliott, and our community representative, Terry Black, is also in the audience, who's done a great deal of work with the community on this project.
 And so I will leave it first to Mary Ellen to walk us through the report. It's not very long, but it is fairly detailed and goes through the history of this project, which is pretty fascinating. And then I'll have John and Stephanie go through a little bit about where we were and how we're moving forward. So Mary Ellen, go ahead. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I also wanted to do an additional recognition of some other partners we've had with what I call our core team. We've had George Lasevoy from Parks Bureau, who's been integral in our meetings, along with two other neighborhood people, Bing Wong and Kim Lakin, and David Gray and Terry Black from the Portland Water Bureau. So that group comprises the core team. We have...
 I've been diligently working together as a group for over a year now. We've been meeting monthly. We've also, some members of the Mount Tabor folks have also been meeting monthly with other Water Bureau folks with the Mount Tabor Disconnect Project. So we've been having a lot of communications, and I wanted to just highlight
 I'll touch briefly on a few highlights in the report. I don't want to take too much time because I think John and Stephanie's words are important to say today. So from a communications standpoint, I think we have been communicating very well. We have developed a really good working relationship, and we are continuing to develop a good working relationship.
 Sorry, this mic is sounding funny to me. Anyway, we've been working together to try and develop or have a relationship where we can be honest and open and transparent with how we deal with each other, and I think we have achieved that. And I will let Stephanie and John confirm that in their testimony.
 I should say that my remarks follow the points that were outlined in the resolution. So the first point in the resolution was communications. We've also been working for the last year on a water management plan.
 Part of the resolution said that we had to maintain 85% level of water in the reservoirs after they were disconnected. That poses a challenge for the water barrel. We've never dealt with managing non-potable water sources before.
 So for a year we've done water quality testing, we've developed a draft water management plan to help us understand better how we're going to manage that water. We are hoping to solicit feedback from our neighborhood partners within the next few weeks now that that draft plan has been put together. The plan is a work in progress.
 because over this next year we are going to be testing how well we can manage that water in order to maintain some level of water quality and to be sustainable in our practices. So how that works out over the next year is still yet to be determined, but we will be working with the Tabor folks and also with environmental services to make that happen.
 So from the standpoint of the Historic Preservation Project itself, we have done a significant amount of work over the last year. I know it's probably not apparent yet, but we started off with hiring the original author of our 2009 Historic Structures Report. We updated and amended the Historic Structures Report and developed a list of extremely high-priority projects together with the neighborhood. We've also...
 Along with that, we've hired a historic preservation consultant. They just received notice to proceed, and so we are chomping at the bit to get going with design work and to get projects out the door. We're also moving forward with replacing the chain-link fence that protects the dam face between Reservoir 5 and Reservoir 6.
 This was put up in the 90s and has certainly been a source of irritation for the neighborhood out there because it is not historically compatible with the reservoir historic features. We are moving forward with getting that out to bid in the next couple months and we'll be replacing that fence with something that's more historically compatible.
 I'd want to touch a little bit on our budget. We had requested and received a budget last year, and we're only going to spend about a third of that budget, and we've requested carryover. For this coming fiscal year, we've requested about $1 million, because between the carryover and the request for this coming fiscal year, we would be able to carry out the first list of the top priority projects, which is about $1.3 million.
 We know that there have been questions about why we have not expended all of the funds from this fiscal year, and I just want to say that we've been working really hard to do the planning-level effort necessary to get to where we are today, to where we can get a design professional on board and start putting bid packages together. Thank you.
 Although it may not look like we've been doing much. We've actually been working hard and done a lot of preparatory work to get to This point we have a lot of momentum so we're hoping that our funding requests will be approved and that we can continue with doing the the projects that we have been working on and I Thank you very much for allowing us to come to you today, and I'm going to turn it over to John and Stephanie So yes, thank you. I
 Thank you all for allowing us to be here today. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and the commissioners, for your time. We're actually really happy to be here to be able to tell you about the productive partnership we've built between the community and the Bureau over the last 21 months. We're proud to be able to tell you that we've poured hundreds of hours of great work into this project, and we're also here to celebrate the fact that with the Council's leadership,
 And thanks to the determination and diligence of those of us sitting at this table together with many others, we really have succeeded in taking what was a bitter legal confrontation between the community and the Water Bureau from that very contentious point and building what is now a very good and positive and, in fact, rewarding relationship. And finally, we're pleased to be able to come before you in person to tell you about the enormous momentum that we've built together
 After more than a year and a half of deliberate and methodical preparation, this partnership between the community and the Water Bureau is now poised to launch a well-considered and fiscally prudent suite of carefully planned projects. It took 14 long years to get to this point where we're all sitting at this table together. And while we won't retell that story,
 saga. I'm sure Commissioner Fish is happy that we don't want to go into that. We all have scars. We all have scars. But we do want to provide some context for the written report that you have before you today. This report is the second written report we've made to the council and it takes you through the last 12 months of our activities and the resulting work products. And
 Two years ago, just about exactly two years ago, the Water Bureau and the community were at loggerheads over the future of the Mount Tabor Reservoirs, and we were caught in a legal battle that no one wanted, but that no one seemed able to avoid. And we were on the brink of that legal battle, continuing on to Luba and perhaps beyond. Then, at your request, at the request of many members of the City Council, a small handful of us,
 Teresa Elliott and David Schaff and Stephanie and myself and a few other members of our community sat down together to talk. And after a long and arduous and stressful negotiation, and to everyone's surprise, including our own, we succeeded in hammering out a compromise solution, the solution that is embodied in Council Resolution 37146.
 And that solution, as you know, was definitely a compromise. By no stretch of the imagination did the community get everything it wanted, nor did the Bureau get everything it wanted, but we had found a path to avoid continuing litigation and to an exit strategy from that difficult situation and a path that we sincerely hoped would work for both the Bureau and the community going forward.
 But that solution required that everyone on both sides of this take a leap of faith to trust the agreement that we had reached. And it required that we all set out on that path in a spirit of goodwill. And the fact is that we all did that. We looked past our historical animosity.
 and we suspended our skepticism and we worked very hard to work together. It has not always been easy, but we have been far more successful than I think we anticipated or, frankly, than council anticipated.
 We talk about this a lot. It's evidence, we think, for what can be accomplished to heal this kind of a rift between a city bureau and members of the community when people sit down in a spirit of goodwill to talk with each other instead of talking past each other. And I will say that we built in these reports when we were negotiating the solution. We and the water bureau leaders built in these reports because we thought it would be a way of...
 coming back to a neutral arbitrator if we were struggling with each other. And that's manifestly not the case. We actually have built a very good working relationship. And we particularly want to thank you, Commissioner Fish, and you, Commissioner Fritz, for your leadership on this situation and for your trust in us and for all of your support in helping to make this process possible.
 I'll get it soon. That's very kind of you to say, and I just want to, because we have two new members, I want to acknowledge that
 We invited Commissioner Fritz to come into this conversation, and she could have said no. She had a million other things on her plate, but we felt her partnership was necessary, and I think of the number of things that ended up coming together to help us get to this point, I think Amanda agreeing to step into the controversy and partner with the Water Bureau was crucial, as was what you described, I think, which was the importance,
 your willingness to sit down and do the face-to-face negotiations with the Bureau without people there to monitor it and to see if you could reach a deal. And those were two parts of the process which I learned a lot from. But I want to acknowledge that Amanda's participation, in my view, was crucial. Absolutely. We would say the same. So I'll turn it over to Stephanie. Hello. Hello.
 So 21 months ago, we came to council and presented you with an elegant solution to what seemed to all of us to be an intractable problem. Our solution did not involve a costly redesign of the site. It did meet the requirements imposed by multiple levels of local, state, and federal authority.
 regulations for historic resources and it dealt with that shared responsibility we all have to care for publicly owned historic resources and public spaces. That solution recognized that the Water Bureau must continue to own this site because the pipes beneath it are essential to the drinking water system. It honored the city policy that capital assets must be maintained and we want to be clear about this last point that
 It's the most cost-effective solution for achieving all of the above. You applauded that solution, and you sent us away with the charge to keep working to make more solutions and to keep this solution viable. And we've taken that charge seriously, garnering from other people and investing ourselves literally hundreds of hours of free labor.
 We too, John and myself, volunteer in our community because we value public service and civic engagement. And we are here working on this specific issue, as we have been for years, because protecting a park benefits a wide cross-section of Portlanders. But we are also participants in a long history of civic engagement in which residents of all the neighborhoods around Mount Tabor have worked to secure that space as a park to benefit all Portlanders.
 As you move into budget season, we hope you will support the momentum we've developed and help us build upon it. Postponing the funding would mean getting less value for the dollars spent. Postponing the funding would be devastating given the logistics of construction contracting. Postponing the funding would damage the trust we've built with our constituents.
 And we hope that your acceptance of this report signals your continuing support of this hard-won partnership between the public and the Bureau. And thanks for having us today. Thank you. Any further questions for this panel? Is there any public testimony?
 No one signed up. Very good. I'm going to move to accept the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fish. I got it right this time. Thank you for the report. And this is a joint report. It's not written by either party. It's jointly submitted.
 And I appreciate that. Thank you, John and Stephanie, for the history lesson and also for your gracious comments about the state of the relationship because that means a lot to the people who I have the honor of working with, that we have developed such a strong partnership. And this was intended to be a place where if things were getting off track, you would tell us. So that is, I agree with you, that is the value of this forum.
 I feel very strongly that we have to honor the commitment we made. And if one were to look at this in the abstract, one might reach one conclusion. But having lived through the history and understanding how much effort went into this, what kind of compromise this represented, and how important it was in terms of securing broad support for this path forward, I think we must honor the commitment we've made.
 And so that's my commitment as a commissioner. But we greatly appreciate the partnership, look forward to future reports, and we especially look forward to when the work is completed. And we have restored the historical integrity of beautiful reservoirs and that it becomes a place where future generations come with some pride and look back on an important chapter in our history. Thank you both. Thanks to the team. Hi. Eudalie? Eudalie?
 Thank you for the report. As you know, this whole ordeal predates my arrival on council, and I'm going to go back and read council resolution number 37146 just to give myself a little more grounding. I'm happy to hear that it was the most cost-effective solution because, as you can imagine, we have a lot of competing priorities in the budget this year and every year. Hi.
 I'm sorry, Fritz. Thank you very much for this report. Thank you for your comments, Commissioner Fish. I think your version is not exactly how I remember it. And we got to the right decision in the end. And I actually disagree with something you said, Mr. Larson. I was not surprised. As I wrote down, I was not surprised because I had trust that the process, the neighbourhoods, the good people at the Water Bureau, that when we were able to get you to talk to each other, that you would come up with a solution.
 What I was surprised by is when you had that solution at the land use appeal hearing because there had been a lot of concern that as judges in that decision, we should not know ahead of time what the Bureau and the neighbourhoods had been doing. So I think it was one of the most stunning moments at council for me when you came together and said, here's the plan and this is the agreement. We had the accompanying resolution about how we were going to take care of the neighbourhoods' concerns about the reservoirs.
 and that was fabulous it's one of the times Commissioner that I particularly appreciated your leadership and service on the council the other one I would have to say being in my first term, your first full term which was when you and I saved the ratepayers $500 million by persuading Commissioner Leonard not to build a filtration system in the Bull Run watershed and that too was a quite momentous vote which I shall cherish always and
 And indeed, I gave you the Spirit of Portland Award jointly, the Water Bureau and the Mount Tabor Neighbourhood Association, in 2015, in recognition that you had done the hard work, and I'm really happy to hear that you're continuing to be able to set a shining example. It would be a breach of good faith of the worst kind if the council doesn't continue to fund this. We did leave this open as to whether it should be rates or whether it should be general funds, so at some point in the future we might take a look at that. I'm committed this...
 budget cycle that the funding that's been requested to continue the good work should come out of the general fund and I will definitely support it with every breath I take. Thank you, Commissioner, you're daily for saying that you would look up the resolution and
 I almost would like to go back and look at the video because I'm sure my jaw dropped practically to the ground when you came in with the solution. It was fabulous. So thank you. It's good to know that we can trust our bureaus to do good things. We can trust our community to do good things. We can trust our neighborhood associations to be inclusive, to work for the good of everybody, and to speak up when some other people can't. So thank you. Aye. Wheeler.
 Hard work, great resolution. I just want to put a quick asterisk. By accepting the report, I am not accepting the budget request. That being said, I'm hearing what my fellow commissioners who fought this battle alongside of you have said, and the word of prior counsel does mean something to me, and so we'll work hard to make it work in the context of the budget. But I want to be clear.
 accepting the report for me is never an acceptance of any budget obligation. That's sort of my blanket statement. Thank you for your hard work on this, your volunteer hours. Commissioner Fish never ceases to amaze me with his diplomatic skills. It seems to run in his family.
 And – Let's be clear. My diplomacy in this case was to get out of the diplomacy. It was uniquely a deal struck by bureau leadership and by community leadership, and that's probably why it came together. A great general once said, know which battles to fight and know which ones to run from, and the second is probably the more important.
 Uh, commissioner Fritz, uh, why you would agree to jump into this is beyond me, but I'm glad you did. And it sounds like between you and commissioner fish, you were able to work very, very closely with the neighborhood organizations and, uh,
 hammer out a really great solution. So kudos to all of you for doing something really, really positive. Obviously, I'll vote aye, and the report's accepted. Thank you. And just as a point of information, Commissioner Saltzman also supported that measure. So I'm hopeful that we'll... Yes, thank you. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks. Next item. And our final item.
 Well, possibly. We had to pull. We didn't get to one item this morning. So it's our penultimate item. It is the penultimate item, a word often misused in the English language, but you got it right.
 Item 390, appeal of residents of the 937 condominiums against the noise variance granted to Bremick Construction to conduct six-day-long concrete pours with early morning setup for the hotel construction project located at 485 Northwest 9th Avenue. It's my understanding that Paul Van Orden is – oh, there's Paul right in front.
 Greetings, sir. If you want to kick us off, and then I've got the run of show here. Why don't I let people know?
 Just what the run of show is while Paul's getting that set up. So we'll hear. This is a formal hearings process. So we'll hear from the appellant for 10 minutes. We'll hear from supporters of the appellant for two minutes each. There is a sign-up sheet at the council clerk's desk.
 We will then hear from the principal opponent of the appeal. That's Paul, the noise control officer. That is a 15-minute segment. Other opponents of the appeal then have two minutes each. And again, you can sign up with Carla at the clerk's office. And then we have the appellant rebuttal segment.
 uh at uh after that for five minutes then council discussion as needed and i just want to be very clear for people these are not arbitrary time limits that i am establishing these are time limits that are established in code for formal hearings like this so with that mr van orden members of city council my name is officer paul you need to press the button
 Sorry about that. Members of City Council, my name is Officer Paul Van Orden. I'm the Noise Control Officer for the City of Portland. Today we have an appeal of a construction noise variance from Citizen Dave Mitchell and 22 members of the 937 condos at 937 Northwest Gleason.
 Two of the people listed on the original appeal have contacted the city and have asked to be removed from the appeal. After researching the specifics of the approved noise variance, these two folks are Miguel Fernandez and Alexander Wilmerding. And I handed an email to the council clerk just for the record. The construction noise variance appeal today and the flow of it has been laid out by the mayor. I was going to clarify that. The variance is being appealed today.
 The variance being appealed today relates to a construction project by Bremick Construction. After initially issuing a noise variance for a single concrete pour at 485 Northwest 9th to occur back in October of 2016, the contractor, Bremick Construction, misinterpreted the bounds of that variance and performed a concrete pour on March 16th, 2017. Okay.
 A new applicant from Bremer Construction had thought that they were covered under their existing noise variance and misinterpreted the variance and performed a pour on that date. The noise office responded to a concern from citizens, in particular one citizen, regarding the early morning pour on that morning and cited the construction company for that particular infraction. After the initial variance work occurred at that address,
 the noise office was able to have a meeting with bremick on wednesday march twenty second that a week later and met to discuss the parameters of their project at this location
 and came to an understanding of where the misinterpretation by the employee was in requesting a noise variance and misunderstanding that it was just for one date and was not for all the dates that they required for this particular project. And as we sat down and discussed the upcoming pours for the location, there were many pours on the plate, but there were six particular pours that clearly were going to operate today.
 for more than the allotted time in the city code for allowed construction activities. After meeting with the contractor, variance changes were submitted, and re-notification to all neighbors within two blocks was required under a modified noise variance or revised noise variance.
 along with the requirement to set up an email notification to any neighbors who want to specifically have regular details on the project and not just the overarching details of the variance. City Council has received materials, including a few emails and a copy of the revised variance, to which Mr. Mitchell and his neighbors have based their appeal. Thank you.
 I'll now step you through a little bit of background on the noise variance process and leave my further explanation of the concrete pouring processes and our variances for my 15 minutes after the principal opponent speaks. And so I'm not sure how I just hit start. Sorry, I'm a Mac guy. My apologies. Carla, what would we do without you? We're not there yet. We would get nothing done. Ah, there it is. Thank you. My apologies. No worries.
 Just for the record, the noise variance that we are speaking to today is 388951, and dash 001 denotes that it is a revised variance, not the first variance.
 The noise code for the city of Portland has delineated two different concepts for construction in the city of Portland. There are loud construction hours in the city of Portland, which occur from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Those are Monday through Saturday, and those allow construction companies the greatest flexibility in making noise up to 85 decibels.
 During those hours, there is also a concept that is sometimes lost and confusing, which is that outside of those construction hours for the city of Portland, you are able to operate and do construction, but you must meet the baseline standards for the city's noise code. And so it's very radically based on the specific land use and zoning pattern of a given neighborhood. But for the Pearl District where we are talking about today, we have an almost ubiquitous –
 zoning type that winds up translating into an industrial zoning for the noise code, which translates into 75 decibels normally at a neighboring property. When a complaint has been received daytime, that standard drops down to 70, and then after 10 p.m., that standard drops down additionally to 65.
 The second component in terms of background on noise variances is that the noise variance process for the city of Portland has two delineating layers. Larger projects like the rehabilitation of the Hawthorne Bridge or the Selwood Bridge are large projects that come before the city's noise review board. Complex projects come before the noise review board. Large outdoor events in Waterfront Park that do not have a history with the city, like the Pabst Blue Ribbon that has happened in the past or the Northwest Music Fest...
 Until they build a history that they can comply, they will appear before the Noise Review Board. Those are a small number of the variances we process annually. So in fiscal year 15-16, we processed 603 variances in the city. Ninety-six of those were for construction-related work.
 And of those variances, nine were noise review board-related construction variances, just as a little bit of background on our variance system. Can I ask a question? Yes. Because I'm living in a rental apartment now in the middle of a lot of construction, and I have a slightly different view of this issue now because of its impact on just our quality of life.
 Would you remind us, what's the reasoning behind allowing for one of the weekend days to exceed the noise levels, the Saturday 7 to 6? Because essentially for us, what that does is it constructively evicts us from our apartment on Saturdays. And remind me what the thinking is on that? Sure.
 So I hopefully I'm not going to be too off on the history, but when the noise code was written back in the early 70s by my predecessor, Dr. Paul Herman and the folks who worked on it, the concept was that that was an accepted practice at that time. And the city was much smaller. So you have to remember that at that point we were not seeing as many projects there.
 occurring onto Saturdays or occurring late into the evening. So the concept that was delineated in the city code was recognizing six days of construction. And as you may recall from some of our dialogues over the last few years, many cities are allowing seven days of construction. So at that point, I can't say what the pattern was in the United States, but we are definitely still ahead of the curve in terms of limitations on construction work in the city. Okay.
 in cities in the United States, but the thought process back then, I think, was that it wasn't an encumbrance on the community, primarily because the number of projects that are occurring into a Saturday are limited. Our patterns have clearly changed. And this is not the time and the place to address that, but I would like to follow up with you on this question and –
 whether what the pluses and minuses are today in our current context with cranes on every corner of allowing Saturday construction, also whether the hours of 7 to 6 still make sense. I actually think there's a big difference whether it was moved to, say, 9 o'clock, so you've got a decent night's sleep rather than being woken up at 6 o'clock.
 early for construction. But that, I'd like to get your thoughts outside this forum. Okay, beautiful. And I should just clarify, questions from the council, when there's questions, Carla stops the clock. So it's not taking away from appellant or opponent time. I just want to be very clear about that. I think that we lost a minute when the technical hitch...
 to jump into the actual process of reviewing noise variances. Within city code, Title 1814.020 delineates that variances, Section D, the review of an application and its merit shall include consideration of at least the following. One, the physical characteristics, times, and durations of the emitted sound. Two, the geography, zone, and population density of the affected area. Three, whether the public health, safety, and welfare is impacted or,
 Four, whether the sound source predates the receivers, meaning the residential neighbors. And five, whether compliance with the standard or provisions from which the variance is sought would produce hardship without equal or greater benefit to the public. And finally, six, an applicant's previous history, if any, of compliance or noncompliance. And so in this particular case, all of those measures were looked at,
 What I wanted to just outline before I walk through a concrete pour in my 15 minutes is just a little bit of background on the unique challenges that we face with concrete pours in the City of Portland. The duration of setup time, actual concrete pouring, and the finish time, the finish of the concrete, can often well exceed the 11 hours within the City Code to operate from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., so we have to be sensitive of that concern. Okay.
 We have had a very unusual year this year with weather, between the snow impacting the construction industry and one of the wettest marches on record. So weather issues with precipitation, including snow, impact the ability to schedule pours. Transportation challenges, such as some of the requirements with light rail alignments or in cases where you have limited access, can impact how we're going to operate a particular concrete pour.
 The availability of concrete product in such a giant construction boom, the availability of people who actually finish the concrete, and the availability of specialized equipment such as the pump trucks can play a big factor in the process.
 And finally, just as a note, although this was not the factor in this particular part of the variance, the initial pours, hot weather limitations do play an impact on the projects because of cure times and also the sensitivity of trying to get in and get the project done so workers are not out in an entire day of hot weather potentially facing heat stroke issues. So we also take that into consideration.
 And so I want to leave my actual explanation of an average concrete pour for my 15 minutes, but I wanted to make sure I mentioned to Council for part of this process, I want to ask Council to please take a tentative vote today to guide staff in preparing a written order for Council's adoption at the next meeting of the direction you'd like to offer us.
 I ask that you continue the matter next week for a final vote, and we'll circulate a draft of the order consistent with your tentative vote to counsel and to the appellant. So I just wanted to mention that and give the appellant an opportunity to present their case. May I ask a question? Please. You mentioned about concrete finishing. What is that? Okay.
 After they've actually poured the concrete, they can't just walk away from it. They actually have to put a finish on it, and there are several machines they use. You may have seen on large construction sites, it almost looks like a hovercraft that they sit on, and they basically move around and make sure there's a consistent finish.
 It is not a quiet operation, but it is definitely quieter than some of the other components of the construction operation. So that is the final phase after all the concrete is actually poured, especially on flat deck situations that we're talking about, not the columns and not the facade walls. So that happens before the concrete is set or after the concrete is set? Yeah.
 Well, I guess technically, I will let Remick tell me if I'm wrong in this, but the concrete is still curing. So at that point, you know, it's hard enough to do the finished work, but it hasn't fully formed to the point where it's, you know, a finished product. So it's...
 I mean, some of it is happening as they're actually pouring. They're starting to work on the finishing element. And then after you see a fully poured slab, let's say, or deck, then they're working to get that nice finish. And in this case, I believe this is a building that will rely on the final product to be the actual product that people walk on. So they have to be extra sensitive of the finishing approach. So what I'm hearing is that the whole process takes longer than...
 They couldn't start later in the day if they were going to be able to finish it the same day. Is that correct? I'm sorry, say that again.
 The option of starting later doesn't work because the whole process takes longer than a business day. Is that correct? That's part of the factor. Part of the other issue is the supply of concrete is an industry standard that they focus on primarily supplying early in the day. So one of the concepts on the table for council is if we're looking to require folks to pour and go late into the evening...
 then we need to work to make sure the noise office is in a comfortable position to require an industry that is historically focused on supply at the early end of the day because they're getting the concrete poured, and then the finish point is when they're no longer having concrete trucks come in. Thank you. Could I ask a clarifying question? I just want to make sure I understand this. So they're asking for six days to extend the current time
 Yes. For this reason that Commissioner Fritz just laid out. And to ensure in the particular pores that I'll lay out in my 15 minutes, they are under the gun...
 On an average project, to finish in that timeline, if they run into any challenges, it gets to be an even longer time frame, such as a pump truck gets clogged. Okay, and I understand that. I'm sure they'll tell us some other challenges as well. But at the core, what you're asking this council to arbitrate is whether or not we should give them those six days –
 a variance to the current noise codes. Yes. Is that what you're asking us for? Yes, that's correct. Are those six days in a row or six days total over some period of time? They're over an extended period, but they seem to be operating fairly consistently. Within about a week and a half, two weeks, they get a deck finished, and they're starting on the next use of the noise variant.
 Okay, and this is coming to council because these always come to council, or is this coming to council because you haven't been able to reach an agreement, or why is this coming to council? The construct, and I may be off on this and the city attorney may need to clarify, but since the noise variance process is a quasi-judicial process,
 when the noise control officer or the noise review board make a determination, the community has a right to appeal that determination. And so we don't see many construction noise variance appeals, but members of the council who have been here for a little while may recall that now that we're becoming an actual city and we have density, we're starting to see more of these. So that's the reason for us to be before council. So they're going to ask us for an appeal, and then you're going to talk for 15 minutes on why you don't think we should agree to that.
 Yes, that's correct. Okay, good. So I won't interrupt, and I'll let people get about their business. Thank you. Thank you. So next up, it looks like David Mitchell, representing the 937 condos, and Mary Seip from the Livability and Safety Committee of the Pearl District, assuming I got that correct. Very good. And according to this, you have ten minutes to use however you'd like. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hit the green button on your microphone there, on the plate there. It is on now? It needs to light up green. Is it green? It's green. Is it green? Okay. Oh, no, yours is blue. Oh, there you go. Okay. Great. Thank you. For the third time, my name is Dave Mitchell. And my wife and I have been residents of the Pearl District since moving to Portland from San Diego some eight years ago. Although I still work part-time, most of my days are spent as a volunteer with various community organizations.
 I firmly believe that the most effective way to influence the quality of life of one's community is to be actively engaged in helping shape events and outcomes, not simply by being a silent spectator. In support of this belief, I serve on the board of the Pearl District Neighborhood Association. I chair the Neighborhood Association's Livability and Safety Committee.
 I serve on its Emergency Preparedness Committee. I put on my yellow vest with the Pearl District Foot Patrol and go out every two weeks. I serve on the board of the non-profit Friendly Streets Organization. I'm on our condo's HOA board, and I'm a member of the leadership council of PSU's Senior Adult Learning Center. I mention these involvements only to convey to you that I'm not some cranky old guy in the Pearl who's here to waste your time on some self-serving bone to pick. Today, I hope to seek...
 your help in maintaining an appropriate balance between the city's economic interests and the livability concerns of the 8,000-plus people, including my wife and myself, who make the Pearl District our home. As anyone who lives in our neighborhood knows all too well, the exceptional level of construction activity in our neighborhood is absolutely without precedent in this city's history, with more than 20 high-rise buildings now in the pipeline, 20 in less than one-half a square mile.
 At the risk of understatement, the impact of all these projects going on simultaneously has truly tested the patience of all of us who live in the Pearl. We endure daily doses of early morning equipment deliveries, dust, diesel fumes, truck traffic, jackhammering, pile driving on certain projects, and sidewalk and street closures that go on for as long as 18 months per project.
 To get right to the point, I'm here as a representative of 22 fellow residents of the 937 condo building that's located directly across Northwest Gleason Street from the site of the Canopy by Hilton Boutique Hotel that's been under construction since early last summer. We who have signed this appeal...
 to the noise variants readily acknowledge that we live in Portland's most densely populated area and we recognize that these intrusions are a natural byproduct of intense real estate development. We're all quite willing to accept this state of affairs, but only on the condition that the laws and ordinances that govern construction activity are properly and consistently enforced. However, there are occasions when lapses occur and exceptions are made in this enforcement,
 the result being disruptions that exceed what most thoughtful people would consider reasonable. Our appeal, which is described in the letter to you and the accompanying documents, concerns just such an untenable intrusion. Half of the units in our building, 57 to be exact, face the canopy construction site and only 55 feet separate our building from the canopy structure.
 Despite a few glitches, the Bremmick Construction Company has done an exemplary job of notifying us and other residential buildings as to what can be expected at their project in the next week or two. So to be clear, our issue is not with Bremmick, but rather with a specific decision made recently by the city's Noise Control Office.
 As background, on Thursday, March 16th, I was suddenly awakened at 5.15 a.m. when Bremmick began an extremely loud concrete pour without notifying residents such as us in the 937 building in advance, as they had promised to do from the get-go, and as they had on previous occasions when there would be unusual things occurring. I complained immediately in an email to Josh Ring, our condo's contact at Bremmick, and I emailed Paul Van Orden at 7 a.m. about this unannounced intrusion.
 Paul got right back to me in a 9.30 email. He asked me to provide details on the early morning pour, which I immediately did in an email that I got back to him at 11 o'clock. The following afternoon, Paul sent me an email confirming that Brehmic, in fact, did not have a waiver to conduct a pour before 7, and he encouraged me to complete the paperwork necessary to issue Brehmic a citation.
 Paul's email message to me also included the statement, quote, I am not looking to add more pours before 7 a.m. at this point, unquote. Paul then called me on the phone to iterate that it was not appropriate for contractors to conduct concrete pours before 7 a.m., and he again encouraged me to file the paperwork necessary to issue Brehmick a citation, which I did over the following weekend. I assumed this matter was closed.
 But then I and other residents of the 9-3 condos building received an email message from Josh Ring at Bremec on March 26th, which informed us that the Noise Control Office had just granted Bremec a waiver on March 23rd to engage in six concrete pours, two pours that could begin as early as 4 a.m. and four pours that could begin as early as 5 a.m. Needless to say, I was astounded at the Noise Control Office's reversal of what Paul had told me less than a week earlier.
 I immediately emailed him, expressing my dismay at his office's 180-degree reversal. He then emailed me back to report that he had granted the noise waiver after a private meeting with unnamed representatives from Bremerick. I then emailed Paul later that same day, expressing my serious objection to this waiver, and I told him I intended to submit an appeal to his office decision, which I proceeded to do with 22 other signatures to this appeal.
 In our view, this noise variance represents an unreasonable concession to Bremec, which comes directly at the expense of the right of many hundreds of people living within a block and a half of this construction site to simply be able to sleep until a normal wake-up time. The bottom line is that we have no quibble whatsoever with Bremec's right to conduct concrete pours beginning at the legal start time of 7 a.m. six days a week, which they did this last Saturday.
 although they started earlier. All we ask is that the regular hours of construction be adhered to and not modified to suit the logistical needs and challenges of the contractor. We respectfully request that you overturn this variance, thereby requiring that Bremer conform to the regular allowed hours of operation in its remaining four concrete pours. Thanks very much for taking the time to hear our position on this matter. And I now would like to ask Mary Seip...
 who chairs our noise subgroup of the Livability Committee on our PD&A for her comments. Thank you. Thank you, sir. So I guess I only have three minutes. So I'm going to kind of jump around here a little bit. First of all, let's be clear that the normal hours are from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. That gives an 11-hour window to start and complete this project. And what we're talking about is starts before 7 a.m. Okay.
 With the construction of the many high-rise buildings in the Pearl District, one of the loudest and most disruptive activities are these concrete pours. There will be as many as eight concrete trucks sometimes on site, as well as two big pump trucks. It sounds like a jet runway. In addition to the noise, the lights on the tower crane come on at 4 o'clock in the morning and shine into people's bedroom windows. So if you're not awakened by the noise, you will be awakened by the lights shining in your bedroom.
 I gave you each some packets of information, and in your packet you'll have a map. And if you look at the bottom right-hand corner of this map, you'll see where this project is located. And you'll also see the number of projects in our neighborhood that are literally surrounded by construction activities. I also gave you a list that I created here.
 giving the number of units in all of the buildings in the Pearl District area where we live. And that will give you some idea of the number of residents who are impacted by just this one project. And I highlighted in yellow the two buildings that are closest to this project. We're talking over 300 people. Okay.
 When you look at this permit as a standalone single event, it might not seem very significant. However, if you look at the number of projects and the number of residents that are impacted, it is a very significant event. When you also consider that on April 7th there was a –
 Noiseverius permit granted just a block away for overnight road work from 7 p.m. until 7 a.m. the following morning. So when are people supposed to sleep? In addition to the permit that's being appealed, Bremmick has been granted two other permits, giving them 4 a.m. concrete pours, 10 each on two other projects.
 In your packet are a number of, you'll see, a whole bunch of noise variance permits from various companies for 5 a.m. and 6 a.m. starts. So if these other companies can start at 5 a.m. or 6 a.m., why does Bremec have to start at 4? I'm running out of time here. Let me see what else I want to say before we give our rebuttal. Okay.
 Essentially what we're asking you to do is these pours are not taking the 13 hours. They're not even taking 11 hours. What we're asking is no more 4 a.m., no more Saturdays. Have them start at 7 and go until 8. Thank you. I have a question, if I may. Please. Could you tell me a bit more about the nature of the noises? You said it's like a jet runway. Yeah. Have you ever stood near a concrete truck with its...
 Things spinning? Yeah. Okay. Eight of those sometimes are on site. And then in addition to that, there's these two. In fact, I have some photos at the very back of your – it's not a very good one. But at the very back, last two pictures in your packet, the first one with all the blue lines on it, that's when they started on Saturday morning.
 And you will see in front of those two, there's two concrete trucks, the yellow ones, and in front of it is the pump. And sometimes they have two pumps going on these. The second photo is at 3 o'clock that afternoon. The spreaders and the finishers were gone. They were loading up their equipment and leaving when I arrived at 3 o'clock.
 So part of your contention is that it doesn't take over 11 months? A lot of it depends upon how many yards of concrete they're going to pour. You know, not every job. And when we have, you know, I have a number of examples. I've observed over 20 buildings and concrete pours on them in the last 17 years outside my window and around the neighborhood. And, you know, it's the exception, not the norm. Yeah.
 that I've observed. And I can, I will, when we have our chance to rebuttal, I have some exact, you know, some examples that I can give you and I can also give you copies of, of the details that I have. Thank you. This is very helpful. I can only liken the noise to a garbage truck when it's compressing all of the trash, which usually goes on for 15 or 20 seconds. You extrapolate that over eight hours. That's what it sounds like. Thank you.
 And I also did take some noise meter readings on Saturday, and they were around 90 decibels across the street from the project. So that will also give you some idea. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, supporters of the appellant two minutes each.
 I'm sorry, I only had one sign-up sheet. A couple I'm pretty sure where you're at. Scott Schaefer, are you? This is for supporting the appeal. Is this the one you want to? Okay. What about Melissa Stewart on the Noise Review Board? Are you supporting? Sorry. Okay. I'll call you in the next. So Desi Wright, if you support the appeal? Okay. Wrong. What about Carrie Stanley? You're probably? Okay. Thank you.
 And I'm sure Josh Ring is with Remix. Okay. It looks like we don't have any other supporters of the appeal here. Okay. Very good. It's not necessary. Next is the principal opponent of the appeal. That would be the noise control officer. You have 15 minutes. Okay.
 So, Paul, can I jump in for a second? Yes. Because we have a lot of regard for the work you do, and you make lots of presentations to council. So a couple of things I just want to make sure I understand. What is the principal rationale for extending the hours? Is it cost? Is it convenience? Is it cost?
 ultimately to reduce inconvenience by expanding? How would you describe the principal public benefit here of expanding those hours?
 Well, that is a little bit challenging because the layers of factors in making the determination, but I would say the overarching element is getting the project done so it's not dragging on for an extended period and balancing that out by being realistic when we have an element such as these pours that may not realistically be able to happen in just 11 hours. And so just I'm going to give you an analogy.
 When we do some work in neighborhoods where we rip up the roads and replace pipes for the water bureau and VES, we'll sometimes ask people, would you like us to work in the evenings if it means a shorter construction cycle, or do you want us to go in the normal cycle and spread the disruption over? So we give people a voice in that. And there's tradeoffs.
 but generally we try to take the temperature of the community. In an instance like this, what's the proper measurement of – who do we measure the community will on that for purposes of deciding whether the inconvenience to people of having longer pours is outweighed by the benefit of maybe a shorter construction schedule? That's a hard answer, but I think part of the challenge is when you're looking at all of the work that's happening in the Pearl –
 There is so much work going on that trying to figure out how we minimize the number of days that we're doing this is definitely the primary motive on the table. And in this particular location, looking at six mornings, early mornings of work was deemed a reasonable factor for the size of this project.
 and also just looking at the mitigating circumstance that I'm really not in an easy position to force them to do it at night relative to the safety factors, the supply factors, the weather. And that's why, I mean, if you look at this particular variance, I offered two dates to start early, not six dates.
 Looking at all the challenges they've been facing with weather, they are literally sometimes scheduling things within a day based on the weather for that individual day. It's that complex. It's literally down to sometimes only a few days out. They're notifying neighbors. So it's not the greatest situation for us to approve it in terms of trying to balance everything. One last question, and sorry to cut it. It's not cutting into your time, but did the Pearl District Neighborhood Association formally take a position?
 I am not aware of them formally taking a position. I checked with one of their representatives. We might have to check with the appellants if they feel that they have a sign-off from the Pearl District that they're on the appeal. Okay, I guess one other question, if I could. Is this – you come to us with lots of interesting kind of livability issues. In your judgment, is our decision on this more art or more science? Yes.
 It's a little bit of both. I would actually say it's more art in the sense because it is hard to say unequivocally that there are not health impacts to approving these operations. So this is uniquely one where it's within our good judgment to try to make our decision? Yes, aside from the duration of the pour and then the factors of why they start early in terms of the supply, the equipment availability...
 So I want to take a moment and just walk council through two pours relative to Bremec. One is the one on the 16th when they had an infraction with the city and received a citation. And the one that I will start with was a recent one on March 30th. And so you will see in this photo from the construction site that there is a pumper truck that may be hard to see right in the center of the picture in the street.
 with a green line going down, which is the actual mechanism for pumping. And it is arriving and getting ready to set up at 4.11 a.m. Concrete trucks are already starting to offload material at 5.11. You can see two trucks backed up to the pumper, and they are already in operation or offloading and getting the pumper ready to start spreading the material. And we move to 2 p.m. The deck pour is finished.
 So the main part that we are trying to get accomplished in a day, just because the sheer volume, the number of yards of concrete, is finished at 2 p.m., and the crews are now starting to pour the core and sheer walls. So they may be hard to see, but if you see kind of an orange safety fencing material on the roof, those are the areas, and then you see several columns that they are pouring at that point. And so they're starting to set up in that work. Okay.
 and we move forward on the 30th to the end of the day, 5.45 p.m. The concrete columns are just finished, and you can see a truck that is getting ready to leave in the picture, and it's leaving for the day. So you can see when we are looking at an average construction, and I won't say average because they can vary, but when you're looking at examples of why we approved this particular variance, you see that they are pushing...
 well past the 11 hours to complete the project within the confines of the allowed construction hours for the city. And so just a few summary notes on the 30th, the project work time was 14 plus hours on the pour. When I say the word pour, I do mean not only the setup time, the pouring time, and the actual finishing time.
 And it's important to note that on this particular project, no specific challenges were noted in terms of blocked bumper trucks, which can be quite a challenge on projects. The weather worked with them on this pour, and there were no worker injuries that would have slowed down the situation. So we actually had an optimal situation to get this done in 14 hours.
 And so I want to move back to the date when I actually issued a citation to Bremec for the 16th. On this particular date, we're at 530 in the morning. The concrete pumper is setting up. Move forward to 630. By 630, we've got the concrete trucks backed up, and they're starting to pour into the form or into the deck, I should say.
 We are looking at 4 p.m., and at this point, the concrete deck is finished, and they're starting to pour the columns and shear wall, so you can see we're running a little bit further behind than the last project. And by 6 o'clock p.m., you see the last truck coming.
 We've captured just leaving the site, and it's actually a little later than 6. It's 6.05, technically. The last truck is leaving, and again, we're looking at, just as a summary, project work time on this particular one was about 13 hours. They were lucky, again, that they did not face any blocked pumper trucks or weather issues slowing down the project.
 And, you know, after misreading the permit language, the applicant did come in and go through the process to get the variance properly rectified. And they did receive a citation for not having a proper variance in order for this particular date. So I wanted to just say real quick on some of the notes from the appellant. I would not characterize the phone call as inappropriate.
 that they were not going to potentially receive a variance. I said that it was not appropriate to operate without a variance and that they would be cited. So my encouragement of the citizens to give us information to issue citations is the important factor there to make sure that people feel empowered that we're going to take action. So I do not feel that it would be a fair characterization that I was saying I would absolutely not issue variances. I think it was a characterization on my part that I wanted to be
 responsive to the issue and make sure that the contractor knew that we were serious. The second component is we're not having private meetings. I call them in, I sat down with them,
 We have had lots of discussions in the past with folks in different neighborhoods that they want to be at some of these discussions. I don't know that it's possible with three and a half staff in the noise office to do that on every case. The large projects that we have come before the noise review board, we definitely have a very robust discussion with neighbors. So one of the challenges the city is facing currently is with so much development,
 we are definitely in a position where the noise office is trying to examine how we adapt to all this construction. And the Noise Review Board has done a wonderful job of putting a –
 construction work group together to examine how the city will move forward with all of our partners in our main partner agencies like ODOT and PBOT and VES, as well as our private construction projects to figure out how do we do this and incorporate notification and community involvement. And so I wanted to just note for a final summary for council,
 The noise office always first seeks solutions to nighttime construction. We're not rushing to allow people. It is not a matter of their convenience. Noise variances seek to adapt as best as possible to several unpredictable factors in the development process, such as weather, the temperature, the length of time to complete a given job. The noise office tries to work very efficiently with 3 1⁄2 staff to serve the entire community, so one of our challenges is we do have to weigh...
 how many meetings we can have on a given variance to ensure that we are responding to the entire community. And construction noise impacts are just one small part of the work efforts in the noise office. Construction variance is...
 historically garner few complaints, and the reason is that we do, by notifying the public, there are opportunities for a dialogue like we had with Mr. Mitchell to respond and try and solve the problem. It is not a perfect scenario when you are impacting people's lives and they're trying to sleep, and that's the big challenge on the table, is how do we best balance that particular factor. May I ask you a couple of questions? Yes. I'm sorry, is that the end of your presentation? Yes. I assumed it was, but I was...
 That was presumptuous of me, so I apologize. 4 a.m. seems early. What are the consequences of starting, you know, finding a compromise? Excuse me, Mayor, is your mic on? Weirdly enough, it is. Thank you, Carla, for being so good in that. Yes, that really was.
 Thank you. So as a clarification, the variance is written so the two dates where they can start at 4 a.m., those are not the full operation. That's showing up with the pumper truck. That's getting all of the material set up. So there are some activities that make noise, but it's not the loudest part of the operation. So we recognized...
 within the confines of the six pores that they were asking for, that they would potentially have some challenges with weather and other issues that it may necessitate reasonably two dates to start a little bit early. We could push those back. It just may mean their selection of dates may get narrower based on weather in terms of finding dates to squeeze in those pores. I'm just trying to find a compromise here. Between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m.,
 I'm still sort of trying to figure out why this is here, to be honest with you. So if they were to begin setup at 5 a.m. an hour later, when would the noise start? At 6 a.m.? 6 a.m., which is what we did with the four ports. Okay. And if you start at 6 a.m. with the loud part, when does it finish? Okay.
 They will work as best as possible based on the weather conditions to get done by 6 p.m. As we can see in the one date where they were just finishing a little bit after 6 p.m. Okay, so loud noise between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., and I get the Saturday thing that Commissioner Fish raised, but if those are weak, is that a huge inconvenience to move it back an hour?
 You know, I don't think it's a huge inconvenience. I do think it may be wise, if counsel moves in that direction, to give a little more time on the tail end to ensure that the contractor's not set up for failure if they're running longer, like we saw, that they will be going until, let's say, 7 p.m. Well, weirdly enough, I'm wondering if there isn't a variance that you could work out with the appellant that, you know,
 they would be amenable to. In other words, slightly later in exchange for more sleep on the front end or something like that. That's all I'm asking. Then just Idiot's Guide to Concrete Pouring because I really don't know anything about it. I assume it is imperative that once you start the concrete pour on a floor, you must finish the floor, or is that something that could be broken out over more than one work day? The guys are shaking their head. Yes, I'm an idiot. Okay, very good.
 So I assume the answer to that is yes. Yes. It needs to be completed once you begin it. Okay, very good. Thank you. Well, I just want to second the mayor's comment because I think there is a difference between starting too early and starting later and maybe being more flexible at the back end. Now, I'd have to hear from the neighbors, but I just know from my own experience and where I live, it's garbage trucks. Surprisingly, actually, it's leaf blowers that are now incredibly noisy. Okay.
 and other vehicles. And if your sleep is disturbed at 4 o'clock in the morning, that actually impacts your whole day, and I can give you chapter and verse on that. If someone starts setting up at 5, but the noise doesn't start at 6, that's qualitatively different to me. And, Mayor, you know, one of the options we're going to have here is to encourage the parties to...
 see if they can work that out. We don't actually have to decide it if we wanted to give them a week to see if they could work that out along the lines that you've suggested, if there's a consensus on the council. Well, I'm just trying to figure out why it would be a problem. I'm listening to the issues, and so far what I've heard is noise early in the morning, lack of sleep. I'm hearing that your representation of what the construction company needs is a solid full day. And I hear what you're saying with regard to timing, weather,
 no other problems like clogs, injuries on the job, that sort of thing. This doesn't seem like the parties are that far apart to me. The other thing is the road appears to be blocked when they do the pours. So we don't have a situation here where it's got to be unblocked at 5 o'clock to address traffic concerns. We've already created an enormous inconvenience by having that road closed. So we're really talking about if there was an iron law that you needed 11 hours to do a pour.
 just to take that as an example, or 12 hours or whatever. It seems to me we're talking about where's that shifting line. And I'll tip my hand on this. I think 4 o'clock is too early. And the question is, is it less of an impact if we moved it later? That may end up costing the construction company a little more with work after 6, but that's less important to me than the quality of life impact. I could use some clarity, though, because in the letter from...
 David Mitchell and the residents. It says, simply put, our objection is to Bremex right to initiate this activity any earlier than 7 a.m., but I believe in the testimony you made some kind of concession that perhaps a little earlier would be. I'm not sure. Would they come? I'm sorry. Yeah, I think you have to come back to the— This all has to be on the record, so if you want to— Sorry. The commissioner can certainly ask a question, but you have to answer into the microphone if you'd like. You don't have to.
 Very good. And if you could state your name again for the record, thank you. Yes, Dave Mitchell, our position, we would be very pleased to revert to the standard loud noise commencement at 7 a.m. Monday through Saturday with equipment set up beginning at 6 a.m., which is the existing law. That's all we're asking is to conform to that. There is no objection on the part of the appellants toward a concrete pour that runs later today.
 I mean, that's everyone's up. You're around. You're having dinner. That's not as big a deal as a 4 a.m. or a 5 a.m. wake-up call when your ordinary wake-up is perhaps a little later. Commissioner Fish. Paul, are we going to hear from Bremeck? Is that the name of the Bremeck construction? Yes. Are we going to hear from them and have an opportunity to ask them what the impact is of a couple of options that we're clearly considering? Sure.
 Yes, most definitely. Because I think that's the missing piece right now is to understand that dynamic. And, Councils, it's quarter five. We have one other item, and my guess is the Council is going to start getting grouchy. So I would love to hear if that's part of your presentation, hear from the contractor just to give us a little 101 on what they can and can't do. Yes, they are definitely signed up to be one of the folks to talk for 10 minutes. And what's the standard end time schedule?
 It's 7 a.m. to? 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. are the normal loud construction hours. So the big challenge, just as a clarification to Dave Mitchell's comment, our expectation would not be set up starting at 6 a.m. without a noise variance. We would expect you to be doing that work starting at 7 a.m. So the standard hours for the city of Portland for loud activities.
 Even the setup can be a bit loud at times is 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. So I think Dave was saying that he would be willing to accommodate the setup starting at 6, but that would definitely be something we'd wind up writing into a noise variance because it would be outside of the city. So that would still constitute a variance? Yes. Very good. Okay. That's put in clarity. So the parties are at least moving.
 Moving. Good. All right. So you get to use your 15 minutes however you'd like, and I show you have eight minutes and ten seconds left. You know, the way I think we've set ourselves up with the noise board members and Bremmick is they're prepared to even speak for two minutes during the open time for their testimony. But if it's easier to have them start coming up now, either way I think it's fine for council. Because I think I've finished the 15 minutes I need. Okay.
 We might as well have them up now, and I'm sure there will be questions. And then this way they're not subjected to a two-minute limitation. And since you're effectively representing their interests, I don't see any problem unless legal counsel sees a procedural issue. Great. Should I stay up here or should I sit back down? Why don't you stay? Okay. That way if we have any questions, you don't have to walk around. Come on up, whoever's representing Bremen.
 Thanks for being here, and if you could state your name for the record. My name is Josh Ring. I'm the project superintendent for the Canopy Hill Project, representing Bremen Construction Company. Thank you, sir. Okay. I'm here just to be a technical voice about the operations that are taking place. I just want to state for the record that this is, and you've mentioned it before in some of the prior agendas, this is for an unprecedented construction period. There's quite a boom out there, and we all feel the burdens of that.
 We being boots on the ground, it's one of the major ramifications that we have is trying to organize these sites just around the demand of the industry. But secondly, we've received, and we're all victims of this, is 17 1⁄2 inches of rain just in the months of February and March. The actual number of days that constitute to dry days is only actually 10.
 That extremely narrows our window of opportunity to be able to conduct large pours like Paul had mentioned. And that window gets quite constrained when we're trying to jockey around the hours on which Mother Nature is actually going to give us a driveway window to pour in. So those are the reasons behind why we've asked for this early morning request. In a perfect world, really, we wouldn't use it. We can do a setup at 6 and pour at 7 o'clock. But Mother Nature is a finical...
 a finical person, and she likes to throw us curveballs. So that's the reason for the request and the reason for the early start. Now, granted, we've got over 20 pours left on this project. We're just asking for a variance on six. We've conducted two of the six so far. We only have four left. So we're getting close. Sir, can I just jump in for a sec? Yes, sir. You just helped me understand a critical part of this. You're backed up because of the rain. I get that. Mm-hmm.
 But does that mean, however, under the current rules without the variance, can you complete a pour within the hours that the law already provides you?
 Good question, Commissioner. In the current process that we use on our large deck pours, we are utilizing a window that's greater than 11 hours. So we are working either on the front end or on the back end outside of that 11-hour window. Okay. And does it matter to you whether you work outside that window at the back end or the early end? And if so, why? Okay.
 Our industry, and particularly in the concrete supply industry, is set up for early starts. They deal with large trucks. Traffic is a major factor. Getting at least the initial supply of the concrete to the construction projects is an integral process to get the pour started and to be able to start the clock in which the finish of the concrete, which is a natural ingredient, actually starts its curing process and becomes hard so that we can actually continue to work it and finish it.
 Does that become a cost issue, or is that just a fundamental logistics issue? Fundamental logistics issue. So if we fixed the traffic problems in Portland, we wouldn't be here. Okay, but you've heard the concerns raised by some neighbors, and frankly 4 o'clock is just very early, and it's very disruptive. If we were to...
 If, and I can't speak for my colleagues, but we're going to have to deliberate, but if we were to decide to give you a variance, but we were to backload it, not frontload it, would that still be a win for you? The issue has to deal with when is the opportunity going to be the dry weather window that we're seeking. It's something that we can't control. It's a variable we can't control.
 largely it's, we'd like to start early, we get done earlier. We can get the processing cleaned up and gone sooner. It's difficult to say. But that's in the weather. I mean, there are days when it's clear early and not late and vice versa. I mean, so that really, how does that dovetail with the weather? If the forecast lands on our poor dates and it's determined that it's going to be obviously –
 Weather coming in the front side of the project, then that's a delayed day for us. We have to look for the next window of opportunity to do so. In a busy industry, we're all fighting over the same day, and that's where the challenges really lie. There's multiple projects trying to do the same thing we're doing, all fighting for the same dry weather window. That puts a heavy burden on the concrete supply providers, and there's four major providers here in the Portland Marketplace.
 and they're struggling with the process. They're just trying to keep up, so they try to spread the load or the demand across the entire window of the day, depending on what processes and who's pouring and what attributes are going on. They do tend to schedule the slab or the deck pours, the processes that need to take the ample amount of time to finish, on the front side or the early side. So if our project was restricted in that window...
 It just means that we would probably likely miss another day and that opportunity given to another contractor. And who bears that cost in your business? Largely the contractors do, depending on how the contracts are set up with the clients. In some cases, if we're able to prove that it's a rain day and there's measurable rainfall, we're given a variance on our scheduled day, if that makes sense. Should I call the next person up?
 If that's the end of your presentation, we can go to the next group of people who are other opponents of the appeal. Great. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your time. Sorry? Yeah, thank you. So now we go to other opponents of the appeal, two minutes each. Okay. I have Scott Schaefer, Betsy Reese, and Melissa Steele.
 Stewart. And if you could please just state your name for the record again. Thank you. Scott Schaefer, representative of the Pacific Northwest Council of Carboners and Local 1503. Thank you, sir.
 Oh, go ahead. Thank you for having me today. I'm here to ask the city council not to repeal the noise variance. I've heard from you guys trying to understand how this works. The early morning is to start that pour to be able to get this concrete to set up. These decks are huge. The way these concrete decks are set up,
 takes a long time to be able to get to the point where they can finish it. That finishing process gets started to where they can start to pour the columns and they can pour the core elevator and the other walls. If we try and speed this process up, it becomes a safety hazard for all the workers that are there. There was a building up in, and a deck pour up in Seattle within the last month that collapsed. Luckily no one was hurt during this time. We need to make sure that
 Yes, the people need to be able to have some sort of relevant of sleep, but to be able to move on these projects like this within that time frame, it is really hard to get all that into one day in a safe manner. These workers are highly trained, and they know what they're doing, and that amount of time that it takes to do this project is the amount of time that it takes. Of course, like Josh was just saying, you have concrete companies that are trying to get the concrete out to you.
 If there's a hiccup in that, it takes a little bit longer. You're waiting on concrete. You have 20 guys sitting there trying to get it going. Once that process starts moving, they're trying to do it in the fastest, most quickest way possible. I mean, I'm here to be concerned about the workers and wanting to make sure that everyone goes home safe within a lot of time. Since you're the expert that we get to ask here, so the variance, it runs from 4 to 6, right?
 if the council decided to move it from five to seven? Doesn't that still meet your needs? I would assume. I don't speak for Bremmick. I speak for the workers of our labor pool with the council. Obviously, that extended amount of time would be able to do that, but as long as it's within a safe work environment, I can't really say that that would be yay or nay, but the later you get in the day,
 They get more tired and safety factors become an issue. Thank you. Good afternoon. Is my mic on? No. Could you push the button, please? Yes.
 Hi, my name is Betsy Reese, and I'm speaking today in support of issuing the permits, although I'm far from without empathy for the appellants. Over a 15-year period, I stood up for our 80-plus inner-city apartment tenants defending their right to peacefully enjoy their homes. Among the over one dozen protracted noise issues that we worked through during that time,
 Most were clear violations of the law, and we had a number of construction noise variances granted.
 Never once were my concerns dismissed. The Portland Noise Control Office, Paul Van Orden, helped empower me to resolve issues directly with our commercial and industrial neighbors or with construction contractors. He unwaveringly enforced the noise ordinance no matter who was on the other side of the conflict when we could not work it out.
 And yes, he did sometimes have to tell me that a noise variance was necessary for the progress of our city and for the greater good. For example, our building being on North Broadway, a major arterial, the Portland East Side Streetcar, was granted multiple variances for all-night work tearing up the street-laying streetcar rails.
 This is outside a historic building that does not have climate control on warm summer nights with open tenant windows. We and our tenants were grateful for the action that was taken to attenuate the noise and light disturbance that comes with these projects.
 And we were especially grateful for the heads up on the dates and times so that although we could not control it, the noise was at least predictable, making it easier to tolerate. To me, the overriding issue is our Portland Noise Control Office has no more staff today than it did in 1976 when it was founded. Thank you. Appreciate it. Was there a Melissa Stewart? Okay. And we'll go with Desi Wright. Desi?
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm just speaking for the Noise Review Board. I just simply want to make sure. Could you please state your name for the record? Oh, I'm sorry, Melissa Stewart. Thank you. I hope you understood that it's the size of the poor and –
 that's just part of the project that determines whether a variance is asked for. And typically it hasn't been a problem. And the chair delegates the responsibility to give the variance when it's asked for. As a matter of administrative facility, we don't usually get involved in it. And it's unfortunate that it has to come to you,
 to determine what happens with an appeal, but there's not a hearings officer to deal with it. So sorry if it's taking too much time, but we really don't have an appeal very frequently. So I hope you take that into consideration. Understood. Thank you. Commissioner? Just speaking for myself.
 These appeals give us a chance to hear issues in a structured form, which I actually find very helpful. And from time to time, I even recall Commissioner Fritz then pursuing legislative changes based on what we've learned. So while we should be apologizing to you for the time that we ask you to serve and then be here, we have the highest regard for Paul's work.
 But these are actually, I find these very helpful because I learn a lot about how we're getting these livability issues. We have the chance to hear from construction professionals and others. And our job is to balance a number of things. And I wouldn't want to have one of these every week. But this is, I find very helpful for the council in just understanding these issues and in essence trying to do justice, trying to find the middle ground.
 But thank you for your comments. Yeah, I want to second that. And to be clear, my comment was really I was fishing to understand what our role actually was here and where the breakdown was, if any, because as I was listening to the testimony, I was hearing what initially sounded like two parties who were not very far apart. So that was the only implication of the comments I made earlier. And I do appreciate your being here. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Desi Wright. I'm a resident of Sullivan's Gulch neighborhood, and also I'm a representative with the Northwest Regional Council of Carpenters. I'm actually the pile driver's representative. We also do concrete work as well.
 I just wanted to say, I mean, as a resident of Portland, I see the growing pains. And it's changed a lot just in the decade I've been in the Gulch. And we see it. And it's looking like it's going to keep going on for a few more years. As long as all these projects are in place.
 There's a lot of aspects that go into the timing, especially when you come into these big concrete pours. The availability to close streets is one thing that we run into. The availability to get concrete trucks. The availability to get workers. And, I mean, no...
 Normally in the construction industry, we start 7 a.m. until the job's done. It's not normally something where you go in and you punch a clock at 7 and you punch a clock at 3.30. We start and we're there until it finishes. I know that sometimes starting in the early morning hours is difficult, but also please keep in mind that a lot of our members do not live in Portland. We're seeking workers from all over Oregon to come help us build Portland right now.
 these are guys that wake up well before the sun comes up, drive an hour or two hours to Portland to work. And I'd just like you to keep in mind that these guys are up and out the door before their children wake up, and they are coming home right before their children go to bed. So if we push these poor to start back later, I mean, our members aren't going to be able to spend time with their families if this is the direction things go. Thank you.
 The last person I show is Kerry Stanley. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Oh, okay. I'm Kerry Stanley. I'm the professional acoustical profession representative on the Noise Review Board. And just for a little background, I was on the Noise Review Board for 25 years prior to the time when the decision was made to limit the number of years you could be on it. I've been asked to come back after a six-year delay or off of it.
 So I've got quite a bit of experience in dealing with variances on the board. And what I've been hearing from you is that you're finding it's difficult to make decisions like this, to get the conditions right. We face that all the time, and that's why you've got this appeal. The board did not make this decision, but we had made decisions similar to it where –
 Mr. Van Orden saw kind of the direction the board was going. We then allowed for the noise control officer to take on some of those responsibilities without having to come to the board. And what I understand is that he made a decision to allow for a couple of these pours. The preparation worked to start at 4 a.m., but that the pour itself wouldn't begin until 5 a.m.
 And there are two of those that you're hearing about. And then the other four were to start preparation at 5. Pours began at 6. So it's not quite like he said. It's not the full noise starting at 4 o'clock in the morning. But there is some noise. And I just also wanted to comment on the fact that if you can think about it,
 The ordinance doesn't say you can't have construction between 6 p.m. and 7 a.m. It says you have to do it within the constraints of the noise limits that are applicable at the time. So what the 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. does is allows more noise to occur, and that's all it does. There's no restriction on construction. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 Very good. And at this point, there's an opportunity for the appellant to do five minutes of rebuttal if they would like. Awesome. And this chair is just right. Very good. Thank you. I'll be very brief at the outset. I've spent 45 years of my career working in the health care business with hospitals and physicians.
 and I'm accustomed to working with orthopedists and cardiac surgeons that love to start surgery early, even though nurses and others may wish to come in later. With health care reform and cost incentives and motivations changing, the whole business is changing as part of an overall paradigm, and I would say that probably the construction industry needs to be a little more flexible, particularly in densely populated areas. In New York City, Mayor Bloomberg has done
 a phenomenal job of dealing with these kinds of issues starting with pile driving it's a truck secondly part of the motivation in our building to file this appeal is hopefully to establish a precedent because we have within the next six months are right next door to this canopy project the framework project which is involves a demolition and I'll be it a a very innovative wood frame construction that nonetheless will carry with it noise considerations
 Down between Cooch and Everett, we have a half-a-block, 14-story building. And I would see that your decision on this appeal probably would represent an important precedent for the Noise Control Office. If you were to perhaps accept our request to go with a two-hour later start time, 6 a.m. set up, 7 o'clock pour,
 presumably that would be enforced with other projects in our area and throughout the city. Mary? Okay, I'm going to have to talk fast. I'm going to give you some examples of my observations. In 2015, I observed a concrete pour at the 26-story apartment project across the street from where I live. Anderson Construction had a very large pour using two pumps scheduled to begin at 5 a.m. that morning. They had a mechanical pump breakdown, which we've heard about.
 As it turned out, they did not begin until 9 a.m. that morning. In spite of the late start, they were finished spreading, finishing, and everybody was gone at 4 p.m. in the afternoon.
 During the construction of the 28-story Cosmopolitan on the other side of the building where I live, Anderson was able to do every single pour after 7 a.m., and part of the reason is they broke things up. They didn't always do the pillars the same day that they did the floor. They didn't always do the elevator the same day. But we're talking about 30 stories. We're talking about more than 30 pours.
 Last April, Walsh Construction notified neighbors that they wanted to apply for a permit to start a concrete pour at 3 a.m. When I contacted the project supervisor, he admitted that their main concern was disrupting traffic. When I pointed out he'd be disrupting the sleep of over 300 neighbors, he said, I'll go back to the drawing board, and they ended up getting a variance permit for a 5 a.m. start. So obviously the 3 a.m. start was desirable, not necessary.
 This is what one resident experienced the day of that 5 a.m. pour. They began at 5.40. At 5.44, they had seven trucks on site. At 5.48, they had eight trucks on site. At 6 a.m., they had three trucks lined up in front of the Elizabeth with five on site. At 10.20, they had ten trucks in the vicinity. It was loud, and when I decided to try to go back to sleep, I put in earplugs, headphones, and a pillow over my head, and I could still hear it quite well.
 Nothing really changed with their traffic control throughout the pour. I never noticed any traffic backup. I was at the site of Bremex 4AM concrete pour on March 30th.
 They began set up at 4 a.m. Concrete trucks began to arrive at 5, right as the permit granted. I returned at noon and watched the last concrete truck leave the site at 12.30 p.m. When I went back at 2.30, it appeared that all of the spreaders, the finishers, everyone was gone, and there were just a couple of workers working on the pillars."
 There were no pump trucks. Around 3 p.m., they locked up the gates. At 4.30, there were just the workers working on the pillars. The pump truck was leaving the site. I was also on site for their pour at 6 a.m. this past Saturday. I arrived at 5.45. They were just beginning to unlock the gates and begin setup. Setup was completed at 6.40. The first concrete truck arrived on site, and they began pouring at 6.50 a.m.
 I went back to the site at 1.30. There were no concrete trucks on site. The pump, spreaders, finishers, everybody was gone. As you can see from those photos that I gave you at the morning start and at 3 o'clock, what it looked like. I went back to the site at 4 p.m., and there was no one in sight whatsoever.
 Bremeck's project is not the only project that was pouring that Saturday, last Saturday. Anderson Construction began pouring at 5 o'clock at 13th and Johnson. I went by there at 5.30 on my way down to the Bremeck site. Can I finish? Okay, I've only got a couple things. Okay, anyhow, they started at 5, and when I went by at 1 o'clock, they were finished.
 Anderson Construction also did a pour at 11th and Petty Grove on Saturday. They started at 7 o'clock. They told me that they would be doing all of their concrete pours at 7 o'clock. It's a 20-story building. So the bottom line is if Bremmick feels that they can't complete their pours within the 11-hour window, what we ask is please do not allow any more 4 and 5 a.m. pours, 6 o'clock at the earliest, and quite honestly, nothing on a Saturday before 7 o'clock.
 We need to shift the paradigm of starting early, not disrupting traffic, and give consideration to the fact that we have hundreds of people living in this densely populated area. Thank you very much. And I've given the appellant one extra minute. I don't know if the principal opponent would like one extra minute or not in the interest of fairness. I think we're all good.
 Can I answer your question about why you're here and the number of... I think I have that pretty well understood at this point. Thank you. In the past, there haven't been appeals because we haven't been able to meet the 10-day limit. Got it. Thank you. Great. Okay. So that brings us then to the end of the discussion. Now we're at the point of council discussion. We can talk about next steps. The...
 A noise control officer had requested that we tentatively take up this issue and give them some direction to come back with next week.
 And at this point, I'd entertain any thoughts my fellow commissioners might have on the subject. Commissioner Fish? Oh, I'm sorry. Commissioner? Mayor, may I just want to remind the council, though, in— We know. We know. It's tentative. No, no. I just want to articulate the facts on which you are making your tentative recommendation so that Mr. Van Orden can draft the ordinance. Yes.
 That was it. Commissioner Fish? So this has been a very thoughtful and useful hearing. And when I asked Paul, Mr. Van Orden, who is a regular for council, whether this is more art than science, he said more art. And what I was looking for was sort of guidance from him as to what's really prescribed versus where is that gray area where we use our best judgments.
 And we appreciate the judgment that the board makes, and we appreciate the judgment that the hearing officer makes. I think I am becoming more influenced by the fact that I live in a building in a dense area and am impacted by this more. And I have a greater sensitivity to how this does affect people, their sleep patterns, their health, their whatever. So currently, Mayor, my view is that,
 The way I would slice this is I would not grant the variance for any weekend work, and I would consider the variance for the other days, non-Saturdays, but I would prefer that we start an hour later and extend the clock an hour. We would not be setting a precedent. These cases are unique.
 But I think that's a way to slice it, to take Saturdays off, not to give a variance for Saturday, because I think that early start time is just disruptive, and I think people need two days to rest. But to shift the hours from four to what, instead of starting at four, start at five, shift it an extra hour. And I don't think that will, from what I've heard, interfere with the ability to get the concrete pours.
 And that's just on weekdays and on weekends go back to the standard ordinance. Very good. Commissioner Fritz? We weren't asked at the beginning whether we had any ex parte contacts or potential conflicts of interest. I do want to state that my son and daughter-in-law live at Park and Flanders, which is just kind of kitty quarter to this. I've had no discussions with them about this. I am very familiar, however, with the area. Okay.
 and one of the reasons I'm familiar with the area is because we had some challenges with the North Park blocks and people sleeping there and being there during the day, and it was alleged by some of the neighbours that businesses closing was due to that factor. So I agree with your suggestion to not allow any variances on weekends. I do wonder whether there will be people who would be impacted by shifting the...
 in particular businesses that are going to be relying on customers over the dinner hour, for example, which is a different set of people that would be impacted. The one, I know that area, I mean, you and I both know that area very well because of the park. I have no ex parte contacts on this. But because that street is closed, because they're closing the north-south street in front of the building to do the pours,
 and there is no restaurant on that street, I think that's less of a concern. And so that would be your...
 for saying this is a very specific issue. It's a site-specific solution. I don't like the idea of the variance on the weekends for the reasons you and I agree on, but because of the concerns raised by the construction company about competing for concrete, and we've heard concerns about worker safety and those things...
 I'm not in a position to dispute they need the extra time. I just suggest we shift it an hour so it's less impactful in that early morning hour. And is the noise, I'm going to look at Paul for a yes or no nod, how does the noise extend for several blocks around the site, or is it more specific to the immediate vicinity? Okay.
 For these operations, we would expect that people within about two blocks are impacted by it, so it does extend a little bit more. Real quick, though, on the question of later end noise in terms of running into the night and impacting hotels, we tend to be at the quieter operations by the end of the pour, so it shouldn't be a notable impact on restaurant, bar-type uses.
 That's very helpful because I know there's art galleries and such in that area. So I'd share your, confirm where you're leading us, Commissioner Fish. Oh, that's already on. I am largely in accord with Commissioner Fish. I'd say that would be my absolute limit, the 5 a.m. setup, 6 a.m. begin. I might be persuaded to push it forward another hour later.
 And I agree with a weekend, no variance on the weekend. I do want to say that having lived almost in that neighborhood, a few blocks away from the neighborhood, and having had a business downtown, I mean, when you live and site your business down there, you can just expect a level of construction that you don't deal with typically throughout the city. And...
 the construction that built the buildings that people are living in now, we're disrupting someone else's sleep and lives. So we have to strike a balance there. Commissioner, the one factor that influenced my thinking was the amount of rain we've had. And of course, construction cycles don't necessarily anticipate the rain, but
 this particular project has been hammered by the rain, and I'm thinking a little more flexibility to allow them to stay on. And when we heard from the contractor that this may be a cost borne by the contractor and not the operator, I would feel a little differently. That concerns me because we're talking about local jobs versus the Hilton Corporation or whoever's going to be there, and I'd be loathe to impose too many costs on our local contractors.
 And I'd also like to add I have had no ex parte contact on this matter. This is the business or industry my family was in, so I might have a little bit of...
 greater understanding, I guess, of how complex these operations can be and how costly delays are. I also grew up with a dad that left before I got up for school and came home late. And I am now in that position myself. So I think...
 So let me say this. And by the way, for these types of hearings, we don't have to declare ex parte contacts. I did clarify that. I think we should just so that all hearings that come before the city council are consistent so we sort of know the routine. So I will likewise declare I have no ex parte contacts on this matter, although I certainly know some of the people involved. That being said, I strongly support Commissioner Fish's thinking. Thank you.
 It goes all the way back to the first public comment we had this morning. I like this compromise. Nobody else will. I think it is a rational compromise given the two competing forces that we've heard. I don't think the construction company will be particularly happy, and I don't think that the local residents will be particularly happy, but I think it's bringing it closer to the center
 And so I appreciate your efforts on a fairly split community, if I can use that word, community view on this, at least between the appellant and the opponent. I think this seems like a reasonable middle ground. Now, what Paul had asked is we give a tentative direction to him to bring back, if I'm understanding correctly, Mr. Van Orden, a more formal...
 next week, or what is your preference as the noise ordinance officer? What product would you like us to deliver, given that we've stated a preference? I think you've given me clear enough direction that we can frame this into your intention, so you have something to move on, and so that there won't be confusion in the
 at the next meeting for the appellant or for the noise office. So I think we're in a good position to write up the direction you'd like us to head. I don't think there's too many letters. So is this the equivalent then of a first reading on an ordinance? Or what is the framework under which we operate this? It's a little bit different. I think what we intend to do is draft up an order. Okay.
 And then you'll vote on it next week formally saying, yes, this is the order. Okay, so if the record is closed on this hearing, you will provide us with final language, and we will take it up effectively as we would a second reading. Is that correct? Okay. And the most important thing is Mr. Van Orden nodding that he has the sufficient direction that he needs to craft the compromise. Okay, so there's no formal vote required today? No.
 That part I better leave that to just make sure that the city attorney makes that call. I understand from your comments the vote is 4-0 for this approach, and then we'll draft that up in that order. Perfect. And I do want to thank everybody for your participation in this hearing. It's been very helpful on all sides to let us know what the challenges are, and I hope that this will work better for both sides.
 Thank you. So, colleagues, I have a question for you. We never got to 382 this morning. We do have staff present. If you'd like to take up 382 now, I'm seeing one no. We could hold it off to next week with profuse apologies to HR staff that have been here for hours. I have a conflict, but I would like to have it resolved this week. How long is the presentation, Commissioner? Sure.
 It's not so much the length of the presentation as the length of the discussion. I also have to leave shortly. So if we put this on tomorrow afternoon at 2 and then just bump the time certain to half an hour, would that be satisfactory? If we're allowed to bump the time certain? The mayor has vast power. Okay. Well, I wouldn't say we would bump it until 2.30. The time certain means it won't start before then. So we are allowed to alter the amendment. We would do this...
 remaining item before it. Can we set this over then, Carla, until 2 o'clock tomorrow? Ahead of the art museum one? Yes, if we say so. Could we please look at the HR staff and thank them and acknowledge they've been sitting here off and on for approximately 7 hours. And the children. And everybody else. Thank you. With that, we have moved it until tomorrow with your forbearance and appreciation. We are adjourned.
 I don't think so.