The purpose of the council meetings is to do the city's business including hearing from the community on issues of concern. In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody feel comfortable, welcome, safe, and respected at the meeting, and also ensure that the decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have the opportunity for people to sign up for communications to speak about any subjects they wish to address. These items must be scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on the first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered at the time.
 Please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please disclose that as well. Individuals typically have three minutes to testify, unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light in the center there will flash. When your time is up, the red light will flash.
 Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberations is not allowed. People who disrupt the meetings face ejection from the meeting. If there is a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if a further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected will be subject to arrest for trespass.
 If folks would like to show your support, please do a thumbs up. If you want to not support, thumbs down. Thank you and we'll get the council session started. We have a couple of complications today in the form of we are missing two people, so we will skip the consent agenda until we get to 11ish, 11 o'clock. We are not yet at the point where we can do...
 Time's certain, so with that, why don't- Mayor? Yes, Commissioner Fish. I move that we pull items 350, 351 and put them on the regular agenda. That gives us an extra level of insurance. Commissioner Fish moves that we pull items 350 and 351. Second. We have a second. Any further discussion? Hearing no objections, so done.
 And with that, why don't we start with the regular agenda assuming that we have... Oh, the proclamation. How could I forget the proclamation? This is an important moment. So we have kids outside. You want to bring us... Let's bring in the kids. And in the meanwhile, I will thank you for reminding me of that. I would have been embarrassed to forget that.
 Do you want me to read it? Yeah, Commissioner Fritz, please read the proclamation. Thank you everybody. A proclamation that's been signed today by Mayor Wheeler. Whereas emergencies can occur at any time and require police, fire, or emergency medical services. And whereas when an emergency occurs, the prompt response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics is crucial to the protection of life and preservation of property.
 And whereas the safety of our police officers and firefighters depends on the quality and accuracy of information obtained from Portlanders who call 911. And professional public safety communicators are a vital link between Portlanders and first responders.
 and whereas public safety telecommunicators monitor the activities of police officers, firefighters and emergency medical personnel by radio and provide them with information while seeking to ensure their safety and whereas according to the Association of Public Safety Officials International
 National Public Safety Telecommunications Week was initially conceived in 1981 by Patricia Anderson of the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office in California, and Congress formally designated the week in 1991.
 And whereas public safety communicators at the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications have contributed substantially to the apprehension of criminals, suppressions of fires, and lifesaving treatment of patients experiencing medical and mental health emergencies.
 And whereas telecommunicators in the Bureau of Emergency Communications exhibit compassion, understanding and professionalism while performing a crucially important job as Multnomah County's first responders.
 Now therefore Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim April 9th to 15th, 2017, to be National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week in Portland. And encourages all residents to observe this week. And if I might just add as the commission in charge of the Bureau of Emergency Communications, our staff work as hard as possible 24-7 to make sure that
 response is prompt and accurate. And we last week had an outage which has only, it's the first time it's happened in 20 years, the interim director Lisa St. Helens has been in the bureau and they scrambled to make sure that they got back up online as quickly as possible.
 It's been a good lesson for us all that we need to have many more redundancies built into the system in the case of emergencies. So we will be moving forward with that. And in the meantime, the front line operators are truly the first responders a lot of the time. And I very much appreciate and am honored by serving as their commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Any further comments on this proclamation? Any further testimony? Great, thank you. Commissioner Fish, did you have a motion?
 Mayor, because we have some young people with us today who also are away from school, I move that we suspend the rules and bring the Fair Housing Month Proclamation forward. Any objection? What number is that please, Commissioner Fish? It's 347. Thank you. Do you want it? Why don't we do the proclamation first so the kids can go to school? That should be our priority at the moment. And then we'll do the communications. No objections. That's a 10 AM time certain. Yeah, we just moved to suspend the rules, Carla. Don't we need four people to suspend the rules?
 Well, the city attorney is pointing out you need four people to suspend the rules, so we can't do that. So maybe we could do communications first and that will get to 10 o'clock. Okay, very good. Good idea. So for the children with us, we'll ask for a few more minutes of patience. We appreciate your being here very much. So with that, we'll move to communications.
 Donna Hayes here yet? I do not see her. I believe they said she's on her way. Very good. Okay, very good. When she gets here, we'll accommodate her. First item, please. Item 341, request of Sarah Lara to address council regarding Madison South neighborhood seek a permanent solution to the homeless camp on Broadway Jonesmoor. Is Sarah Lara here? I do not see Sarah. Next item, please.
 Item 342, a request of Dominic Kukla to address council regarding civic education. Next item please. 343, request of Charlie Matuk to address council regarding challenges small businesses face in downtown neighborhoods. He had to work today, he's not able to make it. Next item please. 344.
 Request of Keith Ketterling to address council regarding the city housing shortage, crime, drugs, and homelessness issues. Mr. Ketterling, good morning. Thank you. My name's Keith Ketterling. I'm the managing partner of the Stolburn Law Firm. Put the mic a little closer. I'm the managing partner of the Stolburn Law Firm. We have 18 lawyers with the old police headquarters building. A few weeks ago, our building was broken into and burglarized.
 And my office in particular was burglarized and credit cards taken, personal information taken. And in a kind of ironic twist, the man who broke in was so high that he couldn't figure out how to get out of the building. And he didn't see the green button to push to leave, and so he was still there when the police showed up in the morning. That caused so much unsettled settlement among our employees that we've talked about whether we should move out of downtown Portland.
 and our landlord improved our building security and we've hired a security guard the tenants have to be in the building but that's not really the solution and the i talked to our landlord i said you know we don't want to compound we don't want to have just some place where we're safe but we can't leave the building my employees
 have a hard time going to lunch, running errands, going for a run during lunch because there's so much drug problem around our area and so much homelessness. And I think that Portland needs to consider how to have more beds, more shelters, shelters for families, shelters for families with pets.
 prioritize funding for mental health services for drug and alcohol addiction we need more secure permanent affordable housing for those who are homeless or have housing insecurity we need to support families that are in homes or in apartments help them pay their rent keep them from slipping into homelessness it's simply not good enough that we say we don't have the money
 The cost to Portland and the damage to Portland in terms of livability and the resulting loss of businesses far exceeds what we would spend to take care of these problems. And we need to address them, and I know that the council is very concerned about that. Mayor Wheeler has outlined his plans for those issues, and we support those. With spring and summer coming,
 We tend to, I think, become more complacent because the homeless aren't out in the cold. It's warmer, but we need to address these issues now. And we need to support the mayor and the issues of homelessness and drug addiction in our city because it affects the businesses in our city. It affects our desire to stay here and in the end that affects Portland's livability overall.
 So I know the council's concerned about this. Just ask you to keep this on the very front of your decision making because it's very important to the businesses and the people that live here in Portland. Thank you Keith and we appreciate your coming in today. Thank you. Can I just ask you a quick question since you did show up today and I guess we only have two communications. How many employees do you have in your office downtown? So we have approximately 38 people that work for us.
 And do you have a sense of what percentage of those people live in Portland versus people who commute from outside of Portland? It's about 50-50. Okay. And I know that, I know the building that you work in, it's the old police building and it's across the street from an outdoor store. Yes. And there was a gentleman that used to work in the outdoor store who a couple years ago was taking some garbage out or bringing garbage in and was attacked and he was, you
 assaulted, hit in the head, had a very severe injury, ended up retiring. So the safety issues you're talking about are issues that impact everybody, the people who are outside on the streets as well as the people who are working. And that particular two or three block area has some challenges. I believe there's still an undeveloped lot adjacent to your property, is that correct? Yes, and I think it's owned by a foreign corporation.
 Well, so that is a kind of an attractive nuisance because there's no development on that corner. Yes. I think that presents unique challenges. And I know your firm. Your firm represents plaintiffs and class actions across the world and does good work. And we all have a shared interest in making sure that people who work downtown feel safe.
 So I hope we have a chance to follow up with you and talk about some solutions. Yeah, we would appreciate that. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 345, request of B Max Grad to address council regarding fire service, water line price increases. Good morning. I'll take those. I'll take those.
 So the paper I provided was copies, but my name's Max Grad, and about 10 years ago, I rented a building on sort of a wing and a prayer. I often joke, you know, I wouldn't rent to me. And it's the former vocational village building long ago out in Selwood across from the Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge, and it came with some extra utilities. And so what I have in front of you is my E-bill for a 480 service I don't use.
 And every three months I get a bill and, you know, started at 50 bucks and now it's 69. Not too bad. About 38% increase over 10 years. Yeah. For a 480 service that I don't use. My point is it's an extra service. No electricity goes through. Volts. 480 volts. 480 volts.
 And the other one is for my sprinkler service. The sprinkler service began at $55 a month. No water ever goes through it. And over the course of 10 years, it's more than doubled. And so I'm here to say...
 that either you could make it better or you could make it worse. And by that I mean how many buildings in this city have sprinkler services and are already paying $50 a month to the city, you are looking for a street fee. And so you could actually charge the buildings that don't have fire lines for the fact that they don't have fire lines, but then give buildings like mine a break. I don't see materials in my packet. Your microphone. Pardon me? Sorry.
 the materials in my packet don't include your bill did you did you give us your the bills there should be a table that says water bureau okay yeah sorry and so i just want to i just want to make sure we're tracking something the pge bill we have nothing to do with but my point is it's a line that i don't use but that their change in price right over 10 years 19 so who bills you for the sprinkler
 Portland Water Bureau. Water, not fire. It's the water. Right. And there's no water going through the pipes? Right. And the Fire Bureau has certified that it's not an active sprinkler? No, no, it's an active sprinkler. My point is water never flows through it. I've never had a fire.
 So here we have a service that the Water Bureau charges you for every month just to have it in case you need it. Right. And the price went from $150 every three months to $352 every three months. It's huge. I see, and the service is not, that's the fee unrelated to whether the water flows. Exactly, I didn't flow any water. If I did, I'd get charged for that. And so you're asking us to review the charge to see whether it's appropriate.
 And what I'm suggesting is that you could leave it, but then say, hey, everybody who doesn't have a fire service, you are costing us risk. That's going to be our street fee. You don't have a fire sprinkler service, so we're going to charge you. Buildings that do, here's a break. So Mayor, I don't.
 I'm not personally familiar with this issue. The question of the fee that you're charged for the service, that's of great interest to me. Both what do you get for it, and then how has it gone from X to Y? Yeah. So the bureau will investigate that and then I'll talk to you. In terms of your broader idea, I would be interested in knowing more about what your vision for that. And is that in writing? No, no, just putting it to you to suggest.
 How many buildings already have a sprinkler service? And where is the $50 a month, sorry, at this point it's $120 a month. If there are 1,000 buildings, right, then they're taking in $120,000 every month for water that doesn't flow.
 So is the Water Bureau essentially slush funding their operating costs on the back of, every new construction has to have one. So now you're signing up for, at this point, I can't do the math, $1,200 a year that gets taken by the city for doing the right thing with your construction. Right. So, I- It's an issue that the commissioner in charge will take a look at and thank you for your time and bringing it forward. All right, thanks so much.
 Thank you. It's my understanding that Donna Hayes is here. If you'd like to come up and- No, no, I have a date for May 24th and 10.05. Very good. Okay, thank you. I think we've changed it to the afternoon if that's okay with you so that there's more space available. That doesn't work? For the May 24th? Yeah.
 Thank you very much. Really appreciate it. And we'll set aside a good amount of time. Anybody who wants to testify can do so. Thank you, Mrs. Hayes. And Commissioner Fritz, I understand you helped to arrange for the time certain, which we appreciate on behalf of the council. Very good. We do. The time certain is 2 o'clock on May 24th, and it will be posted later today, I believe. That's right. Thank you for it.
 Thank you. All right, very good. I believe we are close enough to the time certain for item 347. 347, proclaim April 2017 to be fair housing month in Portland. Portland is in a rental housing crisis. However, this crisis has always been present for people of low income and communities of color, recent immigrants and refugees.
 people with limited English populations, people with disabilities, and other protected classes due to Portland's long history of rental housing discrimination. The historic patterns of racial segregation and disinvestment by investors and lenders still predict housing quality, health, income, and access to services and community amenities.
 Urban renewal and our prioritization of livable walkable neighborhoods have increased Portland's housing demand. And as this rental market tightens, households should not be fearful of losing their home or so fearful of losing their home that they accept harassment or substandard housing conditions. We want housing that stabilizes families and the community as a whole.
 Despite fair housing laws that are currently in place, we've all heard of recent incidents of harassment on the basis of religion, race and ethnicity. So this is a very real and very current issue in our community. This proclamation demonstrates our belief that hate has no place in housing or in our city.
 We know the most effective way to stabilize households and prevent homelessness is to keep people in the housing that they already have. I'm working with the Portland Housing Bureau and community stakeholders and all of my colleagues on the Portland City Council to alleviate this rental crisis for everyone and defend everyone's civil rights.
 We're committed to finding solutions that focus on education of all landlords and renters, fairer standards for the contract between renters and landlords. Enforcement of fairer housing law, not only at the time of seeking housing, but also after a renter has secured their housing. There's a cost to everyone when families are displaced.
 It puts stress on our schools, our healthcare system, transportation system, the quality of housing and every other public institution in our community. The increased social and economic costs of displacement are not compensated for by rising rents. So we must start by breaking down the barriers for housing choice for our most vulnerable populations in Portland.
 By starting with these communities, we can create long-term solutions that ultimately will work for everyone. We will use this Fair Housing Proclamation to guide us in the coming year around policymaking, around sound rental housing stabilization. So without further ado, I'm excited now to read Portland's Fair Housing Month Proclamation. And it's in microtype, so bear with me here.
 Whereas our community is committed to equal opportunity and housing for all, and whereas this year immigrants, refugees, people of color, and religious minority community members are facing unacceptable harassment and discrimination that impede their housing and civil rights,
 and whereas low-income community members are increasingly more likely to experience substandard housing and community conditions due to economic displacement and whereas under federal fair housing law it is illegal for a landlord or a real estate agent to treat anyone differently because immigration status national origin race color religion sex disability or familiar status
 And whereas, in addition to federal fair housing laws, Oregon civil rights statutes, and Portland City Code state, it is unlawful to discriminate on the basis of marital status, sexual orientation, source of income, including housing assistance, military status, gender identity, or history of violence, stalking, or sexual assault,
 And whereas the theme of Portland's Fair Housing Month is hate has no place in housing, and the Fair Housing Council of Oregon's annual poster contest is, it's fun having all kinds of neighbors. And whereas the City of Portland and its partners are working together to stop hate in housing by educating all members of the community about how harassment is a violation of fair housing rights,
 how discrimination harms communities, and how housing choice for everyone benefits the whole city.
 And whereas the Portland Housing Bureau is working with policy makers, renters and landlords to increase housing choice citywide and prevent displacement of low-income renters. And whereas 2017 marks the 49th anniversary of the signing of Title VIII of the Federal Civil Rights Act, that's the Federal Fair Housing Act.
 1968 and the 29th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act amendments of 1988 and now therefore I Ted wheeler mayor of the city of Portland the city of roses do hereby proclaim April 2017 to be fair housing month in Portland and encourage all Residents to observe this month by joining the effort to promote fair housing for all. I
 Stop the sweeps. Please, no disruptions. If you disrupt the meeting again, you'll be asked to leave. And with that, we have Andrea in the panel. Good morning. Director Krieger, good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Kim McCarty from the Portland Housing Bureau. And I coordinate the Bureau's fair housing contracts, the city's federal entitlement grant,
 and our Fair Housing Advocacy Committee. So here today, we have representatives from the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee that represent the city of Portland, the city of Gresham, and Multnomah County. And in recognition of Fair Housing Month, we'll hear remarks from our Housing Bureau Director, Kurt Kroeger, and namely our committee members, Jason Trombley, who's the committee chair and represents the Coalition of Communities of Color,
 Patricia Rojas may be joining us and she is the executive director of El Programa Hispano-Catolica and she represents the city of Gresham on our committee. And then Alan Lazo, the executive director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, who's also a member of the committee and serves as a technical advisor. Good morning Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I'm the chair of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee and also a member of the Coalition of Communities of Color.
 Our committee, comprised of representatives from the City of Portland, Gresham, Multnomah County, and housing and community organizations is charged with updating the analysis of impediments to fair housing and providing guidance on the Fair Housing Action Plan. The analysis outlines the issues the city must address to bring fair housing choice to everyone. Both the analysis and the Fair Housing Action Plan are federal requirements for cities in order to access federal entitlement grants.
 The analysis helps us plan investments that build equitable communities and meet the intent of Title VIII of the Federal Civil Rights Act, the Federal Fair Housing Act of 1968, and the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988. While many facts about housing discrimination remain unchanged in spite of local and national efforts and investments, this analysis shows that we need to give extra attention to the issues of unlawful harassment that results in barriers to both housing choice and fear of exercising fair housing rights.
 Given this, we present this year's theme for Fair Housing Month, Hate Has No Place in Housing. And the national theme, Fair Housing Equals Opportunity. Equal access to housing is a fundamental promise of America, said Brian Green, who is HUD's acting assistant secretary for fair housing and equal opportunity. When access to housing is unfairly limited, it, in turn, limits access to good paying jobs, quality schools, and economic opportunity.
 The Fair Housing Advocacy Committee is focusing on how harassment is a barrier to housing access and retention. While housing harassment is not new, the stories our partners are telling us lead us to believe that the issue is more pronounced in recent months in our region due to anti-immigration sentiments. These sentiments, mixed with negative stereotypes, create a dangerous environment for many Portlanders, a context which my colleague Patricia Rojas will expand on later in her remarks if she's able to attend.
 We must remind ourselves that it is illegal to treat people differently because of their race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, family status, or sexual orientation. It is the obligation of public institutions to affirmatively protect citizens from housing discrimination and policies or acts that would present a barrier to housing choice because of one's protected class status.
 Harassment impacts citizens in different ways, but result in a resident's inability to fully enjoy their home and access opportunity. Renters may change where they park their car or restrict where they enter or leave their homes. Harassment may come from neighbors through offensive flyers or vandalism, taunts, or even calls to police, child protection, or immigration officials. Or it may come from the landlord in the form of withholding repairs or making eviction threats.
 Alan Lazo, the executive director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, will share his observations on the types of harassment and housing that exist in our region. When faced with harassment, individuals respond differently. Some retreat, leave, or may feel confined. Some seek to help from the property manager, but only to learn that management refuses to intervene or believes that they should not intervene. Others reach out to the police for help, only to find themselves as the subject of a police reaction.
 Often the harassment leads to a threat of eviction and when this reaction is disproportionately directed to people who are a member of a protected class. Or because they are in a protected class, this illegal harassment also becomes a civil rights violation. When harassment is not addressed, particularly in this housing environment, there's a cost to the community.
 An eviction could easily make a low income household homeless or displaced from their community. If for example you're a large family or disabled, the time to be rehoused is much greater and the cost on the city is much greater. A recent statement from HUD notes that 12% of complaints filed allege familial status discrimination. HUD explains that this discrimination is quote, often a proxy for race discrimination.
 In addition to housing, this type of discrimination has a destabilizing effect that prevents families from positioning themselves in ways that enable the next generation to take advantage of all this country has to offer." Finding affordable housing for families is essential for younger generations to access opportunity, as seen with the efforts to keep families in their apartments in both the Roosevelt and Rigler-Culley school communities earlier this year.
 Also, as the leader in Portland Public Schools leading the commission to redraw school boundaries because of both enrollment shifts due to growth and gentrification, we need a regional effort to plan for change that is both equitable and sustainable. Knowing this, there are policies we can pursue to resolve these issues. One, Portland can institute a landlord registration in order to consistently train all landlords and tenant landlord rights and responsibilities, including responsibilities to intervene when residents report harassment.
 Portland can create a mandatory rental inspection program to ensure our families do not delay asking for needed repairs because harassment has created a fear of eviction or rental increase. Three, Portland can invest in organizations that work with people of color, immigrants and refugees, religious and survivors to educate people about their right not to endure harassment. Four, Portland can significantly increase enforcement tools to expand access to housing choice for families of all sizes as well as individuals.
 Portland can reinvest in media education campaigns to help people identify different kinds of housing discrimination, including subtle acts of discrimination or disparate impacts, and how to address it. These are just some of the ideas that could address our housing crisis, and Bureau Director Kurt Krieger will soon share his frame for affirmatively furthering fair housing in our area.
 Thank you very much for dedicating this month Fair Housing Month and for allowing me to speak before you this morning. I'll now turn to my colleague Patricia Rojas, Executive Director of El Programa Hispano-Catolico, for her remarks. Thank you, Jason. Good morning. Sorry I was late. And thank you, as Jason just mentioned, for making this Fair Housing Month. I would like to speak with you about the impacts of our housing policies on communities of color as well as immigrant communities.
 When I mention this, it's much more than just our local environment. It is also the national decisions that are being made, policy decisions that are going to have local impact here on an already difficult housing market and in a community that's already
 So it is very important that we take a look at the evidence that we have, that we do know that there are discriminatory behaviors and practices that we're seeing amongst landlords. And though everybody is impacted by the current housing market, communities of color and especially immigrant communities who do not speak English, who are not familiar with the system, are significantly and disproportionately impacted by our housing market as well as policies.
 So today I'm here to ask you to create policies that create an inclusive Portland. Having an inclusive Portland that's welcoming of all is much more than a statement. It's much more than an ethical and moral decision. It is a policy decision that we have to create policies that enable communities of color not only to come to Portland but to stay in Portland. As a part of the East Portland Action Plan, and you might be familiar with this group,
 We did a listening session and we came up with recommendations for fair housing a couple of years ago. And what we heard from immigrant communities and refugee communities is that they don't have anywhere to go. In their situation where they're coming with five, a family of five, a family of six, a family of seven, there is no housing in Portland that they're able to access.
 And that situation has gotten worse since then, two years ago. And we now know that because of the heightened, and we just have to call it out for what it is, racist practices and language that is coming out from this administration, people are afraid.
 And we're seeing that in our community where, as Jason said, unless we have a regulatory body that can oversee the practices of landlords, we can't expect them to not demand Social Security cards. We can't expect people to just out of their own will not expect to see driver's licenses. So I ask you to consider what kind of practices and policies we can put in place.
 to create an inclusive Portland that will allow all of us to be able to stay and grow in this city. So I thank you today. I want you to please consider that we're in a moment in time where we can make a decision.
 And as the representatives of our community, we ask you to make the right decision to create policies that are going to be able to not only allow families like mine stay in Portland. I live in the Cully neighborhood. And it's really sad to see that.
 There's not many of us left in the Latino community there. And we can't allow, we have to understand and take responsibility for our part in this issue. And it's not accidental. It is intentional. It is partially the policies that we have put in place and the practices historically. So we have the opportunity and responsibility to recognize that and correct it.
 for generations to come. So thank you for listening today, and I appreciate you making this month your housing month. Thank you. We appreciate that. You're welcome. Well said. Thank you. Mayor?
 members of council uh kurt krieger housing bureau director and it's my pleasure to be here with jason patricia and kim i wanted to talk a little bit about how far we've come in 49 years but also how far we have to yet to go you would think after nearly 50 years of fair housing education enforcement our society would be would be more inclusive accepting and equitable but in fact um
 Things have just gotten more subtle. As Patricia mentioned, we have a climate at the federal level which is challenging settled law. And I think it's important that you know that Senator Lee from Utah, Representative Gosar from Arizona have each sponsored Senate and House legislation that would prevent the use of federal funds to study, evaluate disparate impacts
 created by fair housing. What is disparate impact? I think it's important that you know the background to this. There was a Texas case against the State Department of Housing and Community Affairs which found that the state policy was concentrating poverty in a way that created a disparate impact on people of color.
 limiting their access to opportunity. And the US Supreme Court found that an impact of a policy, if it has a disparate impact, is just as impactful as if it is intentional. They did not ascribe intention to the state of Texas, but they found that the outcome was just the same.
 So a lot of what the Housing Bureau does, and Jason mentioned the analysis to impediments to fair housing, is we look rather deeply at disparate impact, and we evaluate those effects. And we use federal money for that purpose.
 So clearly it's an attempt to try to stifle local efforts to create a more inclusive Portland. And while those bills have been proffered, they haven't yet been heard. They may show up in budget bills or as amendments to budget bills, so we need to be vigilant. I think it's just an illustration of how far we really have to go after some 50 years of progress.
 My purpose today is really to introduce Alan Lazo. Many of you know Alan, he was mentioned I think last week as a appointee to the General Bond Oversight Committee. I would like to say that all the members of the Geo Bond Oversight Committee's bios and pictures are cached on the PHB website so you can learn more about
 Allen's impressive career on our website. But he is the Executive Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. He participates throughout the region and has served on Portland's Human Rights Commission for the last five years. He served a year as Commission Chairman and has been very vocal on the issues of fair housing.
 And I think it's worth mentioning that yesterday we had a four hour bus tour. The Beatles had that magical mystery tour. This was kind of like the magical misery tour of chronicling fair housing abuses.
 from recent history where skinheads beat to death people of color in southeast Portland to more profoundly important but historic events such as the Bampore flood where people of color were were essentially prescribed to live in a floodplain Which reasonable people would have known was a dangerous place to put them and many people died. So that's an effort to raise people's awareness that that in our everyday lives is
 decisions are made and they are sometimes a inflection point
 A decision made to put public housing in a flood plain was made by responsible people that should have known better. And each and every day we have moments of inflection. Decisions can be made to put housing in high opportunity areas to make sure that we're compensating for people's lack of access. It does mean that it costs more, and we're oftentimes criticized for the high cost of affordable housing, but we're trying to alleviate and correct some of these pervasive disparate impacts.
 So, with that, I'll introduce Alan Lazo, and he has some really good news for you.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you for having us this morning and thank you for your proclamation around Fair Housing Month. My role this morning really is to introduce these young artists. I will circle back to what Jason said and talk a little bit about what the other speakers had talked about in this environment of hate that we have. That frankly doesn't show up in the artwork of these young students, the future of what we believe fair housing can be.
 it does belie what we see in the environment today, an environment at the federal level and throughout our country that is filled with hate. And we know that when that environment exists, that it can manifest itself in discrimination.
 Prior to preparing for my remarks this morning, I did look through our records for calls that we've received in the city of Portland since the beginning of the year. I didn't see any specific incidents related to hate and harassment. But at the Fair Housing Council, we have had those calls come in since the beginning of the year.
 Director Krieger talked about the subtler forms of racism that are happening in housing discrimination now that the Fair Housing Act is almost 50 years old. But what I saw at the turn of the beginning of the year was that seemed to be out the window.
 I have two examples for you. We had one caller from within the metro area that called. It was a Latino couple who called and said that when they went to rent an apartment from a private landlord that they were told that the apartment was available. When they went, they showed up and spoke with the landlord, and the landlord identified that that person was of Latino descent. He told them that he was not going to rent to them because they were Mexican, and that he was afraid that Mexicans would beat him up.
 We had another incident, again, within the metro area but not right here in Portland, where people are being told that they cannot rent an apartment without proving that they are legal US citizens.
 So that's the environment that we're in today. It certainly is starting to translate into these incidents of discrimination. Again, I looked in our records and I haven't seen any calls specifically in the city of Portland. But we do believe they're out there and there certainly is some concern that the current marking conditions we're experiencing now might have a chilling effect on people being able to report incidents of discrimination.
 So again, that certainly does belie one of the great joys that we have as the Fair Housing Council of Oregon every year in our poster contests when these the brightly colored artwork of young students from around the state appear in our office and this morning here we've got the students who are Received the grand prize and the age group winning posters from our poster contest so I'm gonna read their bios for you this morning and have you hold up and I'm gonna give you a
 a certificate and an award for those winners this morning. So our grand prize winner, which is on the poster that is printed and distributed in thousands of copies throughout the state of Oregon, are Hannah Dursa and Sophia Jordan from Dunaway Elementary. And they actually collaborated on their poster this morning. So Hannah's 11 years old. You can hold it up. Do you want to hold that up and show the folks behind you?
 So Hannah's 11 years old and she's in the fifth grade at Dunaway Elementary School. Besides drawing, she has many interests like math, writing, and softball. When she grows up, she would like to be a mathematician, an author, and even a scientist.
 So Sophia is 10 years old and she's in the fifth grade at Dunaway. She's very involved with school and has a wide range of interests including reading, writing, and softball. When she grows up, she'd also like to be an author, an artist, or possibly a graphic designer, which is well reflected in your art. So thank you, Hannah and Sophia. We asked the young artist, too, what...
 Our theme, which is intended really to attract young people to fair housing, through this collaborative approach we asked Hannah and Sophia what they believe this year's theme. It's fun to have all kinds of neighbors means to them. And they said, you can have fun no matter what your neighbors look like. Having diversity all around creates a better opportunity to make new friends and to learn about different cultures, traditions.
 All of the diverse people we drew were to explain everyone is welcome in our neighborhood. So thank you, Hannah and Sophia. So in the grades one through three, our first prize winner was Rachel Clay, right here from Chief Joseph Elementary. Thank you.
 So Rachel is, and she was here last year at City Council too. So Rachel is nine years old, the third grade at Chief Joseph Elementary. Besides drawing and art, she also loves reading, writing, and creating gifts for her friends. She has an older brother, William, two cats, and three fish. Oh, I remember that from last year, actually. Due to her love of animals and fashion, she'd like to be a veterinarian or a fashion designer. Maybe even design clothing for cats and dogs. That's a very Portland thing to do, isn't it? Thank you so much, Rachel.
 And for our fourth, grades fourth and fifth first prize winners is Ava Gruen. She's also from Dunaway Elementary School. Ava's 10 years old, so Ava, is Ava in here? Ava, okay, so if you wanna show us your poster. Ava's 10 years old in the fifth grade at Dunaway. She enjoys creative writing, drawing, and listening to music. She's a true advocate who is interested in starting a house for abandoned dogs with special needs.
 Ava believes this year's theme around it's fun having all kinds of neighbors means a world with people from different races, gender, sexual orientation and ethnicity being friendly neighbors to one another. So thank you so much, Ava. And in our grades six through eight, our first prize winner was Alara Lane. She's from Catlin Gable School.
 So Alara is 12 years old. She's in the sixth grade at Catlin Gable and is an artist who's been taking numerous art classes since the third grade. When Alara isn't honing her art skills, she enjoys rock climbing and enters rock climbing competitions every year. Impressive. Beyond developing her personal skills, she also enjoys donating her time and her efforts to good causes here in Portland. So thank you so much, and welcome to all of you.
 So I'm hoping we can get some photos. Yeah, we have some photos. Before you do, could I just say something? Yes. This is the ninth time that I've had the honor of hearing this presentation. I believe it's the first time that the grand prize winners have collaborated on a poster. So that's really an important thing, particularly at this time, that we work together to get good things done. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. So we're going to do some photos and have a poster.
 So we can, yeah, just stay up here. And we have some posters and some gifts for all the commissioners. And then we're going to ask. Yeah, come on. Yeah, come on over here. Thank you, ladies. Congratulations. We need one of the kids in front of Amanda. Shift on over. There we go.
 And if I could just ask, we had the other posters here, if you could just take a moment. Maybe we'll just bring them to you, the posters. Thank you. Congratulations. So I also want to thank all of the family members and teachers who helped these young artists to participate in the competition. It truly is that family work. Congratulations. Oh, and there's a letter for you there from me. Thank you.
 and Laura and Sophia and Rachel.
 Commissioner Fish, did you have a comment? Yeah, just a little bit. So Mayor, first of all, thank you for bringing this proclamation forward. And thanks to the young people who joined us today and the artists. And if you come back to City Hall in a couple days, you'll see that in each council office your art is on display and we're very proud of what you've done. Mayor, we had some testimony today reminding us that the Fair Housing Act
 quite a long time ago in the 1960s and it was actually signed into law by Lyndon Johnson. But the interesting thing we also learned was that the biggest area of discrimination right now, or one of the biggest areas is discrimination against families. And in fact the Fair Housing Act did not address families and we did not get teeth into the law until 1988. And that's important because that was signed into law by George Bush, Bush 41.
 So to those who say that there's a partisan aspect of fair housing, we're reminded that it was launched by President Johnson, a Democrat, and it was strengthened by President Bush, a Republican. Now, in the... Please, please. Folks, again, any disruptions and you will be asked to leave. Trust it, please. So let's reflect on a moment for a moment on the confirmation hearings, the confirmation hearings of HUD...
 Secretary Carson, the question of fair housing came up and the director of the housing bureau has noted that there's a dispute about whether the law should cover disparate treatment. Mr. Carson, in his testimony, referred to the whole concept of affirmatively furthering fair housing as social engineering, which had gone too far.
 So this Secretary of HUD has called into question our nation's commitment to enforcing fair housing laws. And as with environmental laws and many other laws in this country, it is now clear that the primary role for enforcement is going to devolve to states and cities. That we cannot count on a robust federal partner to enforce these laws. Now that brings us to Meir Wheeler's State of the City Address. In his speech,
 which was cut short because of, I guess, a timing snafu. The mayor pledged to increase funding for fair housing testing. It was one of the most important parts of his speech, but because of the timing of the city club, he did not get to deliver that. So mayor, you will be the first mayor who has made that commitment to increase funding for fair housing testing. And who has elevated the role of fair housing enforcement in the housing bureau, and I congratulate you.
 And as we heard, it could not come at a better time. But I also want to observe that something else one of our testifiers said, I believe it was the director, was that when we build in areas of high opportunity, we are furthering fair housing. And I want to just underline that, Director Krieger. You said in passing that we are sometimes criticized for building in areas of high opportunity. And what that means is we're investing in people's opportunity and families to succeed.
 And that when people tell us we should save a dollar by going against opportunity or by paying construction workers less than a prevailing wage or by not putting our environmental standards into our housing. Remember that the question should always be at what cost? At what cost are we backing off our values? And I think we should be proud that we are building quality affordable housing and high opportunity areas and making it available to low income families. And finally, I just wanna call out the work of the Fair Housing Advisory Committee.
 and the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. This has been a difficult path for us starting in 2011. And when we launched testing for the first time, we were criticized by friends and foes alike, and in most instances, they didn't know what they were talking about.
 But what we know is that the Fair Housing Council of Oregon is our partner in enforcing the law. And what we also know is that without robust testing and disclosure of those test results, we are allowing landlords to believe that they can take advantage of the law with impunity. So again, I come back to our mayor. I appreciate that in his State of the City Address, he chose to highlight his personal conviction.
 His personal support for enhancing our fair housing testing, and that will be of course done with our partners, the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, that data should be published. And to the extent landlords are violating the law, that should be published and people should be shamed for what they're doing because it has no place in our community. So Mayor, thank you. Thank you for bringing this forward. Very good. Commissioner Fritz, did you have anything else? Very good. So why don't we go back to time certain three, four, six.
 reappoint James Young to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. Good morning. Thank you for your patience. My name is Anika Bent-Albert. I'm the Assistant Director for the Independent Police Review Board. Rachel Mortimer, Assistant Program Manager at the Independent Police Review. Could you check to make sure that the green light is on? They're on. They're on? Yes. Outreach Coordinator for the Independent Police Review.
 We are here before you all this morning to seek the reappointment of James Young to the Citizens Review Committee, the CRC. The CRC is a voluntary- Okay, this is your warning. Do not do that again, all right? This is a disruption. It is in violation of the council policies. Thank you, appreciate it. Sorry. It's okay. The CRC is a voluntary advisory board to the Independent Police Review.
 CRC members are responsible for gathering community concerns about police services, developing policy recommendations to address patterns of problems with police services, conducting, reviewing, and advising IPR on the complaint handling process. And hearing appeals from community members and officers regarding the recommended findings of completed administrative investigations.
 The reappointment of Mr. Young will fill a vacancy of the committee that stems from the expiration of Mr. Young's prior term, which was three years, which would bring the total number of members to 11 as directed by city code. Mr. Young is here today and we are very grateful of his continued interest in serving on the CRC. Questions? Okay. Thank you.
 Yes we have six people signed up the first three are Mimi Gurman, Cameron Stark and I believe it's BJ And Johnny Good morning Are we on the third? I thought there was a third Lightning with lightning super watchdog It's not a good morning when we have people on the independent police review board who
 Only love the cops. It doesn't get us very far when we need justice. This is a poem that I wrote for my testimony for this. I grow the names of the dead.
 Beside the river's southern banks, on these northwest fertile grasses, I've planted years of harvest grown, rooting time while yielding passings. Here the rounded turnips grow beside the yellow parsnips, and there the wild onions spread, no rose for which to catch them. Rye's, lettuces, and kale, and chard, beets so red and gold, asparagus and radishes breathed into life, oh, to soiled earth.
 By the side of the house, stands of daffodils, iris, and lilies rise. For I grow the names of the dead, as young black lives are yanked like weeds from their mother's sides. I plant these names like a burial beneath storm clouds breaching hurriedly the swollen spine of dawn's vertebral sky. I oppose this man's, this man being on the IPR.
 I oppose everybody on the IPR right now. I think that we need people who are trustworthy. And if what you said, Mayor, in your State of the City address was true, that you were truly wanting, and I was hoping that you do and still do, wanting trust between the black community and the police, we have at least 11 cops right now who are honest.
 on notice for racism. Somebody's gotta get fired. This guy cannot come on to do this work to support our community when we're in need from being targeted, from being killed, from kids being killed, from having a corrupt grand jury system here that allows cops to walk free. We can't have racist people on the IPR investigating racist cops.
 We might as well get Jeff Sessions here. That's it. My name is Cameron Stark, and I'm a resident of North Portland. I oppose Mr. Young being reappointed to the CRC because we have not found accountability through the CRC. It seems to have been a failed process over and over again.
 I'm not sure that it even is the people that are on there. I kind of feel like the CRC is set up to not work, that that system does not provide accountability. I think it goes beyond reappointing some of these people, but I don't believe that you should reappoint somebody when they were found to not prove accountability.
 As far as I know, he claims that he didn't know about the claims about Mark Kruger, the Nazi cop. And you would think being on the Citizens Review Committee, you would be educated on the history of the bureau that you're overseeing, I would say.
 I just don't think that that system provides accountability and that it works. I think that it needs to be redone. I understand that it was part of the Department of Justice settlement that you have the CRC, but I don't feel like that it's actually working. I think that you could find better members to be on the CRC other than people who work with prosecutors and even sometimes people that are from other states because as far as I'm concerned, I think he was from Michigan or something like that.
 And if we had somebody that was homegrown in our community, a grassroots advocate on that board, it would provide a better chance at accountability instead of somebody who had been working with law enforcement for so long. Once again, I just oppose Mr. Young's reappointment to the CRC. Thank you for your time. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. On this situation here,
 As you know, we have a bio here. And last week, for whatever reason, you did not want to have a bio on the Affordable Housing Bond Committee. Again, your statement of going to the Internet to pull up a name. Well, I did that. There were 15 names.
 that i pulled up at that time today we've linked them all and the contracts like i stated to you per open meetings law the information that were provided these meetings must have enough information for us to make a reasonable decision to vote yes or no that is an open meetings law that you need to follow and understand we need the proper information now pertaining to this individual
 Again, I went to another meeting on behalf of Mr. Davis. He was positioning himself on a retaliation claim against the police. They basically pushed to the side and didn't even reference that retaliation claim. It was inappropriate for CRC to do that. And another issue I have is that when we're talking on these cases on having
 cameras, camera phones picking up the video. Why have you not put body cams on Portland police officers? Why don't you put those on them so we have more information, more data to look at, to have a clear understanding on what happens
 out there and the claims that they're making that we basically don't believe. And we need to have those body cams on every Portland police officer, every patrol officer at Multnomah County, and there's no reason that you can't push that forward now. Other cities are. I'm currently reviewing 50 different policies from 50. So this isn't about body cameras. Oh, yes, it is. I'll be happy to answer your question and stick your testimony to this.
 CRC meetings on having adequate information to make a reasonable decision that you, for whatever reason, do not want to have body cams on Portland Police. What is the reason, Mayor Wheeler? I will give you the reason. There will be body cams for Portland Police, but I have not yet adopted my first budget as mayor and as I've said many times, we will
 pursue that program but it has to be budgeted first there's currently no allocation excuse me you're mistaken and federal grants were not applied for and i'm not mistaken and i can pull that data up so you have not well i i have been mayor for what thirteen weeks and you should wait and see what my budget and my priorities look like thank you those body cams the policy behind them yes next three please
 The next three are Dan Handelman, David Elton, and Joe Walsh. And that's all who signed up. Good morning. How are you? I think this microphone is on. Okay. My name is Dan Handelman. I'm with the group Portland Cop Watch. And I just want to start this morning by looking at the resolution, which says that there are three vacancies on CRC, which isn't true. It seems like this was copied and pasted from the last round of appointees. It gives me a sense that things are in a little bit of disarray.
 at IPR these days. To that point, though, the IPR could have appointed more members to CRC. The stakeholder group that met last fall at the behest of city council recommended expanding CRC's membership to 13 members or 15 members rather. And that was ignored. It's not in the item that you're hearing tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock. And I know we're going to talk more about that then.
 But part of the issue is that the CRC members are currently strained to their limits because they're hearing one to two cases per month, although that backlog seems to have cleared out somewhat. However, we still at CopWatch feel the best solution would be to create 
 legislation allowing civilian members of the police review board to rotate into the CRC on an as-needed basis. Their training is mostly the same, and council learned when you heard the Taser case in February, that it's possible to learn the difference between the reasonable person standard and the preponderance of evidence standard, which are different between PRB and CRC. CRC members currently have to learn the differences between those standards when they sit on police review board panels on shootings and death cases.
 Another solution would be to change CRC standard of review so it's not deferential or confusing. And since council has final say, CRC's votes are only recommendations anyway. But we'll talk more about the ordinance tomorrow. Related to the CRC's concern there aren't enough members to attend five person panels reviewing appeals, it's crucial that CRC members at least show up to as many meetings as possible.
 The reappointment of Mr. Young to CRC is objectionable, not for the reason you've heard from other people to us, but because he's made some valuable contribution to CRC. He advocated for a less deferential standard of review. He's advocated that CRC should hear deadly force appeals, which we completely support. He's also made statements we disagree with.
 But these are not personal concerns we have. We checked the CRC minutes in our records and found that of 15 CRC meetings held from May 2016 to April 2017, Mr. Young only attended five. CRC has a protocol that states that it is the responsibility of each CRC member to attend all scheduled meetings. Excusals may be granted for occasional schedule conflicts.
 We suggest that missing 10 to 15 meetings falls outside the occasional conflicts contemplated by the protocol. We ask that Mr. Young not be renewed. You should ask the auditor to present one of the alternates for appointment. He can still participate in work groups. And you should be clear up front with people who are being appointed that they may be attending two or more meetings a month so that they know how much time they have to invest in this so they're not disappearing. Two other quick points, I may have raised this issue before. There's no closed.
 There's no projection here, so when it's hard to hear, I don't know what people who are hard of hearing do or deaf. And finally, this was a 9.45 a.m. time certain, and you can find a 10 a.m. time certain. And it's just, you know, for those of us who came down here, knowing this has been on the schedule for several weeks, it's very frustrating to have you move the schedule around like that. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I do apologize for the schedule shift, and we made a decision just based on the fact we had a bunch of kids who needed to get to school. So I do appreciate your patience. Morning. Morning, David Elton. I grew up in Lake Oswego. I've spent most of my life in Washington DC, Spain, and Spokane, Washington. But I moved home about five, six years ago and lived mostly on the beach.
 In Spokane, Washington, I've worked with the sheriff there, Ozzy Koneczny, a friend, a person I knew of. He wasn't really a close friend, was killed by police. His name's Otto Zem, Z-E-H-M. You can look that up on Wikipedia. It's kind of an interesting case, a police officer. It took us many years to put him in jail, but he did go to jail for four years. I am generally pro-police, although I am active on investigating police, lawyers, judges, and CEOs, and occasionally lawyers.
 the GCA conservators and guardians. I try to be objective. I know you've been mayor for 13 weeks and I very much support you. I met Ms. Henderson just an hour ago. Our family is looking to help with this and homelessness issues. We're very active in this. Although I live in Lake Oswego, I'm going back to school at the age of 51.
 Our family is looking at a partnership with a number of mostly lawyers and Mormons, Catholics, and people of the Jewish faith, which are generally my clients. It tends to be wealthy Mormons. We're going to plunk down some money. My father died 10 months ago, and we're going to get together some people that will plunk down a good faith deposit on June 3rd, which my dad died on June 3rd. He was one of the co-founders and original investors in Holiday Retirement Corporation.
 And I worked for Dad and Bill Colson for a number of years during college. There are people in Lake Oswego and surrounding areas around Portland that want to help you solve this problem. And so what I'm offering to you, and this can fall under homelessness and police oversight. I generally support the reappointment. Even though I've known Dan a couple years, my issues have largely been in Spokane. But there are people that want to help you solve two issues, homelessness and police oversight is so important because that's something I'm very passionate about.
 But I hope that we can meet with you sometime the next few weeks. And I've talked with Maurice about this. I support the reappointment of this gentleman. I think he's done a lot of good. He should be attending more meetings. But I hope that we have time to meet. There are people outside of Portland that have hundreds of millions of dollars. Like my mom is 77. She's not going to live forever, although she'll probably live to 95. We want to help you.
 So I hope that you have time for coffee. We look forward to help. I do support the reappointment of this gentleman. I think he does good. I think you ought to consider someone like myself or this gentleman or someone from outside the normal community of police and retired police officers. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. For the record, my name is Joe Walsh. I record, I'm sorry. One of the things that really bothers me about this is his not showing up for the meetings.
 That bothers me. It seems that if you only show up for one-third of the meetings, my math is right, then you shouldn't serve. By the way, where are the other two commissioners? If they don't show up, they shouldn't serve either. You know, we take our time, and we go through some hassles of getting here. It's important to us. I know, Mayor, you think there's a small group of thugs
 I don't think we are thugs. I've never been called a thug in my whole life. I've been called mouthy. I've been called Irish. I've been called a jerk. And that's okay. Thugs is a little bit too much. The CRC does not work. We all know that. But you keep reappointing people to the committee. That doesn't work. They can only recommend.
 You know, you need an organization that says, that cop did something really bad. He's out of here. I don't care what you call it. You can call it Ted Wheeler's group. I don't care what you call it. I want them independent. I want them funded independently. I don't want you guys to touch it. I want them to come before you as equals with their own funding, with their own investigation. So we trust them. We don't trust the CRC now.
 They just recommend, and then it's overturned or pushed aside or it's postponed. And then you wonder why we get so angry. If you want to stop your interruptions, respond to us in real terms. Say, no, we're not going to reassign anybody. We're not going to, you know, just continue this craziness. Because that's what it is. We all know the cliche. If you keep doing it.
 and you get the same results and you keep doing it that's insanity we know that cliche all of us anybody with a fourth grade education knows that why do you keep doing it that's the thing that i don't understand why does it serve you to do it what does it give you gives you nothing it gives you our anger
 And you can have all the cops in every room in this building. You're not going to stop us from interrupting your services unless you respond to us. And this is not the way to do it. You're going to rubber stamp this damn thing again, and we're going to leave here angry. Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I ran out of oxygen. So I got to go home. That's all who signed up. Very good.
 Any further council discussion on this matter or do we want to have Mr. Young? I'd like to have Mr. Young, I'd also like to just clarify about the point that Dan Handelman brought up about the number of vacancies that we have. If staff could address that please. Mr. Young, why don't you come forward as well? We also just noticed that that listed three vacancies and we apologize that that should have listed one. This was the only vacancy at this time.
 It is, and perhaps just, there we go. So this is indeed the only vacancy at this time. So we need to correct that for the record. I can also just answer that our office and the auditor did have a robust discussion about the attendance issue. The numbers are not quite correct.
 given by Mr. Handelman, I think for 2016 there were 17 meetings and Mr. Young missed 7 of those meetings. He did...
 He did during that same time attend all of his work group meetings and was very, very engaged in policy work and additional work that was going on during the days and not during those official meetings. That was a discussion we had with Mr. Young. He has, I should say also he was in very close communication with our office for each of
 missed meetings and we were very aware of the circumstances that were going on with his life there. The auditor very much feels that his contribution is valuable to the committee and wants to keep having that contribution from Mr. Young. So let me ask a question and I don't know Mr. Young. So please this is not in any way intended to impugn you or any of your colleagues.
 But our meeting, we have heard this criticism that it is hard to get the quorum together, that it's hard to schedule so many people when they're so busy. Are meetings available by phone? It would be logistically difficult, but it would be something that we could consider. So here is the only condition under which I will give a yes vote.
 I will assume that you are as valuable to the committee work as the auditor says. Again, I don't have a strong sense, but I trust the auditor and I will trust that. But I want a commitment that you will find a way for people to participate in those committee meetings by phone. So that number one, it doesn't drag these conversations out endlessly. And number two, it allows a quorum to get together on a regular basis.
 And you know, we'll just have to find you a meeting that has a multi phone a meeting room that has that I know there's Plenty throughout the city infrastructure that provide that kind of an opportunity So I'd like a commitment that if it is available by phone that you will make an effort to attend More of the meetings because I do think it's important for consistency purpose that people attend and we need to make it you know our job as city employees is to make it as easy and convenient as possible so that people can do that and
 So do I have that commitment? Yes, we'll have to check and make sure that that would work for voting purposes and that there's no code restrictions against that for sure, but absolutely. Are you aware of any code restrictions about meetings being conducted by telephone? I mean, we do this with the city council from time to time. Mayor.
 Council it is it is allowed under the code. It is allowed it would be the same rules well, so mayor as I understand it if there for some reason needs to be a Change or modification or clarification in the code the condition which you're you're establishing I think would require the order to come to the council with that change if necessary Otherwise we can assume the code would allow it
 I also looked at it this afternoon when we're looking at other IPR changes. May I just suggest that we ask Mr. Young, give him a turn to say why he hasn't been attending and why you're willing to serve him. And I'd also like to hear why you are attending, why you want to be on this committee. Thank you. Two answers. First, the data regarding the attendance has really just been in the past year, not my entire term.
 Sure, and also it doesn't include all the time commitments. To the extent there's been any committee related to police oversight, whether it was under COAB set up by the city attorney's office or use of force part of CRC, I've attended those.
 As a former city attorney, I've been asked to serve off-council with a city attorney in some very complex rate litigation in my former state of Michigan. Unfortunately, that city council and many court hearings take place during the first week of the month. And as a result, during the past year, because of travel, I just haven't been there. To the extent that I've been able to Then don't leave on the job. Don't leave on the job. Don't do that, or we'll ask you to leave.
 You can ask me to leave. You can ask me to leave. This guy, this whole team here is making, don't get to make up the rules. To the extent that even before I would leave, I would check with IPR to make sure that to the extent they had next meeting, they had a quorum set up. And if I might, the suggestion regarding.
 Participation by phone is excellent. Because number one, it could resolve my issue to the extent. Excuse me, please leave, thank you.
 To the extent that if I'm required to travel, but we also have had CRC members. Because years ago you looked for diversity in all sorts of areas. And having people with families, for example, little children, has made it difficult sometimes for members to attend. And participation by phone would really assist. The key of course is prepping beforehand, but then to the extent that you can't attend the meeting itself,
 It would provide, I think, excellent flexibility if attendance by phone was permitted. That's number one. Number two.
 I initially got involved because as fate had it years ago, I met a former mayor and I didn't realize she was mayor and I told her my background. And she gave me some things that she thought I should do as I neared retirement. And CRC along with CASA were two of the items. As I've gotten involved, as I've seen the process, and I agree with a lot of the comments, I'm telling you,
 The current system of police oversight does not work, okay? It is not fair to citizens, it is not fair to the police. Attendance by police is, they simply do not attend for a variety of reasons. So I'm committed as a matter of trying to make my, where I've lived for ten years, and my new home,
 do something meaningful and being committed to meaningful police oversight is now on my bucket list. And just as the other gentleman was saying here, I would be happy to meet, whether it's with Nicole or you or anybody else, to do what can be done.
 Thank you. So that's why I'm willing to. Thank you, that's a good answer. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mr. Young, I'll tell you why I'm going to support your reappointment with the proviso that we allow people to participate by phone. And with the, excuse me, with the condition that your attendance be consistent with what is expected. After the council heard the CRC appeal recently, which is the first CRC appeal that's occurred
 during my service you and I had a conversation because you took the time to come and be in the audience and I appreciate your perspective on that issue There were a number of irregularities That that arose in mr. Klug's appeal the two and a half years it took to get to us the fact that The the wrong directives were presented to the CRC and had to be withdrawn and then updated the fact that I
 On a number of occasions, people did not show up for meetings and therefore had to be rescheduled. In addition, for me, I had, as you know, concerns about the six tasers and the use of force. What I glean from our conversation, however, is that you share the concerns that the council expressed that day in overturning the recommendation of the chief, that the system is not working the way it should. And so in reappointing you,
 I would ask you to also share with us on an ongoing basis your recommendations for how we can improve this process. I know we're going to hear from Mr. Handelman and others who have views. I do believe you have superb leadership at the CRC now. I think the current chair is outstanding. And in fact, her presentation at that hearing was one of the reasons I voted not to sustain the chief's recommendation. But I think there are improvements that need to be made and we don't want to wear people out. And to take two and a half years to deal with that one case.
 cannot become the norm so i appreciate your willingness to serve and i would ask you to help us get it right i do that i agree with everything you've just said yes sir
 Thank you. Yes, you got me there. It's teamwork, it's teamwork. I move an amendment to the third whereas that will now say, whereas the committee has one vacancy resulting from the completion of James Young's term. And then the fourth whereas substituting one applicant instead of three applicants at the end of that sentence. And thank you Mr. Handelman for pointing that out. Second. Seconded. Any further discussion? Call the roll on the amendment.
 Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Thank you. Back to you. So I'm just going to say one thing. I'm actually sort of sorry Mr. Walsh isn't here to hear me say this. I'm relatively new to this process and a few weeks into my administration, I had the opportunity, I'll call it that, to participate in one of the hearings. I was largely left with more questions than answers. I have come to be very frustrated.
 with the accountability process generally, and this is not a condemnation of anybody individually. I think collectively there's some acknowledgement these things are taking too long. They are ploddingly slow. And I am only now seeing things cross my desk that were started in some cases over two years ago.
 That's problematic. On the other hand, there are some things that finally cross my desk and I go, why the heck was there ever an investigation and why did it take us this long to get to this point? So I'm putting my flag in the air on the side of the oversight process isn't working the way we need it to work.
 Yeah, I applaud you for wanting to serve on this committee. I will take you at your word. You've said a lot of important things here on the record for all of us to hear. But I actually don't think the problem is just appointments to a committee. I think it's much, much deeper than that, and it's going to take a lot of work to have the accountability system that both the public supports that does justice,
 We're having a conversation tomorrow, which will be, I think, the beginning of a longer conversation around accountability systems and mechanisms we have in place, and we need to continue to push it. because Mr. Walsh was, I believe, actually correct. He said one of the reasons that people are angry is that there is a lack of confidence in the system itself. And I agree with him on that.
 But thank you for your willingness to serve. I appreciate it very much. Thank you all. I wish you the best of luck. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Aye.
 Well, thank you for this important discussion, Mayor. I agree with you. One of the things that was most helpful to me in that appeal hearing we had last month of the year, several weeks ago, was actually seeing the timeline of how things happen internally. And then I know that the Citizens Review Committee has been chastised for not getting things done in 180 days, but often the matter doesn't even get to you in that timeframe, and certainly not in the timeframe that would allow you to make the decisions with the appeal.
 So that is true. I agree with the Mayor that the oversight system is not working. I think we would all like it to be better, and so we should have a robust discussion tomorrow about what does that look like and who holds the Independent Police Review accountable when things still don't seem to be taken care of in a timely matter. I do thank you and all of the members of the Citizen Review Committee, particularly the
 popular including one particular instance where you suffered an assault by a community member and I appreciate you being willing to serve after that and
 But that's why I'm voting to support you. I don't expect people to agree on these extremely challenging things. I want a robust debate. So thank you very much for providing that and also for giving us the assurance that you will be able to attend in person more this year as well as by phone if necessary. Wheeler. So,
 As I said, I will support this with all of the provisos that I put forward earlier. But I gotta say, it's sort of the new kid on the block. It's frustrating for me to come in after having heard for 12 weeks about how hard it is to get people together for these meetings. And how slow the process is, and to only learn now that we're still not using a telephone.
 for people to be able to call in to, I mean, that's just like meeting basics 101. And I guess my frustration is just how many other of these impediments do we have laying out there that could be solved with a really simple common sense solution? So I blame myself for that.
 I don't think we are giving people enough of an opportunity to just say, here's like 10 things you could do to make things easier, more convenient, less expensive, and ultimately more effective in this city. So I'm putting out the call on this. I want you guys to think hard and innovate and work with the auditor, who I think is a great innovative leader, and see if we can improve this process. And I know we'll have the opportunity to talk about this again tomorrow.
 Thank you. The appointment's approved. Next item, please. Did you want to go to the regular or the pooled items? Let's do the pooled items. Item 350, accept a grant in the amount of $1 million from Oregon Department of Transportation for the regional signal system concept of operations and implementation. Mayor, this was simply pulled so we could vote on it, because we didn't have the requisite votes in the consent agenda.
 Very good, and this is the first reading is my understanding. So we'll move, is there any further question? Sorry? Is there any public testimony? All right. On this particular item. I was not going to do anything to that. Excuse me. I was going to be nice. Excuse me, you are- But you're an asshole. You're going to have to leave. You're threatening to arrest me. You're going- Get away from me. Mr. Walsh, you're going to have to leave. You're an asshole out there. I ain't leaving. Mr. Walsh, you have to leave. Please leave.
 All right, folks, I'm sorry. We're going to take a recess and clear the chamber. If you would like to come back in a few minutes, I would ask you to go out to room C, which is just to the left, and we'll reconvene in a few minutes. That's all out there. Try no recipe. 
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 There was no testimony on 350, so that is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to the second. Why don't we move to 351 and take care of that and go back to the consent agenda when Commissioner Fritz is back in the room. Commissioner Fritz will not be returning. She's out till two. Okay, thank you. Okay, so 350.
 351. 351. Amend marijuana business regulations definition of wholesaler and use of temporary gentrification of occupancy. Commissioner Udaly. Well, these are some small code changes, our first steps towards resolving some of the issues with our city marijuana regulation. And I don't think anyone's here to...
 Speak or do we need? It's not required. Okay. Is there any public testimony on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet We are on 351 would anybody like to testify on marijuana code? Amend the marijuana business regulations definition come on up I don't know what you're talking about
 OK. Well, then there will be other opportunities. You don't have to testify right away on that. There's other ones. Very good. Please call the room. Excuse me. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Back to the regular agenda, assuming we have Susan Anderson. Is she back in the room yet? No. Ah, very good. Thank you. 352. If you want to go ahead and read it. 353? We're on 352. Oh, all right. Lost it. Sorry.
 352 reappoint Jeff Bokrock, Michelle Rudd, Catherine Schultz, Chris Smith, and Mike Houck to the Planning and Sustainability Commission for terms to expire May 31, 2021, and extend the terms for Gary Oxman and Margaret Talmadge to expire on May 31, 2017.
 Good morning. Good morning. And this is an item that was on consent that was pulled off with the request that we provide biographical information, resume for the appointees and we've done that and made it available online. Five of the commissioners are being appointed for
 A four year term to or being extended to the end of May so that we can complete the work on the comprehensive plan, central city plan. Very good, any further questions? Any public testimony on this item, 352? I had four people sign up. Very good. Mimi's gone, Cameron Stark, Lightning Super Watchdog, and David Elton. Apparently they are not here, please.
 I'm sorry. Come on up. Thank you. No worries. We're on them Is there any further the individuals here Cameron Stark lightning super watchdog and David Elton. All right, so not emergency first reading it moves to second reading next item Please this is an appointment
 I'm sorry, it's a report. I apologize. Please call the, we have a motion. I second it. Please call the roll. Fish. The folks who serve on this body put a lot of time and energy. Is your mic on? Sorry. The people who were reappointing put a lot of time and energy into their service on the Planning and Sustainability Commission Board, and they help us make good decisions, and we're grateful for their service. Aye. Udaly. Udaly.
 Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The report's accepted. Next item, please. Item 353, authorized city attorney to join as a party in litigation challenging president's executive order on sanctuary cities. So before we begin this, the city attorney has asked us to take up a substitute. Could I get a motion? Well, why don't you read the substitute language and read it?
 I actually don't have the substitute for me. I believe it was filed as a substitute. Oh, this is the substitute language? Yeah, we'll be happy to tell you what it is. Then we don't need to reread it. Can I get a motion and a second on the substitute? So moved. Commissioner Udaly, can I get a second on the substitute? Second. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly.
 Aye. Wheeler? Aye. So now we're discussing the substitute. Good morning. Great. And just to clarify, the reason for the substitute was that there may be one procedural mechanism or another by which we either join or bring our own lawsuit on this matter, and it was just to clarify that we had authority to do it either way if you authorize us to proceed.
 So what we're asking is for the authority to file a lawsuit against the federal government and President Trump and Attorney General Sessions and the Director of the Department of Homeland Security either joining in the lawsuit that Seattle has already filed or filing our own lawsuit and then moving to join the lawsuit. We're in the process of sorting it out. I've been in communication with Pete Holmes, who is the Seattle City Attorney. He very much supports as do the other attorneys.
 their officials, the city joining in their efforts. This lawsuit pertains to the President's Executive Order 13768, which threatens all so-called sanctuary jurisdictions with withdrawal of all federal grant funding if they refuse to participate in the enforcement of federal immigration law. The lawsuit is based on a number of factors, but primarily
 asserts that there is a misinterpretation of 8 U.S.C. Section 1373, which is the only applicable federal statute and with which both we and Seattle comply. The president's executive order
 In addition to requiring compliance with that statute, appears to more affirmatively require that we partner with ICE in enforcing federal immigration law. We believe that's both not required by the federal statute at issue and more importantly would violate constitutional principles of states' rights, local jurisdictions' rights, it would be an overreach by the federal government.
 In addition, even if we were not compliant with 8 U.S.C. Section 1373, which we believe we are fully compliant, it would not be a basis to withhold all federal funding, which is what the administration is threatening to do. And as I mentioned, we've been in contact, close contact with Seattle. We work well with them and they welcome this step and authorizing our participation. We also have...
 very fortunately received a generous offer of pro bono representation by a major West Coast law firm. I'm waiting until conflicts are cleared before we announce that they will actually be representing us. They have some work to do to clear that up, but they don't anticipate any difficulty. So our office will do a lot of the substantive work, but they will also work with us, and they will act as our counsel in Seattle so that we will not incur additional expense to hire outside .
 And with me is Chief Deputy City Attorney Harry Auerbach, and we're available to answer any questions you may have about this. I'd like to start with a basic question. I'm teeing you up for this with a little bit of an introduction.
 I first raised this possibility of joining with Seattle because I was advised that if we sue independently the way Seattle has done, the way Los Angeles has done, we will be using exactly the same legal framework to do so. And so my thinking was by partnering with Seattle, we send a strong message as a unified Northwest that
 And in addition to that there was the possibility of teaming up our legal efforts Which I believe can only make us stronger in this endeavor But I'd like to get your
 perspectives on this as well. Going it together versus filing an independent lawsuit. So we believe that there is a mechanism for, it purely has to do with some procedural requirements and we believe, and we're in discussions with the Seattle City Attorney, we believe there is a way forward for us to join the lawsuit as a matter of right. We simply wanna cover our bases and if for some reason
 It would be more advantageous procedurally to file our own lawsuit in Seattle and then move to join them. We wanted council to have given us broad enough authority to do that. But we agree with you that we think that Seattle's complaint is very well thought out. We have the same bases, legal bases, to sue the federal government that Seattle does. And our hope is that it will work out for us to,
 join them as a plaintiff in their lawsuit, which would involve them filing and us with them filing an amended complaint in that action. And that is what we anticipate as the preferred course of action.
 There are some things that could occur that, you know, might necessitate us filing our own action were, for example, a response to be filed prior to the time that the amended complaint is prepared, which we don't anticipate. Then we might have to file a motion for leave. But anyway, it's a lot of it's just to make sure we filed the amended resolution merely to make sure that.
 Were it to be necessary, the council authorization was broad enough to authorize us to file ourselves and move to join should that become procedurally necessary. Yeah, the only thing I'd add is that the law is a little bit like medicine in that there's a lot of differential diagnosis that goes along. And so an issue has been raised about technically whether we can sue in Washington or join Seattle's lawsuit having reviewed.
 that I don't think it's an impediment and our expectation is we will be joining Seattle's lawsuit but in case it turns out that that won't work we just want to have an avenue to go forward. Right and just to to doubly underscore so what we are authorizing you to do through this resolution the substitute is to go either path obviously our preferred path is joint but if necessary necessary we'll go forward independently as well. That is correct.
 Tracy, I have a couple of questions and comments. First, I'm pleased that you brought this to council, but just to be clear, if this issue comes up during a time when the mayor doesn't have the chance to come to council and it involves whether we join with an existing lawsuit, I believe the mayor has the authority to make that call, is that correct?
 So what we previously asked council to do was to give the mayor authority to authorize the city attorney to join with any other jurisdictions on related issues as an amicus. In this case, we're seeking authorization to actually file as a plaintiff. Okay, appreciate that. And the mayor made a very important point earlier and raised an important point about the value of us joining an existing lawsuit versus filing our own. And the one thing I didn't hear you say, which I think is just worth noting,
 We all understand that these issues are going to be decided ultimately at the circuit court level, if not the Supreme Court level. And Seattle and Portland are in the same circuit, the Ninth Circuit. So it will ultimately be decided by the same appellate court whether we initiate or whether they initiate. So that's another reason why it makes sense to partner, as I understand it.
 Absolutely. And even if we file an independent lawsuit, our intention would be to file it in the Western District of Washington so that we could move to join the lawsuit. So either way, our intention is to present a united front with Seattle and potentially, my understanding is, speaking with Pete Holmes, that there are a number of other jurisdictions that may also be looking to participate as plaintiffs.
 And finally, I think all of us are getting emails from people that seem to be as confused as the general public generally is about this issue, partly because of conflicting statements made by different actors. And some of it emanates from the Trump administration where they've said things that, as far as I can tell, are flat out just not true.
 and others just people reading in. So I think it's very important just because we need to speak with one voice and you're our attorney. Number one, your view is that we are currently not in violation of federal law, correct? Correct. Number two, since we all took an oath of office and we swore to uphold the state constitution, Oregon law very clearly says we cannot use public resources to enforce federal immigration laws, correct? Correct. Number three,
 We do have the benefit of a Supreme Court case on a related issue which was, arose under the Affordable Care Act when the federal government
 under threat of withholding Medicaid dollars, sought to compel states to expand Medicaid. And a Supreme Court headed by Justice Roberts, the current Chief Justice, said that that violated the 10th Amendment and Article One of the Constitution because it would coerce a state to do something which they otherwise wouldn't do or didn't want to do. And so we do have the benefit here, even if someone says we did violate federal law, which we don't believe we did, even if there is deemed a conflict,
 Even if the Ninth Circuit view, it doesn't hold, we do have the benefit here of a Supreme Court case issued by a conservative court. And this current Chief Justice that upholds the idea that we can't be coerced to do something and that would be our best line of defense if we ever got there. Correct, that would be a spending clause violation and that's what the Sebelius case holds. And then finally, and I only know this because you gave us this excellent memo,
 To the extent that the President has said that we would forfeit all federal money, that also would violate both statutory and constitutional principles because the court
 draw, the court narrowly defines what you can actually condition so as not to cross that line into coercion and unlawful conduct under the Constitution. So as I understand it, if we were wrong on everything, which we don't think we are, and under the worst case scenario, we may be putting at risk a couple of those grants that we get from the federal government to augment
 the police work we do and the like. And those are actually a tiny fraction of our overall budget. That's correct, and also interestingly, Commissioner Fish, the administration has at the same time indicated that the law enforcement grants are the ones that they don't want to pull even though technically those are the ones with the closest nexus to the conduct. So I think even those we would have good arguments.
 Commissioner Udailey. I just have a quick question. It would be interesting to me and maybe to some of the members of the public. What is the benefit for the city and for the lawsuit of us joining as a party rather than as an amicus?
 So what the difference is, is that we ourselves would actually be suing as a plaintiff, the president, the administration, the other members of the administration that I had mentioned, and saying that Portland has legal interests itself that it is seeking to protect through the lawsuit. So we're not just saying as a municipal jurisdiction we're generally interested in the resolution of these legal issues.
 But we're saying that we ourselves have federal funding at stake, that we ourselves comply with the state law, and that the actions the Trump administration is taking negatively impact the legal interests of the city of Portland, and we would have a judge ruling on that issue. Whereas as an amicus, a judge would not be ruling on any issue particular to the city of Portland. We're just there as a friend of the court. We're not a party who's affected by the outcome.
 Thank you. I'm sorry, we have some disturbance in the hallway, and I'm not sure what that is, but it looks like there's plenty of people out there to address whatever it is. Do we have any public testimony on this island? Cameron Stark, Lightning Super Watchdog, and David Elton. Are any of those individuals here? Mr. Stark is here. Mr. Stark, thank you. I'm sorry, I'm having a really hard time. That's my godmother out there screaming. Since this pertains to themy name's Cameron Stark, for the record, by the way.
 While we're talking about the ordinance of a sanctuary city, I can't agree that this is a sanctuary city. I do agree with your actions of filing the lawsuit in conjoince with Seattle. I believe that it shows strong representation and solidarity. I do think that you should move forward with this lawsuit. But in a sanctuary city, I think that you and Seattle should work together to, there's a lot of crime
 There's a lot of drugs, there's a lot of gangs, there's a lot of problems in Portland and Seattle as well. We're losing a lot of lives. We're losing a lot of lives of black people. We're losing a lot of lives of children, of family members, of community members. Those things shouldn't happen in a sanctuary city as commonly as they do. As you know, yesterday there was a shooting at a park by Lloyd Center. Turns out the person that died was a Don't Shoot Portland activist. Our whole community's shaken. The whole city of Portland.
 I mean just from the top to the bottom. It's non-stop. The violence, the police killing people, Quanis Hayes, James Chassie. I mean, it's just it's ridiculous. If this is sanctuary, this needs to be safe and we need to be safe from not only each other, from the police. Safety is all around. Sanctuary is all around, you know, people have to come here and feel safe and
 I just don't feel that it's a sanctuary city when you come into Portland from who knows where Europe and it's a Wednesday afternoon And there's riot cops running around. I mean that just doesn't send a message of safety. I do agree with the lawsuit though, and I just want to be safe. I just want to feel safe I want our community feel safe, and it's really hard when I
 We're losing people we love on the daily. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Was there anybody else signed up? That's all who signed up. This is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. This is a resolution. I'm sorry. I apologize. It is a resolution. It says that in plain English on my sheet. I apologize. Commissioner Udalli.
 Do you want a roll call? Did you have a question? Oh, I'm sorry. Very good. Can I get a motion, please? I move. I'm sorry, it's a resolution, just a roll call. Carla, please call the roll. Fish.
 Mayor, thank you for bringing this forward. City Attorney, thank you for the work you've done to educate the council and the public about these issues. And I was proud when the city unambiguously reaffirmed our commitment as a sanctuary city. And I'm honored that we are joining with sister cities along the west coast to resist what I consider to be both an unconstitutional and an un-American executive order. So thank you, aye. Yudeli? Aye.
 Wheeler. So I have been asked many times, what does it mean that we are a sanctuary city? And we just heard, I thought, some very provocative testimony on that question. And I'm with those who say that it's important and it was important to
 to articulate what a sanctuary city is and what a sanctuary city is not. But I think it's even more important that we back those words with concrete action. And I'll be honest with you, five years ago, I never would have envisioned myself suing a president of the United States on an issue of what I believe is an issue of morality.
 And yet here we are. And I think it is very important that we're taking this action. I think it's important that we're doing it jointly with other large urban areas on the West Coast and around the United States. And I have every confidence that we will prevail in this action. So I'm very proud of my colleagues and the legal team.
 everybody else who's engaged in this process and will push forward. So with that, the resolution is adopted. Aye. Next item please. Item 354, accepted of Stellar J Corporation for the Safeway Pump Station Upgrade Project for $1,148,683. Good morning. Good morning. Almost afternoon. Almost, another Wednesday.
 Good morning, Mayor and members of the Council. I'm Larry Platt from Procurement Services. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to Stellar J Corporation for the Safeway Pump Station upgrade for $1,148,683. The engineer's estimate on this project was $1,090,000. Oh, okay. Can I move just a little? There we go. I have to hold this stuff back far enough so I can see it.
 Engineer's estimate of this project was $1,090,000, and the Bureau's confidence level was high. On January 4th, 2017, Council approved Ordinance No. 188188.
 For procurement services to competitively solicit the Safeway Pump Station upgrade, the project was advertised in the city's electronic procurement system and bids were reopened on February 14th, 2017. Six bids were received in response to the solicitation and Cellar J Corporation is the lowest responsive and responsible bidder at $1,148,683, which is 5.38% over the engineer's estimate.
 The Bureau of Environmental Services along with procurement services identified an aspirational goal for the certified DMWESB subcontractors and supplier utilization of 20% of the hard construction costs. There is a total of $53,132 or 4.6% of certified firm participation on this project.
 including sub certified subcontracts apportioned as follows a DBE $21,275 doing trucking fencing and traffic control. Can I get that on a percentage basis? I Don't have it. That would be roughly 2.3 percent I'm doing fast math mayor. I'm sorry. I don't have those specifically broken out. The total is 4.6 and
 The WBE at $4,340 would be less than 1%, and an ESB providing plumbing services at $27,517 would be just over 50% of the total subcontracting. Thank you.
 Stellar J Corporation is located in Woodland, Washington, is not a state certified DMW or ESB contractor. They do have a current City of Portland business tax registration and are in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements. If the council has any questions regarding the bidding process, I can answer those. I believe Dan Hebert from BES is here. The vendor was here and had to leave for a separate meeting.
 So, no doubt. Thank you. Any further questions? Yeah, I have a couple of questions, Mayor. The 4.6% participation against the 20% aspiration is paltry to say the least. And in addition, it's not an Oregon company and it's not a state certified in terms of MWESB.
 What did we learn from this procurement that we can apply to a future procurement to get better numbers? If BES wants to come up, that's great. What happens is in the procuring, the bidding process, all of the forms are out. They're required to contact and submit information relative to the contacts of all of the certified firms that they've been in touch with relative to the various and assorted.
 Pieces of available subcontracting, Stellar J is a very large corporation and has capacity to self-perform many things. Not that that's any... I mean, there's a lot... We do business with a lot of really big firms, but that's been the issue here, is they are self-performing, and the certified firms that they contacted either on their form either did not respond or had a bid that was too high for them to use.
 I'm Dan Hebert with BES. I'm the project manager for the project and it's difficult to say what might have happened in the procurement process. I can tell you that when we put together the contract documents and the specification, we identify a number of divisions of work, specific divisions of work that the bidders are then required, as Mr. Collette was saying, to contact my MWSB firms and get like five, four, five.
 Yeah. A minimum of a document that they've tried to get quotes from a minimum of five people or five firms. And we try to identify as many divisions of work for, that would be applicable to smaller firms like fencing, plumbing, grading, traffic control, structural concrete.
 There's about 30 different divisions on one sheet of paper that we could check off, and we try to make sure we identify as many as we possibly can. Well let me ask something, because really, and I'm not saying this to be critical, but the DBE opportunities here are less than perfunctory, $6,000 for fencing, $6,000 for traffic control. So this is not about engaging underrepresented contractors and people in business.
 It's not even window dressing because it's so paltry, and it's spread up in ways that are going to be utterly meaningless. So what is the track record of Stellar J? I guess it's called the Stellar J. I object to referring to them as the Stellar Corporation, but what is the track record of the Stellar J Corporation in achieving the goals that we have mandated for these kinds of contracts? You know, I can tell you that we have not maintained those kind of records, so I don't
 So one thing I'm going to suggest. They're not very good. That we, pardon me? They're not very good. So that's one thing I'm going to suggest, Mayor, we start doing. Because if particularly where there is a modest difference between first, second, and third. And here I think the difference is, what is it? First and second is 7% and then 2.4%. Right. And we do have alternative contracting approaches that the council has authorized in certain situations.
 The concern I have about this one is I don't know that the pump station work per se constitutes the kind of specialized work like maybe Willamette River Crossing, where we just know going in that there's only a handful of people to do it. It's highly specialized work and it's unlikely we're gonna get the numbers we want. But if we see consistency with a particular company of not meeting our goals, then I think we have to know that because then we have to have a trigger to say,
 Well, what do we have to do differently? And one of the things we can do differently is obviously sitting down with the company and saying, what barriers are you facing? And we don't want to hear that you sent out five notices and got no responses. Let's make sure you're mailing from the right places, you're engaging people. At the Housing Bureau and PDC, they actually do open houses with subcontractors and others to make sure that people are aware of things. So that's number one, and number two, at some point I would want to know
 when we want to rethink the kind of contracting we're doing on these projects. That we need to go a different route if we're not getting the numbers. But when we're down to close to 4.6% and it's divided up in ways that are almost meaningless for the companies that are gonna get them, I feel like we failed. And I'm not putting that on you.
 But I don't feel like I have the mechanism here to understand whether the company is consistently falling short, how we're doing the contracting as a culprit, or if there's something else we need to do. And the mayor has been very clear. He wants to see better numbers. So...
 I'm not, I don't think, because I know that our pump stations need upgrading and our pump stations are very sensitive and we can't afford to have them fail, so I get that. And I'm not going to stand on ceremony here, but what I will ask you to do is report back to us on the record of Stellar J Corporation and also I would like a written report on what have we learned from this particular project that can inform how we look at future procurement.
 Because we're spending a lot of rate payer dollars now in upgrading our infrastructure and I applaud that. But we're also seeing a number of contracts that really don't meet even the minimal standard the council has set. And I want to make sure that it isn't because we haven't gone the extra mile to address that problem. Well said. Okay, thank you.
 Just a quick question, sir. Sure. Would you like the report sent directly to you? To me and my colleagues. I'd like to see it as well. Why don't you send it to the whole council, please? Great, will do, thank you. Thank you very much. And by the way, if you believe there's some structural problem or if you believe they have consistently fallen short of the mark, let us know that. So we have the information to then engage you in some problem solving.
 We have the background information sir to deliver that report and the info and the follow-up information. Thank you Appreciate it. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. We have a motion He seconded we have a second any further questions for the panel call the roll Absolutely, thank you both for the work you do a lot of procurement and I know that
 Your hearts in the right place. Thank you. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? I second everything Commissioner Fish said. These numbers are way too low, and I want to underscore the second point that he made, which is the nature of the work that is being done by MWESB firms.
 very, very low to non-skill work that doesn't actually build any capacity of minority or women-owned contractors and doesn't do much by way of vocational training. Setting up a fence is setting up a fence. So it always sort of galls me when I hear contractors come and we ask, what are the actual skill sets that you have engaged women-owned and minority-owned contractors to do?
 And I'll just tell you, I wince when I hear flagging.
 and truck driving, although those pay great in the short term. I also want to hear people who are actually involved in trades. I want to hear people who are involved in technical skills development. I want to hear them make a commitment. I'm feeling a little guilty because they were here and they could have answered these questions in their own words, and unfortunately they weren't able to stay. And maybe they had a very good...
 and we have to give them the benefit of the doubt, but 2% or even if it's 3%, frankly, even if it's 10%, it's too low.
 And I want to work with and develop the capacity of master contractors who are really committed to building up skill set and equity in human resources over the long term. And I'm not convinced this does it, but with all of the stipulations Commissioner Fish put on the table, I will support this contract, but I'd like to get that information as well. Absolutely, sir. Thank you. So with that, the report is accepted.
 Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you for your hard work. Next item, please. 355. Never mind, that's an emergency, so we'll have to skip it. 357, second reading? Yep. 357, extend term of franchise granted to MCI Communications Services, Inc. to build and operate telecommunications facilities within city streets. Any further council discussion? Call the roll. Fish.
 Yedeli? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. 358, authorize a contract with Cornforth Consultants, Inc. in the amount of $139,776 for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Part 12 Dam Safety Report for Portland Hydropower Project 1 and Project 2. Other than loving the name, is there any further council discussion on this item?
 Hearing none, please call the roll. Fish. I just want to note for my two newest colleagues that the first time David Shaft got up and made a presentation on a related subject and he said, I want to talk about the dam safety report or the Dam Two project. We stopped him and cautioned him about using that kind of language at a council meeting.
 But of course it is the dam safety report that has to do with the dam in the- Just move on, Commissioner. In the Bull Run Watershed, aye. Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The contract is approved. Next item, please.
 Item 359, approve an agreement with Christopher D. Duffin and Elizabeth C. Staver in the amount of $75,975 to construct sidewalk improvements to the north side of Southeast Henderson Street from 300 feet east of Southeast 78th Avenue to 545 feet west of Southeast 82nd Avenue. Any further council discussion on this item? Call the roll, please.
 Fish. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The agreement is approved. And just so people know, these are second readings, so we've already had public testimony and presentations on all of these. Next item, please.
 Item 360, authorizing Bureau of Transportation to acquire certain permanent and temporary rights necessary for the Northeast 47th Avenue Phase 1 LID project through the exercise of the city's eminent domain authority. Any further council discussion on this item? Please call the roll. Fish.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The acquisition is approved. Next item, please. 361, authorized purchase order with Pierce Manufacturing Inc. For the purchase of three emergency response apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2 million. Good morning. Thank you, gentlemen.
 Thank you. And are the green lights on on the mic? Yes, they are. Great, thank you. So good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioner. I'm Jake Wall, Senior Business Operations Manager for Portland Fire and Rescue. I'm Deputy Chief Marco Bernani. I'm the Logistics Chief for Portland Fire and Rescue. Very good. Thank you.
 These apparatus, it's just an ongoing replacement project that we have for replacing aging apparatus for our Portland Fire and Rescue stations and fleet in general. And this was just three more new apparatus. One of them is a foam unit that's kind of desperately needed for the region for hopefully helping with the back and crew type oil train situation that we've been struggling with over the years around the country.
 This will give us an apparatus in the central area above the rail yards, station 24 north interstate in Lombard. It will carry about 1,200 gallons of foam being able to respond to any of the oil tank farms or any incidents up and down the rail systems that we have or any other foam required response that we'll have.
 The other one is a replacement for heavy squad, heavy rescue downtown in our main fire station. That apparatus is about 15 years old now. We keep those front line for 15 years and then they go to reserve for five. So it's on schedule to be replaced. And the third apparatus is a brand new fire engine. So that's just one more of many that we need to replace over time. So if there's any questions. Very good. Any questions?
 I just had one question. What's the disposition program for used apparatus? Used apparatus, I have a whole list of needy organizations, mainly volunteer and other fire departments around the state and our region that have requests in for any aging or apparatus that we want to surplus. So this list is long. We have about, I think right now I have 15 departments. Most of them are small.
 that we usually, when we decommission our apparatus, we'll offer them to those departments, and 99% of the time they accept them. And so we go through the process and do the paperwork and then just provide those apparatus to those fire departments mostly around the state of Oregon. Okay, thank you. Any further questions? I thought we gave some of these apparatus to Guadalajara. We have, yeah. We've given several to the Bomberos in Guadalajara, Mexico.
 Thank you. Thank you. Is there any public testimony on this item? Nobody signed up. Very good. Then unless there's any further discussion, this moves to second reading. It's a non-emergency first reading. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 362, assess property for sidewalk repair for the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I am Sherry with the auditor's office. Sherry Matias with the auditor's office. Thank you. I'm Mike Zeller. I'm a sidewalk inspector with maintenance operations. Thanks, Mike. Lee Manson, supervisor in sidewalks. Thank you. This ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance. So there's no objections pending before us. Carla, is anyone here to testify on this item?
 Mr. David Elton requested to speak. I don't see him. I think he's not here. Any other public testimony? Did he file a remonstrance? No, not to my knowledge.
 Very good. Then this passes. Commissioner Eudaly, anything else on this? Then this passes to second reading. Mayor, before we adjourn, can I just clarify something? Certainly. You, because we didn't have the requisite quorum, we've said over emergency item 355, but I believe this is time sensitive. Is it your intention to have this brought back this afternoon or tomorrow afternoon?
 so that we can act on it. It's just a minor modification to a contract. If we have four people available this afternoon, I'd be happy to take that up this afternoon after the meeting.
 the time certain issue. We have a rather lengthy time certain at 2 p.m. Commissioner Fritz is expected back at two o'clock. Okay, so why don't we- Can we set this over to this afternoon? Let's set it over to this afternoon in time permitting. We'll do it at the end. And why don't we also move the rest of the consent agenda? Okay, and 356 as well. Yes, but we'll do it at the end. We'll do the time certain first. Good, there being no further business before the council, we'll adjourn until 2 p.m. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Everybody, this is the
 Wednesday, April 12th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. We're going to take up our evidentiary hearing first and at the end of the council session, time permitting, we're gonna take up some of the items from this morning's session that we didn't quite complete. So with that, Carla, would you please call the roll? Fish. Here. Saltzman. Udalli. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And if you could read the first item, the time's certain, please.
 Item 363, appeal of Landon Crowell to against design commission's decision of denial for design review of a new five to six story, approximately 70 foot tall, 17 unit apartment building in the central east side sub-district of the central city plan district at 1122 Southeast Ankeny Street, LU16-2.
 184524DZM. Before we get into the hearing, there's just a standard notice of decorum that I'm asked to read on behalf of the council. The purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern,
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration to matters before the council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which will help everybody feel comfortable and respected and welcome and safe, and also to ensure that decorum is maintained.
 Individuals during testimony typically have three minutes to testify. There's some lights there in front. The yellow light tells you have 30 seconds. The green light tells you you're done. Those who are invited for testimony today, obviously you'll have different standards and I will tell you what those standards are as you come up to speak.
 If there's a disruption, I will issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, you will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting. And anybody who meets those requirements but then fails to leave is subject to arrest for trespassing. So don't let that happen to you.
 In order to maintain decorum, we ask if people like something they hear. You can give a thumbs up. If you don't, you can give a thumbs down. That's usually sufficient, and we'll leave it at that.
 There are some things I need to do before I turn this over. So first of all, the city attorney will make some announcements about today's hearing. I will, and these are required by state law and city code. First of all, this is an evidentiary hearing. It means you may submit new evidence to council in support of your arguments.
 Today begins with a staff report by the Bureau of Development Services for approximately 10 minutes. Following the staff report, council will hear from interested persons in the following order. The appellant will go first and will have 10 minutes to present his or her case. Following the appellant, persons who support the appeal will go next. Each person will have three minutes. Then the principal opponent will have 15 minutes to address council and rebut the appellant's presentation.
 After the principal opponent, the council will hear from persons who oppose the appeal and each of these persons will also have three minutes. Finally, the appellant will have five minutes to rebut the presentation of the opponents of the appeal. At that point, the council may decide to close the hearing, deliberate, and take a vote on the appeal. If the vote is tentative, the council will set a future date for adoption of findings and a final vote on the appeal. If council takes a final vote today, that will conclude the matter before council.
 There are several guidelines for your addressing council and providing testimony today. First, any letters or documents you wish to become part of the record must be given to the council clerk, Carla, after you testify or before you testify. Similarly, the original or a copy of any slides, photographs, drawings, maps, or other items you show to council during your testimony, including PowerPoint presentations, should be given to the council clerk to make sure they become part of this land use record.
 Second, any testimony must be directed to the approval criteria for this review. Any testimony, arguments, evidence you present are directed to applicable approval criteria or other criteria in the City's Comprehensive Plan or Zoning Code that you believe apply to the decision. BDS staff will identify the applicable approval criteria as part of their initial staff report to Council.
 Third, you must raise an issue clearly enough to give the council and the parties an opportunity to respond to the issue. If you do not, you will be precluded from appealing to the Land Use Board of Appeals based on that issue. And finally,
 An applicant must identify constitutional challenges to conditions of approval. If the applicant fails to raise constitutional or other issues relating to proposed conditions of approval with enough specificity to allow counsel to respond, the applicant will be precluded from bringing an action for damages in circuit court. And that concludes my remarks. Very good, thank you. Do any members of the council wish to declare a conflict of interest? No, Mayor.
 There are no council members declaring any conflict of interest. Does anyone present in the council chambers, do any members of the council have any ex parte contacts to declare information gathered outside of this hearing to disclose? No council members have ex parte contacts to declare. Does anyone, sorry, I have to skip that one. Have members of the council made any visits to the site involved in this matter?
 No councillor has made a visit to the site in this matter. So we'll commence with the testimony. We'll start with the staff report, approximately 10 minutes. And again, as per usual, name for the record. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Grace Jeffries from BDS Land Use Services. So I have a presentation. Thank you, Carla. Well, squirrels are starting to run. Steam is being generated. Tubes are being replaced. Okay.
 Sue, should I hit it again? Mark up the back. Pardon me? So the appellant brought this in. This is a model of the site area, the local context around the site. The darker wood model is the development proposed. Waiting for that. I think this is the first time you've ever had something like this. I know that the city used to have a model that they required.
 insertions into but that's been a while. Meanwhile, back on the council. Does it usually take this long? Calling all technical geniuses. Yes sir. Did you try it? No I did not. I think Sue loaded it. We looked at it here but we didn't look at it on the screen. Did you try pounding it?
 That's what I like to see. You have to send the video out. The computer doesn't. So both presentations are there. Do we actually have hard copies of the presentation, don't we? Can we just go old school? No, you don't. We do not? No, sorry. Sadly, one copy right here. And that's on, do a duplicate, cuz it's . There we go, all right.
 Who was that masked lady? I still may need some help here. All right, here we go. Ready to go. All right, so I'm going to give you a quick overview of my presentation. Your time is up, but thank you very much. That was an excellent presentation. This is heavily prescribed, Mayor. We need to... It went well, I think. All right, so I'm going to give a quick overview of the context, talk about the proposal, a little bit about the process, the decision that was made, and then the appeal.
 So the context is the site is located in the Central City Plan District and the Central East Side Subdistrict. It's right on the far edge of the Central East Side Subdistrict. You note that Southeast 12th Avenue forms almost the entire length of the eastern edge of the Central City Plan District.
 The applicable criteria based on the location of the site, the applicable approval criteria for design review are the Central City Fundamental Design Guidelines and the Special Design Guidelines for the Design Zone of the Central Eastside District. The proposal is located on a small 5,380 square foot, uniquely L-shaped site with narrow frontages of 35 feet wide on Southeast Ankeny Street and 30 feet wide on Southeast 12th Avenue.
 The site sits about a block south of Southeast Sandy Boulevard. It's site's just a little larger than a typical 50 by 100 residential site in the city of Portland, which is 5,000 square feet. It's comprised of two mid-block lots with rear abutting lot lines. The lot fronting Southeast Ankeny contains a one and a one half story house constructed in 1903, which is proposed to be demolished, and the lot fronting Southeast 12th currently sits vacant. Here's an image showing of the site and the surrounding context.
 The site wraps two lots on the corner not owned by the applicant, both of which contain houses constructed around 1904. The remaining three lots south of the site fronting Southeast 12th contain houses constructed in 1894 and 1895 in the Queen Anne vernacular style. All three of these properties have been identified as having potential historic and architectural significance and are listed on the City of Portland's Historic Resource Inventory, the HRI. Some images of the frontage on Southeast 12th.
 You can see the three Queen Anne houses are to the left. The southeast 12th part of the site is located in the middle, outlined in red. And the two early 20th century houses are to the right.
 There's just a view of the context. This is a view from Southeast 12th. It shows the corner of Ankeny and Southeast 12th with the neighboring house on the corner. The site is identified by the red arrows. To the left is the general location of the vacant site on 12th. And the part of the site on Ankeny with the house to be demolished is there to the right. Here's a view of the site across Sandy Boulevard. To the right of the site is a one story commercial structure which holds the corner of Ankeny and 11th.
 to the left is the house on 12th and Ankeny. This is a view of the context. It shows the residential neighborhood that is there. 12th goes along from the left to the right there. It shows the residential neighborhood beyond southeast 12th. So the site is zoned EXD which is central employment with the design overlay. The floor area ratio
 base allowance is up to 3 to 1 maximum. There's a potential additional floor area ratio residential bonus, which is another 3 to 1. The total proposed floor area ratio for this proposal is 4.93 to 1. I just want to note that development standards that describe the maximums permitted on a site such as height, floor area, they're not entitlement, they're maximum allowances.
 By their very nature, the standards must address a broad range of conditions. They aren't site specific and must be adapted to fit a great variety of site conditions. An area of importance such as central city, which allows a greater density. The design guidelines are used to help address contextual response.
 Height allowance in this area, the base height is up to 50 feet maximum. There's additional height general bonus of up to 45 feet. The total proposed height is approximately 78 feet. So here's the proposal. It's for a six-story mixed-use building with 17 market rate units and a ground floor retail unit. No parking or loading is provided. These are the street elevations. Southeast Ankeny Street is at the top with the adjacent one and a half story house.
 To the left and the one-story commercial structure to the right Southeast 12th Avenue elevation is below that with the adjacent residential structures shown in the proposal Has to the design review request has two additional reviews One is a modification to allow reduced with the bike parking spaces within the building this is a common modification and generally supported by design review and Pivot and
 There's also an exception requested to the window projections into the right of way, and this is to allow Oriel windows wider than the maximum 12 foot width allowed for an individual window bay. In this case, the proposed widths are 15 feet 9 12 inches on Southeast Ankeny Street and 14 feet 8 inches on Southeast 12th Avenue. If the proposal had met all the design guidelines, staff and PBOT would have supported this exception. So now I'll talk a little bit about the process. I'll go through this pretty quickly.
 before the design review application is submitted. Pre-application conference is required. That was held on April 7th. At that conference, staff provided feedback that the majority of the design guidelines appeared not to be met. Due to the inherent challenges proposed by this development, staff strongly advised the team to hold a voluntary design advice request hearing prior to the design review submittal. So the team could get early feedback from the decision makers, the design commission.
 However, the applicant chose not to have a DAR. So they submitted their Type 3 design review. The first design review hearing was held on October 6th. At that time, the feedback from the commission was that the majority of the design guidelines weren't met. Public testimony noted that the applicant had also not yet met with the neighborhood association. The applicant requested to return with revised design.
 At the second design review hearing on December 1st, 2016, feedback was still most of the design guidelines were not met related to the context, coherency, and quality and permanence. The applicant requested to return with a further revised design. The third design review hearing on January 5th,
 The commission's feedback was that the design guidelines were still not met related to context coherency and quality and permanence. The applicant requested to return without a revised design for a final decision. A fourth design review hearing was held on January 19th. The applicant requested return with design options and the design commission offered a return work session.
 The fifth review hearing was held on February 2nd, 2017. The applicant requested a decision based on a scheme presented at the third hearing on January 5th, 2017, which was a denial. Appeal was received on March 2nd, 2017. Here's some images of how the design evolved through the process. The image at the top is the floor plan proposal at the first hearing.
 The majority of the ground floor program was taken up with parking and services as shown in blue. The retail space is shown as red and the lobby is shown as yellow. The commission voiced strong concerns about the design not addressing design guidelines related to the proposal's pedestrian realm.
 At the second hearing, the parking was removed and one residential unit was moved to the ground level that's indicated in orange on the second image. The tower on SE 12th was lowered by one story to five stories and the unit count remained the same at 17 units. This created a much more pedestrian friendly frontages on both streets. And then there were just small adjustments to the floor plan between the second and third hearing. So here's the design evolution showing the building in three dimensions.
 No images are provided from the fourth and fifth hearing as applicant did not submit further revisions after the third hearing. At the first hearing, the commission voiced strong concerns about the design not addressing guidelines related to pedestrian realm, contextual response, coherency, and quality and permanence. At the second hearing with the changes to the ground floor, the commission felt that the pedestrian realm was addressed, but they still had concerns with the other three issues.
 At the third hearing, slight adjustments were made, such as revising the Orioles and the materials. However, changes made were not substantial enough to address the commission's strong concerns about the proposal meeting the guidelines. The decision, the design commission found approval criteria were not yet met. Therefore, the request was denied. Portland zoning code 33825050 states,
 I'm getting close to be done. Is this okay? A little more time? Let me ask a question of legal counsel. Sure. Is the staff report in my notes seems to be a little more vague around the time allotment. Is that correct? It's about 10 minutes and if it's necessary for them to get the information, it's fine. Okay. You can continue then. Thank you. Thank you. States the design review application will be approved if the review body finds the applicant to have shown that the proposal complies with the design guidelines for the area.
 Design guidelines not yet met are A4, use unifying elements. A5, enhance and embellish and identify areas. C2, promote quality and permanence in development. C3-1, design to enhance existing themes in the district. C3-2, respect adjacent residential neighborhoods. C4, complement the context of existing buildings. And C5, design for coherency.
 Here's a list of them. In particular, I just wanted to call your attention to C3-1 and C3-2. Those are specific for the east side district guidelines, especially C3-2, which is respect adjacent residential neighborhoods. This guideline really only applies to the area along Southeast 12th Avenue on the east side of the district there. So that says, respect the architectural character and development patterns of the adjacent residential neighborhoods. African states.
 In the appeal that the project is within allowed height and density for the site under both EXT and Central City plan district Regulations the open stairwells were thought to be endorsed by a majority of the Commission at one of the five hearings Learning the project a revised staff report recommendation of approval on the stairway design But that conclusion was reversed in a final hearing and the middle paneling was modified during the hearing process to respond to the comments by the design commission in response BDS a
 Number one, the proposal was not denied on the grounds of height or density, but because it did not meet the political approval criteria. The Commission provided input on how to improve the sidewall conditions to meet the guidelines. Suggestions included shifting the height away from Southeast 12th toward the west of the site, and providing side setbacks to the adjacent residential while still maintaining desired unit counts.
 Second, the applicant made changes to the stairwell lighting, however, the six-story tall open stairwells themselves were found to not be compatible with the adjacent residential rear yards due to concerns about light and noise spillouts. Third, the applicant made changes to the material choices, however, the large expanses of metal-clad side walls were found to not be compatible with adjacent residential context. So the City Council alternatives are to deny the appeal and uphold the design commission's decision to deny the proposal.
 grant the appeal and overturn the design commission's decision to deny the proposal, thereby approving the proposal, or continue the hearing and request the design revisions to be reviewed at a return council hearing. And that's the end of my report. Do you have any questions for me? Any questions for the staff report? That house is to be demolished. It's old. Is that in any way a historic resource? Is there any limitation on demolishing that house? No. Thank you. And then, I'm going to ask the board to make a motion to approve the proposal. And I'm going to ask the board to approve the proposal. And I'm going to ask the board to approve the proposal. And I'm going to ask the board to approve the proposal. And I'm going to ask the board to approve the proposal. And I'm going to ask the board to approve the proposal.
 And just to clarify, I had thought that part of the issue was lowering the height. But you just said that wasn't a primary issue?
 Or you wanted him to move the massing around? The commission are always trying to help an applicant meet their guidelines, meet their goals and also meet the guidelines. One of the comments was, well, why don't you look at taking the mass that's on the wing that's on 12th? And moving that, moving those units to the wing that's on Ankeny.
 So that wasn't necessarily about... It's going higher in that case. Yes. Restricting height and FAR was more remasting the whole building to bring it more into... Yeah, the discussion wasn't about height. It was about where... And massing. It was about where that sat and how that related. It's a really complex...
 proposal. Sorry, it's not a complex proposal, but it's a very complex site. It's very difficult. It's very small. It has narrow frontages. It's a very, it's a tough challenge. And so there was a lot of discussion back and forth about how the design guidelines could be met within what the applicant wanted to do. Thank you. I do have one more question. My understanding is that the buildings are proposed to be built right on the lot lines. There's no setback from the lot lines.
 would that not require using the adjacent neighbors side setback to do some of the construction? Is it possible to not avoid disturbance to the neighbors? That is a great question that I might ask the applicant. I don't understand how that could happen. I think the neighbors had some commentary, might have some commentary about that as well. But also I think that played into the denial in that the commission felt that there was
 How are they going to maintain the siding? Once it is, if they are able to construct it, how are they gonna go back at a later date? They'd have to have an easement to maintain all of those side walls. And the building's almost 80% side wall on property lines. So I think that played into the concerns about the quality and permanence.
 So was part of the suggestion to set it back from that from the property line because a lot line along 12th to and and Historically the Commission encourages that type of setback on developments that are in in this type of situation where there's a real Juxtaposition, you know in this case. There's a pretty strong residential neighborhood feel so applicants
 with sites that are wider have some scope to do setbacks. This site poses a particular challenge because of the narrowness of the lots. It's a highly unusual site for this scale of development. Great, thank you. Any further questions? Very good. Thank you very much. Now the appellant has ten minutes.
 Good afternoon, my name is Landon Kroll. I am the managing partner of R-Land Development. I've owned and operated my business at the current site for over 12 years. We are developing the very first net zero multi-family building in Oregon. The development will consist of 18 one and two bedroom units. It will meet passive house standards. We'll have four DC charging stations for electric vehicles and solar photovoltaic on the roof and the south side wall, which makes net zero reality.
 As a net zero building, Ankeny Apartments will require no power from the utility. In fact, Ankeny Apartments will be the first multi-family building to send power back to the community. In addition, Ankeny Apartments will save 21 tons of carbon from entering the environment. That's equivalent to 500 trees or the elimination of burning 21,000 pounds of coal.
 Ankeny Apartments exemplifies energy efficiencies at its highest level and supports the Portland Central City 2035 plan, the 2050 Climate Action Plan, Oregon's climate action goals while adhering to the Title 33 of the Portland Zoning Code. Ankeny Apartments is a design for the future of Portland. Thank you. My name is Jerry Waters with Yost Gruber Hall Architects and we're excited and proud to
 sort of responsible and forward-thinking project. As you can see here, this is a 12th Street rendering that shows
 The building is set back at the ground level where the one apartment is and the stoop at the ground level mimicking the adjacent neighborhood. Then there's a three coat plaster bay window that is used to mimic the plaster that's often used in the central east side area and then there's the zinc clad element of the adjacent
 additional massing of the housing and the zinc is a very durable 80-year material, which is often reserved for commercial type projects and then you see on the south wall here some solar panels which are necessary and required in order to make up the renewables that we need to get to a net zero project. And a net zero project is not easy to achieve. There's only seven multi-family housing projects in the United States that have achieved net zero at this point.
 Next. Here you have the Ankeny side elevation. Again, with a retail shop at the ground level activating the street.
 Then the apartment component above in zinc and again the three-coat plaster on a bay window that is taking advantage of the open space created by Sandy the Sandy intersection and then views Because this is a little bit of a high prospect with views To the west and to the river and downtown you can see the stair here that is a part of the
 The wing that goes out to 12th Street, that opening, and then there's a similar opening here on the Ankeny side that will allow both south light to penetrate through and the west light to penetrate through into the adjacent properties. The 12th Street side is one story lower than the Ankeny side.
 there was talk about transferring some of this FAR over to the Ankeny. That is actually very difficult due to fire egress scenarios that are needed with two exits required and stairs and whatnot. So there's a lot of supporters of this project from a green and sustainability standpoint. We have the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, CPACE, Connecticut Bank, Portland Development Commission is supporting this, and the Housing and Urban Development is supporting this.
 wants to see this exemplary project that can show how net zero can be achieved. It's like I said very difficult but in the not so distant future the state of California in 2020 will require all multi-family housing projects to meet a net zero standard.
 So we are trying to show that it can be done and in fact needs to be done and be exemplary to how that can be done. It's largely improved envelope, improved window to prevent infiltration and improved mechanical systems. So I'm Bob Zimmerman, I'm an architect also with YGH. Thank you. So as Grace noted, the allowed height for this particular site in the XD zone is 95 feet and we're proposing a five story,
 structure on the Ankeny or on the 12th side of 63 feet and a six-story and 73 feet high structure on the Ankeny side We'd like to note that next year this will actually be increased by another 30 feet so that's roughly an 11 to 12 story building that we would be roughly half of
 And I also want to point out that the same development envelope restrictions, in fact, apply for the adjacent development. And in many ways we have thought of this project as really a bridge between these lovely older homes and the future ones that are coming. Also note that that empty site that Grace pointed out actually has been empty since the 20s. So, you know, quite frankly, any structure here will be empty.
 intrusion upon the adjacent houses. In looking at the kind of existing context and kind of what the market is doing, the four most recent projects that are within a block radius of our site have no setbacks. Three of them have been approved by design commission and they are of the same basic FAR and five to six stories in height.
 So we're very much consistent in terms of the scale of the projects that are being developed around it. This is our initial design that was submitted for the Type 3 review last June. In this case, it was two 75-foot towers of six stories. We've had a long and extended conversation both with Grace and her staff as well as with the design commission.
 These are the changes that we've worked through, many of which she has noted, that we reduced the story on the 12th Street stride. We've changed all the exterior materials. Originally it was aluminum and it was changed to zinc, which is a lovely material, but the concern was the reflectivity. The zinc oxidizes to a lovely patina. It's also a lot more expensive.
 We replaced the concrete block and the cedar with a traditional three coat plaster system, which also a much lighter color to help out the adjacent. The removal of the parking was a great suggestion that came from the design commission, which enabled us to get rid of the garage doors, which on those 30 to 35 foot frontages are a high percentage. And so there was significant activation of the street frontage.
 We simplified the front as Jerry noted and actually did a lot of work on the stairs themselves. And we'd like to point out that all the bedrooms within these units actually face those stairs. So we have pretty much the exact same concerns about privacy and lighting. So both from a design but also from an operational standpoint, we're in sync with the concerns. We also reduced the overall area roughly by 2,000 square feet.
 So at the end of design review 2 this incorporated the changes staff developed a report and actually recommended approval and said the project actually met all of the guidelines at design review 3 there was a different group of commissioners and so the kind of.
 sentiment changed and it essentially returned to the principal concern of simply the scale of the project relative to the Jason houses so this is a view from 12th looking north with that design in place and as I noted that the fact that we got rid of those curb cuts that signed reviews some suggestion
 we're able to keep all of the existing trees and in fact add more to them so kind of gives you the scale and so today what we're really doing is trying to request that council essentially accept the staff report from what we submitted for design review 3 and the recommendation for approval in its most basic sorry for your record Tim Ramos legal counsel for the applicant in its most basic form the
 The decision you're being asked to make today is to choose between the analysis in the denial decision, which you have in the record, or the analysis in the January 5th staff report, which you also have in the record and which finds that all of the criteria and all of the guidelines are met by the design that's been shown to you. That is fundamentally the issue that we bring to you. This case is heavily about compatibility.
 Our Land Use Board of Appeals has had some things to say about that and certainly taken the position that sameness is not the only way to address compatibility. That it can be done by quality design that pays attention to the context. And so context is really the key part of understanding the case and making a decision about the design.
 In this particular case, the two critical aspects of context are that the zoning district is high density, very intense central city development.
 And the block has on it some houses which are non-conforming, couldn't legally be built today. And the city's policy on that is that non-conforming use should not impact the development of new conforming structures. And so that is our concern, that policy has been reversed by this decision. Thank you.
 And just to be clear, legal counsel, for the remainder, the time is a fairly hard cutoff. Is that correct, beyond the staff report? It is, although when looking at what Luba will look at, they will look at equity and fairness. So to the extent that you wish to extend the time for one party, you would need to extend it for the other party as well. So that's within your discretion. Very good. Mayor, I have a question. Please, Commissioner. Question, please.
 So Mr. Ramis, I've just reviewed your letter again. So I'm trying to reconcile your view and the staff report. Because the staff report is heavy on changes that could be made to the development to potentially get through the design commission. And your letter is heavy on sort of some bigger policy questions and potentially some legal questions down the road. But I still am compelled to ask you,
 Was there not some middle ground here in terms of design elements that could have satisfied both concerns?
 Well, I should probably defer the substance of that question to the designers here, but let me just give a quick road map. I also want to say that we generally don't view ourselves as the first or last word on design aesthetics. Yeah, yeah. And we prefer that this come to us cooked and resolved by the professionals, the people that we ask to solve it. But when we're put in this role.
 And we have to reconcile competing claims and values. I think it's still worth asking, could this be resolved on the basis of modifications to the design? Yeah, I actually think that is a critical question. I think it would be great if we could speak to it, because we quite frankly had the exact same question ourselves.
 As I said, we came out of Design Review 2 thinking that if we simply followed the recommendations that we would get approval. Staff obviously felt the same way because they wrote a report when we essentially faithfully followed the recommendations at Design Review 2. Different group, different feelings. And so going forward, we scheduled a meeting and submitted a letter where we essentially asked the question of...
 did the design commission feel if we fixed the overall floor area, did they feel confident that we would be able to work together to get to exactly what you were asking, a resolution where it worked for everybody? I would describe the response as lukewarm, but we said, fine, we'll do some studies, which we brought to the fifth committee.
 Design review and essentially showed that if we and let me go back so what we basically proposed was that if we added area on top of this tower and I Realized there were earlier suggestions of could we shift over to this side? And basically if you look at the fire regulations for aerial access for Exiting and for construction materials. We simply couldn't get significant area over onto this side and
 So, but we did feel like we could add, and sorry, we actually didn't realize we were going to do this, but if we added an apartment up here, we could push the face on the 12th Street side quite a ways. And we looked at other options. What the clarification of that for us as a design team was, oh, we simply have too much program, which is quite frankly what design review said on the very first session was this project is way over-programmed.
 I mean, if you just simply look back, it's way over-programmed. The other comment was we normally approve these projects. So it's very much the compatibility and context issue of the adjacent single-family residences, but we simply within the restrictions of fire and building codes couldn't shift it so that we could make this 12th Street stride.
 really more like a house with side yard setbacks and three stories in height. And Tim, just so I understand this, your view is since the single family homes are non-conforming, we should not, that the question of compatibility should be looked at through a different lens? That's correct. In a situation where the code policy says that these uses are to be phased out,
 where the zoning in the area calls for much more intense use in the future. According them, the highest status in terms of how you develop a plan for compatibility seems to me to get it backwards.
 that what should have happened is that there should be recognition that there are small homes there, but it shouldn't have driven the decision. And if you read that decision, the denial is based primarily on the idea that there's too much mass too close to small structures. Our point is those structures are today illegal, but for the nonconforming use provisions.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. And so could you address the question of how you can develop this without encroaching on the neighbor's property? And how would you maintain it without needing an easement? So on the construction side? We've actually worked with the contractor who's in the audience on the construction with an opportunity for essentially prefabricating the individual walls as they go up and erecting them and having a clip lock to seal the exterior siding. We have a
 We don't bring all the details, but this essentially double wall system to achieve the thermal resistance for the net zero. So that part actually is relatively straightforward. We're also, as Jerry pointed out, putting an 80-year material on a party wall that if you think of most infill development in the city, that's where you actually put the cheap stuff. That doesn't answer my question. How are you going to maintain the siding of the building without having access to the neighbor's property? That's your question.
 Well, the building is zinc. It's metal. And I've been in that area for many years and been in Portland many years. And I have never seen anybody maintain a metal building. That's interesting. I actually have some metal trim on my house, and it blew off in the latest install. Well, I understand. But metal trim on a house is a lot different than metal cladding.
 okay well let me just go back to design guidelines then it says this is a5 identify an area's special features or qualities by integrating them into new development what kinds of special features and qualities of the surrounding neighborhood do you recognize and how are they reflected in the proposed design
 Right, so after presenting our first proposal where we had actually some cedar and aluminum on it and working with commission, that's where we came up.
 with the changes of the three coat plaster system, which is very prominent in that central east side. In fact, the warehouses around the corner and many of the warehouses throughout the area are of a plaster system. So we picked up on that materiality. And then again, the high quality zinc material is again an industrial element that was often used on buildings of the area. So is there zinc on other buildings in the area?
 There's metal panels. There's metal panels on other areas. That's where we started with aluminum, but we later went to the zinc to get a more matte finish and a material that would patina and weather over time. And in fact, the patina would have a beauty to it rather than tire like many of the painted aluminums or other things that you see.
 And that gets to the permanence, and particularly, again, the side walls that you're mentioning. Right. Your question, though, is actually a really helpful one, is because of the word neighborhood. Is neighborhood the four adjacent houses on the block, or is it in fact the district? Because if you look at the rest of the district that this is in, in fact, the materials in the mass scene are quite consistent.
 Well, it's difficult to tell from the model which ones have been recently done, which ones have been there. And some of the ones that are shown on the model do have more of a residential look of it. They're not flat roofs. They're more like the adjacent residential units. Did you consider looking at that? At pitched roofs is what you're saying? Yeah, the pitched roofs are the ones that are closest to me. Even though they're higher, they do have a more residential style of pitched roof.
 Right. So again because of the net zero goals and the sustainability requirements, we have photovoltaic panels on the roof that cover the entire roof. And then we have the wall on the south which is a canted wall which echoes some of that pitched roof nature but doesn't exactly mimic it. So we felt that that was again a good idea.
 combination of trying to meet the standards of the future with a net zero building and sustainability goals and a nod to our building being a bridge building smaller scale and pulling it back from the residential structures and reducing the height. And there isn't currently anywhere in the design guidelines that speaks to net zero or any kind of energy efficiency is that correct? That is correct.
 And so when the adjacent property develops to the south side, that's probably, as you pointed out, with the rezoning, it's going to be even higher. Won't that then impact the solar access to this south wall photovoltaics? It could. So then what's the backup plan for that then? So this question actually came up with the design commission. If you actually look at our roof plan, we've had to provide fire access.
 all the way around this field of panels. And I would simply describe that we've all been fortunate that the cost of photovoltaic panels have come down dramatically, because it used to be somewhat of a fool's errand to try to do this here in Portland, Oregon. But with the reduction in cost, and also with our increased understanding of climate change issues, we are seeing a lot more use of this. But the regulatory aspect or environment is kind of,
 behind, we will be able to put larger areas of PV onto the roof as time goes by. And we will be able to put panels that are much more efficient.
 Really a leading edge project to help pave the way in many ways a prototype to help Enable us to collectively do net zero multifamily projects The short answer being with increased efficiency and panels and the ability to put more on the roof in the future That if somebody was to build there We think we have the time
 that before that happens, again, the increased efficiency and panel will allow us to get more energy just out of the roof. But, well actually I'm not really talking about the roof, I'm talking about the south wall which- I know. Is going to get- I'm saying if the south wall is blocked,
 which would be sometime in the future with increased efficiency of solar panels we could then get the energy we needed just on the roof in the future by changing out the panels to more efficient panels because they continue to get more efficient. And then without entering the neighbor's property you can just leave the old solar panels there to be switched off and non-functional? Does that last? There's actually a metal roof underneath the panels. So we would simply be able to take the panels off and there would be a
 A metal roof underneath it. That gets back to my first question is how are you going to do that when you don't have access to the neighbor's property? Anyway, I realize this is going into some detail, so thank you for your comments. Commissioner Fish? But just following up on my colleague's question.
 The last project that I was involved with that had a similar issue was Bug Car Commons. And it has, it's a lead platinum building, and so it has the photovoltaic on the roof. But they're pretty bulky, and has the technology evolved? How far has the technology evolved, and what's the difference now?
 So I believe there's probably a 25% improvement in the overall efficiency of the panels. You know, it's the old memory and trying to remember when those panels were actually installed. But we've seen a 30 to 40% improvement overall from the earliest PV panels in terms of performance. And they're thinner and they're lighter and they're way cheaper. They're also a lot smarter about how to hold them up.
 And as I said, I believe that five years from now, when we go and talk with the fire marshal about how they're mounted so that when their crews, if they had to go up there in the event of an emergency, would know how to deal with them and we could cover a much larger area. But right now, you make conservative choices at the beginning. And could you remind us how many units in this development and what are the unit sizes?
 There was 18 units when we took one floor out and the parking. We actually increased the number of units. At this present time, there is 12 two bedrooms and six one bedrooms. Average unit size is minimum of 600 square feet all the way up to around 1400. So we have tried to accommodate families living in the inner city, taking that into consideration.
 So I have a couple questions along the same line as Commissioner Fritz. I do want to point out that although this development which is really interesting and exciting building is not at a scale with buildings on adjacent blocks those buildings aren't next to single-family homes and when you look at it next to these single-family homes it is a little intimidating I guess.
 So the two issues that I'm most interested in, the issue of access when you've got this zero lot line, how do you build this and how do you maintain it when this is not your property, you're building right up to the property line? Yeah, so to begin with, you realize the exact same condition exists across the street. I do not realize that, but thank you. This building is under construction, is against the property line.
 And adjacent to it, but because it is on the east side of 12th. It is not subject to the design of you guys Yes, you guys probably feel a little unlucky right about now the other question I have is to those open stairwells which you've acknowledged you share concerns because I
 the noise and light could affect your tenants as well as the neighboring buildings. So is there a plan B for that? I mean, are there elevators in the building? Yes. Okay, so not everyone will take the stairs, but what are you thinking around that? What if it is an ongoing nuisance that is making residents feel like they're not going
 impact on livability well a couple things with the nature of the units a lot of them being two-bedroom and such a high quality project we do see that the Landon's intent is to attract families as tenants and therefore typically they have a little more conservative behavior I would say as far as the lighting goes
 Okay, well you probably wouldn't want my kid to live there.
 And then as far as the lighting goes, it's been, we've tuned it and detailed it all with LED lighting that is all focused specifically onto the upward facing surface of the stairs and the landings, which is required for exiting and circulation. But since it is narrowly focused on those treads, the light trespass we feel would be very minimal to none.
 especially with LEDs you only have to provide one foot candle on that surface one foot candle is not going to cause a lot of light trespass. Great thank you. Could you please clarify the comments you made you made them a couple of times I'm just not tracking there was a request to move some of the bulk to towards the two towers side of your building
 and you said fire egress made that impossible. Could you describe that in a little more detail? I'm not sure I'm following you. So this is the original design, but the same issues apply. So this is a, what's commonly referred to as a five over one where the base of the structure is built out of concrete or non-combustible, and then you're allowed to build five stories of wood on top of it.
 At one of the commission meetings there was a discussion about, oh, the city occasionally allows 5 over 2. So we actually explored building a second level out of concrete and going then five levels which would have enabled us to put another level on top of this.
 Where we ran afoul was the open stairs the code didn't allow for that the connection and the connections between them So we really feel while there's some concern about the lighting that the light that
 that can come through both into ours but also into the adjacent neighbors is extraordinarily beneficial. So we have a very fine stainless steel mesh that's essentially enclosed to those stairs that serve essentially as the guardrail, but we're just really precluded both by the fire department access as well as the height that's allowed for those open stairs.
 So the proposal wasn't actually to reduce bulk on the front and transfer it. I thought I heard somebody say something about a transfer of the FAR. Right, originally if there was a way to have shifted this up significantly, that would have been the most efficient. When that didn't pan out after discussions with both the fire marshal and the building department, we went back to, can we
 add an area here and pull back this face or start carving into these walls. I see. Okay, so it's a pullback from the street frontage. Yeah. Okay, thank you. I understand now. Good. Any further questions for this panel? Great. Thank you, gentlemen. Next up, if there are supporters,
 The appeal who would like to speak you have three minutes each and we'll just have people sign up with Carla over here our amazing council clerk I Have eight people signed up right good. Please call the first three our Carolyn Easterly Lisa Kavner and Anthony crawl Coming up and if you could just state your name for the record, we don't need to know Your address just name for the record. Hi, I'm Lisa Kaner and
 And I'm in support of this project. I'd emphasize to you that this is a changing neighborhood, that this project was supported by the January 5th staff report. They said the design met the guidelines. This meets the zoning requirements in this neighborhood.
 This is a project that you can legally approve, and this is a project that you shouldn't approve. This is a project that its goals is to add density close in. It's going to be,
 project that is net zero. This is the future of our community. It's a model for future growth of our city and this is a local entrepreneur who's making a positive impact and this is the kind of project that this City Council should support. Thank you. How are you connected with the
 I'm a friend and a supporter and I've been watching this project go through the design review and the accommodations that this design team have made in order to continue to achieve the net zero goals but yet hear from the design commission what could be done and they tried very hard.
 that it was, we all thought that in January this was gonna be approved. And the idea that this wouldn't be approved when you see all the projects around it that are much bigger than it, more mass, in the same zoning area, this is a project that should be approved. If you're concerned about those residential houses, this is an area that's designed to have more density. It's close in, it's supposed to be,
 the type of project that's being presented to you. And frankly, if you wanted to preserve those houses, they need to be moved somewhere else because that's not the direction that this community is going. And the zoning requirements are actually, as you saw, they're getting much larger, 125 feet. And this is gonna be dwarfed by what's gonna come to the future. Thank you. Was there Carolyn Easterly or Anthony Crowell?
 Thank you. Let's go with Charles Morton and Jerry Waters. Kristen Malone and Doug Klotz. Good afternoon. My name is Carolyn Maxey Easterly, and I don't know Mr. Kroll. I took interest in this project when I saw an article in the Tribune, in the Portland Tribune. I followed the articles, there were two, and looked at the process, and in the process,
 In reading these articles, I thought about the property that I own on Williams Avenue and the extensive building that has gone on there.
 and a lot larger than what Mr. Cole is thinking about. I think based on the person that testified before me, I'm not an expert in any of this. I just know what doesn't feel right, especially with so many hearings and the information being totally changed. As a layperson, I just have wonders about what is going on here.
 So I know that neighborhood associations sometimes carry a lot of power. But I'd be interested in this project moving forward, in particular because of the net zero standing that it has. And that it would be only one of seven in the country. So again, I do support this and I'm hoping that the council takes this into consideration and votes positive on it. Thank you. Thank you. Doug Klotz.
 I don't know anybody involved with the project. I've just been following it. I am concerned that
 there has been a trend in the city to have our design review has ended up reducing height bulk FAR and even I know we've heard that it's not not theoretically supposed to do that it's still this is concerning here I'm looking at the the standards that are said not to be met respect to Jason residential neighborhoods
 The houses on 12th, on the west side, they're in EX zone. So as I said, those are houses that have been there, but that's not what's planned for that street. On the east side is CG and CS, also commercial zoning. So none of this is residential zoning. Yet there are houses there now, and they can stay, but I don't think, as was mentioned, I don't think they should be the determinant of what goes on with the new building.
 As far as zero lot line, every building in the central city is built to zero lot line. Somehow we're able to do it. The technology is there. It's easier sometimes if you get an easement, but it can be done without easements.
 And I'm sure the folks involved to figure that out Complement the existing buildings. I looked at the changes that were done on the 12th Avenue facade Reducing it to basically a three-story block of stucco wall or three or four That is does scale down pretty well to those other houses on 12th and then set back to the zinc one which being a gray color will sort of recede into the background so I think they've done well to respect the complement the existing buildings and
 I think there's coherency as they as they mentioned in the materials The other standards use unifying elements It's a stucco and the metal is unifying with the rest of the district designed to enhance existing themes I think that they're doing they're doing a good job of it. These are all subjective standards that the design commission could I
 say one way or the other, but I would say that in the interest of getting more housing in the central city, right on transit lines, right near transit in this dense area, I think this is what we need to be doing and I think we need to perhaps take another look at how the design standards and design guidelines relate to the zoning on lots throughout the city. Thank you, sir.
 My name is Anthony Crowell. I've been getting my hair cut in the salon for 12 years. I watched the process of the changes, even design review commission. It was very confusing from hearing to hearing. One minute it's approved. They always talk about massing. Massing relevant to the houses there would not work to look from a building to a house, but they changed the structures to make it look
 Correct, but the changes that are going on over there all around are bigger than what he's proposing to build I feel the Commission's design review Commission Not having the same people there every hearing you start over each time you change you chasing a ball It wouldn't you can never get a feel where yours at because I just sat there and watched I've much Commission's before that I watched the booth before that it was too subjective
 I think the overall picture needs to be looked at. It might not be a winner, it might not be a loser, but changes is coming and we need to work on it. Thank you, sir. My name is Kristen Malone. I just wanted to make a brief statement in support of the Crowells. I think Portland is a city with a strong vision for what its future should be. I think we understand that we need to be more conscious of what we're doing to the environment, develop sustainably. I think we've recognized that we need to house more people in the space that we've got.
 And I think that we've adopted standards that are going to get us there. And I'm concerned looking at this case with so much concern placed on policies that were phased out long ago. And the homes that are remaining from those policies and feeling like those are anchoring us to something that we've decided otherwise we don't want to be tied to.
 I think I've also seen here something that I'm a bit familiar with which is a committee voting two different ways based on who shows up And I think City Council here has a chance to look at it and make the right decision Thank you. The last two I show signed up are Zach Bluets-Padgett and Dr. Steven Holt Well, I'm Charles Morton and I'm in favor of the project I would like to say the most exciting time in Portland history to be alive is right now. You may ask why?
 because you will see creativity and innovation in ways you've never seen before. I think as other people in our community see this project, I believe it will spark other creative ideas that will benefit the entire community. The Our Land Development Company did not ask what our community can do for us, but they thought about, hey, what can we do for our community? Here are some things I believe this project would do for our community. I believe it will be the first net zero energy plus building for multi-housing.
 It's an opportunity to create jobs in an area that's forward thinking and is so needed at this time. And it is important to be able to point other young people of color who grew up in northeast Portland with a dream that actually came to fruition. Our land development have an opportunity to dream of things that have never been done before. And we say, why not? It's a message that's so needed in our communities. It's within our reach.
 and you can help make it happen. You will be the city council members that approved the first net zero Energy Plus building, and no one can take that from you. You can still dream and help others make their dreams come true. You will be instrumental in sharing a message that present and future generations can look to. Let it be a message that inspires all people to dream again because dreams really do come true. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Hi, thank you for taking public testimony at this appeal hearing. My name is Zach Padgett. Last September, this body voted to extend the citywide declaration of a housing emergency. 260,000 new residents are projected to move to the city over the next 20 years. There are immense economic pressures put on the housing in the city right now.
 And it's causing a lot of problems, as you guys are all well aware. Homelessness is on the rise. Landlords now feel it's appropriate or economically sensible to commit mass no-cause evictions so that they can raise their rental rates to match the market rate. Families are being forced to leave the city because they can't find a place to raise their family with a reasonable rental rate. It's a citywide emergency and the neighborhood of Buckman where this is being constructed is right on the front lines.
 2015 census data shows that 34% of the residents of the Buckman neighborhood devote more than half of their monthly income to paying for their rent.
 Now this body has done a lot to deal with some of the worst consequences of this problem. Most recently your actions to limit no cause evictions and then of course the zoning regulations that you changed to mandate a certain number of affordable houses for large developments, new developments. That's all welcome and we as the citizens appreciate your all of the above approach. But all those things kind of address the symptoms of the core issue here, which is supply. That's the disease that needs to be solved.
 And I think everyone agrees that the most broad-based solution to all the problems we're facing is to increase supply. Mayor Wheeler, if you'd let me, I'd like to quote you directly. We need to be creating a maximum number of new doors, getting more supply on the market as quickly as possible. This development is part of that solution. This development upgrades a vacant lot and a single residence that hasn't been occupied by residents in over 40 years to 18 new units, 18 new doors.
 It's a perfect example of how the zoning in place in this area can be used to alleviate the housing crisis. Now I'm not discounting the decisions that were made by the zoning commission. I think that they probably used the right standards to come to the decision they did. And it's their charter to focus on these fuzzy issues of coherency and architectural context. It's a very difficult job and I'm glad I don't have to do it.
 But the reason why I'm here today is to ask you to look at the broader context of the issues that are facing our city and understand that this development is part of the solution that we're all asking you to make.
 And one final thing I'd like to mention that quickly, yes, if you go through this area of town and if you drive down Sandy right here, you will see that this is not a nonconforming use, that the houses themselves are the things that are standing out in this otherwise very dense neighborhood. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Dr. Holt, and usually I'm here talking about affordable housing. Okay.
 since I chair the oversight committee for the North Northeast strategies. And I won't go through many of the things that have already been articulated. I would merely be parroting what's been said. I will say this, part of my concern is from an equity lens. And as we look at what's transpiring, what concerns me is that here we have
 a minority builder, minority developer, who is running into significant red tape to get something established. And across the city we've seen this repeatedly. It doesn't matter what area it is, but oftentimes it's the term capacity, or it's the term experience, whatever term we want to use, that consistently happens around ethnic developers.
 And so that's a concern as I consider what's been going on and once approved and not approved. I'd like to see this being, obviously this building built for all of the things that have already been said and things we're considering or want to consider as we move forward around how to do affordable housing well. But it's just an equity question that is raised in my mind about how things are done, how decisions are made. And I think that would be worth looking into also.
 I'm in favor. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. That's all who signed up in support. OK. And next on the list, we have the principal opponent. And I'm not sure who qualifies. You qualify. Very good. Welcome. You have 15 minutes. And just so people understand, the time limits are actually prescribed in code. So I'm not just making this up on the fly as I go. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, commissioners. My name is Casey Safley of Schwabe, Williamson & Wyatt, and I represent Mary Roberts, who will be testifying after me. Please note that I'm filling in for my colleague today, Garrett Stevenson, who's out of town, but I'll do my best to answer any questions you have. Also with me today is my colleague Terry Houck, who's just sitting behind me. You should have our written testimony explaining our arguments in front of you, and we encourage you to read it in detail before making your decision.
 As an initial matter, we expect you'll receive a large amount of testimony today on this topic. And therefore, pursuant to ORS 197-763, we request that you hold open the record for two weeks so that we can provide a responsive testimony to your questions and to the evidence presented today. So I'd just like to start off by explaining why the Design Commission's decision to deny this project was proper.
 The first and most obvious reason for denying the application is that it doesn't meet the design guidelines. The central city design guidelines and the design guidelines for the central east side district constitute the applicable criteria for this application. These guidelines state they are not advisory and failure to meet any one of them results in a denial.
 As you're well aware, the design review process is a dialogue between the commission and the applicant, and the applicant has the luxury to several times address these issues over the course of meetings, issues that the commission identifies. Here, the commission did not deny the application casually. It was careful. It gave the applicant five different meetings and provided increasingly specific advice.
 At each meeting, the commission repeatedly explained that the proposed bulk amassing of the project was excessive for the site. But at no point did the commission give an ultimatum of reducing the size or face denial, and I think that's an important point. The commission suggested design steps in each of the staff reports to minimize the appearance of the bulk amassing. The applicant continually declined to subsequently address these suggestions, and as a result, a denial was issued.
 and it was determined that the applicant failed to meet seven total design guidelines. As you previously heard, the first of those are A4, A5, and C31 of the Central City Guidelines and the Central Eastside Guidelines, and these have to do with integrating and unifying elements and developing new features. On these guidelines, the Commission found that the massing in bulk and scale of the side walls, the open stairwells, and the metal paneling are not compatible with the local character of the site.
 The next guideline that the applicant failed to meet is C2 of the Central City Guidelines. And this guideline helps ensure that the buildings are built with quality and permanence. On this guideline, the Commission found that the metal used as a cladding material was too imposing, especially when used on a 70-foot sheer sidewall that abuts the neighboring property lines.
 And then there was also concerns about the long-term maintenance of these, and these questions have been raised. And Commissioner Fritz, you raised this one. I think it's important to note that I don't think that the neighboring property owners are going to be too eager to give construction or maintenance easements to the builders, and so it's going to be very difficult to maintain and construct the building. The last guideline applicant failed to meet, the last guidelines were C3, 2, C4, and C5.
 These guidelines are intended to promote and respect for the architectural character and development patterns of the adjacent residential neighborhoods. On these guidelines, the commission found that the project has a substantial excess of side walls, leaving a building that's mostly blank walls up to 70 feet high. The commission went even further though. They stated that the modest size and unusual shape of the lot combined with the building constructed against internal property line walls,
 will have an unacceptable impact on the surrounding context. The project exceeds the homes to the north by about 40 feet and those to the south by approximately 35 feet without providing any setbacks. The only setbacks are the homes that are currently there. It'll cast a shadow that will encompass the entirety of the house located directly next door, and it does nothing to stylistically conform to the row of historic Queen Anne homes on 12th Avenue.
 In total, the project overwhelms just about every structure on the block, including the single story commercial warehouse buildings across the street. The commission noted that other existing and new developments in the area don't have this problem. They are located on larger, more rectangular shaped sites with substantial street frontages, and they don't require the same kind of architectural gymnastics that are taking place here.
 All that being said, the central city design guidelines are clear. Each of these guidelines is a mandatory approval criterion and failure to meet any one of them requires denial of the application. Each of the guidelines in one way or the other requires a building to accommodate surrounding development. The reason why this building was denied is because it is simply too large for the site and would have substantial adverse impacts on the homes along Southeast 12th Avenue.
 three of which are actually listed on the city's historic resource inventory. If the council would reverse the decision, it would need to find that the project meets all the guidelines I just discussed and explain how it does so, and I think that would be an uphill battle. The second reason why this council should affirm the design commission's denial is that the design is a very well-thought-out decision and is consistent with the code.
 As a reminder, the applicant doesn't argue the building fails to meet the design guidelines. He just argues that anything requiring him to reduce the size of his building cannot be enforced. But application of the guidelines is an inherently qualitative exercise, which is why the city created this commission that can work with an applicant over several meetings and ensure that a proposal meets the guidelines. The design commission is entrusted because of their expertise to collaboratively and fairly implement the design guidelines
 which are the city's primary control over the qualitative elements of a building. No doubt its process is rigorous, but in virtually every case it results in a better building.
 Applicant argues that the process as applied to him was improper because he's entitled to the maximum height and FAR bonuses permitted under the planning district code. But this is incorrect. Maximum height and FAR regulations are just that, they're maximums. Maximums aren't guarantees. There's nothing in the code that suggests or guarantees that a developer can build to a height or FAR maximum if doing so would violate the design guidelines.
 To support his argument that he's entitled to a maximum height and FAR bonus, applicant claims that FAR height and maximums supersede the design review guidelines. This is also incorrect. The Portland City Code states that regulations in a planned district like FAR bonuses and height maximums supersede regulations in other zones, base zones, and the regulations in the 600 series of chapters.
 But the design guidelines exist independently. They're not found in any of those regulations or zones. The City's position is that guidelines serve as a final gut check on the buildings. That we as a community, and particularly those living next to those buildings, like Ms. Roberts, my client, have to live with. But say for the sake of argument, we'll just entertain that the Council believes that the District Code theoretically supersedes the design review guidelines. The rule only kicks in when there's a conflict.
 But we don't think there's a conflict here. A conflict doesn't arise when two land use regulations simply have an impact on the same building element, such as the size of the building. The Commission did not require the building to be reduced in height. It asked for the applicant to reduce the appearance of the height of the building and use things like exterior finishes, window glazing, and articulation and setbacks to minimize the height. These requirements can easily be read in the harmony with the Portland City Code.
 And finally, the third reason why this council should affirm the design commission's denial is that the appeal amounts to an attack on the legitimacy of the design review process. It's no secret that the applicant wasn't satisfied with the design review process.
 Applicant was unwilling to respond to a majority of the Commission's comments regarding height, mass, and bulk, instead choosing to defend the project as a net zero development. But however commendable that is, there's nothing in the applicable criteria that says these sorts of projects get a pass when they fail to satisfy the design review process. If Council agrees that issues of height, bulk, massing, and neighborhood compatibility are trumped by maximum allowable height and FAR, the guidelines will become advisory at best.
 and the role of the design review commission will be sharply diminished. Applicant's arguments require this council to find that the design review guidelines are essentially obsolete when dealing with height, mass, or bulk. In other words, applicant is trying to convince you, council, that he should be able to take advantage of max size and bulk regardless of what the design guidelines say. I don't think that's the precedent we want to set for future developments.
 So to sum things up, the council should affirm the design commission's denial of the project. Because one, it fails to meet numerous material and meaningful design guidelines.
 Two, the design commission's decision is well considered and doesn't conflict with the rest of the code. And three, the decision should be affirmed because a reversal would deem the review process meaningless. A reversal would deprive the design commission of the ability to evaluate how a project interacts with its surrounding environment and prevent it from crafting a decision with teeth to enforce the guidelines addressing those issues.
 In addition to these reasons, I'd just like to say that this project would have a direct and adverse impact on real people. This isn't NIMBYism. Please put yourself in my client's shoes if you will. When Mary Roberts looks to her north across a few feet of her lawn, she'd see a nearly 70-foot wall with no windows and no relief. It'd completely block off whatever light she presently enjoys. On the other hand, an open staircase between two of the towers would allow anyone going between the buildings to see entirely into the backyards next door. Commissioners and Mayor,
 This is not just an academic exercise. Approving this building will create substantial impacts to my client's life. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Any questions? Do you happen to know if all of the five houses are owned by different people, the single-family residences? I do not know that right now, but I can find that out. If somebody in the audience is going to testify, that would be information. You'll hear from some of the homeowners next door. And do you know what's...
 Happening with the south side of the to the south of this project. I don't this is the first time I've seen this model So I'm kind of orient myself again So I'm just I'm interested in figuring out if this is at 75 feet and then with the new comprehensive plan It goes up to 125 feet. Is that going to then? preclude even the photovoltaics on the top of the proposed building
 Or are we going to be back, or whoever's sitting in these seats in the next five, 10 years are going to be hearing from this development that somebody else is taking their sunlight? It's just a thought. And perhaps it's something when the appellant, if they choose to rebut, maybe that's something they could mention. Thank you. Very good. And sorry, Commissioner Fish, I apologize. Thank you.
 What's our standard of review? The appellant has the burden of proving each and every element of the design review. And how much discretion do we have as a body? That's probably a question better reserved for Mr. Stevenson. So that's why I asked the record to be left open and he might be able to answer that better. Well, we've had some testimony that there was a staff report that
 had a conclusion that was different than the design commission. What weight should we give that? I don't think you should give it much weight at all. That was, there were five meetings held and at the end of the, I think it was the third meeting, that was the decision that was, that came to, but that wasn't the ultimate decision. The ultimate decision was a denial of the project and I think the ultimate decision is the one that you should give the most careful consideration to because that's the decision that's had the most amount of information available to it.
 But if there's a conflict between the staff report and the commission decision, doesn't that suggest that reasonable people could disagree on many of the points that are at issue in this case? Sure. Well, in that light, I want to go to one of the three arguments you made. Okay. And we don't get a lot of design review commission appeals, but we get a lot of land use proceedings. And actually, this is one of the, just speaking for myself, this is one of my favorite roles as a city commissioner, because it's these hearings where you have,
 these kinds of forums and we get a lot of talent that shows up and we have you know big discussions and we're talking about the future of our city and this is it's an honor to sit here and I say that whether whether you agree or disagree with our ultimate decision it's just this is one of the best parts of our job but it's also one of the hardest because we're trying to reconcile things that sometimes they're in collision as you as you know but I don't ever remember someone saying I'm gonna go to one of your arguments
 that reversing a decision of a body that is being appealed to us would permanently undermine a process. I mean, we've had people say that...
 strongly disagree with our decisions or tell us to think in terms of narrowing the precedential value or or many things but No one has ever said during my eight years nine years that a decision that we make adverse to your position would permanently undermine So the integrity of the process so because that's one of your big three arguments I want to give you a chance to sort of flesh that out a little bit because I
 on its face sounds pretty ominous, but since we actually have the final say, I wanna know why you think if we disagreed with you, we'd be doing such violence to the land use process.
 I think violence is a strong word, but. Your language is permanently undermined. So I just, it's a, I mean, I take that seriously. I don't want to permanently undermine something that we've established by code and ask citizens to administer. So tell us why you think that, because that's the strongest language I've ever seen around a question that ultimately the council has to decide. So I think the appellant is charged with showing how they would meet each and every one of the design guidelines.
 And I haven't heard and I haven't seen where they've said that they have met them. They haven't provided evidence that the design guidelines have been met. They're just saying that because the maximum height and FAR allotments are there, they should be entitled to them despite the review process. And so my only point was that if you agree with them that
 In a way that the design review process is being undermined because it's saying that you can take advantage of Maximum height and FAR despite what these design guidelines say. Okay. Thank you any further questions Commissioner Udailey, do you have a question? I haven't had a chance to read all of this yet. I just want to be clear on the most fundamental issues that your client has and I guess I could wait for her to come up but I
 From your testimony, I understand that there's concerns around the size and the view, access and easement, and the, I guess, adverse impact on livability for the single-family residents. Anything else you want to add to that list? Those are the ones that come to mind, but I'm sure she'll elaborate on them.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Could I just ask a city attorney, I heard the request to keep the record open as Commissioner Eugeli just noted neither of us had time to read anything that we were given today. Are we required to just keep the record open? Can we continue the hearing? What's the process?
 given the amounts of information that's coming today. So my understanding is we are left with three options. We can deny the appeal, we can accept the appeal, or if we would like, we can continue the hearing. And directly to Commissioner Fritz's question, this is not the initial evidentiary hearing. State law requires that if there's a request for a continuance or holding the record open at an initial evidentiary hearing, we're required to do so.
 but you only hear appeals and so it's at your discretion whether you wish to hold the record open or grant a continuance. And so for example, Council, if we have a number of questions coming out of this hearing, we keep the record open and give people the opportunity to address those questions?
 If it is your intent to receive additional evidence, you wouldn't want to close the record. Or if you want, you could close the record to evidence, leave it open for argument. You would need to set out a structure by which people would know when they need to submit additional argument and or evidence depending on what you feel like you need.
 Great. Did your client want to come up and speak? Could I ask the clerk, how many more minutes are available of the 15? There's 4.31. Very good. She's not required to, but if she'd like to. I believe she signed up on the support list as well. She probably qualifies as the primary.
 As the principal opponent, so I think she's entitled to the remainder of your time. It doesn't include Q&A. Q&A we don't include in the time. So if you'd prefer to speak a little longer, you have that option. Is that consistent given that legal counsel represents her interest? Sure, if there's additional time, then he's representing her. So they can use their 15 minutes how they choose. Very good. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Roberts and I live at 121 Southeast 12th Avenue. I am in one of, I own the Queen Anne Victorian that's directly to the south of the proposal. So to answer your question, all of the houses on 12th Avenue are owned by different people and different owners. And those three are on historic inventory because they were built in the 1890s by Stokes
 So the following central city fundamental guidelines have not been met by this proposal. C3-1, designed to enhance existing themes. C3-2, respect adjacent residential neighborhoods.
 Additionally, the following special design guidelines for the Central Eastside District have not been met by this proposal. A4, using unifying elements. A5, enhance and embellish. C4, complement the context of existing buildings. And C5, design for coherency and permanence. In the existing record, there are multiple references to these mandatory guidelines with explanations showing that the project has not met them throughout the design commission meetings. Starting with the first one on October 5th.
 and with direct feedback to the developer and the architect. Two more facts to consider. There has been a lack of communication and collaboration. From the onset of this process in April 2016, there have been no communication and no collaboration between the developer and the surrounding neighbors
 the Bucman Neighborhood Association. The only exception is an aggressive buyout letters to Miss Sturgis, who is my neighbor to the north. This is unacceptable both to closely affected neighbor citizens and businesses on 12th Avenue, as well as the collaborative process that is advocated by building and development services. Please note a letter existing in the record from Jeff Burns dated September 18th.
 Similarly, the developer bypassed the DAR process and was unresponsive to suggestions and recommendations by the city planner. Lack of respect. The proposal does not enhance respect or integrate with the existing structures on 12th Avenue. These houses are residential. Most are converted to multiple units that are affordable on a rent scale. Contrary to statements by the developer and the architect, they are not targets for the wrecking ball. They are a neighborhood.
 Most are over 80 years old and some are over 110 years old and they deserve preservation and respect. They are well maintained, eminently usable and habitable. Respect is shown by building a project that suits and fits and integrates smoothly with the existing structures. Mid-level development perhaps, providing contextual setbacks, less bulk and mass, perhaps pitched roof lines and design vocabulary that fits with the residences and
 So the impact on my life and house and general livability to the community is the proposed 70 foot high sheer walls will be placed four feet from my windows with no setback, no lot line setbacks obliterating natural light and sunlight and impinging upon my privacy. Please see
 EX code regarding setbacks 33.14 0.21 5 proposed neon LED lights and external stairwell stories six stories high will create 24-hour unnatural light glare into the back of my house in the back of my neighbors houses visitors and neighbors and people along the street will see only the 70 foot walls facing 12th and Ankeny as the friendships are only seen obliquely they are quite jarring there will be
 I'm sorry, as recommended by the design commission at many meetings, there are several ways to develop this very narrow and odd shaped site. This proposal is simply too large, too industrial, and too bulky for the small site.
 It is akin to trying to sit a hippopotamus on a parlor cushion. I would like to commend and thank the Portland Design Commission members, Grace Jeffries and Tim Herron for their always honest and forthright communications and intentions. They have been both consistent and thorough in their feedback. It is noted and appreciated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for testifying and for the clarity of your testimony.
 and I the issues here are height bulk massing and neighborhood compatibility and I want to focus just for a second on height bulk and massing and I very much appreciate looking at this this mock-up at your home and to the south of this directly to the south yeah and I appreciate that there's going to be a significant impact to your home under virtually any
 version of the design that is ultimately approved if there's an approval. I want to take separate neighborhood compatibility because some of the questions about components and materials and light and things, that I think is separate. But the thing I'm grappling with here is I'm not entirely clear how an extra foot or two
 a slightly lower height, a slightly modified bulk changes the concerns that you have. And I understand your concerns and I respect them. But I'm not sure how the kind of modifications that could come out of a further process fundamentally addresses your concerns. Could you address that? Short of there not being a development, and I understand if-
 A mid-sized development which had some lot line setbacks and which was allowing some light and air and privacy and space and maybe some landscaping between the residential houses would certainly make it much more livable and much more usable and friendly. And I would be in favor of that, something that is- And when you say mid-size, what do you mean by that?
 Well, what kind of height are we talking about? Well, so my structure is 42 feet, 45 feet, so something in that neighborhood, 40, you know, it's going to fit along that, along that series of roof lines, you know, and it's going to fit with the character of the other houses on both that side of the street and the other side of the street, with the exception
 The new development, there are three more turn of the century houses on the opposite side of the street. They consider themselves, we consider ourselves part of the Buckman neighborhood. Those houses are again, very much usable, very much occupied, very much rent affordable. And so I guess providing those lot line setbacks and
 making it mid-level. I think mid-level is a developer term. I picked that up from talking to some developers. I don't know the exact terminology. You're very clear in your testimony. I appreciate it. Thank you. Ms. Roberts, you sparked my curiosity when you said that a number of the five houses had been subdivided. Do you roughly know how many residents
 live in those five houses? Okay, so the one to that's the middle one just to the south of me there's probably eight or nine people in there that one's been converted into a five plex
 And then on the opposite side of the street directly across from me that is a three plex and then the other one on the opposite side of the street I think is also a duplex. I'm just referring to the five houses on my side. On my side. Okay. So I'm so yes mine is mine is mine is a duplex it has two units.
 The one to the south of me, I believe, is a fiveplex or a fourplex. I don't, I couldn't absolutely say whether it's four or five. The one on the end is divided into two. My neighbors to the north is a single family, and then the house on the very corner is being used as an office space. Thank you. Sorry. And I'd just like to point out,
 I don't believe her homes are illegal and there was some suggestion that these homes there are illegal They're legal non-conforming legal non-conforming, which I think there's a substantive difference there Thank you, thank you appreciate it next up opponents of the appeal three minutes each Nine people signed up and very good design commission wants to come up together David work. I
 Andrew Clark, Jessica Molinar, and Julie Livingston. Good afternoon. So is David Wark first? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Just we chair for a word. I'll go first. Sure. Sure. Thank you. So good afternoon, mayor and commissioners. My name's David Wark. I'm the current chair of the design commission. And I just want to start out by saying that design commission fully supports the aspirations of every project we see.
 And to try to get to yes, we worked very hard on that. As is evidence to me by my nine years on commission that in the hundreds and hundreds of cases I've reviewed that this was the first case that was not approved by design commission that was a type three case.
 And that was very difficult for us. But it should be noted that it was- Could you clarify type three? Type three, right, that's where it comes before design commission. We've, like you, receive appeals from a type two case, that's staff. And so we've had some of those cases come through that we haven't supported. Very good, thank you. Right, and it's also important to note that it was unanimous, which is also unusual. And so this case was not about limiting the height and area.
 the site it was about shaping the height and area on the site and the applicant at times felt they just could not do that to to demonstrate substantively what we were after relative to c4 complement context of the existing buildings and see 3.2 respect adjacent residential neighborhoods
 In terms of the context, the architect stated at some point in one of the hearings that the three houses to the south seemed more historic and stable than the ones to the north, which is reflected in their design. Commissioner Fritz kind of stole my thunder on this point, but the idea that the south elevations, angled wall, and solar panels are an integral part of their aspirations, which is a net zero building.
 So if those houses do Remain then the net zero works very well if they are demolished in a new building That could be between 90 and 125 feet tall is constructed than the solar panels including new ones on the roof Would most likely remain in shadow and the whole net zero goal Is compromised so?
 In my mind in particular if the houses are to remain which is which their design is predicated upon then they should take that into account and According to the design guidelines so in closing in part this project is really about how context is defined And what value that it is given is it about existing or future or a combination of those two?
 And is it that infill development should be allowed to build however it chooses, regardless of its neighbors? Or two, infill development needs to respond to the specific conditions of existing context as outlined in the design guidelines. And we look very forward to your comments and guidance in this because this is on the front lines of the growing pains that Portland is experiencing. So thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Thank you for hearing Portland Design Commission on this case today. My name is Andrew Clark and I've been a member of the commission for 13 months. During that time, the Ankeny Apartments has been the only proposal to not be approved by the commission. Not only was the proposal denied, it was denied unanimously. As currently designed, the building does not comply with many central city fundamental design guidelines.
 or Central Eastside Special Design Guidelines. A few more salient central city fundamentals that produce the most discussion during our deliberations are, A4, use unifying elements. The scale of the project dwarfs the adjacent buildings. More needs to be done to provide a human scale to the building.
 Revisions to materials and details were some of the options to mitigate scale that were suggested by both design review staff and commission. C4, complement the context of existing buildings. Due to the large, sheer blank walls at the property lines, the massing configuration, and the material selection, this proposal does not complement its context.
 Balconies and bay windows do work toward relating to neighboring houses, but on balance they are insufficient compared to the ways in which the building alienates its surroundings. C2, promote quality and permanence in a development. This building is a vertical extrusion of the property lines that entirely fills the site. Large portions of walls at lot lines use materials which require regular maintenance.
 How will this maintenance occur without the cooperation of neighbors? The developer needs an easement to utilize the neighbor's yards to both construct and maintain the building. Without an eye towards constructability and long term maintenance, this building will not be a long term asset in our community that exemplifies quality and permanence. And from the Central Eastside Special Design Guidelines, C32, respect adjacent residential neighborhoods while the EIC zone is not
 While the EX zone allows residential uses, it is predominantly an industrial zone. Now development should respect the architectural styles and development patterns of the adjacent residential neighborhoods. Consideration should be given to building height and bulk, building orientation, pedestrian accessibility, amount and location of parking, architectural detailing, and architectural style.
 In conclusion, it's been our experience that small projects that respond well to guidelines are approved after a single hearing. The fact that this development proposal received a unanimous denial following five hearings is a clear indication of the applicant's failure to respond to guidelines, not a failure of the guidelines themselves. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Julie Livingston and Jessica Molinar is not going to testify this afternoon.
 So, I have prepared testimony and shared hard copy with you. The hard copy that you have addresses a couple of guidelines specifically, but I am not going to belabor the guidelines because I feel like we have done that well. Instead I'd like to address a few issues that have been raised during the reports and the
 First, just for the record, the existing houses on this block are not non-conforming. They are allowed by right. And if they were brought into the Bureau of Development Services as single family, proposed single family development today, they would be allowed by right. So they're fine. Nobody is at risk there.
 With respect to the third hearing and the staff report that was generated for the third hearing, there was a great hope going into that hearing that revisions that would be made by the design team would get us to an approval. Staff reports, staff and staff reports often aim high with the assumption that the discussion that will happen will get us to a place where we can vote yes and get the applicant out of the hearing room without a return trip for the vote.
 So, the hope was that the revisions that would be proposed for that hearing would be strong enough to get them out of the room with a yes vote and then not have them come back in for just the voted-forth hearing. As it turns out, the revisions that were proposed were not substantive, and then there was, of course, ensuing discussion on how we would proceed, and at that point it was obvious that there was not going to be a yes vote on the proposal that was in front of us.
 The development standards that describe the maximum allowances permitted on site, height, floor area ratio, the number of housing units, whatever it happens to be. Those are not entitlements, they are allowances. The entitlement is actually a building permit that is issued by the Bureau of Development Services. By their very nature, the standards aren't site specific and they must be adapted to fit a great variety of site conditions. The design guidelines are the tool that we use to help us do this.
 Follow-up thought to that, all of the guidelines matter. And as of today, net zero is not a guideline. So even though this has been discussed greatly with this project, at some point in the future, it may be a guideline. Today it is not. It is not part of the criteria that we, the Design Commission, have used in our deliberations around this building.
 So while the proposal succeeds very well at the innovative use of some elements of the design vocabulary, its bulk and massing fail to speak the language of the central East Side's context with respect to building proportions, scale, and rhythm. These are all necessary elements of a coherent contextual response.
 The site is at the perimeter of the central city D overlay. It's been included in the D overlay not because it's critical to maintaining the personality of the central city, but because it's critical to maintaining the personality of a close-in residential neighborhood. The Portland plan projects an additional 135,000 households in the city by 2035. This means the current pace of redevelopment I'm sorry, I'm going to have to ask you to wrap it up. I apologize. Thank you. Ms. Livingston, I have a question for you.
 Does the staff report that you alluded to in your judgment still lay out a path to getting design commission approval?
 My sense of where we are today is that the no vote is justified. The modifications that were made from hearing to hearing were very modest. The reorientation of the massing and the bulk on the site, the sheerness of the walls on the property line and the lack of mitigation for the sheerness of those walls were issues that were...
 were never addressed to the commission's satisfaction. The commission never felt that they fully addressed the guidelines. Modifications that were proposed were very modest because it's difficult to scale back the building and accomplish the other goals. Can I ask you a question? In layman's terms, you addressed some of those issues, the shear walls. Are those objectives that actually can be accomplished? Could you give me examples of how that might happen?
 Like, how would you address the sheer walls, for example? So from my perspective, the real issue with the sheerness of the walls that are on the internal property lines are that they have no windows. They have no windows because they're on the property line.
 There is no landscaping to mitigate the presence of those walls immediately adjacent to people's backyards. Again, there is no landscaping because those walls are on the property line. So there is simply no area on the site to provide any level of mitigation for the impact that those walls have. The same can be said for the stairwells. Julie, just actually, there were, I think they did carve back a couple of areas where they did add some windows, so there are some. And those are some of the...
 the minor tweaking that got it on the path, a good path, but it never went quite far enough. But it was your hope that they would do more in terms of windows, in terms of pulling back landscaping. And had they done those things, would that have also addressed the bulk and mass bulk
 mass issues that you alluded to earlier. A common building height along that corridor, I think farther south on 11th, is 45 feet for new development. And I think many of us were looking for that kind of height relative to the existing houses along 12th.
 and putting the rest of the bulk and the mass to the west of the site that abutted a short industrial building. And also, by reducing that, it would let more sunlight...
 with that southern exposure onto the northern lots, the lots to the north of the project. So that would have been a start. They did take off one floor, I believe, on 12th. But it still was, in our opinion, out of context. And we did
 encourage them to study actually moving the bulk of the mass to the west but that was never really presented as an option per se and another just to support what Julie said in another way is that structural systems aren't part of our design guideline criteria either so the idea of making it taller which is allowed in that on the site could have been a path to approval but they have a structural system in mind already so they weren't
 willing to or couldn't under their pro forma look at another or adopt another type of structural system to go higher and handle those fire system fire issues that they outlined previously. Thank you that's helpful. Commissioner Fish. Just that one point and forgive me if this is a really dumb question but I I just want to give you a hypothetical. Let's assume the developer purchased all the single-family residences and demolished them. How would that change your view of
 that portion of the guidelines which you applied that relate to complementing existing buildings and sort of complementing the character of the neighborhood. Can I modify your question a little? You can do it. It'll be a better. You can tell me it's as stupid as I think it is. No, no, it's a good question. It's a better question this way though. So what if the entire half block had been purchased? And those three houses to the south were still intact, right?
 What that means is, and what's happened on every project before this, is that they have enough real estate to now pull back from those houses to the south and give it a little bit of breathing room and kind of shape their mass. They have a lot more room to shape more mass. So one of the challenges behind this project is it's about a 30-foot wide site.
 on 30 to 35, I can't remember exactly, something in that realm. And so the ability to shave off, I would say, square footage is much more challenging. But let me just then just continue the discussion. So if ultimately, through whatever process, the developer built something here, but with less height, less bulk.
 It is conceivable that someone down the road will come and acquire the two single-family homes, demolish them, and put a bigger building, correct? Right. Yes. And it would then change the equation in terms of how you would then evaluate that building because the context is the building that the We would probably be doing it in reverse here. We would be seeing how that new project is impacting the context of this building if it ever got built.
 So it's not necessarily looking at these silos of projects. We're looking at them, the context, as I mentioned, is it the existing context, is it the future context? So a project in the future would then have to kind of take this project into account. So again, let me just continue this. Did I not answer your question? No, you did. Oh, okay. Very effectively. But then I think the question that the appellant,
 the appellant applicant appellant appellant has raised is are we designing for today or for the future right and Julie you could you offer your perspective on that? Well, that was a question I asked and it had basically is the context about the existing or the future or a combination of the two And so how do we transition our city in a transitional neighborhood? from what it is now into the future and this is this is a
 This is it. This is the case. And the irony of it, it's probably the smallest case we've seen in the nine years I've been on commission. But the impact, not only on this site, but on future development and how we look at context, I think is something that we need some clarity on. And this case is it. It's a start. But at the end of the day, we're just debating how to resolve one case. Right.
 When Mayor Adams sat in this chair, he would usually at this stage of the proceeding press counsel or someone about what is the extent of precedent and what kind of precedent are we setting. But at the end of the day, we're addressing one application and one judgment about how rules apply. We're not actually revising your rules or setting the template for the future. My closing remark was we're interested in hearing your point of view, which I assume
 So we'll get to that. We have that. Sure. Not right now. Yeah. Well, you will hear that pretty quickly here. All right. Great. So thank you. Any further questions for this panel? So this is my first hearing of this nature, and I just need to ask a clarifying question. If the decision of the design review committee is upheld, does the appellant have an opportunity to come back for additional comments?
 meetings. My understanding is they would have to start a new case. And just an editorial comment, we understand that and that's why one of the reasons we try to get to yes is so that the efforts to that point, which are substantive in terms of time and cost, aren't wasted. And so that's why we're kind of, don't want to be sitting here either actually. Very good. Next three please. Are William Phillips?
 Michael Beglin and Jeff Burns. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Michael Beglin, 121 Southeast 12th, the property immediately to the south. My partner is Mary Roberts. 121 Southeast 12th is an 1895 Victorian house, two and a half stories tall.
 A lot of the points I was going to make, I apologize that you've probably already heard, but I have my prepared remarks. But there's a few points I think that we haven't covered as yet. In terms of the big picture, I feel that there's two items. The first item would involve I moved to Portland in 1979, and so I have some perspective on the development of the city.
 The farsightedness of city planners and government resulting in the development guidelines and the Portland Development Commission is pretty awe-inspiring given the Portland that existed in 1980. We live with the benefits of their decisions then, just as the people in 2050 will live with the results of your decisions now. The Design Commission is the mechanism that enables this process and should be supported in their work.
 I attended every design commission meeting on this matter and everybody's point of view was heard. The commission voted unanimously to turn down the proposal, which was the correct decision, and I ask you to uphold it. Second big picture item, which has been alluded to already, the EX zone allows development to the lot line.
 which is fine for warehouse to warehouse but not as in this case of residential to residential which needs setbacks to provide light and air etc this conflict needs to be resolved and should not be resolved at the expense of existing residential moving on to the smaller picture
 Any dwelling settlement that has existed for over 100 years is by definition a neighborhood. And this proposed development in that neighborhood clearly does not meet guidelines C3-2 and C4. A pedestrian on 12th will see massive blank side walls and 2.5 story houses totally overwhelmed by a six story mass.
 The entire issue with this proposal is one of massing, and that cannot be resolved until the size of the building is reduced. We would welcome, as neighbors, we would welcome mid-level duplex or triplex development. Moving on to the human element, we have been totally ignored by the developer. We never had a single communication from the owner, architect, or builder. We will not grant construction or maintenance easements under any circumstances and will strongly defend our property rights.
 The development commission requested that a sunshine shadow study be submitted by the developer. This was not done, so we don't have hard data. But a 70 foot blank wall four feet from our side wall kitchen window will reduce air, light, and privacy.
 On the other side of the coin, the reduction in daylight will be offset by proposed 24-7 LED stairway lighting glaring in our windows. In summary, this is too much building for this site, does not meet design guidelines, is not respectful of its surroundings, and should not be built. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Jeff Burns. I sit on the Buckman Community Association and this project came to us by way of the neighbors. We did receive a notice in the mail.
 And we were through the discussion of just the neighbors it came to light that we probably needed to act on in some form or another the way that the community group works we meet once a month and
 And so that action was taken in the form letter that I wrote personally as far as summarizing what our concerns were. I'm just going to highlight a couple things out of it. It's a beautiful design in and of itself and a great exercise in maxing out development potential. It's a good comment on what's allowed in the zoning code. It would be healthy for the development team to have the opportunity to come present the project to the BCA and the neighbors to have the opportunity to weigh in.
 the project in the community forum after that the architect did come and present to us and We talked about it quite a bit and our feeling was after design commission that the project was probably not going to move forward And we didn't concentrate our efforts on it as community association group and then along came the this this hearing and I
 Unfortunately the way the notification has worked on this project the BCA board does not have an opportunity to meet and discuss Prior to the appeal hearing we meet tomorrow so the chance for us to have a conversation about it and come to a good conclusion as a community board and Have a vetted letter back to this appeals
 Forum just wouldn't be able to happen the way that the notification is done to neighborhood associations It does kind of leave us pretty powerless but I would say that there's that letter that goes back that Voices the concerns of the neighbors and I'd hope that you guys would read that and then one other note is
 Due to improper notification by BDS and lack of developer outreach and participation, the neighborhood association was not able to formalize an objection to the project, but numerous concerns were raised by the community members. Numerous concerns raised by community members were noted. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. So if we were to hold the record open for a couple of weeks, would the community association be able to discuss and get us something? I think that would be great.
 That would be great. I think there's an opportunity for this project to come back around and for some good discussions to happen because this is really where the direction that we're seeing as the BCA, where the neighborhood's headed, and having that dialogue with how the neighborhood's going to develop would be really helpful, especially as we're kind of sitting in the trenches and hearing stuff from neighbors that are really concerned about where are we headed.
 I just have a comment to my colleagues. I'm sure Commissioner Fish will remember that occasionally we have asked both sides to get together and see if they can come to some agreement between the Council hearing and decision making. So that's an option also. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is William Phillips. I live at 113 Southeast 12th Avenue, which is right there in the armpit of this monstrosity. It will not only be.
 destroy our way of life and take away our family dwelling basically in this home, which is also a Stokes historic building. But we won't be able to grow our plants. We won't have light for it. We have birds. We take them out in the backyard during the summer so they can get outside and have light and air and stuff. The developer, Mr. Crowell, has never talked nice to us about...
 discussing things for this building and I've been to most of the meetings for the Planning Commission they gave him many many opportunities to make changes that would have taken care of the bulk and these walls that I'm sorry if I if we lived there it'd be like living in a jail cell because that's all you'd see is walls also they would be looking from there the
 small windows that they were proposing to put into these blank walls would just open up to where they could view down into our existing homes and invade our privacy and
 our way of life would be gone. They also talked about having the view to the river and stuff because of the height of this building. Well, you know what? We have a view to the river and we watch from our back porch and stuff, we watch the fireworks and such that go on during many holidays down here. We'll lose all that if that building goes in. And why should we pay?
 pay that cost for him and this project to go in just because it's a net zero. I like the idea of net zero. Putting it in this spot is wrong. It's like trying to hammer a square peg into a round hole. It does not fit. Thank you. That's all I have to say. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Next three, please. The last two who signed up are Joy Lewis and Priscilla Sturgis. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, my name is Joy Lewis. I live at 113 Southeast 12th Avenue, Portland, Oregon. This proposed building is a bad fit. If built, it will destroy our way of life.
 the death of our livability. Our house, which is a duplex, not a single family dwelling, would be strangled by the hungry boa constrictor called Ankeny Apartments. We would be living next to huge, white, stark, sheer walls towering over us, entirely shadowing us, depriving us of our light, heat, air, sunshine, and rain. It will destroy our privacy. We need these things for ourselves and our garden and our parents.
 Think prison stockade. Nobody willingly would submit to live like this. Parking is terrible in this neighborhood already. This building would offer only bicycle spaces. This won't force people not to drive cars and need parking. More people less parking bad fit.
 The building is too large for the lot, does not architecturally comply, or even give the slightest nod to the Queen Anne vernacular architectural design of our neighborhood. The destruction of our beautiful historic neighborhood is a tragedy. I hope that the City Council will use all their intelligence and compassion when deciding on this proposal. For the neighborhood, for the neighboring historical houses, neighbors, and not just the developers.
 This is the oldest, most historic southeast neighborhood in Portland. We deserve better. Our houses deserve better. We as taxpaying citizens deserve better. I'm requesting that you, as city council members, please consider this proposal wisely. Is Portland a city of beautiful historic pride and preservation or a city of demolition and architectural punishment? Please vote for denial. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Priscilla Sturgis. I am Joy's mother. And no, we won't be here forever to watch these houses, but it will go straight to her and she will last longer. We bought our two-story, which it actually is two stories and an attic and a basement house. And we were told by the people that researched that it was actually built in 1886, as many of them were.
 We bought it over 40 years ago, worked, paid taxes, volunteered in our community, and are now given three minutes to tell you why you should not surround us with a prison wall, which will shut out our air, water, sunshine, privacy, and community. You have already allowed the historic 1857 Buckman Farmhouse to be demolished with no notice to the neighbors.
 Now we are faced with a huge apartment complex for high income renters. The zinc cladding will rust in several years, usually last 30, 40 years, and then it starts to rust. So we will have, it won't be an elegant building, it will be a rusty eyesore. Affordable homes should not be displaced for luxury apartments for wealthy short termers.
 The impact of construction will be hard on old houses and people. It is already having an effect on our health. This borders on elder abuse. Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Thank you. All right, we now have the opportunity for rebuttal by the appellant, if they so choose, for five minutes. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We're all here in case you have questions that may be addressed to each of us.
 First, let me respond to the record issue that was raised. We have no objection to leaving the record open. We think it would be a good idea to allow everyone the opportunity to address some of the issues and questions that the council has raised and make sure you have the most complete record possible. So we have no objection to further written submissions. Second, with respect to Commissioner Fish's question about the scope of the council's authority in the case,
 I believe that in lawyer technical terms this is a de novo hearing, meaning that you're not constrained by any decision below. You make a new decision based upon the record and the rules allow new evidence for the records, so this is essentially a clean slate in terms of the authority you have to make a decision.
 You asked the related question of what weight should be accorded the January 5th staff analysis which was for approval. I make two comments there. One is I think the weight depends on your evaluation of the analysis in that report. That report is the staff's best professional judgment.
 exercised in evaluating the evidence in the case. And as you read it, you will find that they take the position that each and every one of the criteria are satisfied because of the changes that were made throughout the process in the case. And that, I think, is a persuasive argument. Second, we encourage the use of this document as a basis for your decision because it is a practical path.
 to getting this project approved. It's a way to approve the project without getting into what you referred to as some of the more global and esoteric legal questions in the case. It focuses on the criteria. It makes the decision based on those criteria. And so we encourage the use of it. Finally, contrary to the characterization and some of the testimony that Mr. Crowell is asking for a pass, that's not the case.
 His goal is to as soon as possible build housing and add it to the housing stock. His goal is to do that in an innovative way that respects what we're trying to accomplish in terms of energy efficiency. And finally, he's trying to address a changing zoning environment.
 This will be the first building built, the first new building built in almost 50 years on this block. It will also be the last building built under the current zoning so that everything in the future will be built under more intense zoning.
 So the risk here is that if you make the building too small, it will be essentially a wasted opportunity when you look back 10 or 15 years from now. And so that's why we're seeking approval and that's his goal, not getting a pass.
 Thank you. We may have some more comments on the design. Yeah, I'd just like to comment a little bit, again, on that staff recommendation of approval and the process that was used or that we developed and worked with BDS in order to get that.
 We would have many work sessions in our office with Grace from BDS going over the previous discussions and hearings we had with design commission and making changes and I think there are substantial changes Taking more than 2,000 square feet out taking all the parking out activating the ground floor on and on and on I think that's all in the record
 And then Grace would go back and she has a cohort of other BDS people that Again know the design guidelines and know the code and they discuss We would give our designs and renderings to her ahead of time and they would discuss the development in relation to the Commission hearings and I think that the fact that we got to a staff recommendation of approval after the third hearing Shows that it wasn't
 an interpretation that is different than the design commissions, but there's actually a body of BDS people reviewing this that interpreted it one way and then commissioned to interpret it the other. So I think it's obvious that there's a lot of ground for interpretation and biased and I guess aesthetics that are either you agree with or disagree with and so I envy your position that there is a very sort of gray area that a decision has to be made on.
 Mr. Ramis, I have a question for you. Sure. I need you to give us a quick primer on just the procedural posture of this case, just so we're all clear. I'll give you some hypotheticals. The council denies your appeal. You have the option of going to Luba, correct? We do. You've also in your letter identified potential constitutional questions. They could be raised at Luba or could they also be raised in another form?
 They could be raised in another forum. I think for efficiency's sake, it would be best to raise them at a little later. And the LUBA process generally takes about how long? It will take about eight to nine months. And one option, LUBA could, these are all hypotheticals. I'm just trying to understand the posture of the case. LUBA could end up sending it back for further action, correct? They could. They could do what's called a remand and send it back to you.
 And what does it practically mean to your client if he had to start all over again? So we've had five hearings, this has been going on for a long time. So just in practical terms, cost and timeline, what would it mean to go back to zero? Yeah, it's very expensive. And I wanna make the point that getting a building built is better done through a process here at the city than through LUBA. So it's certainly not our objective to litigate these questions.
 But yes, having to start over completely is an expensive proposition. And then finally, to what extent does the comprehensive plan that we adopted but doesn't kick in until it's been approved down the road? To what extent does that fundamentally change the conversation that we're having about what can and cannot be done at that site? Well of course if a new application is filed after the change in 2018, it changes it completely because a different building envelope is permitted on the site.
 For now, it seems to me the effect of it is that it's one factor in trying to analyze what's the context for evaluating the project as against both the zone and what's out there physically. It changes the analysis of the situation because what's coming is more intense. It's a policy statement by the city that the city wants more intense development there. That's a fact.
 Thanks, Commissioner. I have a question and that is, the application says 17 units, but several times a day 18 units has been mentioned. So could you clarify what's being proposed please? Yes, you can go through that again. Yes, because we've had to take out the ground floor parking, we actually put in a live work unit.
 place of where the parking was and altered the units the way that they were configured to accommodate and basically appease design review. So for right now you're actually asking for an 18 unit development? It is 18 units it is 12 two bedrooms and six one bedrooms. Okay and I just would like you to hear your thoughts on something that I've been thinking about following up from Commissioner Fish's
 points. It seems to me that it's in the neighbours best interests to, the design commission chair said that keeping the single family homes is actually kind of necessary to your design because if those were to go and a 125 foot building was to be placed there that would shade your access.
 Similarly for the neighbors, coming to some agreement this time around would be better because otherwise the next one coming in will be yours being 125 feet. Correct. So I just wanted to see if there's a way to bring parties together since we're here. Not today, but before we come back. You mean find mutual ground? Yeah, find something that would make the neighbors...
 want to stay in their single family homes there and find a design that will work for you. And that's again, we'll want to keep the neighbors there. So that's just something to be thinking about. That is a really interesting challenge looking at that building. How new development on any of those lots would impact your units? Could we see the most current rendering of the building as proposed? I just I feel like this image is not
 Not the best one. Okay. So that's 12th Street. And then do you have an image of this back tower that's behind the two buildings? I guess that's what I'm having the hardest time conceiving. Okay. So that's Ankeny. That's Ankeny Street. Okay. Got it. Thank you. Any further questions for the panel? Very good. Thank you, gentlemen. We appreciate it.
 all right so this brings us to council discussion and obviously we have a number of
 questions before us. There's questions about whether we would like to continue the hearing, whether we would like to file a motion now, whether we would like to keep the record open, whether we'd like to close the record. All of these things are at our disposal in terms of how we address this issue. Before we jump into that, while you're thinking, I just want to make a few comments as I've been sitting here listening.
 This is almost the perfect storm, and as somebody who I guess qualifies as old Portland having been born here, but somebody who's elected to take us into the future, I'm seeing this as almost two worlds colliding. This is an established neighborhood. This is a set of historic buildings.
 residential structures in the neighborhood. People in Portland have always loved and appreciated the historic nature of this architecture, but we're also a city, as somebody had mentioned earlier, that's in high transition.
 And a couple of the people who had spoken in support of this project had made note of the fact that this is the kind of development that the city has been trying to encourage, particularly close into the city center. It meets all of our carbon objectives. In many regards, it represents the future of what we're going to see close in in our city where the Portland plan will be implemented.
 acknowledge the need for density and for smart architecture. So in many regards, I love this project because it has a nod to the future and I hate it because it represents rapid change. And I think those of us who've been here for a long time, while we embrace the need to change and we embrace the future, we're somewhat wistful.
 about what it is that we're leaving behind. So this represents the perfect storm in my mind of these colliding issues. I am also sort of interested in the conundrum that Commissioner Fish raised. It's important that this is the first new project on this block.
 because it raises the question, if we have established a Portland plan and we've changed our zoning and are in the process of changing our codes to reflect our desires for more density, how do we get there? Do we go from here to there?
 all at once or is there going to be sort of a tit for tat development on each one of these sites as we start out being consistent with what's already there with a nod to history in the past and just start building sequentially or do we go full bore towards the future and that is really the decision we're left with here today.
 So that was completely not helpful, but it's what I've really been- Mr. Fritz? It's what I've been toying with as I've been sitting here listening to this testimony. I'd like to have a colloquy with my colleague, Mr. Fritz. Go for it. Because one of my favorite adages is the notion of, I went to the fights and a hockey game broke out. I actually came into this hearing thinking with one set of issues and concerns.
 And I now find myself conflicted, but ready to rule if forced to. But Commissioner Fritz, you alluded to something we've done in the past, which I think actually provides a third way, which I just want to tease out with you because you came here after a long career in the Planning Commission, and you've been, for me, the lead person in trying to think through creative solutions to these problems because you have so much history with it.
 And I am interested in at least exploring a concept, if you could help us shape it, that has some combination of keeping the record open, a constrained next step, but with the opportunity for at least two meetings to occur. I think there's two meetings that have to occur. One is with the neighborhood and one is with the property owners.
 with a proceeding where we come back, give everyone just a very limited amount of time to report to us, and then an understanding that we're going to deliberate. That, I think, is a first cousin of what we did before, and if you could tease that out, I think I might support it. Sure.
 Diolch. Rwy'n credu bod hynny'n ffordd ymlaen. Yn sicr, hoffwn i ddarllen trwy'r holl beth sydd wedi'i gadael i ni heddiw a'r hyn sydd arall yn y record, cyn dod i ddiwedd. Rwy'n credu, os oes gennym ni'r cyfnod, gallwn ni ddatblygu fy nhymeriad eto. Mae'n wir yn bwysig i'r rhwydwaith i gael rhywbeth yn cael ei gyflawni.
 yn y broses honno, oherwydd os byddant yn mynd yn l a'i wneud am y cynllun cyflawni nesaf i fod yn effeithio, bydd y adeilad yn 125 ffyt, nid 70 ffyt. Felly dyna pam rwy'n credu ei bod yn ymwneud  phwysigrwydd y rhwydwaith i geisio cael ysgrifennu. Ac yn y cyd, os bydd y rhwydwaith yn llythyrol yn cymryd eu casglu a'u symud i rywle arall a'u gallu datblygu i
 yn ymlaen at y cynllun hwn fel 125 ffyt, yna mae hynny'n gwbl yn llwyddo'r gallu o'r net zero i gael llawer o ddylun i fod yn lle da i fyw. Felly, rwy'n credu, yn bennaf, yn ymwneud  phawb yn y bwysigrwydd i gael cymorth i'r cydweithrediad i ddod i mewn, i gyngor cyfarfod, efallai gyda'r cymorth i geisio cael yn dda.
 cyn i'r cyngor cyngor ddweud, ie, rydyn ni'n cytuno 'r Comisiwn Dylunio a ddechrau, neu, na, nid ydym yn cytuno 'r Comisiwn Dylunio, ac yn gwbl, gael arno a gweld sut mae'n mynd. Felly roeddwn i'n cymryd sylwadau pan oeddech chi'n ei ddweud hynny. Alla i weld a allaf roi cynnydd ar y tawel i bobl ymateb? Alla i ddweud, gofynnwn i'r Comisiwn, Rydyn ni'n cael... Gofynnwn i'r Comisiwn, iawn, gofynnwn i chi. Wel, rwy'n meddwl, yn y gwirionedd
 cydnabod y gwaith anodd o'r Comisiwn Dyluniad a chyflogwyr BDS. Dwi ddim yn meddwl y gallwn ni ddim yn adnabod y ffaith bod hyn yn benderfyniad unanol. Ac rwy'n cytuno 'r Prif Weinidog Fritz, byddwn i'n gwerthfawr i allu darllen trwy'r holl ymddiriedaeth a gafodd ei roi i ni heddiw, sy'n
 a peth o'r papur rhymau cyn adael y rheol. Rwy'n hefyd eisiau cydnabod faint o'r broses yw'r broses yma ar gyfer y datblyguwyr, a pha prosiect ddiddorol a hynod o ddiddordeb yw'r broses. Rwy'n credu bod chi wedi'i ymwybodol iawn o beth sy'n bwysig iawn, sef os nad yw rhywbeth yn ei le, bydd y rhwydwaith yn cael rhywbeth
 yn fwy cydnabodol iddyn nhw. Ac os yw'r bywyd o'r neidrwydd hwn yn cael ei ddimynnu gan eich datblygu, efallai y bydd gennych chi datblygu sy'n llai'r bywyd o'ch adeilad. Felly rwy'n falch iawn am glywed beth mae'r Cyfrifol Ffis yn bwriadu ei ddatblygu.
 Rwy'n gofyn hefyd eich bod y ddinas wedi gwneud rhai penderfyniadau hanesyddol anodd dros y 50 mlynedd diwethaf o ddatblygu arfordirol sydd wedi ddystryd neiborolion a chymunedau o fwyd o ddysgu. Ac yn fwy yn ddiweddar, rydym wedi gallu datblygu'r datblygiad heb ddim i ddim o ddiogelu'r lleoliad a'r effaith ar gyfer bywydau
 neighborhoods and community members and we have an opportunity to stop and really you know consider this the impact of this decision I don't want to see us over correct for past wrongs and ultimately come up with a
 plan that is not desirable and and i don't want to see us shut down a really innovative project so i'm for continuing the conversation so just to give clarity it sounds like we want to keep the record open
 Commissioner Fish, if I understand you specifically, there are two meetings you are requesting, one being with the neighborhood association, one being with the immediate neighbors. I assume that you're asking the developer party to participate in those meetings. That's obviously at their discretion and voluntary. We cannot direct them.
 to do so but that's what you would like to see you'd like to see the record kept open and then I presume you would like to schedule a future hearing and we need to select a date so we would do that yes sir Can I get two pieces of guidance before we do that to our council are we on the clock I would ask staff to respond I suspect because Sometimes we're told we're on the clock and to extend the clock we have to get a concurrence
 Could you come up to the microphones please? And this is a technical legal thing for those who are here, that land use cases are supposed to be decided one way or the other within 120 days. So we need to find out whether the applicant is willing to waive that or if they already have waived that. And that's what staff is coming back up to tell us. Why don't we have the two lawyers come up too? Because sometimes we have questions and you can just nod and we can cut through it. Let's start with you gentlemen. Are we on the clock? I wasn't aware of a waiver in this case.
 All right. Well, typically, if we're going to have an evidentiary hearing at council, it's because the waiver was granted. But I don't know if it was.
 If there's an ending time on that. Do either of you raise any objection to if the council decides to continue the hearing to a time certainty, either of you have an objection? We would not. We'd extend, if there's a clock running, we would extend it for enough time to accommodate the process you're talking about. Sir, same. Okay, so that solves that question, Mayor. May I interject really quickly? You may. The 120 days runs on August 5th, so I'm hopeful that gives us enough time.
 More than enough. So, Mayor, this is just a concept for discussion. Yep. And it's the elements that all three of you have put on the table. Continue the hearing. Keep the record open for 30 days. Any submissions that the attorneys wish to put in by way of summary arguments limited to no more than four pages. We just don't need another phone book here. Just your best arguments, not ones that have been raised before, but whatever you think is absolutely essential.
 We are requesting that the developer, the applicant, hold two meetings, one with the neighborhood association, one with the property owners. And then, Mayor, what I would suggest is that we schedule a time for the final hearing. The record closes in 30 days. We schedule a time for the final hearing for a decision.
 and that at your discretion, you give each side 10 or 15 minutes to update us on anything they've done in the interim and anything they want us to know with the understanding that the council will then deliberate and issue a ruling. That's the concept and Commissioner Fritz, I think that's a hybrid of what we've done before, so that would be my proposal. So that would bring us to Wednesday afternoon, May 10th? I know we have another land use hearing that day, so I don't know how long they've requested.
 They're asking for an hour and they're starting at 3 o'clock. There's already 2 o'clock. So if you want to do 4 o'clock for this one. Do we have a Thursday afternoon session scheduled that week? No, but there is a public budget committee hearing from 6 to 8.30 that night. That's not a problem. Should we do Thursday? Yeah. OK. So why don't we do this Thursday, May 11, 2 PM, time certain.
 Commissioner Fish. When would the record then close, Carla, if we went 30 days?
 so just to be clear the record is going to be open until thursday may 11th and i think that's because you're going to allow the parties to come up and testify again you could either close the record and then reopen it or you would just leave the record open until such time as can i just if we're going to do that mayor can i just admonish or just request of the parties if they're going to submit something don't submit it the day of the hearing i won't read anything i get the data
 hearing. I would like to have it a few days in advance so I can read it and potentially confer with my staff on it. So question for legal counsel if we leave the record open that means anybody can submit. That is correct. So if we close the record today though with
 I'll call it a motion that Commissioner Fish is in the process of making, they would still be able to have their meetings, they would still be able to submit their documents, and we would still hear what the results of the two meetings Commissioner Fish has requested are.
 If you close the record today? If we close the record. If you close the record today, you would have to reopen it to take their testimony to give you the information about the meetings they had or to accept written argument at some point in time. Very good. I'll leave that to my colleagues. I would keep it open, Mayor. We have a very limited universe of interested parties and I think it's just cleaner. Sounds good. We're getting a second opinion here. I don't want to come up without being invited. Come on up.
 Thank you, Tim Heron, Bureau of Development Services. I think that's a great idea. Having been through five public hearings, however, on this project and how much movement or not is up for debate, would we be able to have a facilitator? I was just about to say that. And the city contracts with the Resolutions Northwest who helped us with our public budget hearing yesterday. And Commissioner Udeli can put you in touch with them.
 through the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. And hopefully, I would suggest that if you and Grace could participate as well, that would be very helpful, potentially even with a small number of design commissioners. I mean, we're really trying to get to yes here, and something that will benefit everybody, given that the alternatives don't seem to benefit anybody. You stole thunder twice already, thank you. That was exactly what I wanted to ask. I appreciate what Commissioner Fritz has just said,
 This is a tough case. The design commission has said to us this is a tough case, and they're looking for guidance. Tough cases generally mean that when we decide them, one side is disappointed. And so sometimes that uncertainty leading up to a final decision creates a little extra space for creativity, where the parties give a little bit and see if they can come to an agreement. Because in almost every instance, the council would prefer to have the parties reach an agreement
 that they're comfortable with, against the backdrop of knowing that in this process, there's typically a winner and a loser, and it's hard to craft a middle position. And so everyone gets to assess their own risk in that regard, and hopefully participates in a community process with the goal of getting to yes. Commissioner Fish, for the record, can I restate what I believe is your motion? And I'll assume you're moving it. So we're going to continue the hearing.
 until Thursday May 11th 2 p.m. time certain we're going to keep the record open for 30 days we are asking for best case submissions of no more than four pages from representatives of each side and we are requesting the appellant to conduct two meetings one with the neighborhood association and one with we'll call them the immediate
 homes on that block. Is there anything I've neglected to add to that Commissioner? I would propose Mayor that when we reconvene on the 11th we be clear that you will be affording no more than 15 minutes to both sides prior to deliberations and final decision. So done. Is there a second? Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. Is there any further discussion?
 May I just, I just want to get clarity. 30 days ends before the day before. And that's, and so what will happen at the reopened hearing on the 11th is you will reopen it solely for the purpose of receiving testimony about what has happened during the 30 days. Yeah, no problem. You'll give me a script in just about 30 days. OK, great. Gentlemen, since you represent the parties who have participated fully today, is that a path forward that you both are willing to?
 I mean, we're going to do it anyway, but I mean, we have the right to do it anyway. But do you have any strong objection? Let's put it that way, out of respect. No, we appreciate very much the council's effort to try to find a path that everyone can live with. Appreciate that very much and we'll participate in that. Sir? I echo that, no objection. Thank you both, appreciate it. Please call the roll.
 Thank you for an excellent hearing, for superb testimony. I would say superb testimony particularly from the lay participants, the non-professionals who testified, I think, and were very helpful to our understanding. And thank you to my colleagues for what I think is a very fruitful discussion and a creative outcome, which gives us a little more space to see if the parties themselves can reach an agreement. But I want to be just speaking for myself, if the parties cannot reach an agreement,
 The council will have to decide this question and I'm prepared to decide the question. So thank you. Aye. Udaly? Thanks for everyone's participation. It's a fascinating discussion and I'm really excited to get to witness this conversation moving forward. Aye. Fritz?
 so commissioner you daily thank you for um volunteering for your staff in development services to lead this process getting resolution northwest and inviting people and convening and such and thanks to everybody for being willing to do that because i really do hope that we can get to yes
 Like Commissioner Fish, I would be ready to start over. That's not what Commissioner Fish said, but to me, currently the answer is no, that this project can't be approved. It can't meet the approval criteria. And so that's why I'm really hoping that you can make some modifications on both sides and get to yes. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye. The motion passes 4-0. This hearing is closed. Thank you. Thank you very much. Colleagues, if you have a few minutes, we can get to some of the business that we missed this morning. I think we have a couple of matters. A couple of matters. Yeah, it was interesting. Should we start, Carla, with the consent agenda? The consent agenda. The two items left. Can you remind me which two items are left? 348 and 349 are the last two items on consent.
 Folks, I'm sorry, we still have business to conduct, so if people could take it out into the hallway, we'd really appreciate it. Thank you very much. So colleagues, we have two items left on the consent agenda. Is your microphone on? Item 348. Is your microphone on?
 Yes. Okay. I can't hear it. Right. We have two items left on the consent agenda from this morning. Items 348 and 349 are left on the consent agenda. And it looks like we have 355. Yeah, and then we have 355, correct. And I have 356, unless- Was it 350- 355 and 356. Five and six. Yeah. That's correct. They were emergency and we didn't have the full floor.
 That's fine. Good enough. Please call the roll. This is a consent agenda. Fish? This is consent agenda. Fish? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Next item, please.
 Item 355, increase contract with Convergence Architecture for $42,017 to provide additional services for the 1900 building restroom upgrade project. Good afternoon. Is this still Wednesday? It's still Wednesday. Good afternoon, commissioners and mayor. Excuse me. You think you're almost all day? Yes, I have. I am Randy Selleck, construction project manager with OMF.
 Just to do run a brief of the 1900 restroom project for a little background. The restrooms in the 1900 building are in need of renovation and have been scheduled as a need in the facilities major maintenance program for a number of years. The project is primarily an ADA compliance project as part of the ADA transition plan. Convergence architecture was selected to design the project through the formal RFP process. Their contract was awarded on September 12th.
 As required by City Council administrative rule, bureaus initiating renovation projects of city-controlled facilities with hard construction cost estimates at or above $500,000 are required to consider the feasibility of incorporating all user restrooms, either through creation of new restrooms or conversion of existing restrooms into all user restrooms. The original contract with Convergence Architecture included the feasibility analysis
 The feasibility phase has determined that all user restrooms can be accommodated within the building as individual single user restrooms added to each floor. With the exception of floor number two, because floor number two already has a single user restroom. The analysis has been completed for each floor. The plaza level, we are still exploring two options. Both will be single user restrooms.
 We have a project stakeholder committee that was formed at the beginning of the project and currently includes facilities maintenance technician two facility coordinators who are building tenants one from Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and One from Bureau of Development Services. We also have a senior inspector in a planner. That's all I have to thank you any questions
 Do you have a stakeholder group from the trans community who's advising on this? No, we do not. We actually, we technically do. So we have a community advisory group made up of folks from about six different civil rights organizations plus FLUSH plus a number of other groups that as recently as yesterday met with OMF to review some guidelines for.
 the two proposed all user restrooms which we blended in with the single stall restrooms. And they are providing advice to the city on design and other aspects. So can you tell me which groups are representing the trans community? It's currently composed of Cascade AIDS Project, Basic Rights Oregon, SMERC, FLUSH. There's other groups I can't recall from memory.
 They were the citizen group that helped us develop the all user restroom policy. They're the citizen group that has been evaluating along with Flush and others the pilot, and they have also been advising OMF on taking the pilot forward so that this building would have two all user restrooms to the highest specifications built in along with the other gender specific and single stall all user.
 Thank you, Commissioner. So can this group work with Convergence Architecture in this project just to make sure that we do have community members participating? I'd ask you to just offer that as an amendment because that would ensure that they are playing the same role under this contract as they are advising OMF on the long-term policy. Or I could just ask you if that would be allowed. Oh, absolutely. We could include another member on the committee. Does that require an amendment?
 Does that require an amendment to this contract? No, that is basically a volunteer basis. People are volunteering their time to our project to comment as building users. So Commissioner just to be clear, so we have this this there's a separate committee advising OMF in the city and under your suggestion a member of that committee would formally serve on this committee. Is that correct?
 Either that or once your committee's done its recommendations, it could be looked over by your committee. Just so that there are people from the community since these will be bathrooms that will be used by everybody. Well, if I may, we're moving into design development. We have a plan for the location of each of those restrooms as I have stated. So now would be a perfect time to get their buy-in. Great. Thank you. Let me just be clear.
 This may be a case of the left hand and the right hand just being coordinated. And I don't want to speak for our CAO or some other folks involved in the Portland plan renovation. But currently, we've made a commitment to post when the building is renovated to have two all user restrooms, one on the first floor and one on the second floor.
 built to the highest specifications of safety and modern design and code, along with gender specific restrooms and all user restrooms, consistent with the city values, a value system of giving people maximum choice. So my understanding is that's currently on the table. Yesterday, the other group that is advising that I alluded to was asked to meet with OMF to give some feedback. And we'll just make sure that all this is coordinated. Great.
 Very good. Any public testimony on this matter? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you very much. Aye. Udalli. Aye.
 Thank you for your answers and for your work on this important project. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Contract approved. Next item, please. Thank you. Thank you. Incredible patience today. Next, Shirley. Item 356, authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder for elevator modernization of two Smart Park garages for an estimated $1,676,325. Good afternoon and thank you for your patience as well.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Ron Amali. I'm a project manager with Facilities Services. Besides managing projects, one of my responsibilities is managing the elevator maintenance contracts for the city. As you all know, our elevators are aging and it's really getting harder and harder and more expensive to maintain.
 And so this ordinance in front of you is basically to authorize a contract to the lowest responsible bidder for the modernization of two Smart Car garages. Those two parking garages are the first and Jefferson parking garage, which were originally installed in 1968 and modernized in 1997. We will be modernizing both of those elevators and our estimate for those elevators is $7,000.
 $882,000. The third and older parking garage is the other parking garage that were originally installed in 1977 and last modernized in 1994. We'll only be modernizing two of the five elevators and with those elevators our estimate is $794,200 or $325.
 I'm here to answer any questions if you have any. Any further questions? Hearing none, any public testimony on this item? I don't have a sign up sheet. Very good, please call the roll. Fish. Thank you.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Again, most patient person here. Thank you, aye. Wheeler? Aye. The contract's approved. Thank you. Thank you. And that's it. We've completed all of our business for today. So we are adjourned until tomorrow, Thursday, April 13th at 2 p.m. This meeting's adjourned.