This is the April 17th, 2019 morning session of the Portland City Council. Good morning, Carla, please call the roll. Good morning, Fish. Here. Hardesty. Yes. Udailey. Here. Fritz.
 Here and with that we'll turn it over to legal counsel to hear the rules of order and decorum. Good morning. Good morning and welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. Thank you very much. First up is communications and Carla, I assume the five individuals today would like to come up together, is that correct? Lou. Very good. Why don't you go ahead and read all five of the first items please. Okay.
 316, request of Sally F. Frosman Cecil to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. And 317, request of Brian Jackson to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. 318, request of Naomi Dagen-Bloom to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. 319, request of Edith Gillis to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers.
 and 320, request of Lute Church to address council regarding Portland Gray Panthers. Good morning. Three minutes each. Name for the record. Hello. I'm Edith Gillis and I have this wonderful solution for you. It is doable, win-win, economical, logical, quick, and easy.
 It would be increasing city funds for what's most important for Portland residents as city policy, practices, and budget priorities. It reduces reasons for lawsuits, recalls, turnover, and budget cuts. It increases public trust, employee morale, productivity, and city livability, and increases the investments in our city. The solution? Ha ha ha ha! Require all individuals in the city...
 limits to who are wearing riot gear or clothing or equipment to have clearly visible within 20 feet their last name and or badge number. If they don't have that, they can be arrested for impersonating a law officer, which is a federal felony. They can lose their pay or benefits or the contract if they
 and the public is not required to obey them. For example, we would have all riot cops, batons, and shields must show visible ID. This is all agencies, all individuals, all companies, and contractors. On the chest and on the upper back, the last name would be three inches high. On the helmet front, top, and back, it'd be the number three inches high. The top of the visor...
 would be the number half inch high. The upper arms on the outside would be the number two inches high. The back of the hands, the number half inch high. Above the front of the knees, the number half inch high. The outer ankles, one inch high of the number. And the top front of the shield, the last name, three inches high. And three inches from the end of a baton would be the number one inch high.
 This would be the soft loop of Velcro or similar material on the outside of the equipment or the clothing so that if anyone rubs against it they don't get abrasion or hurt and the hook side on the backside of the ID. Good morning. Well, good morning. Well, we're going to go right ahead. I thought maybe she'd still say something else in her last seconds. Hi, Sally Fronsman Cecil. I'm with Portland Gray Panthers.
 And I thought what I'd do today was give a little bit of a context for Portland Great Panthers, our advocacy, organizing and action. We're always bringing things to you and it occurred to me we hadn't done that for a while. And here we are, we're doing community policing, we're going to do gun control, other housing, other issues so it might not always be clear how those are elder issues. So we do try and make those connections at least part of the time.
 The roots of Grey Panthers are in the challenging of ageism and stereotypes of age and aging in both the social and legal spheres. So that's kind of the very beginning of Grey Panthers, circa about 1971 with Maggie Coon.
 Grey Panthers also though see these things as a civil rights and I guess you'd call it a liberation type of movement and for social change. So there's always been an involvement, longstanding interest in action toward preservation of Medicare and Social Security but there's also and I guess I don't want to skip the other aging thing, work on fair treatment of residents of nursing homes. Those are clearly age-related issues.
 Grey Panthers also, however, historically have worked across generations on many social justice and anti-war types of issues, notably Vietnam and later anti-war activism. LGBT advocacy was a fairly, you know, Grey Panther was fairly early involved in that, and various kinds of environmentalism and single-payer and health care has always been Grey Panthers' issues. Okay.
 Housing, with the motion of intergenerational housing, which is the polar opposite, I'd argue, of our society's choice, which is to separate, isolate, and marginalize elders, especially low-income elders and people with disabilities. We tend to put people, at least theoretically, we have enough HUD housing and things like that, very little other options.
 and the way of things. And I would argue that those choose to put people with disabilities and elders into a very separate kind of status and marginalize them.
 In the international sphere, Great Panthers has been a strong advocate for an enforceable global convention to protect the human rights of older persons. And that's just something I don't know that people are aware of or even aware that there is a local global convention for this. But this is an international concern as well as the issues in this country. Arguably, the situation of elders in many countries is much worse even than it is here.
 Portland Grey Panthers focus on advocacy and action and the best tradition of the Grey Panthers, I would argue. In this context, we focus on ageism and breaking stereotypes of age and aging, not too surprisingly. How?
 However, we also look at the rights and needs and I suppose you would call the liberation of the elders. Houselessness and housing across generations have been Great Panther's concerns for many years. Community policing, gun violence and gun control are issues. I'd like the end. I better quit. It says there's 23 seconds.
 No, you're over. Oh, I'm over 26. Sorry. Well, at any rate, you can see there's a lot of issues. We'll be bringing them to you and we have. So, appreciate you. Thank you. Thanks for doing it. Good morning. I'm Lou. I want to thank Edie and Sally for talking with us today at Council. Class war. Is there a class war today in the world and in Portland? Many Panther organizers believe there is a class war. But what are the contours of this economic conflict?
 With May Day approaching in a few days, it may be useful to recall Gandhi's axiom that poverty is the worst form of violence. But is this so, and how can you tell? On housing, fairly or not, the New York Times has labeled Portland, Oregon, Tent City, USA. Is that journalistic bombast or speaking truth to power?
 If a white mayor tells an unnamed elected official it's disrespectful, if a landlord representative is reduced to tears due to unduly harsh treatment by tenant rights organizers and pro-tenant politicians, is that disrespectful? Are houseless folks camped out in tents and tarps on sidewalks by the hundreds or even thousands, are they being disrespected by landlord real estate moguls, whether these landlord reps are crying or not?
 Several West Coast cities have declared years-long housing emergencies. Despite this, a white male billionaire politician in La Casablanca insists the real emergency is at the Mexican border, where poor people seek shelter. At Portland State, when the subcontracted landlord, not IPM, Income Property Management, a different subcontractor, enacted skyrocketing rent hikes and refused to make needed repairs, student tenants organized a six-month rent strike, including a somewhat disrespectful chant.
 Landlords are the scum of the earth. They'll take you for all you're worth. Landlords, nothing but whores. Unlandlords declare total war.
 Beyond landlord-tenant law, students at a different school, Stoneman Douglas in Parkland, Florida, believe the class war is cutting short our lives literally, not just economically. Students like the church and mosque goers from Charleston to Pittsburgh to Christchurch, New Zealand, are simply collateral damage for the NRA, Ali North, Marco Rubio, and that New York City landlord, Donald Trump. To fight back, we need to pass gun control laws in Salem to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines.
 To fight back, we need to support the hard work of Commissioner Ewe Daly and her staff to create more tenant protections ahead of landlord profits, even if these landlords are crying on the way to Wells Fargo. To fight back, we need to heed the lessons of Maxine Waters, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, and yes, the lessons of Jacinda Ardern in New Zealand.
 The Scafala landlords to the NRA and their acolytes, we need to say the class war ends here. From Portland State to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to Trice Church New Zealand, the class war ends here. Thank you all three of you, appreciate it. Carla, have any items been pulled off the consent agenda? I've had no requests. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The consent agenda is adopted.
 Looks like we're at 945. Why don't we call item number 3 2 1 and 3 2 2? 321 authorize the mayor to sign the updated stadium good neighbor agreement for Providence Park and 322 approve the updated Providence Park comprehensive transportation management plan very good we have a
 cast of many. Carl, I understand you're gonna kick us off today, is that correct? I will, yeah. Very good. Don't trust me by the computer, Carl. We're just looking for the right one. We don't know anything about Northeast 97th, so. Okay, so, am I on? Yep. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Carl Lyle. I'm the Spectator Venues Program Manager at the Office of Management and Finance.
 And today you'll be hearing about updates to the Providence Park Good Neighbor Agreement or GNA And we'll use the acronyms because they're really mouthfuls So sorry about that and the comprehensive transportation management plan or CTMP for the stadium These updates have been prepared by the stadium operators Peregrine sports which is the sort of parent company of the Timbers and the Thorns and the operators of the stadium and
 I will provide just a little background and then turn it over to Ken Puckett at the far end here, who's the Senior Vice President of Operations at Peregrine Sports. And he and his consultant team, represented here in the middle, will take you through those updates to the documents. So, if we could get. Do you want me to steer, Carl? This is perfect, yeah. So, next slide. Can we?
 Yeah, perfect. So what are these documents anyway? The Good Neighbor Agreement and the Comprehensive Transportation Management Plan are required at the stadium site by the Portland Zoning Code. This is a function of the base zone at the site being open space, which normally would not allow the operation of a major commercial stadium. So as a result of that situation, there are several requirements that are outlaid in the zoning code that need to be addressed by the operators in order to allow the legal operation of the stadium.
 Those are primarily the GNA and the CTMP documents which are before you today. So the purpose of the Good Neighbor Agreement, the GNA, is to consider impacts of the stadium on the surrounding area such as noise, litter, light pollution, etc. And the purpose of the CTMP is to consider the transportation impacts associated with people coming and going from the stadium.
 Next slide. This regulatory system for the stadium has been in effect for about 20 years, with the original documents being developed by the then operators in about 2000, when the stadium was renovated for AAA baseball.
 The documents were then updated in 2010 when the stadium was again renovated to become a soccer specific facility as the Timbers joined Major League Soccer. The current expansion of 4,000 new seats has again triggered the need for updates to those documents.
 So preparing these documents and presenting them to city council is a responsibility of the operator. They're not city generated products. The operator has worked with the stadium oversight committee as it's outlined in the existing GNA to develop these updates. Next slide.
 Right. So the city's role, so the role of the Spectator Venues Program, me essentially, was to basically ensure that the required process outlaid in the Good Neighbor Agreement and the zoning code are being followed by the operators, and they are.
 to assist in connecting Peregrine with the necessary technical experts at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Obviously, they were involved in developing the CTMP and other folks at the city that they might need to talk to and to participate on the Stadium Oversight Committee. Thank you.
 City Council's role is confirming that the procedural steps have been followed and to confirm that the applicant has adequately addressed the required elements of the CTMP. And those are looking at existing conditions, mode splits, impacts of stadium operations, and proposed mitigation strategies. So Council has the ability today, or technically I guess next week at the second reading, to approve these documents with modifications, to approve them as they are, or to reject them.
 With that, I would however reiterate that they are required to be in effect on opening day which is scheduled to be June 1st, 2019. So with that, I'll turn it over to Ken Puckett and his team to present the updated documents and after their presentation, we'd like to invite any members of the stadium oversight committee who happen to be present to testify and then any other members of the committee. It looks like a few people have signed up.
 Good morning Mayor, City Council. My name is Ken Puckett. I'm the Senior Vice President of Operations for Providence Park and I have been in that capacity. This is my 19th season. So I've seen all three transitions from the original stadium in 2001, the first remodel in 2001, the second remodel for MLS soccer in 2011 and now our remodel right now.
 This was approved by the City Council back in 2017. It's a private investment of over $85 million. It's LEED certified and I'd like to point out that in the LEED certification we scored 12 out of 14 on our transportation plan. It adds 4,000 seats bringing our capacity up to about 25,000 and the project is on schedule to open on June 1st.
 We're committed to transportation, we're committed to a positive game experience for our fans. We have countless people that work in our organizations to make this happen. The timber staff, marketing, operations, we bring in private bike valets, which is also a unique thing to Portland.
 We have about 150 contracted security. We bring in 12 to 16 Portland police officers to help with that. Those folks are deployed out into the streets post-game to make sure that traffic and pedestrian safety is dealt with. We work with PDOT and the parking enforcement folks along with direct line to try and make it. Commissioner Hardesty had a question. I'm sorry. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Could you...
 Could you repeat? You said 150 private security? We do, correct. And how many Portland place? 12 to 16. And on top of that, we have about 200 guest attendants, ushers and whatnot that help in that as well. Thank you. We're committed to our neighbors. Like I mentioned, I've been running the stadium for 19 years. I sat on the Goose Hollow board for several years as the vice president. The good neighbor agreement that I signed,
 Oversea has been in place for 18 years with zero formal complaints. Of course, I've gotten phone calls to deal with certain issues, but zero formal complaints on us not following through on the good neighbor agreement. So this is truly a partnership between us and the neighbors, and I'd also like to point out that this is Portland. This is unique. We have a stadium that was built in 1926 that sits right downtown. Our friends to the north built the kingdom in 1974, blew it up in 2000.
 Still owed almost 20 million dollars on it So we're proud of the stadium. We're proud of where it's come. We're proud of how it's evolved into what it is We're proud that it sits in right downtown Portland and this traffic plan is Portland just like our stadium is so thank you My name is Libby Bucky and I was the Stadium Oversight Committee facilitator the Stadium Oversight Committee is made up of representatives from Goose Hollow Northwest District to
 City of Portland, the Timbers, and the at-large member. They're tasked with making recommendations to you about the CTMP and the Good Neighbor Agreement
 As Carl said, we followed the procedures for updating those documents as prescribed in the Good Neighbor Agreement and the Zoning Code. We had 17 meetings with the Oversight Committee and 13 neighborhood meetings, participated in their meetings.
 The updates of the Good Neighbor Agreement specifically reflect the expansion of the project, so the additional 4,000 seats. We clarified the process for updating the Good Neighbor Agreement and the CTMP in the future, so more prescriptive. We updated timing and procedures for the oversight committee meetings.
 The Good Neighbor Agreement now prohibits ticket holders from lining up 24 hours, more than 24 hours before an event. And finally, we also went through and updated all of the communications requirements to reflect modern communication, things like websites and cell phones and such.
 We've also been monitoring the public comment that has been coming in and we have prepared some amendments that are responsive to the request from the neighborhood groups and we'd like to enter them into the record. Briefly, these amendments cover arrangements for Portland police officers in the stadium, updating the public meeting and neighborhood notice requirements.
 and hiring an independent consultant firm to work with the stadium oversight committee to establish metrics, collect data, and prepare reports on the effectiveness of the CTMP. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Phil with Nelson-Nygard.
 Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Phil Olmsted. I'm a principal with Nelson-Iyer Consulting Associates. We're a transportation planning firm that works throughout the country. I'm based here in Portland. Most of my work is in the parking and institutional planning realm, so helping institutions like college campuses, universities, medical campuses, as well as
 cities with their stadium planning efforts. So really working to develop mobility plans, transportation plans that not only serve the fans and the team, but the communities and neighborhoods in which they reside. We were hired by the Timbers in 2018 and the oversight committee at that time had established some specific principles and goals to guide and really anchor the plan.
 First and foremost, really to the greatest possible degree, minimizing the number of vehicle trips that are coming from new fans. But for the trips that remain, maximizing their efficiency. And part of that is really communicating that on-street parking is maxed out in the neighborhood. It's heavily regulated, especially on game days. And so that we're doing all that we can to discourage people from circling and circling in the neighborhoods looking for a parking spot.
 For those that need to drive, making sure that we're communicating about their off-street options and really incentivizing and encouraging them to park off-street.
 At the end of the day, from the surveys that have been done of Timbers and Thorns fans, we know that they value choice and flexibility in how they get to the stadium. They don't come by the same mode for every single game. So really providing a multimodal system that really offers choice to the fans is really a big priority of the CTMP. From my work on previous studies and previous plans, there's a couple other key goals that really anchor the plan and key principles, particularly around implementation.
 We know that we can't do just one thing to solve the challenges around transportation and there are challenges. So the CTMP is really a toolbox. It cuts across all modes. It looks not just at infrastructure and service changes for transit, for example, but also policies and programs. We also want to make sure that we have communications, marketing, and monitoring right.
 Part of the nature of these plans is that they take time to get going and iron out all the details as the season takes shape, as fan behavior solidifies, fan travel behavior, and ultimately what we found to be most successful with these types of plans are institutions or venues that adopt a test and learn approach, see what fans are responding to, what they're not responding to, and modify our toolbox as we move along.
 Commission you daily. Yeah so Looking at the existing and future mode splits. Oh sure in the plan Not not real exciting to me. I'm gonna be honest to see a increase in single occupant vehicles and a decrease in other mode chairs, so I'm curious if
 how, what the plan is for promoting and incentivizing multimodal and discouraging single occupant vehicles? Yeah, so I'm going to speak to the specific measures within the plan and hopefully that will address your question. I'll save my questions to the end because I'm very interested in working with the Timbers on. Okay.
 I'm not as, well, okay. I'll just, I'll save my comments till the end. Sure, no, I wanted to talk about the mode split targets specifically. So one of the first pieces of work that we did was to establish what we call mode split targets.
 The goal, why we do these is really to help us identify kind of current fan behavior, current fan, way fans are currently getting to the stadium, see what the existing challenges are, and then really help us identify and calibrate and lean into specific strategies and where we think we can make improvements. Establishing the mode splits is also really important as a way to monitor success moving forward and see how we're doing over time.
 The baseline that you see was established with a couple of surveys that were done. One was an online survey by season ticket holders. Another was an intercept survey at the stadium in 2018.
 And so in collaboration with the Oversight Committee and with their input, we established essentially two sets of targets. And this reflects the feedback and direction we got from the Oversight Committee to have a conservative or a realistic set of targets for 2019 or for day one, recognizing the timing
 of plan adoption and a rollout of the plan, as well as a more ambitious set of targets for the future, something that we can strive to in the coming years about really, really trying to get that mode split down for single occupancy vehicles and driving to the stadium. I'd emphasize a couple of things about the mode splits. They are a starting point.
 They're based on our best available data and a number of assumptions about how fans travel to the stadium. As we do additional monitoring as what's planned for and called for in the CTMP, we think we can recalibrate these numbers and, again, revisit these on a year-to-year basis and make sure we're making progress. So what's in the plan? There's 21 measures, mitigation measures, as required by the code. Okay.
 They are outlined in specific detail. I can't go through all of them, so I'm gonna highlight a few of them. Obviously transit plays a major role in access to the stadium.
 TriMet currently provides two additional MAX trains on the red and blue line after the games. For the 2019 season, they will add a third train in both directions, so a total of six trains on top of their regular service after the games. That will provide about a seven-minute frequency and what TriMet hopes will meet their goal about clearing the platform in about 30 minutes.
 TriMet will continue to provide staff to monitor the platforms and work with Ken's team to implement those service changes. They need a bit of flexibility on the game days depending on many factors, but including when the game ends.
 TriMet's also committed to extending Route 24 to Providence Park for the 2019 season and adding two extra trips after every Timbers and Thorns games. That's a mouthful. Some of the specifics of that, particularly where the stop is and some of the routing realignment is still to be figured out. But a number of service changes happening in 2019 which we think can potentially increase that transit mode share.
 Parking, as we talked about, the major goal here is really to get less people driving and parking, but for those that do drive, get them in an off-street lot, not circling and driving around the neighborhoods. The Timbers, unlike many stadium operators in the country, do not own or operate any of their own fan parking, dedicated fan parking. So the approach in the CTMP is really fivefold.
 better communicating the off street options to fans. So the Timbers are working on a whole new marketing and communications platform on their website. Further promoting the Smart Park Voucher Program that they have for season ticket holders. We did some data crunching in the 2018 season and found that program to be underutilized. And so there's a lot of opportunity to expand that use for season ticket holders. We also looked at what you see here on the right is data for the Smart Park garages.
 and found that there is capacity in those garages. The 10th and Yamhill reflects the fact that that garage was half closed for the 2018 season. Another piece of the parking puzzle is continuing to explore partnerships with private lots and garages and facility operators to see if we can establish some pilot programs around reserve parking. There was some progress made on this in the last couple years, but some more work needs to be done.
 The Timbers don't own, don't regulate the streets, so continuing work to work with PBOT and the neighborhood groups to continue to assess and evaluate the ways in which rates are done and regulations on street. And then PBOT has also committed to additional enforcement for the 2019 season, particularly for the first few games of the year. We know that enforcement is a major challenge there.
 We did a scan of parking in and around the stadium, seeing what's available. We looked at about a 15-minute walk shed in and around the stadium. And even with some very conservative assumptions about availability of parking during the typical Timbers weekend,
 game time, so weekday nights and weekends. We think there's about 23 to, we estimate about 23 to 3,600 available spaces to accommodate additional fans that may be wanting to park. We know that ride hailing is growing and ride hailing is increasingly popular in every city, but particularly for special events and venues such as Timbers Games.
 Ride hailing can reduce parking demand, but it has the trade off of potentially increasing vehicle trips and congestion. So the approach for the CTMP is really trying to rationalize how ride hailing is done in and around the stadium. So what this translates to is some very specific measures about formalizing a set of, a series of distributed pickup and drop off zones in and around the stadium.
 The Timbers have already begun working with PBOT to establish those zones and have also begun working with the ride hill providers to make sure that they're utilizing the technology, what we call geo-fencing, that would direct Timbers fans to those pickup and drop off zones. Also making sure that we're doing rider education, driver education, and establishing some best practices and guidelines in partnership with the ride hill companies.
 Bikes, getting to the stadium by bike is already extremely popular. As Ken mentioned, the Timbers have provided free bike valet parking since the last CTMP on those sunny days, it's full. We anticipate e-scooters to be more in the transportation mix for 2019 season.
 So the strategies and measures around bike and e-scooter access are really about building on the good foundation thus far. So the Timbers have committed to expanding the bike valet zone on Morrison Street. There's measures that call for dedicated e-scooter parking and really making sure there's clear guidelines and communication about where to park and what's allowed with e-scooters and bikes.
 And also continuing to work with PBOT outside of, you know, kind of the game day-to-day, game-to-game activities, making sure we expand permanent bike parking and continue to work on the improvements to the network and infrastructure improvements to and from the stadium.
 Regardless of what mode you take to the stadium, you're going to be likely, very likely walking around the stadium. So pedestrian safety is really, really important. So the CTMP really builds, continues to build on this. Maintaining the street closures that we have. Continuing the Timbers funded traffic safety officers.
 and identifying hotspots and designating those officers to those hotspots where we have some pedestrian safety concerns that have been brought as part of this process and again, continuing to work with the city and PBOT to continue to improve infrastructure in and around the stadium.
 All these options don't really help us if fans don't know about them. So we've been really working with the Timbers to help them update and improve and enhance their marketing and communications. So this includes materials such as a new website, new collateral.
 emphasizing their use of social media and game day communications, as well as continuing a lot of their great incentive programs. So they currently offer 50% discount to season ticket holders for transit, as well as again, the Smart Park Voucher Program. So really continuing to advance and enhance these incentive programs.
 We've heard loud and clear about monitoring. I've yet to work on a project like this that gets it 100% right, right out of the gate. And so monitoring is really, really important to make sure that we're tracking progress and adjusting as we go. Again, the CTMP is really framed as a living document with a test and learn approach.
 addresses this head-on. There are a number of specific measures that have really outlined very specific ways to improve monitoring, to improve the collection of data, to improve the analyzation of data. The plan proposes a set of performance measures as well as a number of ways in which to continue to engage the community and better communicate how the timbers and the transportation system is doing on a game-to-game basis.
 basis as well as from season to season. So I'll stop there and Ken will wrap it up with one last thing. Ken Johnson Yeah, just a few, Phil touched on them all, but we are adding three additional trains in each direction and we're truly committed to making this work. We want our fans to have a great experience coming and going to the games. They've extended Route 24 on the bus line. We have detailed parking information on our fans.
 have a huge marketing team that deals with the social media deals with Posting maybe traffic changes or or construction work. We're in constant contact with our season ticket holders when it comes to that we have a huge ticket department those reps have Relationships with just about every single season ticket holder and they send out the information as well increased parking enforcement from Peabody
 expanded bike valet, which is, when I talk to my colleagues around the MLS, they can't believe that we put out 450 bike parking. They have that many people riding bikes to games.
 Our marketing team is launching a Know Before You Go campaign, so they'll begin that as we get closer to June 1st. Like Phil mentioned, new website, new maps. The key here is information. Give the fan the choice that he wants and give them those options.
 We mentioned the ride hail locations. Those we're working on, they're going to float a little bit with all the construction in our neighborhood with the Oregonian building, Lincoln High School, and some of the other buildings that are being built down in that section of the city or up in that section of the city. Those ride hail locations will float a little bit as needed. But again, our partner with Lyft as well as Pivot have been great to get that off the ground. As I mentioned before as well, we have 12 to 16 locations.
 police officers that we hire. We have a head of security that's a 30-year retired Portland police officer that heads that up for us. We'll deploy those officers out into the streets post-game to make sure that the pedestrian safety is a key for us and again improve monitoring and data collection throughout the season.
 That's it. Very good. Does that complete all of the individuals who would like to testify and invited testimony? We did want to invite, there's three members of the Stadium Oversight Committee that are not here yet. I do see one of them back here at least and we should invite the other two up if they're here.
 Could we ask some questions before the Oversight Committee comes up? Certainly. Before this panel leaves, why don't we take some questions, then we'll have the Oversight Committee come up and then we'll ask any questions we may have of them. Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you so much for that very detailed presentation.
 Let me tell you, I have a couple of staff members that are just crazed fans and can't wait for the renovations to be concluded. Having said that, I share Commissioner Udalli's concerns about adding parking spaces at a time when we're moving towards a more energy efficient future. And I cannot support expanding parking when what we should be doing is expanding other opportunities.
 I understand that TriMet is being helpful by putting additional max light rail trains on game day. But I think that we need to think, be really creative about what else we can do other than adding parking spots. So my questions, having made that statement, my questions are, do you have ideas of how many miles are traveled on average to a timber game?
 Not off the top of my head. We could get that data. We did do an analysis of the location based on the address of season ticket holders. So we could do that analysis. The challenge is we don't necessarily have the data at this time to pair that location with a mode for that specific individual. I think that's something that we'd really try and do with an improved survey instrument.
 But we have data in terms of where season ticket holders are located, and we did that analysis. But I don't know it off the top of my head. Another question that I have is...
 You have some benefits for season ticket holders that are not for people who come in and just buy game tickets day of or the day before, right? So what is the average ticket holder season ticket cost? Yes.
 Well, there's such a high range. I mean, we have season tickets as low as, I think, $99 and all the way up to, you know, $1,000 for some of our premier areas. I'm not the ticket person, but I can get that information for you. That would be really helpful. But I will say this, though. We have a 90, we've had a 99% season ticket renewal rate since we went MLS.
 99% and that's the highest in any major sport. Hey, you know, not arguing with success. No, no, I'm just pointing out. Just bragging a little bit. Yeah. I understand. Another question that I have is, are you aware that Portland Police are understaffed and may not be available to be accommodating your security needs?
 And you already hire, I think you said, what, 150 private security? Right. That's a company called Coast to Coast. They also do the Moda Center. It's a private security group that does the gate screening and that also helps with crowd control. But on a normal game, we hire anywhere from 12 to 16 Portland police officers on their availability. But we've been in touch. My head of security has been in touch with the union to get our games on a calendar and get that sorted out. Okay.
 With all due respect, the union won't be making decisions about how Portland police are dispatched throughout the community. So I appreciate that conversation, but we're the folks that make that decision. And so as we're looking at being down 120 police officers, a lot of things that Portland police are doing now, they will not be doing next year. And so I would hope in your planning that you think about hiring more private security officers
 But then I have to ask, who are they accountable to?
 Are you arresting people? Are private security excluding people? Is it an administrative court process? Are people being fined? I need to know how that private security operates because there's a lot of people of all kind that come to the games and love it. And so it would be very helpful as we're making a decision about what's happening to people who are interacting with your security. Fair enough. Let's see, did I have any more? All right.
 I think that's it for now. Mayor? Thank you. Commissioner Fish. So I live in the Goose Hollow neighborhood, and one of the things I first want to just observe is that I live about three blocks from the stadium. And, you know, from time to time, my kids and I will go to a game, probably more typically the thorns, not the timbers. But first an observation. On game day, there is very little impact on my neighborhood. There is no noise in my neighborhood.
 And most people in the surrounding area know the areas that we need to avoid. So I'm not going to go to Fred Meyer and do my grocery shopping within an hour of the game starting. I'm not foolish enough to try to navigate Burnside. So we make some accommodations. By and large, I've been extremely impressed by how the Timbers have run their operations in terms of neighborhood impacts.
 And I am directly impacted. I'm in one of those towers that I said three blocks away. So, but a couple of comments and questions. So you talk in your plan, sir, about off-street parking. One of the areas where we have a lot of off-street parking capacity on game day is at Good Sam. And I know that because, I won't go through my medical history, but anyway, there's structured parking.
 that's within that catchment area that you've identified that would, frankly, be perfect for overflow parking because it's already available. Why isn't that part of your plan? Want to speak to that? Yeah.
 I mean, I can speak to that. It was part of our plan early on. In fact, we had a letter of understanding with the parking operator and with good Sam. And when the Northwest neighborhood took it to their neighborhood association, they said no, they don't want those garages used in the evening. They don't want to drive traffic into the neighborhood.
 Well, with all due respect, there's already traffic in the neighborhood. What we're talking about is limiting the number of people who are driving in a futile way looking for on-street parking where there's off-street parking. Completely agree with you. So we'll have a chance to ask our friends from...
 Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee, what the thinking there is. Commissioner, just a quick clarification on that. So it is still in the plan, it's just a slightly longer term action now because there's some conversations that need to happen at the neighborhood level and actually there may be some amendments to the existing long range land use plan for the neighborhood that might need to be made to allow that to happen.
 So I think it's still in the plan as an eventual goal. It's just not an immediate. Well, it seems to me when you have structured off-street parking that's available, we ought to be talking about how we use it to take some pressure off of on-street parking. On the slide that you gave us earlier about rideshare, you listed Lyft and you listed Uber, but I didn't see any reference to taxis.
 Are we treating taxis the same as rideshare in terms of whatever plans you have for drop off? Yes, I mean the city requires that. There's no, we can't put just. The slide omitted. It talked exclusively about rideshare and it was structured around Uber and Lyft. And the point, I think the obvious point is if you're staying at a downtown hotel
 You're just as likely to get into a cab if you want to make that trip if you need it, if you need a lift as a Lyft or Uber. So we're not discriminating against the type of vehicle, right? So taxi cabs will have the same rights as TNCs with respect to any kind of dedicated drop-offs that you're planning? Yes. Okay. That's good.
 And the other thing I just want to mention, and I had this conversation with PBOT recently and they ended up sending out a press release sort of more globally alerting the community to this challenge. You know, they are currently doing a lot of sidewalk repair and ADA compliance work on Burnside. And in the press release, they announced that for parts of Burnside, which are actually very close to the stadium. Right.
 they will be reduced to one lane for periods of time as they do that work. Have you factored in the potential impact of that construction project, which is slated to go for some time, on the traffic calculations around Burnside?
 We did not look at that specifically, no. Well, I urge you to take a look at that. The question that I raised with PBOT is whether it was necessary to have the lane closure on the evenings and weekends. So this is when it would directly impact, you know, games. And the answer I got back was no.
 that to keep people away from the work that's being done on the sidewalks and the intersections, you need to cordon off a lane. They're the experts, so I can't argue with that, but I was hoping for the answer that they could resume both lanes in operation on off hours because I thought it was primarily designed to protect workers. Okay.
 and their safety, but it goes beyond that. So I don't know how long that project is planned for, but there's a lot of intersections that are getting ADA upgrades and a lot of sidewalks are getting repaired, and I think that's going to have a significant impact on traffic on Burnside, so I urge you to get with PBOT on that one and figure out what your workaround is, at least for the duration of that construction project.
 Thank you. And thank you for an excellent report. Mayor, just a housekeeping matter. I assume before we take any further testimony that since OMF and the Timbers have four amendments that they have asked us to consider, we're going to just get a second and put that on the table. I'd prefer that, yes. Are you moving them? I'll move them. We'll call this OMF 1234. I'll second so that they're on the table so we can take testimony. Mayor. Commissioner Udaly. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you for this CTMP update. I like how easy on the eyes and comprehensible it is. I read reams of these documents, so that's just very welcome. You may or may not know that I've been very supportive of this project since the beginning. My staff has put a considerable amount of time into assisting the timely advancement of it.
 Um, the city also has quite a bit of skin in the game. With that said, I want to make it clear that I don't want
 to support or encourage habits that run counter to our goals around decreasing congestion and pollution and climate change. So I'm interested in a much more ambitious plan around the future mode slits. And I just want to go on record as saying I would love to work with the Timbers on
 leveraging their incredible fan base and getting to some more kind of desirable outcomes with transportation. Mayor, I also want to be clear about
 any P commitments PBOT has or hasn't made to the plan. So I have Mike Krebs here who can come up and speak to that because we've heard a few references in, in this document that I just want to make sure that we're have clarity on. So I guess the only other thing that I want to, I love all the,
 plans for marketing and incentives. One thing that is not on your list is carpools, which weirdly in an age where we have technology that should make carpooling easier than ever is declining as the only
 mode of transportation that's in a decline. And so I would love to see that, whether it is individual fans getting together or using the TNC carpooling, because TNCs are not much more desirable than single occupant vehicles. So yeah, I'm not sure when the mayor wants to bring up staff, but...
 Mostly just making some comments. If you want to give feedback, that's welcome.
 Yeah, I mean, I would just quickly echo what I said earlier about the mode splits. Really they're a starting point for us to begin this process of additional monitoring on a year-to-year basis. I think with some improvements to the survey instrument, and we've been talking with Ken and his team about that, we can really hone in on some of the mode splits. And yeah, I think the 2019 really does reflect kind of the most conservative estimate and kind of planning for the worst.
 But really setting that ambitious, what we did was a second tier of a by 2022, really trying to identify a more aggressive mode split target that all the measures really speak to in the plan. Sure, and I appreciate that. And this week we're celebrating the first two electric buses in TriMet's fleet, but it's 2019 and we apparently have 10 to 12 years to divert climate catastrophe, so I just wanna,
 put a little more pressure on you guys to be less interested in what the fans currently want and more interested in how you can change their habits. Because everyone wants, well, not everyone, but most people obviously want to drive their single occupant vehicle, and that is unsustainable. So thank you. Very good. Can we go to the oversight committee now? I'd like to. Thank you. If we can get there. Ron, Jerry, and Jim, come on up. No, this is still invited testimony. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning. Not sure who would like to kick it off? Jerry, do you want to do this first, or do you want me to go first, or do you care? I really don't care, but we can't wait. Well, you just got voted in. Congratulations. You're first. Mr. Mayor, commissioners, neighborhood, I represent on the oversight committee. Ron, could you put your name in? I'm sorry. Yeah, thank you. I appreciate it.
 My name is Jerry Powell. I'm sorry, Jerry. I'm the representative of the Goose Hollow neighborhood on the oversight committee. I live at 1924 Southwest Madison Street, around the corner from you, Commissioner Fish. Excuse me, sir. Thank you. Sir, could you move the mic a little closer to you? Sure. Thank you.
 The neighborhood, Goose Hollow, is pleased with this good neighbor agreement, appreciative of Peregrine in particular, and their approach to the oversight committee, even though there remain some concerns. Many of those concerns are simply word choices that create questions where there should be none. That being said, I've provided you a text of those concerns. I'd like to note particularly...
 The wording of the last sentence in paragraph 3.3.3 ticket sales addresses the issue of Timbers ticket holders lining up to secure seating may not adequately address neighbor concerns concerning overnight camping along 19th Street. Neighborhood board of directors asked that a second paragraph be added to the first paragraph
 acknowledging city law that prohibits camping on public land or right-of-way. More or less to give Timbers, Peregrine, an acknowledgement that the neighborhood would prefer that their security folks enforce those laws. Camping is not normally a problem there. It's not a popular place to camp.
 But there are people that have taken advantage of the ticket lines to form encampments. Also, subparagraph 4 concerning members of the meetings of the oversight committee, our concern is that for a five-member committee, a three-member quorum is too small, and the process for calling a meeting of the oversight committee, even an annual meeting, is too vague and too subject to Peregrine's initiative.
 put all of the responsibility on them. We recommend the following amendment and the main one is that there be a four member quorum requirement so that somebody doesn't get left off inadvertently. One further thing, we believe the security plan summary page provided separately going to Commissioner Hardesty's concern, I think
 The security plan summary page, which is provided separately, ought to be a listed appendix to the GNA and the list of appendices revised. Since my first assumption here had been that there were to be two separate hearings, one for the GNA and one for the CTMP, so I provided you separate documents for those two items. With respect to the CTMP documents,
 Yeah, parking isn't such a problem in Goose Hollow. There isn't any parking in Goose Hollow. That doesn't stop people from searching for it. And the traffic that those folks cause causes major congestion, periods of gridlock before and after games, and then frantic drivers trying to dart for what they perceive as a place to park.
 There was a promising aspiration early on in the discussions by the oversight committee of an electronic monitoring of parking in the downtown area. There are many parking spots gone unoccupied during Timbers games. Many of them are right on max, providing an easy way to get from the parking to the stadium.
 Those, several of them are city parking garages. Now, the problem is that while you can identify where the parking spaces are in real time, getting the information to the people that are coming to a game is problematic. Now, one of the reasons for that has to do with the way that the private garages have set up their monitoring system. They take credit card numbers. Now, that has to change.
 and it will change in good time by the people that write that software. I think an additional priority needs to be put on it with respect to situations such as this where the public needs to be aware where they can go directly to park that thing that they need, sometimes to get from places like Happy Valley where we can't actually provide efficient public transportation.
 I WOULD LIKE TO SEE, I WOULD LIKE PERSONALLY TO SEE IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD IS INVESTED IN SEEING THAT REAL TIME INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE. AND WE WOULD LIKE TO SEE IT NOT FORGOTTEN IN THE CTMP. LASTLY, THE MEASURES THAT WE'VE SEEN FOR PROVIDING FOR RIDE SHARE ARE JUST PLAIN INSUFFICIENT.
 identified and proximate enough to the stadium to be attractive to people for rideshare are in fact gridlock on one end or the other. The only practical way
 The solution to that problem is one that the Brideshare folks themselves identified early on and that is they would like to see a parking lot where they can queue up their cars, drive in from one side and out from the other side without backing up. From a safety standpoint, that makes perfect sense. There are several parking lots in the area that would answer that criteria, however,
 they're also getting a lot of revenue from people that are parking for Timbers games. I don't have an answer for that, and I don't think anybody else does, but it really needs to be explored because that is probably key to the answer, or key to the problem of rideshare and taxi pickup and drop off. Lastly, there are lots of metrics in the CTMP.
 lots of things measured, and some assumptions made on the basis of those measures. There's not a lot that we see there with respect to accountability. Now, I'm not sure what to suggest, and my neighborhood was not sure what to suggest in terms of what kinds of accountability need to be there. But we are somewhat disappointed that there is not more. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Stan Anderson. I live on Northwest Irving in Northwest Portland. Today I'm providing testimony on behalf of Ron Walters, who is NWDA's representative to the Stadium Oversight Committee. Mr. Walters is not able to attend today's meeting. For the record, the four amendments you received today.
 And much of what the following remarks are going to deal with oversight committee process issues. None of these amendments have been shared with all oversight committee members. None of them have been shared with the neighborhood associations. None of them have been shared with the Northwest Parking Stakeholders Advisory Committee. And at a minimum, that's some sort of a process defect. I'll leave you to figure out what kind it is.
 Thank you for inviting Mr. Walters to provide testimony as NWA's representative on the Stadium Oversight Committee. For the record, Mr. Walters wanted to make sure that everyone knows that he's a Timbers fan, he's a season ticket holder, and he's attended nearly every home game match over the last eight seasons. It would be...
 appropriate for me, appearing as Ron Walters, to defer my allotted time to the appointed or duly elected chair of the oversight committee who would provide fair, balanced, and duly adopted recommendations for city council. But the oversight committee did not have a chairperson nor duly adopt a position or recommendations regarding the GNA and the CTMP.
 In lieu of that, perhaps I could submit the committee-approved minutes for the past two years so that members of the public and the City Council can familiarize themselves with the committee's process and positions. But unfortunately, the committee did not keep or approve any minutes that could be reviewed by members of the public or the City Council.
 In a few minutes, perhaps I can share public comments from oversight committee meetings which could reassure the public and the City Council that the Timbers and the Oversight Committee conducted a robust public process that was open, transparent, and inclusive. But unfortunately, not one member of the public attended a single oversight committee meeting over the past two years. Do you see a theme here?
 In lieu of public comments, perhaps I could reassure the public and city council that the oversight committee had at least established and followed written rules of procedure and governance as required by the existing GNA. But the oversight committee failed to meet its obligation to establish rules of procedure and governance. They don't exist today.
 I have reported these process violations to the Timbers, the Oversight Committee, and the City through its representative to the Oversight Committee. To my knowledge, none of these parties have taken any action to address or remedy the process failures that leave us with such a glaring lack of consensus at this 11th hour.
 It's troubling that the oversight committee so dramatically failed to meet the most basic standards, the type of fair, open and inclusive process that's expected in Portland and required in the current GNA.
 I urge the council to support the GNA revisions recommended by NWDA, which incidentally were supplied to you via your staff days ago, not at the last minute with no availability to anyone else. In the Northwest Parking and recommended also by the Northwest Parking Stakeholders Advisory
 Those recommended changes will improve the oversight process, will establish clear metrics that may trigger additional mitigation actions, and ultimately improve the game day experience for fans, neighborhood residents, and local businesses. We need to do this in a way that doesn't leave us with the classic, the upside is private, the downside is public experience, which so often characterizes ventures of this kind. Thank you very much. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you both so much for your testimony and thank you for reading Ron Walter's testimony into the record. I am very concerned that an oversight committee does not have minutes, does not need a quorum to make decisions. I'm concerned that if people think they're on an oversight committee yet they don't get information in advance, that's a problem.
 That is not how oversight is supposed to take place. I'm also concerned that the oversight committee is so small and lacks diversity and equity and I don't know why we would call it an oversight committee if it is true what Ron Walters says, that it sounds like it's just a couple of people that wanna do a big project making decisions. That's not how a public,
 partnership oversight committee is supposed to operate. And so I have issues already, but I have more issues based on your testimony. So I just want you to know, I appreciate you both being here today. Thank you. And some of the recommendations offered by NWDA specifically address those kinds of concerns and they're well-founded. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. So first, let me just ask, uh,
 Are you here to, are you qualified to speak on behalf of the NWDA on this issue? You read Ron's testimony, but are you otherwise here qualified to speak on behalf of the neighborhood association? Largely, yes. Let me kind of give you a little bit of an outline. And we have other folks from NWDA here to the extent that I cannot be fully responsive to your concerns.
 I'm a long-time NWDA member, I'm a former board member, I'm a former director, I'm a member of the Northwest Parking Stakeholders Advisory Committee. I'm fairly familiar with these issues. I have certainly read the proposed revised CTMP and the proposed revised Good Neighbor Agreement. Okay, so let me ask you the question I asked the other panel, which is why has the off-street parking at Good Sam been taken off the table?
 This is a bit of a, the simple answer is the city, acting through the city council, adopted a land use plan that without its being known as the Northwest District Plan, and without coordinating revisions to that document, it's prohibited. So it's a self-inflicted problem viewed through that lens. Well, so are you, do you recommend we make changes to make it authorized? Yes.
 Sure, but this is a longer conversation, and I think there was the folks who were up here before us suggested that Yes, this is a longer conversation and and they're beginning to engage with it now It's I don't believe it's part of the package of the materials in front of you right now It is not so so just so I'm clear to to address Good Sam parking We'd have to make a chain. We have to do a zoning change and
 I haven't done a deep dive into where all the coordinating changes would be required, so I'm not prepared to answer that question. But as I understand it, among other things, it is prohibited by the council's adopted Northwest District Plan. So in light of some concerns which the commissioner in charge of PBOT has raised, and in light of
 the testimony we've just received. I guess one thing I want to sort of better understand, and again, let's take NWDA. Mr. Walters' testimony is almost exclusively focused on the way in which the oversight committee works. It seems to me at any time that the council wants, they can step in and
 and fix those problems. We can make meetings subject to public records meetings laws. We can set quorum requirements. There was some test, I think Jerry, Mr. Powell, you earlier said the five-person body, you were skeptical of having a three-person quorum requirement. That's actually our rule. We operate on a three-person quorum requirement, but I understand that you have a different view with the Oversight Committee.
 There's questions about whether there should be additional members. There's questions about, you know, the notice that it gives. But it seems to me that's not the specific question that's in front of us. We've got a proposed good neighbor agreement and a proposed CTMP, and we can simultaneously address the questions of the oversight committee and strengthening that process. I think there's been some good ideas for how we might do that. We also have...
 A timing issue, which is opening day is June 1st.
 So, something has to be put into place. And then, what I'm understanding when you talk about accountability, both of you talked about accountability, what I'm hearing is at a minimum we would need some kind of annual report. We'd want to be able to tighten the screws. We'd want to be able to revisit things. So whatever we, in other words, what I hear you say is whatever we launch with, that's not likely to be the finished product over time, that it's going to be tweaked and reviewed.
 Does the Pearl District Neighborhood Association, excuse me, the NWDA, does it have a position with respect to whether we should adopt the GNA and the CTMP? Yes. And in fact, the written recommendations supplied by NWDA to you via your staff a couple of days ago.
 Again, I'll capsize that there are other folks here who can deepen this, suggest one, that the two documents be approved with coordinating amendments which we have submitted in writing several days ago. And among other things, the coordinating amendments suggest an approach like the one, Commissioner Fish, that you've just outlined where...
 We commit to a much more militant and focused effort at data capture concerning traffic and parking. That we commit to coming back in a year and making required coordinating adjustments. There are detailed recommendations concerning oversight committee process and notice and the like.
 And it's not don't do this, but it's do this with our recommended amendments.
 And it's, I mean, we sort of have to hold up your thoughts as to what the coordinating amendments ought to look like versus the suggestions that were submitted from NWDA. But I suspect there's a fair amount of overlap and there's certainly an alignment of sort of a general thrust and direction that adopt this but make sure you put in place appropriate data capture, a responsible...
 transportation coordinator who's a full-time, you know, dedicated professional on that, and that there's a commitment to kind of come back and work on this in a year, or if our experience is very unfortunate toward the downside, sooner than a year. Well, that's very helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you. Very good. Thank you both. All right. That concludes, I believe. Does that conclude our invited testimony? Captain Krebs? Other than Pivot. Did you want to come on up? Yeah.
 I guess it's Michael now, right? I guess it's Michael now. Michael? Great. Excellent. Welcome. It's good to see you. Not yet. We'll get to you in a minute, Meg. Okay. Thanks for being here, Mr. Krebs. Yes. Could you please illuminate any confusion or misunderstandings about what PBOT has actually committed to? Yes. Yes. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Good morning. Mike Krebs. I'm the Division Manager for Parking Enforcement for the City of Portland.
 and I'll make it clear there might be misunderstanding because my commitment to parking enforcement during Timbers game is as resources allow. There may be many games. I only have two parking enforcement officers on the entire city and if they're busy helping someone, you know, clear their driveway out on east side, they're not going to be down here enforcing
 around the Timbers games. So it's only as resources commit. There may be nights where there are no parking enforcement officers enforcing around the Timbers games, or there may be two or three. One of the things that I recommend, I know that the Timbers, they purchase security and they purchase the police. If they would like additional parking enforcement, which I recommended, if you'd like parking enforcement, you can reimburse the city for
 for our services as they do. I mean, they're bringing in thousands of people, and I think that I want to use public resources wisely, and if they're bringing in people that are paying for stuff, I would strongly suggest that they could also purchase parking enforcement officers to help enforce around the Timbers games. That would be my recommendation. But I want to clear that up to make sure that everything's clear, that we'll be there if we can,
 but there may be times when we can't be there. Commissioner Hurst. Uh, thank you, mayor. Uh, thank you for that. Mike is good to see you and civilian clothes. Good to see. Yeah. Um, my question is, uh, uh, uh, uh, supposedly we're negotiating to have 12 to 15 Portland police officers at timber games when there's high volume. Um,
 And you just said that we have two parking enforcement folks citywide.
 Why are we continuing to think that Portland Police would be an answer to security at Timber Games? I'm just curious because it just clearly is not going to work. We don't have enough officers to accommodate that. So is there a backup plan? Is there a private security plan where that could be possible? Yeah, I really can't speak to the Portland Police Bureau right now. I've been gone for nine months, so I don't know all the things going on there. But I do know that
 from when they hire officers, they're hired from off duty. So the officers can sign up for off duty overtime to work security at the Timbers game. So I don't know all the resources at the police bureau right now, so I can't really opine on too much on that.
 Well, I can speak to their presentation about having a hard time finding officers to work overtime, but we can find off-duty officers to be contracted for the timber game. I think that our priorities are kind of messed up when it comes to that. The other thing about parking enforcement is just like with the Rose Quarter.
 I know that after concerts, there tends to be more law enforcement personnel nearby, both on MAX lines and just kind of directing traffic. You're not talking about anything above and beyond that for the 4,000 new seats that we would have? For parking enforcement? Yeah, parking enforcement, like I said
 Only if resources allow. If it's a busy night on the east side, I will not be able to have parking enforcement officers helping out in and around the Timbers games. Like I say, some nights there could be two officers on. It just depends. It might be four. But I can't commit to anything, and I want to make that clear to the folks in the Timbers, but as I recommend, if we want...
 guaranteed parking enforcement officers there, I would suggest they reimburse the city and I can have officers, parking enforcement officers, on site in the Timbers games to help make sure things run smooth. And would that be overtime officers? It would be. I would pull in, I would request overtime officers from parking enforcement to come in and work the Timbers games.
 And then they would work the Timbers game and then go home and be reimbursed by the Timbers to the city, which would pay for the officers to do that over time. That's what I would recommend. It's like they're doing right now. They're hiring private security agents.
 thousands of dollars each game to hire private security and Portland police. I'd recommend the same kind of situation with parking enforcement to help make sure the area stays, the people are complying with parking enforcement laws. In the past, I know that parking enforcement has used city money to work overtime at the games, but in my opinion, I don't think that's good use of city money when you have a group of people that are bringing money in
 There's millions of dollars each year coming into the Timbers and I would suggest that's what they should do. Thank you. So what I'm hearing is that we if we're considering a contract that assumes that we're gonna have Portland police officers available to assist and
 we should be very clear in that contract that that is not an agreement that we have agreed to or we have any way to fulfill at this point if i could just i can't i can't opine on the portland police at all it's traffic is what you're referring to but i'm just talking yeah mike is with pbot now so he really shouldn't be speaking to police bureau issues this is a
 It's a little awkward. He's actually speaking to bringing Portland police officers who work transit division to the stadium. Am I correct in that? No, no, I'm talking about parking enforcement officers. Parking enforcement. They're non-sworn parking enforcement officers that actually come out and enforce parking laws only. No.
 And they're under PBOT. Yeah, and the Portland police, when they're hired by Timbers, they're not going to be out enforcing parking laws. They'll be enforcing more security stuff and those kind of things. But I'm talking strictly about parking enforcement officers, and sometimes folks get confused with that. Yeah.
 They are not part of Portland Police. My apologies, Mike. I was confused. I actually thought they were one of the same. Well, and it's fair because you've seen Mike in a uniform before. But they're in PBOT. They're non-sworn. And it's not a, we can't speak to police. Yeah, I can't speak to that. My apologies. I was confused. I actually thought they had weapons and stuff. Okay, thank you. That's okay. Gosh, no. Thanks, Mike.
 I have, oh, I just want to say that I concur that the city shouldn't necessarily be bearing the burden of the expense of increased enforcement, especially with the very generous split we agreed to with the timbers on the increase, the new seats. So thank you very much for being here. Thank you. Bye-bye.
 Very good. All right. So now, without further ado, thank you for those of you who've been waiting patiently. We have public testimony. How many folks do we have signed up, Carla? I show seven more left on the list. Seven more left on the list. Three minutes each. Please name for the record. The first three are Tina Wyszynski, Eleni Kiyagaras, and Ciaran Connolly.
 No, Maggie, I didn't call you. Not yet, Maggie. Not yet. You're on the list. You're on the list. Be patient. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Hello, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you very much for the opportunity to testify today. My name is Tina Wyszynski, and I'm the president and founder of the Stadium District Business Association. And my name is Elenica Jarris. I am the vice president of the Stadium District Business Association.
 The Stadium District Business Association would like to go on record in support of the Timbers Association, the Good Neighbor Agreement between them and the community, and the comprehensive transportation management plan related to game day traffic, which was derived by various organizations and communities impacted by the games. We are in support of passing the updated transportation plan.
 As business owners and residents in the neighborhood, several of us are also timber season ticket holders, and we witnessed firsthand how patrons frequent the area businesses and arrive to the games. Many of our restaurant and retail establishment members suffer the feast and famine climate that surrounds the timber schedule. When there's no games, there's very little business. Thank you.
 It does not go unnoticed that businesses thrive when the game season is in full swing and how some suffer when it is not. As our district grows with the addition of several new housing and retail buildings, plus the reconstruction of Lincoln High School, we continue to navigate the ongoing issue of parking and traffic. More than just the limited timbers events throughout the year, more than just limited timber events throughout the year will impact our parking and our traffic issues.
 Public transit options and opportunities are more prevalent than ever from all over our great city and suburbs. The influx of traffic to the area is mitigated by the various means in which fans can and will arrive to the games, such as rideshare, by foot, bike or scooter, train, bus, taxi, and or carpool. Additionally, the associated cost of off-street parking encourages more people to leave their cars at home and use other means of travel.
 We are very encouraged that the new transportation management plan has found nine additional measures over the previous plan to help alleviate any parking and traffic concerns. Measures such as promoting the use of underutilized smart park garages and creating a one-stop travel information center on the Timbers website will positively affect the situation and benefit...
 Where is this thing working? Hold it about six inches away. It's a very sensitive mic. Give it a little bit of space and then it pops a little less. There you go. That's perfect. How's that? Good. OK. So having the one stop center on the Timbers website will positively affect the situation and benefit neighboring businesses.
 We know that those traveling to games tend to frequent surrounding businesses near where they park and where they travel from. The Timbers' continued MLS success will attract more national and international fans, furthering Travel Portland and the city's plans to increase tourism. This is something that those of us who live and work in the Stadium District applaud, as we are dedicated to seeing our city and community thrive through strong economic impact and commerce.
 As a city with an NBA team currently in the playoffs, two championship soccer teams, and a possible MLB team in our near future, we love our sports and all they bring to our community, vibrancy, hope, and economic vitality. We encourage you to support, as we do, the comprehensive transportation plan put forth and supported, as we just heard by oversight committee members, fully knowing that if and when needed, it can evolve to better suit the needs of our community and surrounding neighborhoods. Thank you guys for your time and consideration. Thank you both. Appreciate it.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Kieran Connolly. I'm the president of the Northwest District Association here in that capacity.
 As all of you received written testimony from me via email yesterday, I think that outlines our overall position which is that while we understand the need that the stadium is scheduled to open June 1st, that we ask that if the commission is to adopt the GNA and the CTMP, it be adopted with certain amendments. In Canada, we haven't had a chance to see what the Timbers are proposing as amendments. We've circulated our proposals.
 In general, what those changes are intended to do is to make sure that we take the  nobody knows whether the current plan is really going to work and whether or not its goals are ambitious enough. So we want to put something in place to make sure that we can assess how well things are working and make changes if they're not working well enough.
 And that's really what we're asking for here is a conditional approval of the plan that provides additional oversight, that provides the metrics for measuring whether or not something is working, and the opportunity for the neighborhoods, for the timbers themselves, for the city to reexamine the issue on a regular basis and adopt new plans as new things come into being.
 So, sir, let me ask you a question. You've put forth some amendments, the Office of Management and Finance and the Timbers, in response to what they've heard from Goose Hollows and the Northwest Parking Stakeholder Advisory Committee have put forth some amendments. It would be helpful to me to know whether the amendments that are now on the table, OMF 1 through 4, adequately capture both the spirit and the substance of some of the concerns that you've raised. And it does seem to me that
 that addresses questions about how the oversight committee works and what's a quorum and public meetings laws and things of that neighborhood notice, independent consulting firm that was mentioned. So this does seem to me to be responsive to Mr. Walters' testimony. Do you think that between now and next week,
 Your organization could give us some feedback as to whether these amendments that are on the table adequately capture the concerns that you've raised. I think we can. We certainly haven't had a chance to look at them at all yet. I don't. The only reason I'm hesitant to say absolutely is because Mr. Walters is out of the country and because our board just met this past Monday and wouldn't meet again for another month. So it requires some consideration.
 we wouldn't be in a position to take a formal board-sanctioned action. That said, I'm happy to review their proposed revisions, compare them to our proposed revisions, and continue the dialogue. Yeah, and ideally you would have had this before the hearing, and you could come in and say this captures it or not. But, you know, this goes to a second reading next week.
 What I'm just offering is I would be interested in hearing from you as to whether these amendments do or do not capture the concerns that you've raised. Well, I'm interested to find that out, too. And any other feedback, and would encourage you to, and I know it's a burden, but would encourage you to get your comments in ideally this week to let us know whether these amendments capture the concerns that you've raised. Thank you. We welcome that opportunity. Thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you, all three of you. All right. Next three, please. Are Phil Selinger, Frank Dixon, and Maggie. Maggie, who has been waiting so patiently. Would you like to start? So impatiently. Okay. Why don't you go ahead and start?
 First of all, I want to say how much I love sports and sports fans. And you want to know why? I'm going to tell you why. Because when I was back in Maryland visiting the NIH for my autoimmune disorder, I
 I visited a shelter, a homeless shelter out there. They were in a parking garage in Annapolis. And somebody, one of the women, had clogged one of the toilets. And there were 200 women and 200 men being sheltered in this parking garage. And the shelter decided that they would...
 shut the entire bathroom down. And so the women would have to go in the men's bathrooms where the men's urinals are. And so I'm gonna out myself there. I went and I got on the horn because Fenway was having a huge baseball game. And I said, I love baseball, which I do.
 and these women, these 200 women don't have access to a bathroom and what do you know, here's street roots, here's the thing about parks like Director's Park blocking the bathrooms for elderly, disabled, LGBTQ and homeless people.
 Here we have why we can't go. So, you know, I don't know how many people were at that Fenway game that night, 30,000, 150,000, but they all got on the horn and those bathrooms got open. Now, if I had called the government, would the government have opened them? Probably not.
 So, but I also want to say about parking is why not just shut down all the parking around Providence Park and increase the number of an access of vendors who can sell merchandise there so that you can increase the percentage of.
 of ticket and merchandise licensing that you can take back. So you can take back some of this money
 You can use it for low income and homeless and disabled people because let me tell you the number of beds For the mentally ill I can count them on my fingers that they've opened this year okay, just like that and that's it and You know to the detriment of homeless people of which Portland is the second highest homeless population in the nation per capita You have you
 cater to big business. All right. Thank you. Appreciate it. I love sports fans. Good morning. I love. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor. Frank Dixon, 2205 Northwest Johnson Street, Portland. I'm here as a neighbor and as a longtime resident and activist coming out of back from the 10 years of political wars. Yeah.
 I'M VERY MUCH INTERESTED IN THE ISSUE BEFORE YOU TO THE EXTENT THAT IT AFFECTS MY RESIDENCE. I'M RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF IT, A BLOCK FROM LEGACY GOOD SAM PARKING LOTS AND ONE BLOCK OUT OF THE RESTRICTED EVENT DAY PARKING AREAS.
 I'll be very brief here. You've already heard and gotten the testimony on the difficulties and problems with the public records and open meetings law issues with the oversight committee. The other issue which I was hoping Commissioner Fish would be here for, I was actually one of the folks that sort of put the brakes on allowing
 LEGACY GOOD SAM TO OPEN UP COMMERCIAL PARKING FOR EVENT DAY PARKING BASED UPON A LOT OF BACKGROUND I HAVE WITH THE NORTHWEST DISTRICT PLAN AND THE WAY THAT IT EVOLVED AND IN RELATIONSHIP TO THIS GOOD NEIGHBOR AGREEMENT.
 I don't believe it will be a very easy task for council to go back and essentially remove which is a very specific provision in the,
 in the plan to discourage event day parking in northwest Portland. In fact, I think there's, even in the current state of affairs and in the CTM program,
 plan as it now is proposed I think it overlooks to some degree that specific goal and objective of the northwest district plan which is integral to the way that we have to live in a very, you know, a very
 A high density urban environment we've got with very mixed use with retail business and it all has to work together with a very restricted grid system. So we have to be cognizant of the parking and traffic issues. Thank you.
 Ma'am, Mayor. Commissioner Hardesty, yeah. Good to see you, Frank. So the issue with Good Sam for parking is that we don't want to vent parking at Good Sam? The issue is a little bit larger than the specific narrow point of, I know it sounds like a nice solution to, and since there's available parking there, first of all, you need to...
 I think the consultant will tell you that there's ample off-street garage and service parking in the downtown area that will take care of any needed anticipated increase in parking for this year, but the specific problem with using commercial parking for event day
 patrons is that there's a in the in the Northwest District plan in the actual adopted plan. There's a specific provision that says right there you we are to discourage that.
 And so to be able to change that, you would have to open up a whole new planning process. The Planning Bureau would have to budget a lot of money to bring the whole neighborhood together to go through a revision, I believe. And so, and to do that for just this one specific issue is, you know, it's your call, but
 Thank you, appreciate that. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Phil Selinger and I serve as chairperson of the NWDA Transportation Committee. The much anticipated Providence Park CTMP is a disappointment. It fails to capture an opportunity to truly advance creative, effective and sustainable strategies for moving people to and from Timbers Games and other Providence Park events.
 It fails to meet its primary goal to, quote, accommodate the transportation needs of 4,000 additional fans per match without increasing demand for on-street parking or increasing traffic congestion in neighborhoods near the stadium, unquote. Mm-hmm.
 The plan projects the percentage of event attendees arriving by transit to actually decrease in 2019, while we expect 1,200 additional cars to arrive and further contribute to congestion and already severe parking pressures. The plan further relies on ride hailing for 7% of trips, each generating two rather than one vehicular round trip into the event area.
 It's great to see walking, cycling, and scooters as part of the plan, but they are best suited for short distances. The Timbers need to have more skin in the game. Some examples might include aggressively promoting the city's Smart Park garages with deep garage and max discounts, perhaps with shuttle buses to supplement the max service, providing real-time garage capacity information, as already mentioned.
 Promotion of TriMet's 9,000 park and ride spaces along the MaxLight rail system. Possible interlining of Timbers Express yellow and green line MAX trains directly to Providence Park. Operation of Timbers Express buses from bus park and ride lots such as the Barber Transit Center.
 working with TriMet to add more than one more MAX train in each direction, perhaps using the proposed closure of the Kings Hill station to add an eastbound siding for the timely dispatch of post-game trains. The promise of the CTMP is ramped up marketing and communication, though there is little evidence that related resources are in place. There needs to be active, not, these need to be active, not passive measures.
 Some of these and other strategies are identified in the plan but deferred for later consideration or implementation. The Timbers waited a long time to get serious about assembling the plan. We shouldn't be waiting until 2020 to work on these additional actions. Not only is the plan underwhelming, but it also lacks contingency strategies for dealing with the critical congestion and frustration that is likely to occur in the 2019 season.
 This is not likely to be a winning season for the Providence Park CTMP. Both the Timbers fans and the surrounding community deserve better. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much. Thank you both. Next, please, Carla. The last two who signed up were our Stephan Lewis and Gene Connett. Good morning. Thanks for being here.
 Yeah, my name is Stefan Lewis. I'm here representing the 107 Independent Supporters Trust. We're the nonprofit that runs the Timbers Army and the Rose City Riveters. And I have a couple
 I'm here specifically as a board member of the 107ist and with a 26 year history of working with the Neighborhood Association system here in Portland. I represent our interests with The Northwest District or not the neighbors West Northwest primarily and their member organ and their member neighborhoods I've served on the Goose Hollow foothills League and I currently am the transportation chair for the Maplewood neighborhood association and the vice chair of the Sweeney Transportation Committee and
 So, one thing to get very clear right off the bat from the 107 perspective, sorry I have a lot of things so I'm going to talk a little fast. I want to try to touch on a lot of your comments. We are very much supportive of multi-metall transportation and not using cars and definitely against single occupancy car shares.
 One thing that is kind of lost in the data, we think some of their projections are very conservative. Something that's very important to consider is that these 4,000 people who are going to be new season ticket holders are coming off the wait list. These people have had access to Timbers tickets ahead of time, and many of them have coming off of leasing other people's tickets.
 season tickets. So like many of us have more season tickets than we need for our family. And then we, you know, it's a way of getting more people to the games without having to do scalpers and stuff like that. So a lot of these people have very well established means and ways they know how to get to the stadium. But there's also other people, you know, there's
 people coming from outside of the the TriMet area specifically um uh have some different issues as far as being able to park and ride so you know I'm going to hit just a few examples so uh sunset transit center is frequently at capacity so a lot of those people end up having to come down and either hide and ride uh or you know compete for some parking and it's not a part of their plan
 um the southwest corridor plan we think is going to help alleviate some of this you know because you've got people coming up from salem you know and you know many people who are driving in are carpooling you know if you come in by yourself in a car you're going to get pretty shamed um that's uh so the there's the carpooling uh we think we are very supportive of using the structures uh and having an ability to reserve uh spaces ahead of time
 We're also semi-concerned about the more long range. Some people have issues taking time at home because of the quality of their service where they are to not be able to go to different places. And, yeah. Yeah.
 Sorry, I have more, but I try to go fast. Thank you. Thank you. And if Commissioner Fritz were here, she would not fail to mention that we had a good presentation last week on the 107ists and the great work that you guys do in the community. Just briefly. We're really appreciate it. Yeah, yeah. And we look forward to coming and talking more at length with you guys soon. Look forward to having you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Council. And good morning, Ms. Hardy. Hardy. Hardesty. I apologize. Thank you. No worries.
 Excuse me, but last year how much did you spend on cleaning up the Willamette River? You were water person right last year. So I don't mean to be rude, but we're trying to keep this focus on the agreement in front of us today. Thank you. Since I came back to Portland I went back to my home in St. John's and I went down where we all used to play and dive off the barge including my son. Too fine dust.
 white dust, and great big signs that says, please leave the area immediately. Re-inhaling at this point will cause permanent mental damage.
 Now, I'm just back, right? And I'm supposed to say I'm from Portland again. But the thing of it is, is that why I know that it wasn't there back in the 90s. I don't know where it came from. I don't know what it is. But I know this. On a windy day, you really think it isn't going to flow into the river.
 And you guys build a dock down here somewhere. I'm really sorry. I'm sure this is important, but it's not relevant to the issue we're discussing at this point. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought that I could talk to the committee.
 City Council about something that actually has to do with the city and I appreciate that but as per the rules as Per the rules that were read at the beginning of the session. We need to focus on the issue before us Thank you. Could I add one? No. No, thank you for your your Participation American can we have a commissioner fish? That's the end of the testimony Carla
 Yes, that's all who signed up. So Mayor, can we have a brief conversation? And we have other things on the agenda that are stacking up. But I wanna just signal a little bit where I'm thinking and may land on this in hopes that it provokes a discussion. First of all, as my colleagues know, I'm the author of the reform effort around boards and commissions and a whole package of reforms.
 that we now take very seriously and we look at every committee and we ask basic questions about what rules apply to them. And that includes is it a public meeting and does, are there requirements to keep minutes and other kinds of things. I am persuaded from the testimony today that we need to take a deeper dive on the oversight committee. What I don't want to do is short circuit that process.
 because we have now capacity within our legal department and with the legislation to actually do a deeper dive. So my suggestion is that we engage council in taking a bigger look at the oversight committee, and that will include things like composition. It will include things like quorum, whether public meetings will apply here.
 what are public records. It'll include all the issues that have been framed for our consideration. It'll also require us to do some training, because you can't ask people to serve on these bodies unless they understand what the ground rules are. I would prefer not to jam that in one week, because after all, these are basic questions of governance and oversight.
 And if you don't do it systematically, what you can end up doing is a quick fix that sort of fixes one thing but not another. And I would rather take a month and get it right. So that's where I am on what I consider a suite of issues around oversight, which are very important, but I'd like to have them dealt with comprehensively. Number two is...
 I'm sorry that the OMF amendments were not shared with the neighborhood associations. It would have been much more productive to get your feedback. But as I said in my colloquy with one of the neighborhood reps, I would benefit from getting feedback as to whether these capture the spirit or the letter of the concerns you've raised because 
 It does seem to me that there's some amendments in an order and I'd like to know whether you think OMF and Timbers have done a good job capturing the concerns that you've raised. You won't know that until you look at these amendments, but I would ask that you weigh in before our next meeting. And number three, what I'm hearing throughout the testimony is
 this notion that there's some appetite for conditionally approving these documents, but that we have to do a better job. So what I will be interested in is, what is the process for improving these documents and for reporting back to council so that we have an opportunity to evaluate whether there's been progress? And it seems to me that's been the thread and the testimony that whatever we're gonna adopt, it's a provisional and it's gonna get better. And so I would like to know what that path is
 Because actually we're up against a deadline and so next week we'll be voting on these two doc We'll be accept would be voting whether to accept or not these documents while they are not council generated documents And it's been made clear that the obligation is on the operator and the neighborhoods to work these things out We can't and we can't improve them through amendments. So again, those those are the three points I wanted to make and
 And in particular, on the Oversight Committee, I would urge that we take a little more time to do a deeper dive, because I think there's some fundamental questions we have to ask. And we now have a process to do it, and I don't want us to cut a corner on that. Very good. And Commissioner Fish, if I could reflect on that. I concur.
 We have one week until this comes back before the council is a second reading. And with regard to the amendments that were handed to us this morning,
 there is an opportunity that I hope will be taken and I will make sure to engage the appropriate people to make sure that these amendments are thoroughly vetted by the NWDA by the Stadium Oversight Committee and also that we have the opportunity to take into account the testimony we have today. I am also concerned by what we heard from the
 representatives of the stadium oversight committee that public records and open meeting laws are not being adhered to. And I agree with you that requires clear training in terms of all of our public bodies on what is expected. On the flip side of this, we are under a deadline. And the Timbers are under a deadline because they have a season that's coming online too. And it's my understanding this agreement has to be approved in some form.
 perhaps there and we'll just have to look at it this week, but perhaps there is a way to put a flag out or keep an opening or make a commitment that we will revisit those policy and process issues on the committee. Because I agree with you when we have people on the committee come in and say that, A, they haven't been included, B, they are not following open meeting laws, and C, they are not maintaining public records as required.
 by state laws for public bodies. That is not something we can just sweep under the carpet. Finally, I just want to say something as the presiding officer. I have now been handed amendments at the last minute, three out of the last four meetings.
 And in all of those circumstances, it has been represented to me that the appropriate bodies had been aware of those amendments. And once again, I find that that is not the case. And so I'm going to put a standing policy out for all city bureaus that is the presiding officer, I will no longer accept last minute amendments unless I have had the opportunity to vet them,
 and share the insights with my council members in advance, and if the appropriate organizations or key stakeholders have not been included, unless they are technical amendments. I have accommodated this, and I've accommodated it to my account three times too many in the last month, and I'm done with it.
 So, I want to make that very clear to all city bureaus that I expect the homework to be done in advance. If there are roadblocks that people have identified, I expect you to resolve it. That's what leadership is from the bureau perspective. Don't bring it to me at the last minute and assume that we can fix it when we know we are going to have key stakeholders come to the microphone and say they haven't seen it, they haven't vetted it, they haven't had a time to discuss it. That just puts us in a position of...
 looking frankly uninformed and out of the loop. We're done with that. So, Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your comments. I find this a bit problematic, especially when there's an assumption that we're going to rely on Portland Police Bureau to provide additional services as needed. I'm very troubled that the conversation was happening with the union and not happening with...
 people and leadership within the Portland Police Bureau. I also want answers to my question about the average miles traveled, about season ticket holders, because again, who benefits and who doesn't benefit when we do this expansion means a lot to me. It is important to me that I have information as the mayor said in advance, and not at the very last minute.
 I will never be forced to vote yes for something just because somebody else is on a deadline. So I want to be clear that your emergency does not equate to my emergency. I will do my due diligence, and I will weigh the pros and cons, and I will make a decision based on that. If you think I need additional information, now would be a great time to start setting apartments with my office so that I will have all the information I need to make a good vote.
 Thank you. Thank you. And Commissioner Hardesty, my pledge to you is that over the course of the next week, I will make sure that we have an opportunity to sit down with the appropriate representatives of the Portland Police Bureau to discuss that particular item. It is my understanding that similar to what Mike Krebs said with regard to PBOT and traffic enforcement, this is also on an as available basis per the contract we have in place with
 But I will make sure that we clarify that and have a clear understanding prior to taking this up again next week. And last but not least, since I seem maybe a little bit hot on my last statement there, and if that's how you interpreted it, you interpreted it exactly correctly, I also want to say this, I am very grateful to the Timbers organization for their
 significant investments in the stadium which I think is a very positive thing for the community it's a very positive thing for the sport as well I think there are a lot of young people who are really inspired by what the Timbers and the Thorns are doing I'm grateful for community supporters for the tremendous amount of work and engagement that you have put into this
 And all of us want to find the way to move this forward in a way that's to the benefit of all in the community, and particularly those who are the most impacted by this development. We'll get there. Sometimes it can be a little messy on the way. But I want you to know my inclination is to support the plan, but I think we need to do a little bit of truing up with some of our community stakeholders to 
 have them understand that we are not steamrolling them. We are moving in lockstep with them and bringing them along as well. So with that, we have two items that we are moving to second. We're not voting today. Item number 321 moves to second reading. Item 322, also a non-emergency ordinance, also moves to second reading. With that, we'll take up 323.
 create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 97th Avenue Phase 2 Local Improvement District.
 Commissioner Udaly. Thank you mayor. This ordinance is the next step toward approving the development of the Gateway LID that we began through the adoption of a resolution a few weeks ago. Today's presentation should be short and sweet and here to explain the ordinance and answer questions is Andrew Abbey from Peabody.
 So I'm going to try to keep this to about 45 seconds or less. I think we covered this adequately last month. I have really one slide presentation here for you. But last month we talked about our larger vision for Gateway, and those discussions continue per the map on the left.
 The map on the right is the current map of the LID that we're considering today. There's been a minor boundary change to the map to allow us to do some bicycle safety improvements on East Burnside Street over I-205. We received no remonstrances against LID formation, so my recommendation, and we have no amendments this morning, my recommendation is to pass this to a second reading and approve it next week,
 And last but not least, I passed out a fair amount of testimony that we received, all in favor from various stakeholders, including TriMet, Metro Councilor Bob Stacy, and Multnomah County Chair Deborah Kofori, among others. And...
 Finally, we do expect during the design of the LID to bring forward to council a street vacation ordinance of Northeast Cooch and Davis streets. That's shown in red on both of those maps, and the cost of that street vacation will be borne by Block 1, which is also west of Northeast 97th Avenue. Those are all the remarks I have this morning. I think we have a few folks here to testify, and I'm happy to take any questions that council might have.
 Thank you, Andrew. My apologies, Mayor. That took one minute and 30 seconds. Thanks, Andrew. Appreciate it. Public testimony. Carla, how many people do we have signed up? I have four people signed up. Very good. Come on up. The first three are John Mulvey, Jennifer Stedman, and Gordon Jones. Good morning. Welcome. Name for the record. And if you just keep the mic about six inches away, that's usually about right.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. I'll keep this very short. I am John Mulvey. I am a co-chair of the Housing Committee of your East Portland Action Plan. EPAP submitted a letter to all of you directly about two months ago, and I understand it's in the packet you got today as well. We just want to express our support for this project
 It's a great plan to build high density housing near our biggest transit hub. And we are particularly impressed with the developer's commitments to affordability.
 It's desperately needed at this point. I don't need to tell you that. So we did want to ask that you use your influence. There's at least one additional LID coming. There will be an ask at that point for support through Prosper Portland and through PBOT, and we hope that you will support that as well. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good morning. I'm Gordon Jones. I live in the Gateway District at About two blocks from the neighborhood we're talking about mayor Wheeler and commissioners the I'm going to make my comments very brief today as well I think it's it's a good time for us to reflect a little bit on the history of this I went back and I
 I read the testimony of June 13, 2001, when Gateway's Urban Renewal Association was passed, or Urban Renewal Area. Many people testified that day about the history of Gateway, the contentious relationship with the city.
 how they'd now formed this marriage and the urban renewal district and some of the planning documents that had already been done the gateway concept plan and so on many of the Local people like arlene camara and who's still? advocating for gateway Dick Cooley who's now passed but the most prescient testimony came from Don Masiati who was the executive director of
 Portland Development Commission at that time. And he pointed out, I'll paraphrase it, that not one street will get built, not one park will get built, and nothing else will happen based on this urban renewal area. It's going to take a lot of private investment to make this happen, this vision. That day was filled with hope and vision from everyone
 And I'm just here today to ask you to please continue that hope and that vision. It's a process that takes many small steps to get where we're trying to go. And I think we've made some progress out in Gateway, but there's still a long ways to go. So we appreciate your support. Thank you, Gordon, for being here today. And again, thank you for the tour. I appreciate it, as did my team.
 Good morning. Hello. I'm Jennifer Steadman and I work for one of the partners in Gateway and I'm asking today for the approval of the 96th Street 97th Street LID so we can continue our vision of creating a community in the Gateway area. With the approval of this LID, we will be able to start projects that will help with the connectivity of the streets to keep the community safe.
 Without the approval of this LID, the neighborhood will not have a chance to be developed, we will not be able to build high density affordable housing, we will not be able to help small businesses and not be able to employ hundreds of people.
 Now I'm going to briefly touch on the discussion of displacement in the community. We have roughly 32 homes in that area that will be affected. My personal plan, and I know all the partners' plan is to create, which I'm working on currently, an anti-displacement policy for any of the gateway homes.
 residents. We do not plan, we're fully committed to not displacing them, but instead giving them housing with the option of moving back into the community once our projects are complete. With the approval of this LID and the next LID, we will start, we'll be at a starting point for creating the much anticipated needs of this community. We're committed to get, committed to help Gateway become what everyone has dreamed it would be. Thank you. Appreciate it, all three of you.
 The last person who signed up is Nate McCoy. Welcome, Nate. Thanks for being here. Thank you. Mayor, commissioners, thanks for having me. For the record, my name is Nate McCoy, Executive Director of the Oregon Chapter of the National Association of Minority Contractors.
 I come a little bit in a dual capacity today as a current resident of the Gateway neighborhood, lived there for over 25 years, went to Park Rose Middle School, went to Park Rose High School, and have seen the evolution of, or evolution of other communities such Northeast inner city where you've seen a lot of displacement, gentrification, and major development happen. And with the whole preference policy right to return,
 We need to be thinking about other options in which people in these communities live Such as Joanne Hardesty our commissioner who I think resides still in this neighborhood and knows it just as well as most at the table I actually managed through the Portland Housing Bureau the Rose apartments that Gordon did in this area and I was struck by his appetite for diversity equity inclusion we've heard that these are buzzwords and
 But what I really appreciate about this project is it's looking at an area that already has a high concentration of diversity, equity, and inclusion, including David Douglas, who's interested in starting an elementary school just north of this site because there is so much concentration of youth.
 We were talking to Gordon about minority contracting. You heard job creations. We're also talking about businesses that could feel a lot like what you see on Vancouver and Williams today. And I want to, because I won't be long, but I want to leave you with a thought-provoking question that I tend to ask myself all the time, and I'm sure you guys do as well.
 How do you knit a building into a neighborhood as opposed to imposing a building in a neighborhood? And I think the thoughtful work that Gordon has done, as well as this community around this project, is how can we bring the community into it from the beginning? I heard you talk about amendments a minute ago. How can we bring this to you guys in its early creation to get leadership involved, to make these commitments that honestly will last at least five years of building out a major portion of these sites?
 And what I really honestly also like is that we're also talking about minority development, not just construction and outreach to minority communities, but how do these seasoned developers work with minority development interest groups? And so we're talking about that offline on a public-private partnership, and I'm really kind of
 Tapping my hat to you mayor as the leader of prosper Portland and the housing bureau As you approve this hopefully next week I'm asking that there be future commitments on helping build out the actual buildings because we're only talking about Infrastructure now and I think there needs to be commitments to this neighborhood because this is the Nexus that is the closest to a pro district neighborhood that we have from a zoning and
 So I just think with our commitment at name act in my leadership that I think we can get this Truly into the community's hands of benefiting as well as creating a new park Which I know that Nick would care about because this area needs more parks as well So they've got the land and I think now we just need commitments and leadership to advance this work so with that said thank you for my time and I
 I don't know if there's a question or two, but I'm here. Commissioner Hurst. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you very much, Nate. Really appreciate you being here today and you speaking to this.
 I think this is maybe one of the last opportunities for Portland to get it right. To ensure that people who are already living in East Portland and the Gateway District actually will benefit from development that's coming. And I believe that we will depend on organizations like yours to be real leaders and helping us do this right first.
 I get so frustrated sitting up here and I hear about aspirations that are never met over and over and over again. And somehow the market just takes over and then people are displaced. And so I'm gonna be seeking your advice and your counsel.
 And you outed me already. I was going to put on a record that I do live in Gateway. So clearly I will benefit from any improvements that come to Gateway. But I also will be one of those critics, making sure that the folks that are my neighbors and business partners today can continue to be my neighbors and business partners tomorrow. So thank you for being here. Absolutely. And I really appreciate your early...
 investment of time and energy into this. Thank you. Mayor if I could just add a comment. Commissioner Fish. We're certainly open to a park name. You might have heard we have a few, we have a little bit of a budget challenge, but but we're open to that discussion. Very proud of the Gateway Discovery Park that Commissioner Fritz brought online. Which actually we'll be talking about a little later in our agenda. The one
 difference between what we're doing today and taking up an LID and what we're forecasting for tomorrow, which is discussing a Prosper Portland investment, is that the standard for our action is different. So when we get to the point that we're talking about making a public investment and Prosper Portland putting money on the table, we'll be looking for your guidance as to what the sideboards are for that investment, because that's where we get to talk about
 you know, we go from aspirations to actually some concrete proposals about what we expect in the development. Yeah. That's a different standard obviously than we apply in an LID. Absolutely. And so we'll be looking for your, your suggestions on that phase two of this discussion. I've got my commitment for sure. Thank you. Nate, I appreciate your differentiation between infrastructure and construction in housing and commercial space and the like. My view having
 I had the opportunity to look at this site a number of times and Gordon and I had a chance to go out there and you and I have had conversations. The infrastructure is an essential first step. Without the infrastructure, there will not be the development. I think we all recognize that. Absolutely. So I'm glad that we're taking this step today and continuing to move forward on that. The next step with regard to housing and with regard to commercial opportunity.
 The question for us really is, can we support the level of subsidy required to make it all pencil out, right, for our private sector partners? And that's an area where we're going to need your expertise and your skill set to help us be able to define where is that balancing act between subsidy and the private sector's ability to actually make those investments. But let me just say this. I agree with Commissioner Harder. This is like a fantastic opportunity. I agree. And...
 After years and years and years and years of conversations about this, we're actually in a position now where we're going to see real investments in this area, and it will be catalytic. Now, the flip side we also heard was about displacement because this is also a part of our city that remains one of the most affordable, relatively close-in locations. And so as we go about this process of urban development, we obviously want to take great care of that.
 that we're not simply moving people farther east in the process, right? You know that. I know you do. But thank you for your leadership for many years on this. Thank you, too. Very good. Any further discussion? Any further public testimony? Or was Nate the last one? All right, great. We finished with Nate. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew. Next item up is item number 336.
 increase the flexibility of arts and cultural businesses to host periodic events in their places of business through an annual permit. Commissioner Fish. Well, I am very excited mayor today to bring this item forward and close observers of our agenda will notice that all four members of council that are here today are co-sponsors and I'm going to thank my colleagues for supporting this important step of
 It was just about a year ago that City Council accepted a set of recommendations about how we can play a greater role in helping artists afford to live and work in Portland. And it led to this report. Well, this report has not been collecting dust in some closet. We have been working to implement some of the better ideas. And in fact, the recommendations have served as a guide for our efforts to preserve and to create new affordable art space.
 We have been flexible and opportunistic when a different tool could also help serve that effort. The most recent example of a success story is the musician loading zones that Commissioner Udailey and I unveiled last month, which will serve musicians at 11 music venues across the city. Today we are announcing another new tool, which is really just an improvement on an old tool.
 The process was a collaborative effort between Portland Fire and Rescue, the Bureau of Development Services, and all of our City Hall staff and colleagues. With us this morning is Tracy Schreiber, who is our Arts Affordability Fellow in my office, who will be making a brief presentation. She's joined by Jamie Dunphy, who's wearing a suit today, I think, which is something of a first.
 And we're pleased that Fire Marshal Nate Takara has been able to carve out time to join us and Terry Whitehill with Development Services. We would not be here gentlemen without your help and we're grateful for it. So let me with some pride turn to my office's Arts Affordability Fellow, Tracy Schreiber to kick us off this morning. And this is- Nick before you do that, could I ask, kids where are you from? Which school? Which school? Who's asking? Aukman. Okay. Are you having a good tour?
 All right, well thanks, enjoy it. Enjoy the rest of the tour. I'm sorry, Commissioner. And this, um... We're too cute. We have the good fortune of having Tracy in our office. She is another example of the collaboration that exists between Portland State University and City Hall.
 She is an Arts Affordability Fellow and this is her first time testifying before council. Excellent. So, Tracy, take it away. Tracy Schreiber, Commissioner, Arts Affordability Fellow, Commissioner, Nick Fish, and with me is Jamie Dunphy, Senior Policy Advisor with Commissioner Fish, Nate Takara, Fire Marshal, and Terry Whitehill with BDS.
 We're here today to propose a new kind of permit to codify a more flexible and reasonable code to meet the business flow of our small arts and cultural organizations. We're calling this the annual permit for temporary arts and cultural events and it was drafted by Portland Fire and Rescue and BDS. We're very proud of our collaboration.
 Often small arts organizations are generally permitted as businesses with an occupancy limit of 49. As part of their business model and to advance their craft, many host special events like performances and exhibitions. That means they occasionally have the need to host more than 49 people.
 The annual permit for temporary arts and cultural events allows for 90 occurrences within a calendar year with up to 75 occupants. It continues to ensure the protection and safety of attendees and provides the necessary flexibility for small arts and cultural organizations to be compliant with life safety code. Prior to this permit, when these small organizations needed temporary assembly, they were faced with an incongruent timeline to planning and executing their events and extraneous and frequent costs.
 The annual permit for temporary arts and culture event simplifies these barriers. We're excited to bring you this proposal. We believe it represents Council's commitment to supporting arts and cultural organizations, protects basic safety requirements, and removes a barrier to this kind of important community event that simplifies the process for everyone. We welcome your questions and thank you for your time. Thank you. Rob Dye. Nate, do you want to jump in? Sure.
 Good morning. My name is Nate Takara, I'm the Farmers' Portal for Fire and Rescue. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. I just want to first thank Tracy. She did an amazing job of bringing Terry and I together and trying to work through all the codes. As you folks know, the codes can be very stringent at times, and I think collaboratively we were able to look at it and create some flexibility, but yet without jeopardizing fire safety issues.
 But yeah, so I hope this would help solve in the arts community and make it much more flexible for their use. Thank you. Thank you. That's our presentation. That's a model presentation. That was a model presentation. Nicely done. Kept it short and sweet and you hit all the high points. Congratulations. Thank you. Public testimony on this item. Carla. Yes, actually two people signed up. Edith Gillis and Maggie. Very good.
 We're getting a little bit crammed on our schedule, so I'd ask you to keep it in two minutes, please. Good afternoon. I am Edith Gillis, and of course, I'm thanking you so much for participating in this. And I'm one more person saying please vote unanimously for this because it nurtures and strengthens the community building, hope, courage, mutual understanding, empathy, moral risk-taking, and teamwork democracy. It is healing and trauma therapeutic and supports preventative health.
 It gives people a voice and expression so they have alternatives to isolation and hate and violence. Art helps targeted victims of hate and injustice heal, and those who don't have words don't have to revert to harm. It supports conversations and local problem solving. It advertises local spaces for diverse uses that benefit all. It supports arts and artists, newcomers to view and hear art, and potential donors.
 It expands art education and multicultural understanding, mutual respect, and mutual aid. It helps the economy and societal security, and it helps prepare for disaster resilience with mutual trust and creative problem-solving with a can-do, am-doing, all-loving attitude. Thank you. Perfectly timed as well. I would like to see more established arts groups include...
 homeless and low-income and disabled people and minorities and LGBTQ people in their art showings and art exhibitions. And integrate, integrate, show great works alongside people who do great art but are in poverty.
 And then you could also just set aside some space for people in poverty to show their work as well. Thank you. Thank you both. This is a resolution. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Well, I want to begin by thanking Tracy Schreiber, who has been working tirelessly on this and a number of other issues in our office.
 And we greatly value the relationship we have with Portland State University that provides a pipeline for really talented people who get a chance to come to City Hall and work for a defined period of time. And this is an example where someone comes and really makes a difference. So first, Tracy, thank you and I'm glad that you have family members here today to soak in this moment. I want to thank Fire Marshal Nate Takara and Terry Whitehill with Development Services
 It's been my experience on this council that we do our best work in collaboration with other bureaus and colleagues. There's a lot of consternation about our former government, but there's nothing that a little collaboration can't cure in our former government. And I think we do our best work when we sit down with people that have skin in the game and we talk things through and we get to solutions like this.
 When I think about this proposal, I think about collaboration, I think about flexibility, I think about the fact that it comes at no cost to fire and life safety, and I think about the fact that it's another demonstration of what I have come to really appreciate about service on this body, which is this is a solidly pro-arts council that is constantly looking for ways to provide better services to the creative community.
 whether it's concierge services at the Bureau of Development Services, whether it's the regular events that Polly coordinates in this building where we bring the arts community to our community and we share experiences, whether it's the work we did in the musician loading zones. And by the way, sometimes small changes are the ones that have the biggest impact. We have meetings where we talk about hundreds of millions of dollars here and hundreds of millions of dollars there and we hear from almost no one.
 But we fix a chronic problem with musicians who can't stop and park and move their instruments into a club without getting a ticket. You fix that problem, we get a lot of attention. And we get a lot of people paying attention. And that was a fantastic collaboration with PBOT and Commissioner Udaly.
 Proud to work and serve on a council that's pro-arts. This is another part of our continuing commitment to our arts affordability plan. There's more to come. Grateful to my colleagues for co-sponsoring this resolution, and today I'm proud to vote aye. Hardesty? Thank you. I think my colleague, Commissioner Fish, covered all the bases. I think this is good policy, and I appreciate that Nate...
 was involved in the conversation early on. It's important that the fire marshal absolutely supports any kind of changes that we're making. I vote aye. Eudaly. Well, this is turning out to be an exciting month for arts at Portland City Hall. Earlier this month, we celebrated Comics Month.
 And of course, April 15th was the deadline to pay your arts tax, so if you haven't done that, I encourage you to do it. I'm sorry to say you will probably have a penalty. That is not my personal preference, but that is reality and is why I
 encouraged people to pay it on time. So I'm very pleased. Oh and last night I got to speak at the Heart of Portland opening reception, which was an amazing event with PPS students from all over the district, marching bands, choirs, visual artists. It was really a pleasure to be there and see our arts tax dollars at work.
 I'm very pleased to co-sponsor and support this resolution. It was our creative laureate, Subha.
 Subha Ganesan, who is the founder of New Expressive Works Art Venue, which is a small-ish arts venue that was facing challenges around permitting. And obviously, the current structure didn't align with the reality of how these performing arts venues function. It posed programming challenges, as well as created a financial burden for small and medium sized performing arts venues.
 As we heard, the resolution has been created working closely with the Fire Bureau and the Bureau of Development Services. So while we are able to be better responsive to the needs of our arts venues, artists, and performers, we also know there's been no compromise on life and safety issues.
 This resolution is a simple but meaningful change and it aligns with our 2017 plan for preserving and expanding affordable art space. So thanks again go out to Tracy Schreiber.
 and Jamie Dumphy from Commissioner Fish's office, as well as Nate Takara, the city's fire marshal, and Terry Whitehill from BDS. And thanks also to Subha Ganesan and Pollyann Burge, who is my arts and culture policy director, for collaborating with Commissioner Fish's office on this effort, aye.
 Wheeler. Well, shout out to Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Udalli for shepherding this issue. I think we all agree we need art space and we need it to be affordable in order for the City of Portland to continue to be the thriving community that it is. I'm very happy to support this and have BDS as the Bureau of Development Services engagement in this.
 This aligns, I think, perfectly with our desire and our efforts to streamline our permitting process and encourage problem solving to ensure that we have both housing and places of employment. I think we all agree that this has to include our vibrant art spaces.
 I would argue that this is a common sense approach. I'm really pleased that the council represented here today works collaboratively on these issues and this is a great piece of legislation. I'm happy to support it. I vote aye. Resolution's adopted. Thank you everyone. Next item is 337.
 accept bid of Faison Construction Inc. for Glenhaven Park play area improvements for $1,179,000. Folks, it's Wednesday. It would not be a Wednesday without Larry Pellett. And here he is. Mayor, I have some opening remarks. Commissioner Fish. So, first some context. This past Saturday, Portland Parks and Rec cut the ribbon on the new children's playground in the north park blocks.
 and I encourage all my colleagues to go take a look at what a state-of-the-art refurbished children's playground looks like. It would not have been possible without the passage of the Portland Parks Bond, and so we had a chance to not only thank the voters but also Commissioner Fritz for shepherding that bond forward. Director Long and I were there, and our friends from PLACE, who actually did much of the design work, were there to take a bow.
 And most important, there were a lot of kids who were discovering this new playground and it was really terrific. Today's procurement report is for a construction project, contract rather, for the Glen Haven Park in East Portland. This contract was bid through the city's prime contractor development program. The program creates contracting opportunities for state certified disadvantaged minority women and emerging small businesses within the city of Portland.
 As I mentioned earlier, we were able to make these improvements thanks to funding from the Parks Replacement Bond, coupled with systems development charges. Today, we'll have a brief presentation from Larry Pallatt, Procurement Services Manager, and we're joined by Robin Laughlin, Parks Bond Manager, and Capital Project Manager Gary Datka. Welcome. Thank you all for being here. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, Mayor, Commissioner Hardesty.
 I am Larry Pallott, Procurement Services, and it does seem that I'm here pretty much every Wednesday. You have before you the Procurement Report recommending a contract award to Faison Construction for the Glenhaven Park Area Play Improvements for $1,179,000.
 Faison Construction is a DBE or disadvantaged business enterprise as well as an MBE minority-owned business enterprise. Faison is self-performing $579,435 or 49.15% of the work.
 Faison is subcontracting $145,229, or about 13% of the work to other state certified COVID firms, apportioned as follows, $85,901 to an ESB, or Emerging Small Business, GR Market Construction, whose ownership is actually reported in the
 COBID site is Caucasian female, performing playground equipment and play surface installation, and $59,328 to Miller Factors, a WBE or women-owned business enterprise, whose ownership is also reported as Caucasian female, performing irrigation, landscape planning, erosion control. There is a combined level of state COBID certified firm participation for this project of 61.46%.
 the engineer's estimate on the project was one million dollars the bureau's confidence level was moderate the project was advertised on our electronic procurement system bids were open january 17th four were received and the lowest responsive responsible bidder is phase on construction at 1 179 000 which is unfortunately 179 000 or 17.9 over the engineer's estimate
 Portland Bureau of Parks and Recreation, along with Procurement Services, had identified an aspirational goal, as we do through our standard subcontractor equity program, of COVID-certified firms at 20%. Unfortunately, it's not met, but the participation in the project is still excellent. Faison Construction is located in Portland, Oregon. They are a state of Oregon certified disadvantage, as well as minority-owned business enterprise. They do have a current city of Portland location.
 Business tax registration account and they're in full compliance with the city's contracting requirements Council has any questions about the solicitation. I can certainly answer those or Portland parks two finest people are here to
 for a presentation. Robert, I just had a quick question. Was Phazon also the company that did the North Park blocks project? Yes. So they've actually now developed the capacity to handle a lot of our work, right? Absolutely. That's happened over the last few years, but now they're a prime contractor rather than getting work as a sub and they're actually doing some of our best work. They are indeed. Terrific.
 Any further questions? If not, I'll entertain a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Hardesty, second from Commissioner Fish. Is there a presentation? Oh, I'm sorry. Was there more? I apologize. Oh, do you want us to? There's more. Oh, there's more. Would you like to see? Oh, there is. Okay. We'll suspend the vote. I apologize for that. Sorry. It's okay. Again, my name is Robin Laughlin. I'm the Bond Program Manager for Portland Parks, and with me is Gary Datka, our Project Manager for this project.
 As you mentioned, Faison Construction is our successful bidder for this project and we do look forward to working with them again soon on this project. The Glenhaven project is a part of the 2014 Parks Replacement Bond and it was generously passed by voters who approved the $68 million to make improvements just like this all across our city.
 This project falls within the theme of playgrounds within the parks need bond program needs and in addition to the 1.45 million dollars from from the bond the project will be receiving funding from our system development charges in the amount of $250,000
 Mayor Wheeler, Commissioners, thank you for having me today. My name is Gary Dotka. I'm a Capital Project Manager with Portland Parks and Rec. Glen Haven Park located in northeast Portland at the major intersection of northeast Siskiyou Street and northeast 82nd Avenue is a community park in the Roseway neighborhood and is adjacent to the Portland Public Schools Madison High School campus and Roseway Heights Middle School. This map shows the park location just west of I-205 and south of Sandy Boulevard.
 The park serves two census tracks split by 82nd Avenue within its half mile radius or 15 minute walk boundary. It's a diverse community with combined census data indicating residents and all non-white racial and ethnic identity groups reporting above the city's mean, with the most notable for Asian and Pacific Islander groups, which is almost twice the city's average and the majority of these identifying as Vietnamese.
 Acquired by Portland Parks and Rec in 1948, Glen Haven Park is a very active 15.5 acre park featuring sports fields, court sports, skate park, restrooms, paved paths, and a decommissioned concrete wading pool. The restrooms and play area receive heavy daily use.
 The playground is located nearest Northeast 79th and Northeast Siskiyou on the north side of the park. The red box shown here is the project boundary and will make improvements to a little bit more than an acre of the park. The new playground and picnic spaces will provide much needed improvements for this park.
 Currently the existing playground suffers from several non-accessible and disjointed play components spaced too far apart for kids to make a play circuit and for supervision. The existing post and platform play structure and wood fiber safety surfacing installed as part of Portland Park and Recreation's Gobi Bond in the mid 1990s has served its useful life and now has many ADA deficiencies and maintenance concerns.
 The park swings were removed as part of the lead paint removal program in the summer of 2017 and have been a big missing link for this play area. The playground also has a decommissioned waiting pool that will be removed as part of this project. Through a community focus group meeting and two public open houses, Portland Parks and Rec concluded public involvement with students and neighbors in order to understand their perspective regarding the current use of the park, what's missing from the playground, and what activities neighborhood children want most in play.
 Connect with neighbors about the positive aspects of making improvements to the park and solicit feedback and gain support for the design of the play area, play components and other community assets. The second open house was held during the Southeast Asian Cultural and Heritage New Year's Festival at Glenhaven Park with overwhelming support and interest from the broader community. At all of our meetings, Portland Parks and Rec provided translation services in Chinese and Vietnamese, reaching out to a community often felt left out of public projects planning.
 With community input and support, Portland Parks and Recreation developed a design that will construct key park improvements focusing on play features and play opportunities for all users, such as slides, climbers, swings, balance equipment, and spinning elements. Durable, accessible rubber safety surfaces that provide access to all play equipment, picnic tables and other accessible seating and gathering spaces, other amenities such as new accessible drinking fountain, trash receptacles, and much-needed bike racks.
 ADA accessibility improvements at the two park entries from Northeast Siskiyou and interior pathways around the play area and to the restroom will be improved upon. Continued development of Portland's urban tree canopy with new deciduous and evergreen trees. And lastly, a creative art installation through the Regional Arts and Culture Council.
 We're here to ask Council to accept the low bid from Faison Construction for Glen Haven Park Play Improvements Project for $1,179,000. With the acceptance of this bid by Council, we will proceed with construction of the project set to begin early this summer. We have an anticipated completion date by the end of this year, 2019. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have at this time. Chair Greg Musil? So we have a motion and a second. Any further questions based on the presentation?
 Excellent PowerPoint. It cemented my position which I'm going to hold a secret until I cast my vote. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for an excellent presentation. Hardesty. Wheeler. This looks great. I think it will be very, very well received by the community. Thanks for your excellent work. I vote aye. Resolution is adopted. Next item, item 338 please.
 authorize a temporary inter-fund loan not to exceed $2.6 million from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Solid Waste Fund to the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund to provide interim financing for startup cost of the Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund.
 Mr. Colleagues, through this Interfund loan, the City will assist the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund in operations as soon as possible. By utilizing internal resources of the City as the interim funding source, the program implementation will be completed more cost effectively by avoiding any external transaction costs.
 This legislation will ultimately help the Clean Energy Fund program quickly deliver a robust, transparent, and community-centered design and development process. Welcome. Thank you for explaining it to us. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor. Can you hear me? Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name, for the record, is Bridget O'Callaghan, and I am the city's treasurer.
 Also joining me today is Matt Gerak. Matt is the city's debt manager and will be available to answer questions related to any debt questions that you may have.
 I'm here to present an ordinance that would provide temporary funding to the Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund. I know that you're all familiar with the fund. But for the record, those in November of 2016, voters in Portland approved a ballot measure 26201. Male Speaker 2. 2018. Female Speaker 2. Female Speaker 2. Female Speaker 2. Female Speaker 2.
 Ballot measure 26201, the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Initiative. The measure imposes a 1% surcharge on retail sales within Portland of certain large retailers. The revenue generated by the surcharge will be used to fund clean energy projects and job training through the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund, which was established by the City Council in February of 2019.
 The initial tax receipts related to the 1% large retailer surcharge will be collected by the City's Revenue Division and distributed to the Clean Energy Fund in May of 2020.
 Rather than waiting until May of 2020 to begin the Clean Energy Funds operations, this legislation's Interfund loan will allow the City of Portland to accelerate staffing and program implementation into the current fiscal year 2018-2019.
 The Interfund loan will be made from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Solid Waste Fund to the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund in an amount not to exceed $2.6 million. The Interfund loan will accrue interest at the city's investment fund earnings rate, payable to BPS Solid Waste at the maturity, which is expected to be June 30, 2020. What is that rate?
 The rate presently is 2.31%. That's going to be a floating rate depending upon the investment balances. Thank you. And the total interest is estimated to be approximately $150,000 for that period of time.
 The Clean Energy Fund will provide community benefits through grants to nonprofit organizations that will carry out clean energy projects and clean energy job training, with a focus on benefiting historically disadvantaged and disproportionately climate-impacted groups, including low-income communities and communities of color. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer any questions that you may have. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you so much for that presentation. Thank you, Mayor. My question has to do with the $2.6 million. I know that we're hiring three staff.
 And those will be staff that are specifically focused on putting the infrastructure in place, engaging the community. And I forget what the third one was, probably evaluation and auditing of the processes that are put in place. So are there other positions that we anticipate will be hired with this loan?
 Well, I would defer to Michelle Krim, who is managing the project. Michelle was not able to join us today. She's from the Bureau of Planning Sustainability. Michelle has shared with me that they're expecting to hire four positions with these funds. And which one did I miss? It was the project manager, so someone to manage the project.
 and outreach capacity building, which you had mentioned, community oversight committee, getting the committee together, and then communications and evaluation of the program. Excellent. Thank you. And so it's staffing, it's other infrastructure improvement. Is there anything else that that $2.6 million will be spent on that we should know about?
 There is a more detailed budget that we can certainly provide to you. I believe that Michelle Crim distributed to the commissioner's offices late last week. But it's generally just the planning, development, you know, getting the infrastructure prepared for the program to be operational. Thank you. And no, I did not get a detailed budget, which I need and would like to have. Thank you. We'll certainly get that to you. Thank you. Very good. Any further questions? Carla, public testimony on this item?
 Yes, we have two people signed up. Maggie and Jim Wittenberg. Very good. Come on up. Two minutes each. Please name for the record. Go ahead, Maggie. Why don't you start? Okay. Well, I'm going to be honest. I was back there snacking, not listening very hard. So I'm just going to say that was a good presentation. She did a great job. Thank you.
 Thank you. Go ahead. Chair Greg Musil. Jim, welcome. Yeah, this I hope will be my final appearance here. I've got reservations for Missoula, Montana next week and I've got it here on the train and I don't plan to be back in Portland. That's my brother's time. He's a professor and vice president at the University of Montana. So I'm going to feel good to see you, Joanne and Nick again.
 Ted. I, none of the lobbyists are gone. They've got it down to the nitty gritty. I just have a couple comments. One of my cards on the top of my thing is a guy named Michael Krebs and I thought he was a police officer too. I didn't realize he ran the, I've been calling him every month for about two years trying to get some traffic enforcement on MLK. And finally I got a hold of a woman there.
 and she told me that there were 12 officers down. No wonder they can't enforce the traffic in this town. No wonder I have to be fearful every time I go across the road, the fear I'll get run down in my walker. It's open season out there on people who are old, and I just wanted to tell you that I turned 80 years old last week in the hospital. I thought I was having my fifth heart attack, and it was only GI acid reflux, so...
 The last couple of things, I'm sorry about my appearance, I've been sick a lot since January, and I don't, I've had a haircut every month on my thing here since January, and I haven't got to it yet. Just the last thing I want to say is I'm really concerned about drug abuse in this town. I see in the paper yesterday there were
 There's another thing by the county, by county, researchers link opioid deaths to drug making, drug makers marketing. And the last item on Kifori's state of the county, the very last item I looked at was dentists being
 being regulated by the county. And I still think that doctors should be on that list too. Washington State has it, California has it, but we haven't yet. Thanks Jim. Appreciate it. Thanks for coming in. I'd like to say real quick that he is right around here. Those construction guys using the big white trucks, they're not signaling, they're going around really fast.
 and I can understand why you didn't have all of the time. Thank you and happy birthday, Chairman. Okay, thank you so much. Very good. See you in another life. Bye-bye. Thank you, Jim. Very good. This is a first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, 339, please. Revise home ownership financial assistance guidelines for the Portland Housing Bureau.
 Colleagues, the Housing Bureau has heard from community partners that there's a need to increase down payment assistance for low-income buyers.
 The current Portland Housing Bureau down payment assistance funded with tax increment financing requires a minimum of 20% of the award to be used for home improvements post-purchase. Reducing the minimum 20% requirement to 10% will allow additional funds to go towards the down payment without increasing the amount of total subsidy awarded to the household.
 When program guidelines are changed, they must be presented to the City Council for approval. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. The Housing Bureau is presenting this resolution. What's your name? Your name for the record, please. My name is Ira Bailey. I'm a Housing Program Coordinator with the Portland Housing Bureau. And working on these guidelines and working with the community homeownership partners,
 We have heard that there is a need, especially in the interstate corridor urban renewal area, to increase down payment assistance. And with the partners or some of our partners starting to initiate new construction, there is not necessarily as much need to have 20% of the assistance go to home improvements, such as new appliances or new paint systems.
 However, because of the increasing prices, there is a need for increased down payment assistance either to make the home buyers more competitive in a cash buying market or to allow a larger down payment to make the principal first mortgage more affordable. And so the way that we found that we could do this is by decreasing the 20% minimum that
 to 10% allowing anywhere from $8,000 to $10,000 more in down payment assistance, but not necessarily increasing the amount of total subsidy any one household could receive. And again, I would like to clarify that that is a minimum. If there are households that need to use more, then that 10% can be increased, but it does result in a smaller down payment assistance.
 Very good. Any questions? Commissioner Hardesty. Thank you very much. I'm just curious. Is this home ownership opportunity for people of a certain income? It is. So this requirement that or total all of our programs have an income or most of our programs have an income requirement of about max 100% MFI or below.
 The way the tax increment financing dollars work is that the household income max is 80% unless they are purchasing a three bedroom, then the AMI can go up to 100% for the household.
 And so that's 72.5 about medium family income in the Portland metro area. And so this will increase the opportunity for down payment to almost $100,000? Correct. Okay.
 So currently in the interstate corridor, our total subsidy for a household is $100,000. So the down payment would increase from about 77 or $80,000 to $90,000. And in the Lentz urban renewal area, that subsidy for down payment is currently 61,000. That would increase to about $69,000. And my last question has to do with, do we anticipate that we're actually going to be able to house a
 more people and home ownership opportunities because of this change? Yes, I can say that with certainty. That is our hope. That is our intention. We understand the challenge that has happened with home prices increasing faster than incomes. So we're hoping that this will allow for that. And I total untruth. I guess I do have one more question. Are we...
 What have we learned about what low-income people need to be ready for homeownership that making this change will assist us in actually implementing? Okay.
 Well, one of the challenges that we've learned is really kind of a market challenge overall. Is down payment is the biggest obstacle for people to purchase a home. Low income families specifically are challenged with not just trying to save even though there are down payment savings programs such as an individual development account. But they're competing with increased...
 rents as well. So this would allow them more cash to potentially go in sooner. It would allow them the freedom to pay off more debt, reducing their debt to income ratios, which in turn could allow them a larger mortgage or just the ability to save. So they don't have to spend all of their cash if they've been able to save some. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. You're welcome.
 Thanks a lot. Public testimony. One person, Maggie. Maggie, two minutes. Name for the record again, please. Welcome. It's legal to form a homeowners association among two unrelated people, and they could split a house.
 You could do that with people who are employed. You could do that with disabled people who are on SSI and SSDI and Social Security. A three bedroom,
 2.5 bath house if someone's paying a thousand fifty that would be 350 a person per bedroom and then if they're all Going in on the utilities and the yard maintenance say somebody comes by once a month and does the yard and washes the outside windows they of course can do you know the inside themselves unless they are
 hire someone to come in, but of course, disability will also send people who are mobility impaired to do the cleaning and the,
 and the, you know, to help them with home care if they're disabled. So I just wanna say that there's a resource and an opportunity there that perhaps is not being utilized, that could be utilized to help low income people get out of shelters. I know, almost people to get out of shelters, okay. Very good. Thank you. So this is a resolution, any further questions?
 Do we need a motion? No, it's a resolution. It's a resolution. Yeah, so we'll just call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udalli? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Resolution's adopted. Thank you for your presentation. Two second readings and then colleagues, I have to go. I'll turn this over to Commissioner Udalli to preside after these. Item 340, a second reading.
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for construction of the Hillsdale South sewer rehabilitation project number E10681 for an estimated cost of two million sixty five thousand dollars. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Bish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye.
 Udailey? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 342 also a second reading. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife to conduct stream habitat surveys in Portland waterways not to exceed $498,686. Any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. I won't be here to vote. Mayor, on the next item, I had an amendment to slap an emergency clause on it because there's some urgency. Why don't we go ahead and read it, please? If you leave, I'll lose the chance to do that. I won't allow that to happen. Please read the ordinance. Declare in. 3-4-1. Oh, sorry. They're in weird order today. The last item. Oh, the last item. We just did 3-4-1. It's actually second to last. 3-4-2. 3-4-2.
 Mine shows, so the order that was a little weird under the Bureau of Environmental Services, it went 340, then it went 342, and now it goes back to 341. The one we're actually reading on the agenda's label is 341, declare tenants in common real property. Right, that's the one you want, and that is, the correct number is 342. Okay. Oh, okay, so that's been revised. The numbering was wrong on some of the agendas. Is it clerk? Sorry about that. Thank you. Okay, so 342.
 342 is declare tenants in common real property interest in two tax slots in the Gateway District as surplus. Authorize the Director of Portland Parks and Recreation to convey its real property interest to Prosper Portland and accept real property interest in a tax slot at Gateway Discovery Park.
 Commissioner Fish. In 2009, Mayor, Prosper Portland and Portland Parks and Recreation purchased about four acres in the Gateway District to be used for a park and a mixed-use development and plan to divide the property at a later date. The property has been jointly owned, but now the parties would like to exchange their respective interests so that Prosper Portland will solely own the property to be developed and Parks will solely own the park, Gateway Discovery Park.
 Here for a very brief presentation is Zelaine Nunn-Peterson, and then I have an amendment to slap an emergency clause. Commissioner Fish, could I ask for consideration? I absolutely have to go. Could you put the amendment out first? If we adopt the emergency clause, can we adopt the underlying ordinance with three votes? No. You need four to vote on the emergency ordinance. Okay.
 I think that we all know enough about this issue. There's been briefings on this issue, Mayor. I strongly support it, and I don't want to be rude and truncate your presentation. So let's just see if there's any testimony. I will move the amendment. Second. So there's an amendment that's been moved and second. We have to hear the amendment.
 The amendment is the council declares an emergency exists because Prosper Portland needs to proceed with their mixed-use and affordable housing project. Therefore, this ordinance shall be in full force in effect from and after its date of passage. We have a motion and a second. Call the roll.
 Sorry. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendments on the table to the main motion. Any public testimony, Carla? Maggie had signed up. She's not here. She's gone. Any further discussion? So we'll proceed to a vote. Please call the roll on the main motion as amended.
 Well, I know that Zelaine had a terrific presentation. And she was so good in terms of making sure that each council office had what they needed to be able to make this judgment. So appreciate your good work and pleased to vote aye. Hardesty? I just want to put on the record that I live in Gateway and I also serve on a Board of Human Solutions. So just for the effort of public transparency, I vote aye.
 You daily? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you and I'll let Commissioner Udalli preside over what I believe is the last item. Thank you. Can I get the bottom part of the gavel? Oh yeah. So I don't have to hit the... While we're doing the move, if I could ask legal counsel, is it okay for people to talk when there's only two of us here? I have had to leave and found out that everything stopped.
 When there is not a quorum present, it isn't a city council meeting anymore. So we have had occasion where people have talked, but it isn't part of the record. It is not part of the... So if I could ask the presiding, the president, if we could have a two-minute break. Sure. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, we're back. Yes. Carla, please read the next item. Okay. Item 343, accept advisory bodies program first annual report on resolution number 37328. Thank you. Colleagues, I'm pleased to introduce the first annual report from the advisory bodies program in the Office of Community and Civic Life.
 The work to bring the city's many advisory bodies into compliance with state law and to begin institutionalizing best practices has been a collaborative endeavor across bureaus and council offices. So thank you for your contributions. And I want to thank everyone else who has helped us get to today's presentation, which I understand we are going to keep to 15 minutes or less in light of the late hour.
 Yes, thank you. And with that, I'll turn it over to Ashley Jaden from Office of Community and Civic Life, Tony Garcia Deschamps, City Attorney's Office, Monique Harrison from Bureau of Human Resources, and Danielle Brooks, Office of Equity and Human Rights. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you for the introduction. We had a fantastic 45 minute scheduled presentation. We're cutting it down significantly. If you'd like to hear my full 13 minute speech, it is fabulous, but I'm going to pick a few bullet points. So I'm pleased to present our first annual report. Advisory bodies provide guidance on a wide array of city functions, emergency response, utilities, availability of safe, affordable housing, just to name a few.
 Volunteers have a special role within city government. On advisory bodies they engage on a dedicated level and they advise on our services. Staff support them unpacking complex documents to gain an insider's understanding of city operations. Before council created this resolution, boards were fragmented, as fragmented as this speech is about to be.
 Volunteer experiences were different in every bureau, there were no standard trainings, and our advisors were unaware of responsibilities they were signing up for. The city needed a citywide program to take on management. Not all communities are applying for our advisory bodies. For both community and staff, we heard the need for more people from underrepresented groups and greater distribution of age.
 The new standard application opens eligibility to those who live, work, play, worship, or do business in the City of Portland. This is now more inclusive to community members who have been priced out of their homes, but commute to Portland every week to worship, or whose children, three times a week, participate in our community centers or after-school programs. We encourage, but do not require, groups list fewer qualities for membership.
 Studies show that historically marginalized groups, and especially women, are less likely to apply if they don't meet all the listed attributes. We work with staff liaisons to update advisory bodies, old language set in code, that may unintentionally exclude our communities.
 Examples of this are when a code requires an advisory body member live in the city of Portland or require an address, which could bar our community members experiencing periods of houselessness, or those who want to participate in the planning of a community project, but will not share their address and personal information on public record due to fear of anti-immigration sentiments. Quick snapshot of what we've done. We have conducted five mandatory open houses, five mandatory deep dive trainings,
 And we advertise those trainings through Bureau of Human Resources City and Lerner. And I continue to track down as many advisory bodies as I find out about. We've done hundreds of hours with over 17 bureaus and offices. And we've brought this council edict to life through something fantastic. Let's reflect for a moment. Before this program, what did it take to apply to an advisory body?
 A person would need to know that a recruitment is happening. That person would need to know where to apply. Let's assume they had all the organizational knowledge to know that specific program or website for further information. Even if this model resident was the savviest of applicants, if they wanted to apply to more than one advisory body, they would have to use a completely different application from group to group.
 What did this lead to? What do these assumptions lead us to? An applicant that either knew a member of the advisory body already or had industry knowledge to know what the committee was doing.
 Our reach is already mounting. Since April of 2018, more than 20,000 potential Advisory Body members visited Civic Life's recruitment website. Since December of 2018, Advisory Body program staff has processed 20 Advisory Body recruitments and more than 400 applications. At peak periods, we hosted nine active recruitments simultaneously.
 This year has been focused on getting a framework for program operation in place, and we're very excited for data to be coming in so we can find trends and identify areas of opportunity. There's a short list of opportunities in the report that deserve their own focus and evaluation. I'm now going to turn it over to our Bureau partners who have so graciously come to speak with me today. Tony Garcia de Champs will speak to you about the legal aspects,
 Monique Harrison will speak about our partnership with Bureau of Human Resources and Danielle Brooks will speak about the demographics portion Let me just say I really really really want to have your full presentation. I bet it was pretty fabulous indeed. Thank you. Thank you
 So I'll get started. My name again is Tony Garcia Deschamps and I'm with the Office of the City Attorney. I'm just going to talk about three things that I want to highlight for you. One is that my office put out a public officials training. That's a training that talked about public meetings, public records and ethics.
 This is a uniform training that we now have on video that we can reach out and send to all 100 plus boards so that we have consistency within the boards. I also want to specifically thank Rebecca Esau, Alex Cousins, Lisa Chin, and Stephanie Yao Long. They were four individuals who helped the city attorney's office put this together because they have a communications department and a lot more equipment than my office has. So if you take a look at the video, you'll see that there are multiple angles, that there's
 captions and we're and we're working on getting it translated into Spanish and it's a pretty high quality product Next I want to just preview two items for you that I'm going to be working on with with civic life one is the template document that we have and those are the template bylaws that we use and sometimes boards need a change to one of the provisions in there and sometimes we have boards that are
 in existence because of city code. And because of that, they may not have adopted the new bylaws template. And I just point that out because people can sometimes become confused when there's not consistency between boards and the rules that they're operating by. I'll be working with Ashley to identify how bureaus can change this at the bureau level and approve modifications to the template that was brought before you back in November of 2017.
 And then the last item I want to talk about is our classification system and just preview for you that our Type 1, Type 2, and Type 3 model that we previously put forward isn't a great way of categorizing it now that we've learned more about what the boards do. And we'll look at revamping that and bringing another proposal as to how to organize and track these committees for you. And I'll turn it over to Minooi. Thank you.
 My name is Monique Harrison. I'm Workforce Recruitment and Training Supervisor at the Bureau of Human Resources. First of all, I want to thank you for the opportunity to be here today. I'm sitting in for my boss, Ashley Grundy, who has had an awesome opportunity to present at a nationwide conference this week.
 So a recent opportunity for collaboration came up when the team from the Office of Civic Life identified a need to provide a consistent and equitable volunteer-focused training experience that included a variety of options to match varying learning styles and schedules of our volunteers.
 One of the required trainings critical to aligning volunteers' expectations and creating a respectful work environment is our Workforce Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation Prevention training. This is our HR Administrative Rule 2.02. One convenient option for our volunteers is a facilitator-led training that's offered both in the morning and in the afternoon and on both the east and the west sides of the river.
 This option is ideal as it provides the opportunity for engagement amongst the volunteers, the group discussions, and Q&A. Another available option is our recently developed HR 2.02 e-learning for all citywide volunteers who are either unable to attend a facilitator-led session or who would just like to do the training in the convenience of their own home environment.
 Judy Baker Johnson, one of our talented members of our training team, did some outstanding work creating this refreshed version. We're very proud of it. To bridge the gap and ensure volunteers are aware of the expectations prior to attending the training, a two-page overview of the rule is also provided. So with that, I'd like to introduce Danielle. Good afternoon, commissioners. Thank you for your time today. I'm Danielle Brooks. I'm the city's civil rights title six equity manager with the Office of Human Rights.
 I appreciate the invitation and opportunity to provide an update on the collaborative work that's been done to enhance the standardized demographic data collected for advisory boards and commissions. We're really fortunate that given our work we get to collaborate and partner with the Office of Community and Civic Life quite a bit. And I think the work around demographics is an example of institutional efficiencies and mutual benefit of sustained cross-bureau collaboration.
 Staff at the Office of Community and Civic Life were aware that OEHR was working on developing robust standards for demographic data collection for race and ethnicity, language, disability, and tribal affiliation. Rather than reinventing the wheel or having to make significant changes later, Civic Life worked with us to integrate that work early and help facilitate the process for standardization of data across the city.
 We know that collecting disaggregated data helps us identify disparities, measures performance and progress, and develop targeted strategies to course correct and hold ourselves accountable to equity work. It's also significant in Title VI or demonstrating Title VI, civil rights Title VI compliance activity. It's information that's often requested from external compliance reviews by our federal partners.
 So, it's a key piece of information and the more robust data, the better information we can get and the more compliant we are. The work around the demographic data was twofold, both identifying the needed demographics and appropriately crafting the standards as well as doing the back end process of developing methodology for collection, security, privacy and reporting efforts. We need robust information but have to balance because we're dealing with sensitive confidential data of small identifiable populations. So there was some balance to that.
 The most important takeaway is that these standards are based on best practice community research and advocacy and existing legislation or other jurisdictional standards both nationally and locally. This applies both to the categories that reflect the Office of Equity and Human Rights project as well as the other demographic categories included. In particular I'd like to specifically call out the gender identity and sexual orientation language was.
 came from our Multnomah County partners. That language has already been established through a robust community engagement process and research into best practices. Scotty Scott in particular, as well as some internal partners at the city, really helped craft and identify the best language for that.
 With regards to the race, ethnicity, language, disability, and tribal affiliation data, there will be more to come on that. We're hoping to bring something before you around spring for review, or excuse me, late summer for review. But I did want to particularly call out that this data is much more robust and enhanced than what we've seen in the past.
 Particularly, again, in the race and ethnicity section, where you're combining race and ethnicity, adding in Middle Eastern and North African categories, separating Asian and Pacific Islander and Native Hawaiian, and allowing for multiple selection for multiracial identities.
 Language allows us to really drive language access strategies and better prepare and disability data in particular has been historically really limited. So we really wanted to make sure that the data that we're asking for reflects both identity as well as needs and diversity within that community. Tribal affiliation, I really would like to call it the work of Laura John in the Office of Government Relations because she really helped identify both the need for this data and helped craft the language.
 Again, we'll have more to come, but this is a really good step in institutionalizing, standardizing this data, which will really help our equity efforts overall. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions for the panel? I have one question.
 The report notes an inconsistency between the resolution and some city code. Is it your intention at some point to come forward with proposed changes to city code so that our resolution and the expectations that the council has set forth is consistently embedded in city code?
 It came forward in resolution, yes. We want to spend a little more time doing a deeper evaluation of how we can roll out consistency between what's already written and what this was brought forward in. Good. Thank you.
 Okay, well we welcome that. And, sir? If I can just chime in here, Commissioner Fish, is that sometimes that's because some of our boards might be impacted by state laws and state rules. And so we can't just simply adopt new code that would conflict with the state codes. And so that's why I believe this was adopted as a resolution previously. Okay, but in terms of any future changes in our code,
 You would be the body that would be making recommendations and coming to us. I mean, I'm thinking that, you know, we did a political consultant ordinance a while ago, and I'm going to be bringing forth some changes because we've now learned from experience what things are working and what aren't. Is that part of your task to bring updates to the code if necessary? We'd love the opportunity to bring something forward to council. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you for the presentation and you can take your seats. Now I'm going to invite Tim Crail, Commissioner Fritz's Chief of Staff. Commissioner Fritz couldn't be here today and she had a statement she wanted read into the record and he is here to read it. Good afternoon.
 This is a statement from Commissioner Fritz that she would be presenting if she was here, but she is out-of-state representing counsel at the Government Alliance on Race and Equity Conference in New Mexico. She writes, I appreciate my comments being read into the record in my absence. Much good work has been done, and I especially join the authors in recognizing the significant contributions of Judy Prosper, former city civil rights attorney.
 The report calls for more standardization of processes and for advisory body staff and civic life to have greater oversight authority. It suggests creating a process for advisory body creation and mandating a standard process and timeline and for compliance. I disagree with this recommendation. My staff and I were deeply involved with developing the standardized application form. I take ownership of the fact that it is not working out the way we all hoped.
 Based on the experience of creating the Open and Accountable Elections Commission and of recruiting for the Portland Utility Board, I believe the standardized form can be a barrier to providing opportunities for a broader range of Portlanders to serve on city advisory bodies. The standard application forms questions result in wildly different information being submitted by applicants for the Open and Accountable Elections Commission, as the questions were difficult to connect with the purpose of the commission.
 The questions did not elicit the information needed to make the decisions, and because the responses were so different, it was difficult to compare skill sets between applicants and to assemble a broad range of experience. City staff had to expense considerable time and effort finding out more about every applicant in order to seat a commission with the desired range of interests, lived experience, and demographics. Similarly, for the Portland Utility Board, the Council's goal is to appoint a board that reflects a broad range of interests.
 The open seats should be filled by people whose experience complements ongoing board members, rather than duplicating perspectives already represented. The standard form does not contain the questions needed to find out which applications will fill the needs in a specific recruitment. I believe more flexibility rather than more standardization is needed to allow questions that match the purpose and subject matter of the advisory body.
 Based on my experiences since resolution 37328 was passed, it seems to me that almost every recruitment will need an additional supplemental application form with questions tailored to the subject matter of the board or commission and its specific needs when openings arise. This was specifically discussed when setting up the standardized form. Attempting to standardize the supplemental questions and or the process seems unlikely to provide decision makers with the information needed to fill vacancies.
 It will not be possible or desirable to standardize supplemental application forms. I also don't support a standard process for advisory board creation. Each situation is different.
 The rapid process for setting up the Open and Accountable Elections Commission is very different from the lengthy one we are engaged in to set a new course for the Commission on Disability. Let's agree on principles and values and require that all processes honor them rather than attempting to set up another prescriptive standardized process that may or may not serve all needs of all Portlanders. Thanks. So, colleagues, if you have questions as a result of the...
 I'll have a comment. A statement that was just read. I'll have a comment. Okay, I do have staff that can speak to it. Okay, I'll just, I do wanna clarify one item, which I just wanna make sure there's not confusion about. We're not seeking to standardize supplemental questions.
 We're seeking to standardize the process in which council offices, civic life and CAO find out about a newly created or changes made to an existing advisory bodies and the standard process would be used to make sure all parties who would have an interest would be aware. I move the report. I second. Great. Carla, please follow the roll. Fish? Well, thank you for an excellent if abbreviated presentation and we do have your report.
 And I am, as someone who is deeply committed to reforming the way we do boards and commissions, I'm very heartened by the data in the report about the amount of outreach you've done, the amount of training, the materials you've provided, and the like. There was a time in the not-too-distant future where we had literally over 100 boards and commissions
 where if we had sat down with that body and said, what rules apply to you? Are you or are you not a public official? Do public records laws apply? Are you maintaining records? The answer that we would have gotten back is, I don't know, because no one actually explained that to me. The goal here was to make sure that people that we recruit
 for important positions where they advise the city and provide other services, understand at the outset what they're getting into and what the ground rules are. Now, I don't want to wade too deeply into this standardized application debate, but I will say it's been my view that our primary concern was setting the floor, not the ceiling. And I have no problem tailoring any application to make it more effective for the particular recruitment.
 But frankly, colleagues, it wasn't that long ago where we didn't even have a floor, and we didn't have sort of basic standardized information. So we cannot retreat from this work because the people that are counting on us the most are the folks that we're asking to volunteer their time and provide service. And we have had a bad habit of putting people in harm's way without explaining to them really what their role was and what the law was and other things.
 We're making great progress. I appreciate this report. You'll have my full support going forward. And I'm pleased to accept the report. Aye. Hardesty? Thank you. When I used to be on that side of this table...
 I continue to be frustrated because we have many boards and commissions where we put the same old person over and over and over again because apparently they only know one African American or one Latino person and that's the one they use nonstop. I also am very aware that we have some boards and commissions that were put up not really to engage the public, but really put up as a barrier to real public participation.
 I hope that as you're doing your work, there is a opportunity for us to really evaluate the necessity of many of the boards and commissions that currently exist. I mean, I can think of about three or four of them that are associated with the police bureau that were always handpicked by the police chief, and they still exist today, and they don't report to anybody.
 We have a big problem with how we engage people. I hope you're also looking at how we remove barriers for regular people to be able to fully participate. And that means providing transportation and food and childcare and all the other barriers that community members face when we ask them to volunteer tens of hours a day.
 a month to do the city's business. We have failed woefully in actually supporting our volunteers in a way that actually respects their expertise and I hope that, I don't want to put more work on you and I appreciate that we're at the beginning of a process, but I just want to be very clear for me, my value is that when we ask people to volunteer, that we actually remove barriers to allow them to be able to do that.
 And so I vote aye, and I look forward to the next step. Thank you.
 You daily. Well, thank you Commissioner Hardesty and Commissioner Fritz. I certainly agree with all of your comments. As someone who was often called on as a stakeholder in the disability community, that word really came to be a dirty word for me. To me it meant we're going to have the appearance of doing our due diligence and outreach and engagement and then we're either going to ignore or so
 skew your input that the results will not be anything like you were hoping for. So I want to assure you that I share those concerns and priorities. I'm gonna keep, I'm gonna cut my remarks way down now. We are so lucky to have so many engaged and dedicated Portland residents who are willing to volunteer their time and work in partnership
 with the city to improve our community. And it is our responsibility to ensure that there is equal access to those bodies for everyone, that there are clear rules and instructions for participation, that the
 that the groups are representative of our actual community and that they allow Portlanders to work productively with each other and their city government.
 City life spent a city civic life spent the first year creating an inventory of Advisory bodies and providing the trainings and resources to bring them into compliance with state law This was no simple matter and the next step will be equally important and will require input from my colleagues Which I absolutely welcome Council will need to articulate a shared vision about the role of advisory bodies in the city if we agree Well, I'm gonna skip that part and
 This is a conversation for us to continue beyond today's presentation. Hopefully we will come to an agreement. I'm very encouraged by the improvements we've seen so far. I wanna give special thanks to Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz, the City Attorney's Office, Human Resources and OEHR. Finally, special thanks to my team at Civic Life for their wonderful work. Thank you, Ashley Jaden, Michelle Rodriguez, Georgia West,
 and Director Rhee, and I'm sorry if I have failed to thank anyone else by name, but I vote aye. The item is passed, and we are adjourned. 17th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Good afternoon, Carla, could you please call the roll? Good afternoon, Bish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Udailey? Here. Fritz Wheeler? Here. Now we will hear from legal counsel on the rules of order and decorum, good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony.
 Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do so with a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting.
 If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass.
 Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much, and it was read with feeling and applause. Thank you. Carla, could you read our one item for this afternoon, which is a proclamation? Item 344, Proclaim April 2019 to be Fair Housing Month.
 Colleagues, Portland, like many other cities around the nation, has a history of racial discrimination in housing. While some of these discriminatory practices have taken place in private transaction between individual landlords and renters, others have had the support of government and public institutions in the form of FHA racial restrictions, redlining, and racially restrictive covenants.
 During the first half of the 20th century, as cities shifted increasingly towards more single-family housing, Portland made changes to the city code that rezoned many predominantly multi-family neighborhoods exclusively for single-family housing.
 This rezoning that gave rise to Portland's iconic housing style was in fact an exclusionary policy that benefited single-family homeowners, who are almost exclusively white, at the expense of all other racial groups. Combined with the deliberate exclusion of African Americans in particular,
 The enduring legacy of that rezoning is racial and economic segregation that persists in our neighborhoods even to this day, and racial disparities across all measures of opportunity and well-being, including but not limited to housing.
 While the Fair Housing Act established the responsibility of government to protect people from housing discrimination, simply responding to discrimination is not enough to overcome these real disparities. What these lessons from the past also teach us is the fundamental role that we all play in reshaping our communities.
 The Housing Bureau works to further fair housing in our community through annual fair housing testing, legal services, renter protection policies, and affirmative fair housing marketing. But barriers to housing and neighborhood choice include a broad spectrum of social attitudes and policies that are not limited to housing alone.
 These are barriers such as a lack of access to public transportation, a lack of access to living wage jobs, or historic zoning that has caused a lack of affordable housing choices.
 Other bureaus are now exploring their roles in addressing these issues as well. The Bureau of Development Services, for example, is updating the city's landlord training to include new tenant protections and healthy housing. And the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has put racial equity at the forefront of housing planning efforts in the Southwest Corridor and zoning of multifamily housing throughout the city.
 and we can continue to do more to ensure that we are shaping inclusive and equitable communities all throughout Portland. I ask all bureaus to consider how their policies and practices may be contributing to the barriers of housing choice. With every decision we must ask ourselves and our staff who's impacted, how are they impacted, how are the benefits get distributed,
 How will we engage those who are impacted and what are the steps that we are taking to mitigate those impacts today? What we can learn from the past is that even seemingly neutral policies and decisions can cause as much lasting damage as those intended to cause harm. If we don't actively approach our work with the intention to prevent
 undue harm, discrimination and injustice will persist. Discrimination in housing, regardless of intent, has no place in our city and it begins with each of us. I'd like to take this opportunity to offer my colleagues to offer opening statements as well. Commissioner Udaele. Thank you Mayor.
 Welcome everyone. It's lovely to be here with you again today. It feels like we were just celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act. I can't say this often enough. Housing is a basic need and it is a human right. I ran my campaign for this seat on a platform of tenant protections and affordable housing programs.
 Stabilizing tenants and increasing access to housing is one of the most vital contributions I can make from where I now sit. I've dedicated considerable staffing resources to addressing our housing crisis over the last two years, and most recently this work has resulted in our fair access and rental proposal, or FAIR.
 which was presented to council two weeks ago. I'm incredibly proud of the work my office has done on behalf of the nearly 50% of Portlanders who are renters. But today, I want to take a moment to recognize the ways in which the community has rallied their own resources and how moving it is, it has been to work with some of the most passionate, brilliant advocates Portland has to offer.
 We often take for granted the work that organizations like Urban League, Community Alliance of Tenants, Southeast Works, Central City Concern, and so many more do every day to find creative solutions that get Portlanders into stable housing. Overcoming the stigmas of low wages, involvement in the justice system, and houselessness,
 are often exacerbated by other forms of discrimination based on race, citizenship status, and economic class. These organizations work tirelessly to assert the best interests of our community. Thank you to these organizations and many more who I did not mention today.
 Obviously, thank you also to Oregon Fair Housing for shouldering the burden that our unregulated housing market has created. I commit to continuing to step up and share that burden for as long as I am here, and chances are well beyond that.
 I'm incredibly grateful for the Fair Housing Act. It's provided us a solid foundation on which to build our fight against ongoing barriers, and it promotes the use of real data to dispel mythologies about who deserves to live in a stable home. I'm honored to celebrate the Fair Housing Act today and every day of the year. Thank you, and happy Fair Housing Month. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner Fish. So I...
 I want to begin by saying that one of the highest callings of someone sitting on this side of the dais is to have the opportunity to work every day to remove barriers in our community. And we have lots of barriers. Some are visible. Some are less visible. In fact, testing that we do has become harder because some of the barriers that people face are more subtle, less obvious than they were a generation ago.
 I always like to preface my remarks about fair housing by just acknowledging the person that in my life had the greatest impact on my passion for civil rights, and that was my dad, who was the principal sponsor of the Fair Housing Act amendments of 1988, which for the first time put teeth into the act and also enforcement and brought families and children under the umbrella of protection.
 But that was done by brokering a deal with all the various groups that were concerned, including realtors and the civil rights community and the advocacy community. It was difficult work, and it took a long time, but the Fair Housing Act amendments of 1988 have stood the test of time. So I just want to acknowledge that personal connection. I also want to say that when I was the housing commissioner,
 We heard loud and clear from the community that we needed to do more on fair housing testing and enforcement. And the truth is the city had not done much. It had not been part of our regular systems. And we did some audit testing. History will record that it was a bumpy rollout.
 And we learned a lot and we had our fair share of critics and some of the loudest critics were people that for years had not been advocating for us to do anything around fair housing. So it was something that was surprising to some of us that some of our biggest critics were people that had contributed the least in the past. But nonetheless, we persevered and now over time we have more confidence in our testing.
 And as the Fair Housing Council reminds us, testing is just a snapshot. It's not a scientific in the sense that you can't extrapolate too far. But it tells us and continues to tell us that we have work to do, that there are barriers that are set up to prevent people from being able to freely access housing of their choice. And why does that matter?
 Well, we can sling acronyms and we can cite the civil rights statutes and we can go through the history, but at the end of the day, why it matters is because we believe that families in our community should have the right to choose where they live. And by choosing where you live, you have the opportunity to access strong schools, parks, infrastructure, business districts, all the amenities that so many of us take for granted.
 come with being able to choose where to raise your family. And if the deck is stacked and prevents people from exercising that choice, then we are in a sec disenfranchising people from fully participating in some of the investments that we've made to make this a very livable community. And that is against our values. That's why this matters. That's why this work continues to matter.
 And I'm grateful that both the Housing Bureau and this mayor have continued to be dedicated to working on these hard issues of fair housing. So thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner. All right. With that, I have a formal proclamation I'd like to read. The proclamation represents the values of the entire Portland City Council on this important day.
 Whereas the Fair Housing Act enacted on April 11, 1968, was adopted to prohibit discriminatory housing practices, undo racial segregation patterns, and provide equal access to housing opportunity for all,
 And whereas in Portland, the combined federal, state, and local civil rights laws protect the people from housing discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, gender, family status, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, source of income, military status, gender identity, ethnicity, or history of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault,
 And whereas, despite these legal protections, Portland has not yet succeeded in eliminating discriminatory housing practices, removing patterns of racial segregation, and providing equitable access to opportunity as is evidenced by a racial homeownership gap
 and whereas Portland will only be successful in providing equal housing opportunity with the commitment, involvement, and support of all city bureaus, agencies, elected officials, and residents,
 And whereas, housing is essential to the quality of life and the success of all of its residents and is the foundation of health, household stability, access to education, and the ability to seek and retain employment. And whereas, Portland has a diverse population with a variety of housing needs. Our city must provide the range of housing types related to size,
 location, tenure, and cost to support the diverse housing needs of our residents. And whereas we celebrate the passage of the Fair Housing Act, let us recommit ourselves to eliminating discrimination in housing by better understanding the barriers to housing choice,
 dedicated resources to meaningfully address disparities, adopting policies that support our communities' most vulnerable residents, measuring the impacts of our efforts, and creating more housing that welcomes and celebrates people of all abilities, races, cultures,
 incomes. Now therefore I Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses do hereby proclaim April 2019 to be Fair Housing Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month.
 And now we have the honor of hearing from a number of people from our community. First up will be Kim McCarty, Senior Renter Services Program Coordinator. And I don't know if Shannon is here today. Did Shannon make it? She might be coming later, but she's not here. Okay, very good. You're going to make some brief remarks, and then I understand you're going to introduce some of our guests, starting with Alan Lauzo. Yeah, we'll have everybody come up here. Great, thank you. Welcome and thank you for being here.
 Thank you. I'm Kim McCarty, Senior Rental Services Program Coordinator at the Portland Housing Bureau for the Rental Services Office. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. As we celebrate the Fair Housing Act, we also want to celebrate communities that use the power of the Fair Housing Act to demand housing opportunity for everyone. Community includes collaboration with Urban League, El Programa Hispano-Catolica,
 and the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. As an example, their project, funded by the Portland Housing Bureau, is called the Housing Catalyst Collaboration. They've designed a culturally sensitive fair housing enforcement and education program to address housing discrimination experienced by renters of color. We look forward to sharing their impact next year.
 And today, we'll be hearing from community members working to shape inclusive and equitable communities through their participation in projects such as the Southwest Corridor Inclusion Communities Project, the Southwest Housing Equity Plan, the East Portland Action Plan, and the North Northeast Housing Strategy.
 We'll end the program by honoring our young artists that made the fair housing posters based on the theme, Everyone is Welcome in My Neighborhood, and then invite you to take some pictures with the artists. Our first set of speakers include Alan Lazo, Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Christina Palacios, Housing Director at Unite Oregon, and Eric Engstrom, Principal Analyst at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 Thank you. Thanks, Kim. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Actually before I wish you a happy Fair Housing Month, I feel compelled to note that April apparently is also Dame time, and so I'll give you a Go Blazers shout out also. So apparently important in April.
 So thank you for having us here this afternoon and happy fair housing month to all of you. I'm Alan Lazo, the executive director at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. We're a private nonprofit civil rights organization whose mission is to end housing discrimination and ensure equal access to housing in Oregon. Commissioner Daly, as you know, we just celebrated, it seems yesterday, the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act.
 And one of the things that I've been struck by over the last year since we celebrated that milestone in fair housing is the many ways that the work of fair housing impacts the community around us. Among those specifically is the depth and the breadth of the impact of housing discrimination and segregation that the Fair Housing Act had intended to address more than 50 years ago now.
 In 1970, Traficante v. Metropolitan Life Insurance became the first Fair Housing Act case before the Supreme Court. In that case, the owners of an apartment complex in San Francisco had discriminated against non-white rental applicants. But the case was brought both by a black plaintiff, an applicant in the apartment complex, as well as a white plaintiff living in the apartment complex, Paul Traficante.
 Traficante alleged that he too had suffered harm because he, number one, had lost the social benefits of living in an integrated community. Two, that he had missed business and professional advantages which would have accrued if they had lived with members of minority groups. And three, that he had suffered embarrassment and economic damage in social, business, and professional activities from being stigmatized as a resident of a segregated community. Okay.
 The decision then by the Supreme Court in agreeing with Traficante affirmed Congress's intent under the Fair Housing Act that even those who are not, quote, direct victims have standing to enforce the Fair Housing Act for they, quote, for they too have suffered from segregation.
 All of this was consistent, the Supreme Court found, with the understanding, again, of the act's congressional drafters, who knew that the harms of housing discrimination were many. Again, that depth and breadth of the impact of housing discrimination.
 The act's proponents at the time, as the Supreme Court noted, quote, emphasized that those who are not direct objects of discrimination had an interest in ensuring fair housing as they too suffered. The court went on to say that while it was the landlord who had been the one to perpetrate the discrimination,
 The plaintiff was not the only victim of discriminatory housing practices. It is, as Senator Javits said in supporting the bill, the whole community who suffers its impacts. So while the Truff County decision set an important legal standard about who is harmed by discrimination and subsequently has set the legal standard for standing in fair housing cases,
 It also, for me, confirms that not only are those who suffer the direct impact of discrimination harmed but also the whole community is harmed. I would offer this notion also then imbues us the responsibility that an entire community has to end discrimination and create open and inclusive communities because we can see that when one individual suffers discrimination, then we all do.
 Conversely, then, we can hold that not only one benefits from ending housing discrimination and ending segregation, but an entire community benefits from ending discrimination and ending segregation. In the end, this legal concept about who is harmed by discrimination and segregation confers upon all of us the moral obligation and the moral imperative that,
 the depth and breadth of by which we must accept the responsibility to remedy the impacts of historical housing discrimination, segregation and displacement. The call is made not only to our partners at the government, institutional and systems wide levels, it is made to all members of our community in every neighborhood in our city,
 And we're going to hear next from some of those groups who have answered this call to open and inclusive communities in the processes in which they are involved today in our communities. The depth and breadth of the promise of fair housing ultimately calls for all of us to dream and then make real the world the young artists that we will meet later have so adeptly illustrated in the Fair Housing Poster Contest.
 Those long-ago acts of discrimination, those deeply segregated neighborhoods that gave rise to the original open housing movement of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. more than 50 years ago, and ultimately the Fair Housing Act 51 years ago that we celebrate today, call upon us all to work toward a world as our young artists, again, here today will endear us with, where, quote, everyone is welcome in my neighborhood. So thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Lazo.
 Our next speaker is Christina. Good afternoon, Mayor and members of the City Council. Thank you for having me today. My name is Christina Palacios. I work for Unite Oregon, our State Housing Director. And I'm here today to talk about or work in the Southwest Corridor, the Tiger area, and we're starting to work in Southwest Portland.
 We've been working with metro cities and affordable housing providers to make sure that there is an equitable first outcomes, fair outcome if or when the max line happens. Unite Oregon has been involving the Southwest Corral since 2017 and we started working in partnership with CAD, OPAL, Momentum Alliance, Community Partners for Affordable Housing, also known as CPAP.
 And our collective vision is to make sure that when there is new developments, that everyone that is going to be impacted by the projects has a chance to raise their voice and is listened to. We specifically want to lift up the voices of the community members that tend not to participate for the many reasons, as many of you know, people of color, people with disabilities, immigrants, refugees,
 renters, transit riders, youth, rural communities, et cetera. Since 2017, Unite Oregon organized many successful community meetings and we had an attendance of 40 to 60 people at every meeting. They were all happening in the Tiger area,
 And we're going to be doing the same in the Southwest corridor. We plan to do that in Clackamas. So we want to do everywhere. We want to make sure that the voices that I mentioned before that are not heard are heard loud and clear. After several meetings, our number has been increasing. We went from 60 to now 80 to 100 people at every meeting. And we'll be getting extra participants on adult Southwest corridor cohort.
 subcommittees and committees that we have. People just show up and say they want to be part of it. The information that we present at each encounter we have with the community has been in Spanish, English, Somali, and Arabic. When we see the extra participants at our events, what comes to our mind is one thing. Our communities want to say and want to be a part of what is happening in their communities.
 So thanks to the multilingual, multicultural spaces that we create, we're able to come out with, we were able to come up with a letter of request that I'm going to be passing.
 This letter of request has many things that the community said they needed to stay in place. Some of those requests include fair housing rights, renters protections, community needs, walk size and many things. They voted and they all approved this letter and on their own they were able to collect 100 signatures to support the request.
 I hope you take the time to read those requests and take it very seriously. People, immigrants and refugees need to be heard and I'm asking you today to hear them. So three of the letters, three of the requests that they had on this letter I'm going to mention.
 today for public records so you can see that when the community speaks, they're listened to. So when we started working, there was a proposal for the Max line that was going to go through Ash Avenue on Tiger. There was an apartment complex that housed 70 families.
 What the community said was simple. Don't destroy anything. Construction before destruction. If you don't have a place to put us, do not destroy any of our housing. The response from the city of Tiger was they made a commitment not to destroy anything. So that was good. The community felt that they were listened to.
 Then on the letter, they wrote that their bus tickets were too high. They were taking two hours from... They still do. They take about two hours to come from Hillsborough, Beaverton, Tiger, or Tualatin to work in the city of Portland or enjoy the amenities that we have, and they don't have. Such things are sometimes...
 community spaces where they can try, they can play, and they don't have them over there. So they come in here, but they take too long, and they didn't have enough money to keep paying those high fares. With OPL, was already working on lowering the fares. So this letter pushed elected officials to make it happen, and now they're taking advantage of low fares. And the last one that they demanded on this letter,
 It was to provide renters protections. They were telling us they were getting evicted and their renters were going up way too much and they were afraid that if a new max line came through their area, they're going to get displaced. So we encourage them to not only write this letter, but to call their elected official and show up to Salem and ask for renters protections. We now have the most progressive renters protections in the nation.
 So, I'm here today to ask you to keep supporting fair, affordable housing and protections for all in every aspect. And to fund Unite Oregon and our partners so we can do long-term sustainable fair housing for all. Thank you. Thank you. I can do the slides for you. Thank you.
 the bureau of planning and sustainability understands that historically zoning has been used as a tool of exclusion and as the agency with custodianship over the zoning map and zoning code we know that we have an obligation to look
 critically at our legacy zoning patterns and breakdown barriers to housing choice as we do our planning work. We have a policy toolbox that is in fairly good shape on this point. As you know, the Portland Plan in 2012 put forward the idea of an equity framework that drives everything we do as an essential focus with an emphasis on race and disability.
 In 2015, our climate action plan was updated to have a more explicit focus on equity actions. And more recently, the comprehensive plan was overhauled and is one of the key implementation tools for this work because of how it drives how we manage growth and change.
 So for BPS, fair housing means reconsidering our practices and forming new community partners. We have policies, but we need to move towards more partnerships and changing our day-to-day practices. Next slide.
 As we consider new plans, we need to ask ourselves if the changes we're making are expanding housing choice or where they serve as a barrier. And the mayor asked some of those questions in your introduction. When we are considering single family zoning, what is that impact? Is that still appropriate? When we are up zoning area, will the subsequent development cause displacement, such as the question in the Southwest Corridor? Are we treating different areas of the city differently as we do our work?
 The new comprehensive plan provides policies for doing this kind of analysis and asking these kind of questions
 And of course that work is not confined to BPS, Prosper Portland, PBOT, Housing Bureau are critical partners in that work. And this slide is just a picture of one of the earliest citywide zoning maps with highlighting the areas that at the time were the first single family zones that existed in the city and the map was actually a little bit the reverse of today's zoning map which has a lot more of the single family zoning than it did then.
 We know that community plans have different impacts on different communities. And the slide shows the Southwest Community Plan from 2001 and the 1993 Albina Community Plan.
 Since 2000, there have been, we're starting to approach a five digit figure on the number of housing units built in the Albina Community Plan area. So approaching 10,000 housing units since 2000 in that area. And in Southwest Portland, it's probably almost less than half of that number of housing units have been built. And most of those housing units have been built in the immediate close in South Portland neighborhood, not so much further afield in Southwest.
 Arguably, the zoning pattern is having an effect on housing choice in Southwest Portland, which is an area with great schools and access to high quality jobs. We have a new opportunity to look at that and are doing so with the Southwest Quarter Equitable Housing Strategy that you all adopted in the fall as a first step.
 One of the actions in it called for us to do further stationary planning using a health equity and fair housing lens, and that's what we're doing as we kick off the West Portland Town Center plan this year, and that's getting underway now. As we started to do our work in the Southwest Corridor, we looked at the history of redlining and the use of racial covenants in the corridor with help from the Fair Housing Council. Thank you.
 And we provided staff in our advisory group with an orientation to understand that history. And the last slide I have, actually not quite the last slide, next slide. The last slide I have just shows some material from some of those historical documents that we dug up for South Portland.
 And we hope that we're making more equitable decisions today, but as we do this, we need to remember that our zoning map looks the way it does today because of that very explicit racial bias that occurred at the time it was drawn up. So it's in that spirit that we move forward and try to make a difference now. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Do you have any questions? We'll move on to our next set of speakers. I think we're good to go. Thank you.
 So I'd like to invite our next set of speakers including Freda Christopher, John Mulvey, Dr. Steven Holt and Jillian Sarge Felton. I'll say Dr. Holt. Welcome. Thank you for being here. Yes, thank you. Just a brief introduction. They will tell us about their work in East Portland Action Plan, the North Northeast Housing Strategy,
 Freda Christopher is co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Committee and a David Douglas School Board member. John Mulvey is co-chair of the East Portland Action Plan Housing Committee and Jillian Sarage is also serving on the North Northeast Housing Strategy Committee. Welcome. We can start with John.
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and members of the Council. I'm John Mulvey and I am a co-chair of EPAP's Housing Subcommittee and I appreciate the opportunity to share with you some thoughts today on the Fair Housing Act at 51. In 1947, Langston Hughes wrote, the moon belongs to everybody but not this American Earth of ours.
 He lived and wrote in a time not that long ago when housing discrimination was legal in America. It would take until 1968 before our country would act to ensure that all Americans could buy or rent the home of their choosing in the place of their choosing. That law, the Fair Housing Act, was forged in the blood of Martin Luther King. On the day that Dr. King was murdered,
 The Fair Housing Bill had been bottled up for months in the House Rules Committee, the place where controversial bills were sent to die. The bill also faced a filibuster in the Senate. In the days after his murder, riots erupted in more than 100 American cities. 75,000 U.S. soldiers and guardsmen patrolled America's streets. Here in Oregon, more than 700 people marched in Lake Oswego.
 5,000 in Eugene. A silent vigil at Portland City Hall lasted three days and nights. Students walked out of classes at Jefferson High School where school didn't resume for six days.
 The editors of the Portland Journal wrote about the unrest, but also said, quote, helpful now would be a convincing showing that Dr. King was right and that the majority of white Americans are sincere, if lethargic, advocates of racial justice. One of President Lyndon Johnson's aides recalled that Johnson had cornered him one day to urge him to keep working on the Hopeless Bill.
 The president, poking him in the shoulder with his finger to emphasize each word, said that he wanted the bill because until people live together, they'll never know that they have the same fears and ambitions and the same hopes for their children.
 As 150,000 mourners filed past Dr. King's body in the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta, the House Rules Committee voted the Fair Housing Bill to the House floor. It would pass both chambers the next day and be signed by the president six days after the murder. Every member of Oregon's congressional delegation, three Democrats and three Republicans, voted in favor of the bill.
 But Senator Mark Hatfield presciently warned that legislation does not change hearts and minds, and a statute on the books does not end discrimination. So we're here today to honor the Fair Housing Act, enacted into law 51 years ago. But it's a bittersweet celebration when we know that, as Senator Hatfield warned, housing discrimination continues in our nation and here in our city.
 And it's a sad memorial when today our housing crisis appears so intractable. What would Langston Hughes say about Portland today? Or Mark Hatfield? Or Martin Luther King? They brought urgency, compassion, and a love of justice to the problems of their day. That's the legacy of the Fair Housing Act that I hope this council will celebrate and make real, not with proclamations, but with action.
 The problems of the past seemed intractable too, and their times were as challenging as any could be. Despite the obstacles, they took bold risks for what was right. I ask today's leadership to embrace that legacy and show the same courage to act boldly to ensure that every Portlander, now and in the future, has a decent and safe home. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Freda Christopher. I'm co-chair of East Portland Action Plan Housing Subcommittee and chair of the David Douglas School Board. I want to thank you for recognizing and proclaiming it Fair Housing Month. East Portland is home to many of our underrepresented and underserved communities who often are the recipients of housing discrimination.
 Though Portland has taken steps to reduce this discrimination, it has not been eliminated. Many of the projects that receive public funding are careful to fulfill those requirements in the Fair Housing Act, but the private sector is far from doing so. Thus, discrimination continues.
 I think we have some opportunities here with the implementation of the Portland Rental Registration Program and the new screening criteria that there is some potential out there to reduce housing discrimination that still occurs. I know with East Portland Action Plan our Housing Subcommittee are looking at how can we help in our neighborhood. Unlike many neighborhoods who want to exclude people, we want to be all-inclusive and
 And we want to keep people in East Portland and not have them displaced. Unfortunately, displacement is now occurring. Our East Portland schools are losing students. But most important, when you look at the data, it's those that are on free lunch, or they speak another language at home, or they're in our ESL program, or they're homeless.
 As a committee we are working and we try to work collaboratively with the Housing Bureau. We are also working as a committee on looking at something using a tool that's been used in the past, preference policies, as an anti-displacement tool. We're doing our research now on that and hope at some point to be talking with the Housing Bureau and bringing it to City Council.
 But the last step, I've been working a lot on this research, have met with many of the providers of affordable housing. We want something that is reasonable, easy to implement, and doesn't have unintended consequences. So the last step in our research is to meet with our community members who are those renters, those ones we are concerned about that are being displaced, because it's important that their voice is heard, not just from...
 the agencies or nonprofits that represent them, but the actual people who are living in those rental units.
 so that we can truly understand how they will be impacted by any policy that may. I think that is what is missing often, is that their voice, their true voice, is missed when a policy is implemented and then some unintended consequence occurs. But I'm pleased to be here today and share what we're doing in East Portland.
 We believe in being collaborative with the city rather than adversarial. And so I hope we can continue to be so. And thank you again for allowing me to speak today. Thank you, Frida. We appreciate it.
 Mayor Wheeler, Council Members, thank you for inviting me as a member of and representing the North Northeast Housing Strategy Oversight Committee to the Fair Housing Month Proclamation. I first want to invite all of you to join us on the second Thursday of the odd-numbered months for the North Northeast Housing Oversight Committee and come see what the work is that we're doing there. We welcome all of you.
 My name is Jillian Seraj Felton. I'm the Director of Housing Development at Community Partners for Affordable Housing and I'm honored to serve on the Oversight Committee. Community participation does not happen by chance. Most people will voluntarily participate if they can derive a benefit to themselves and their community.
 Communities and their beneficiaries must be actively involved in all of the stages of development for a policy or a project to be successful. Very often, however, those who have been in government have designed policies and projects without the input from the communities that they are meant to help. By acting without input from the communities, the...
 from those that we wish to help. We have perpetuated white supremacy by assuming we know what communities of color need without making substantial efforts to engage with those communities and to work through the distrust that has been developed over decades. For the most part, people know what they need. We only have to ask with thoughtfulness and intentionality and then be quiet and listen to the answer.
 We have often tried to right the wrong of housing discrimination without acknowledging the long history of intentional and targeted actions towards communities of color. This makes engagement with disenfranchised communities, specifically communities of color, difficult for the city and other jurisdictions due to lack of trust, yet all the more critical that cities and jurisdictions do so in order to rebuild that trust.
 I am very honored to be a small part of a community process that has intentionally engaged with those who have been displaced from North Northeast Portland due to gentrification and work with the city to develop a policy, the first of its kind in the nation, to prioritize the return of displaced persons.
 North Northeast Portland was redlined for decades and then when our city needed room to grow was targeted for improvement in the name of economic development and the neighborhoods of people of color, specifically black Portlanders, were intentionally and systematically displaced. We are not the only city to know this kind of targeted displacement, but we are the first to develop a way to bring people back.
 The benefits of the North Northeast housing strategy are but a drop in the bucket compared to the harm that decades and decades of discriminatory policies and gentrification have caused. But the city of Portland is the only city to have such a policy in place, which for me is a source of great pride.
 We commend Mayor Wheeler and the City Council on its continued commitment to fair housing, to reaching out to those whose voices have long been either silenced or ignored. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler.
 and the City Council for continuing to work with community members to develop policies which remove the barriers to obtaining housing and prioritizing housing for those who have been most impacted by our harmful past policies. Thank you. Thank you, and thank you for the good work you and your colleagues are doing on the Northeast Housing Oversight Council. You guys are doing great work. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. I'd like to invite back Alan Lazo.
 And I'll be bringing some chairs up here for the artists as well. Thank you. So this is the most important part, right? This is where we hear the contest winners. Excellent. Thanks for being here. It's all right, my young friends. That's how I looked and felt the first time I came here. That was only about four or five years ago. You're way ahead of the game for that. And he was shorter then. And lighter, Frank, yes. It's been a while.
 If you've heard me speak about this day before you know that I always say it is my favorite day to come here And I come here a lot You know and I come here a lot and some days. I'm talking about hate and harassment and discrimination This is one of my favorite days because today we get to talk about love and inclusion and youthful optimism frankly
 So these are the award-winning artists from our poster contest this year from the Portland area. And so I am going to put up on the screen the artwork that they had. And also I'm going to read a real quick description of each of them. And just for a little bit of drama, we'll go from the bottom of this sheet that I have up. And so we may have to figure out whose poster is who. So the first one is Zella...
 Ramirez, who is a, she received third place in our grade six through eight contest. She worked on this poster with her classmate, Ursula DeCastro. So Zella is a sixth grader at the Ivy School here in Portland. She does acrobatics and enjoys photography. She owns ducks. She's a professor at the University of New York.
 chickens and dogs and this summer Zella hopes to volunteer with the Humane Society and also will be doing some babysitting. So if you have needs then. And Zella's here. Zella is on the far right? Zella. Congratulations and thank you for being here Zella.
 Babysitting needs, that sounds like a good opportunity. It is. Maybe some grant money for that out there. There you go. So Maya Riojas was our third place recipient for grades one through three. Maya is nine years old and is a third grader also at the Ivy School here in Portland. Her favorite sport is judo and so I'm going to move away just a bit. I did not realize that. She likes to draw a lot and loves to read.
 She likes to do math in school and has a lot of good friends at school. She doesn't like writing that much. It'll come. Be patient. But she does it anyway and is getting better at it.
 When she grows up, she wants to be a scientist to stop pollution that hurts plants. One of her goals in life is to make people understand that when you use poison of any kind on plants, you are basically hurting yourself or killing yourself. So Maya, there's the poster that she worked on. And so congratulations, Maya.
 So we know who you are, thank you. All right. Good job. All right, and the next one down is Grace Vaupel, who was the first place recipient in grades four through five. So Grace was excited when she heard that she had won first place in grades four through five. She's in the fifth grade, also at the Ivy School here in Portland. So quite a showing from our friends at the Ivy School.
 Her art teacher, Miss Sybil, is the best art teacher she has ever had and is the one who told Grace about the fair housing poster contest. Couple things you should know about Grace. She's pretty good at softball. I'm guessing that might, that she'd be very good at softball.
 She knows almost everything about Harry Potter and can play the drums also pretty well. Her favorite animal is a corgi. My sister has two corgis. And she has two adorable dogs. Her favorite subject is either art or creative writing and her favorite color is either black or blue and you see the artwork here that Grace created. So thank you so much for being here, Grace, and congratulations.
 And of course last but not least is our grand prize award recipient whose poster is printed on thousands of posters that will go throughout the state of Oregon. It is JT Franco. His full name, while I like JT better, his full name is Taylor Anacul Franco.
 He's a seventh grader and we are so inclusive as an organization that we have included a Beaverton School District school in our Portland members because it's in that spot in Southwest Portland that is actually in the city of Portland. So JT is from Stoler Middle School in the SUMA program. His favorite subjects are math, media lab, and humanities. His other hobbies include reading, drumming, exploring computers, software and games, volunteering, swimming and traveling. Oh, much like my own hobbies.
 So far he's been to six countries and has made 16 trips to Thailand. Wow. Fantastic. When he grows up even more, he would like to be a computer engineer or programmer who goes on tour with a band as a professional drummer. That's.
 Me too. His favorite animals are dogs and his favorite word is kindness. And you will see the art that will appear on posters throughout the state of Oregon on your screens now. JT, thank you so much for your lovely art and congratulations again.
 Thank you to all of you, to your teachers, and for your parents for being here today to celebrate Fair Housing Month with us. I think we're going to try and take some photos. And the young artists have signed some posters for you to put in your offices and keep into perpetuity when some of them become famous and those become priceless. Alan, Alan, wait a minute.
 When you show up at City Council and you are televised on our network, you are famous. You're already famous. There you go. The value of the posters have already gone up. That's great. Great. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone. And congratulations. And does that complete our presentation for today? So why don't we go ahead and adjourn, and then we'll meet up here for some photographs with our award winners. We are adjourned.