...communications, first individual... Excuse me, this is a disruption in violation of council policy. Can we have an emergency session talking about the executions of our police force? You're just being disruptive. I'm going to have to ask you to leave. We need social services. We don't need more cops. You know that. You can tell me... Zero. Zero.
 3.30, request of Norm Santana to address council regarding a municipal broadband district in Portland. Is Norm here today? I do not see Mr. Santana. Next individual, please. 3.31, request of Michael O'Callaghan to address council regarding council treatment of humans. Mr. Callaghan, good morning and welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Michael Callahan. First thing, I'd like to offer everybody here and on television the opportunity to make the earth a better place. Pick up a piece of litter.
 Okay, we can all do it. It's everywhere. Okay, first. Second, a friend of mine Facebooked me, Jay Hammond's show. He was ex-governor of Alaska that he did on me in the mid-'80s. Number five, if you want to find out a little bit about my history, go there. Check it out. It's really pretty fun. Me, like in my 30s.
 Anyway, so I like to do the fun things first. Mayor, you've supported the law prohibiting the discard of past-poll date food. Nathan was your point man on it. So need another point man? Should I just call your office later on? That would be great. Okay, good. Okay, take care of that. Thank you.
 This other is a little heavy, as you know, I get into this kind of stuff because I slept out last night. Okay, and this is directly to you for the police and to you, Amanda, for the Park Service, okay? When we are solving problems, we all know this, you define the problem as clearly as you can. You apply a manipulative to produce an outcome. This question is directly to you, Mr. Wheeler. What is the desired outcome of the sweeps?
 I will answer when you're done with your time. You finish your time, and then I will respond to that. Well, I know what happens because of the sweeps. With the sweep last year, Springwater Trail Corridor, my next-door neighbor died. The average age of people dying on the streets in Portland is 46 years. Same thing in Vancouver, British Columbia, same age in San Francisco. Okay.
 This is economic genocide. Okay? This is the... Here's the definition of genocide on the UN. Conditions of life may include deliberate deprivation of resources indispensable for survival, such as food, medical services, or systemic expulsion from homes. Okay? Okay?
 You are not killing people. Hitler didn't go around shooting people. You are creating an atmosphere that causes the death of your subjects. I find that behavior inappropriate, but I understand that you're just carrying on past policies. You really haven't examined these policies. Please examine this policy.
 Thank you. Thank you, sir. So I will respond. First of all, we invest heavily, and as I will say in my speech tomorrow, record amounts in homeless prevention. Last year, the city and the county combined kept 6,500 people off the streets through intervention services. We invested heavily.
 in additional shelter space because I and many others in this community do not think it is humane to let people sleep outside in the snow and the rain. We want to give them access to water, to bathrooms, to laundry facilities, and most importantly, connect them with whatever services they need to get off and stay off the streets. We made record investments last year in housing, and lower-income housing I will –
 say tomorrow, and I will show the facts on the screen behind me, we actually delivered record affordable housing last year, and we're on track this year to do it again. With regard to suites specifically, it is a very rare circumstance during my administration where we actually move somebody out of a campsite. We have a priority list based on either housing
 environmental issues, public health issues, or public safety issues.
 We always, and we have a legal agreement that requires this, but I also happen to think it's the right thing to do, we intervene with social service providers well in advance because we post in advance and we send people in to try to get people better accommodations. And the vast, vast majority, I think virtually everybody, accepts that offer.
 as a viable and desirable opportunity. We don't just simply randomly go around the city shaking people down or moving them out. That is not the current policy, and I don't believe that has ever been the policy during my administration. So that is the best answer I can give you, and I appreciate seeing you today as always. May I respond?
 No, you've had your three minutes, and there's a lot of people waiting. You made your point very clear, though. I heard it. I'm going to respond. There are 12,000 people on the streets, and I appreciate the efforts that you're making. Thank you. You're woefully inept.
 I don't disagree that there is a – The whole village got swept. There are 60,000 homeless people in L.A., and they're investing a billion and a half. I didn't say the problem's solved. It is a growing and very serious problem. It is a humanitarian crisis. But what I want you to know is we are doing our part to address it, and we're doing so very well, in my opinion. Thank you, sir. Next individual, please. Thank you, sir.
 Item 332, a request of Joanne Harigal to address council regarding elders in action civics 101 training. Good morning.
 Mayor and members of the council, my name is Joanne Harigal. I'm the deputy director at Elders in Action. I'm here today to thank you for your support and participation in the Civics 101 training that Elders in Action conducted in January and February of this year. The training series consisted of five sessions and attracted over 35 participants from across the county. A few of them are with me today.
 We focused on the basic operation and structure of city, county, neighborhood, and state governments. We visited and learned about both the city of Portland and the city of Gresham and compared the government structures of the two. In the city of Gresham, we met with the mayor and a city councilor. And in Portland, we met with staff from Commissioner Udeli's office and staff from the Bureau of Transportation.
 We met with County Commissioner Vega-Peterson and toured the county offices and the hearing room. And we met with Oney and East Portland neighborhood staff and neighborhood leaders from the city of Gresham.
 Finally, we took 20 people to the Capitol in Salem to tour the building, meet our legislators, and hear from the Governor's Human Services staff. A few weeks after the session ended, a few participants joined me here at City Council to see the Council in action. Among other things, we learned how to sign up to give testimony, where to sit, places not to sit, and then also firsthand how to see the timer go from green to yellow to red.
 Participants reflected after the series was over that it helped demystify the government structures and processes and left participants feeling empowered to participate in advocacy from a place of knowledge.
 Thank you to you and Commissioner Udalli for her office's participation, and thank you all for allowing me to show people how this city works up close and personal. We appreciate your long-term support, and we feel that Civics 101 is a great example of how we can all work together. Thanks very much. Well, thank you, and I'll speak on behalf of all of us, I'm sure. We really appreciate the work that Elders in Action does in the community, and I think the Civics 101 training is just...
 One more example of how you are being a very effective partner in helping us be an age-friendly city for everyone. And I'm not going to get ahead of the council in the budget process, but I can tell you there's a lot more to come. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you all for your active participation in helping us realize the vision of an age-friendly community. Thanks. Thanks for being here today. Next individual, please.
 Item 333, request of injured and pissed off to address council regarding wasting taxpayer dollars. Two publications of city council meetings. No, go. I'm going to help. I'm not going to help. Good morning. Morning. My name's injured and pissed off. And, of course, I've addressed this issue before with the two publications.
 Joe Walsh, of all things, came to your defense, Mr. Mayor, and he said that the Daily Journal of Commerce, printing the Portland City Council, is doing that for free. And I was in disbelief when he said that, but I guess maybe he's getting a little old.
 Aren't we all? Well, your excuse was, Mr. Mayor, saying that the two publications that some people don't have internet. I think that equally applies even to the mayor getting old. Yes, sir. Now the Portland Tribune is only publishing the city hall...
 uh... the city council uh... record uh... in their uh... business section of the tribune and it's only uh... printed in uh... separate uh... it's a separate storage container they used to put it in Tuesdays and Thursdays paper and now uh... they should be printing a lot less papers maybe the city's getting a discount for that uh...
 They should be if they're not getting it. After all, that is the taxpayers' money, technically. So I hope that it doesn't cut into the newspaper's profits too much, but there still is two publications that's being published. It seems to be absurd with the Internet. You're saying that some people don't have it, but the meeting's also on there as well.
 And next time when I speak here, request of injured and pissed off. This is for May 23rd of this year. Injured and pissed off to address counsel regarding civil conspiracy and conflict of interest in seven service animal attacks in less than six years by the same dog. I'll be addressing that May 23rd.
 Two-thirds of the nation has a dog or cat, but have they been attacked seven times? Just because I live on the city property, Hamilton West Apartments is owned by the city of Portland, and they allowed that seven dog attacks to happen to me, and of course I got injured severely. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Appreciate your being here.
 Next individual. Please, Carla. 334, request of Gloria Negazajo to address council regarding community forum on participatory budgeting. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Gloria Negazajo. I'm here to draw your attention to and invite you to...
 A community forum that we have on participatory budgeting. Something that is, it's a concept that was introduced to me that I think is really important.
 an interesting concept and an important one as it relates to democracy and participation into resource allocations by citizens of this great city. And so I'd like to invite you to attend the community forum that we have this Saturday from 9 in the morning to 3.30 p.m.
 We've got information on healthydemocracy.org. That's where registration is at. As of this morning, we have about 115 people that have already registered. And so just would like to encourage you and your staff to register and to participate. The goal of it is really, we're just trying to bring participatory budgeting into the Portland metro area.
 And what we're trying to do is just connect communities with elected officials and stuff to start just discussing what that looks like in practice and how important it is and if that's something that the people of the city of Portland would like to be part of or to bring to the city. Again, because it's important that people are part of the decision-making process where it's not just a budget, here you go and...
 we're going to tell you how to, where the council basically decide on everything budget. But with participatory budgeting, what you're doing is inviting citizens to decide when, how they want to allocate resources. It doesn't have to be everything, but you set aside an amount of money and you let them decide on that. And I think that's really great again.
 Mayor Wheeler, I think during your campaign, you promised to bring PB to Portland and would like to kind of like ask if you would like to give a shout-out in your State of the City address by the forum. That would be really great. And also would like to ask if there's an opportunity for us to meet with either one of you to talk further about participatory budgeting
 Again, the point is to make sure that people are participating in resource allocation in the city of Portland because that's really important. It's empowering. It gives people voices to participate into our own tax dollars. So thank you so much for having me this morning. Thank you, Gloria. And before you leave, if people in the community are interested in attending, could you give the website URL one more time?
 Sure. It's www.healthydemocracy.org. And, Gloria, I know I cannot attend on Saturday, and I apologize for that. I am, however, very interested in what results from that conversation, and I would love to have the opportunity to chat with you about that after the fact.
 I will definitely put this out on my social media. If you could be kind enough, you see Michelle waving right there. If you can give her the information, we'll put it out. Sounds great. We'll put it out broadly. Commissioner Fritz. I have the grand reopening of Ventura Park on Saturday, so I also cannot come, but I'll have staff there. So thank you very much for being here to publicize it. Well, thank you so much. Thank you. And that gets us to the consent agenda. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? No.
 Yes, 337. 337. Please call the roll on the remainder. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 I have a couple comments to make. I'm generally supportive of putting our reappointments on the consent agenda, but since we have our reappointee in the audience today, Mr. Stanley, I just want to thank him for his over 30 years of service to the city of Portland. He's been a driving force in helping the city draft our city noise code,
 and which has stood the test of time in court appeals and challenges to the good work of one of our nation's leading agencies for addressing the growing issue of urban noise pollution. He has contributed probably thousands of hours for free to the city. Mary Sipes is a fan, clearly, and he's a state of Oregon licensed acoustical engineer.
 who can be found grading the state engineering exams for new acoustical engineers. That sounds thrilling, Mr. Stanley. Thank you. He's past president of the National Council of Acoustical Consultants and is active with the Acoustical Society of America, an institute of noise control engineering. We are privileged to have a national expert
 help serve our community. Thank you and congratulations on your reappointment, Mr. Stanley. Aye. Fritz. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Mr. Stanley, since you made the effort to be here, did you want to come up and say a few words? I don't want to put you on the spot, but if you'd like, we'd certainly love to hear from you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, sir. You're welcome, and thank you for inviting me back.
 I would like to say that I look forward to another three years on the board. As Commissioner Udaly was mentioning, I have been on the board for quite some time, and then I took a period off back on the board now. So I look forward to seeing if we can make some improvements in North Portland, the whole city in terms of some of the issues that have come up,
 with noise. So I'm looking forward to that. Thank you. We really appreciate your service. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item, time certain number 335, please. Report on recent work of the city auditor, recreation scholarships, street improvement projects, police gang enforcement team.
 Colleagues, last year I clearly stated my position in opposition to the gang enforcement list. I was asked if it would continue to exist or be replaced by some other list, and I was assured that it would not. I was deeply disappointed by what the auditor's report revealed.
 I have serious questions about the list, about how it is used, how it is managed, and what policies govern the list. Those were all key questions raised by the audit report. A key question is whether the existence of the list is in conflict with my direct direction. Chief Outlaw and I share the same concerns.
 And last week, she directed the Bureau to immediately seize use of the list until a further evaluation could be conducted. I want to be very clear. I support Chief Outlaw's decision. Not to hold an emergency session when there's a murder on Saturday night. Excuse me, Mr. Walsh, this is a violation of council policy. You are a disgrace. You'll have to leave, sir. He drove me out, not you. Throw me out. Yeah.
 Throw me out there, Mayor. Say the words and I'll leave. Mr. Walsh, please leave. Say the words and I'll leave. Say the words. Don't be afraid, you Republican. Kill. Get away from me. Wow, that's the third death threat I've had this week. So I support Chief Outlaw's decision, and I trust the chief to come to a positive resolution. Run! Run! Get the hell out of here.
 You cut me a head, I'll knock the shit out of you. Anyway, good morning, Madam Auditor. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and I am here today to share results of our latest audits and introduce brief presentations by the staff who led them.
 As always, my hope is that the commissioners in charge of bureaus that are the subject of our audits take our results in the spirit in which we intend them, which is for the city to become more effective, efficient, and equitable. We also hope to use these opportunities to speak to you as a group to highlight themes across audits that can apply to operations and programs, whether they are the subject of any particular audit we are presenting. Thank you.
 The three topics for today are recreation center scholarships, street improvement projects, and the gang enforcement team. And we are going to begin with the recreation center scholarships. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners, for the record. My name is Christine Adams-Wanberg, and I'm a senior management auditor in the auditor's office. And I led the recreation scholarships audit, which was released in March.
 So this particular audit, we looked at the alignment between Portland Parks and Recreation's current scholarship policy and the city's budget direction. We also looked at barriers that the public experiences when they're trying to access scholarships. We found that there were clarifications that were needed on the scholarship policy, as well as inclusion of scholarships in the formal budget process, and that the Bureau needs really a strategic outreach plan for scholarship information.
 Parks, Users, Recreation scholarships really is a tool for equity and access. And those amounts for scholarships have been increasing over the past few years, from 260,000 in 2008 to 290,000 in 2017. That's about 127% increase in those years.
 Parks is very sensitive to the affordability of its prices and the city policies that make access to that recreation a priority. The goals for access, however, are very difficult to reconcile with the city's, with the Bureau's need to generate that revenue for the community centers. So when scholarships are provided, the community centers lose funds they need to operate, and each center has a different goal for recovering those costs.
 The result of that tug between access and revenue generation is that a resident's ability to obtain a scholarship actually varies from center to center. So, for example, a center that needs higher revenue from fees or is behind in generating its revenue may be less able to provide a scholarship to somebody compared to a center that needs less fee revenue or has met its revenue goal.
 So effective government programs make this deliberate and clear connection between the policies and the budget. Both council and parks have very clear policies on supporting access to recreation services, but the policies in this case don't necessarily carry through to the budget allocation. We looked at other jurisdictions and most others support a budget for scholarships and they have multiple revenue sources that support that. So not necessarily just general fund money support those scholarships in the other jurisdictions we reviewed.
 Some actually restricts what the scholarships can be used for or who they can be given to as well. So evaluating these program goals is a best practice in determining how well progress is being made toward improved access. And we noted that the city budget office recommended to retain the current decentralized and unfunded system.
 Information is difficult to find on the website and information in program catalogs is also difficult and the BLASTs are not equally distributed to the city. In the graphic that you'll see is the information in the back of the program catalogs. It's in the very back and you'll notice that it is incredibly tiny and basically tells folks to go to the community centers for more information. Information we wanted to note was also rarely provided in a language other than English. In terms of recommendations, we had four of them.
 We recommend to clarify and update the Bureau's scholarship policy and implement it consistently throughout the centers. And this update we were hoping that parks would have a work session with the council to get direction on whether those scholarships should cover a prioritized list of services or if the services should be more flexible and more at the discretion of the customer. Second, to budget for scholarships and establish a funding source or funding sources.
 to report to the council periodically on the cost and performance of the program, and to develop a strategic outreach plan for scholarship information that overcomes those language and other barriers and really is consistent with the budget and revised scholarship policies. With that, I'd be happy to open up for questions.
 Please, Commissioner Fruits. Yeah. Well, first, thank you so much for your audit, Auditor Hockabierro. I really appreciate the daylighting of this issue, which I've been trying to get the council's attention for for several years. And so I agree with everything in the audit. It's really very helpful. In fact, I'd like to read not only the beginning of that paragraph that you read, but the rest of it.
 Just to emphasise, effective government programmes make a deliberate and clear connection between policies and the budget. Both City Council and Parks and Recreation have clear policies to support access to recreation services. These policies, however, do not carry through to the city's budget. The city does not set aside an amount in the budget to pay for scholarships.
 By not providing clear budget support for scholarships, each centre is left to balance these competing needs to the extent possible. The Bureau cannot track scholarship costs accurately or provide transparent accounting to the public. So that, I think, is one of the important things. Colleagues, if you haven't had a chance to read this audit, it doesn't take very long. It's really clear and concise. As was noted, the amount of scholarships we're currently giving out is 590,000.
 not coincidentally, we have a budget request for $600,000 in this year's budget. Once again, it's not recommended for funding. The audit really calls out how it was Director Charles Jordan, Commissioner Charles Jordan, who set the policy of everybody should have access to it.
 services. Now we did have the work session that started the discussion on cost recovery I would anticipate there will be another one where we will address that recommendation you just made as to how to prioritise it should the council agree to fund the scholarships we not only have the
 recreation-wide scholarships of $600,000 in the budget, but also an $80,000 request for cost recovery for preschool. I thank Eileen Argentini, the recreation manager, who's here today. It's something that weighs heavily on all of our hearts because people don't know about the scholarships. You have to read all the way to the back end to the tiny print. You have to be able to read English. So it's not open, even the system that we have.
 And what ends up happening is that people get the leftovers. So we can't give scholarships until the class has already got enough paying participants and there are a few spots left over. If we were really being equitable, we would be funding equal choice so that people who really need the services would be able to choose which class they want first rather than waiting to see if there's anything left over.
 And so I think this is really helpful, and I do encourage council to read it because it lays out much more clearly than I have ever been able to do why we need the specific line item in the budget. Thank you, Commissioner. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Alexandra Ferchak. I'm the Senior Management Auditor, and I led the Street Improvement Projects, which was released in March, and this was an audit of the Portland Transportation Bureau. Thank you.
 By reviewing selected transportation projects, the objective was to assess the planning, purpose, and evaluation process for street improvements. We found the Bureau of Transportation met expectations for the planning phase, but its evaluation of project effectiveness needs improvement.
 The city's transportation system plan includes goals such as safety, equitable transportation, and prioritizing certain modes of transportation such as public transit and bicycling. The plans also include livability and prosperity goals such as access to jobs, schools, and grocery stores, and supporting economic development.
 We found that projects included goals that supported the transportation system plan strategies, and the Bureau used an extensive public outreach process to communicate with residents and stakeholders and to obtain feedback on proposed street designs.
 Once projects are completed, the Transportation Bureau evaluates traffic data, for example, the number of cars or bicyclists using the improved streets, or the number of car-related crashes. However, for livability goals, such as supporting local businesses or community development, it is not always clear whether the goals were accomplished, or even how the street project changed the neighborhood.
 This includes any unintended consequences, such as traffic diversion to adjacent streets or changes to residence commuting. A full project goal assessment may require management to commit resources to a broader evaluation.
 To better achieve its goals through street improvement projects, we recommend that the Bureau of Transportation develop and fund a consistent evaluation process that includes livability and neighborhood impact assessments and use the results to inform the city's transportation plans. Thank you, and I'm open to any questions you may have. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Minh Dan Vuong. I'm a senior management auditor and with my colleague Elizabeth Pape, we worked on the audit of the Police Bureau's gang enforcement team. The gang enforcement team sends officers on patrol and also investigates shootings with a gang connection, and we audited both these aspects of gang enforcement. Our big question was what are the results of their work?
 Let's start with patrol. The key takeaway is that Portland police must show that traffic stops for gang enforcement are effective. Officers pulled over drivers 1,300 times in 2016, and their goals were to deter gang violence and to seize guns.
 This map here shows that the gang enforcement team spends a lot of time in north, northeast, and east Portland, and where the traffic stops happened. Officers usually use a minor traffic violation, like drivers not signaling a turn, to pull people over, and that's called a pretext stop because the traffic violation is a pretext for another investigative reason.
 We analyzed the stops data from the police bureau and found racial disparities. 59% of people stopped by the gang enforcement team were African Americans, and that is an over-representation compared to many other measures. For example, if you compare this to the driving population, less than 10% of the driving population is African American here in Portland.
 And I want to be clear, this does not allow you to conclude that officers have racial bias or the opposite, that they do not have racial bias. But this analysis shows that officers are not randomly pulling people over and that explanations like police is focused on those areas with high crime or high gang crime are also not sufficient.
 When we talked with community members during our audit, we heard concerns. For example, people worried that gang enforcement officers pull people over for minimal reasons and that they do not accurately target gang suspects.
 So to explain these disparities and to justify these frequent traffic stops, the police bureau needs to record the investigative reason for these traffic stops. Officers are not required to do that right now, and on this slide we show some examples of investigative reasons.
 We also looked at what happens after the stops. Police has not evaluated the results of these stops, but we found that 2% of encounters led to a weapon seized and about 10% led to an arrest. But the remainder were so-called no enforcement stops. The police bureau also cannot show if they stopped a gang suspect or someone with no connection to gangs. This needs to be tracked and explained to the community.
 And let me also discuss now investigations by the gang enforcement team. Here we are concerned about accountability and transparency.
 Even though the police bureau announced a few months ago that it would no longer designate people as criminal gang affiliate in police records, we found that the gang enforcement team has been and still is, or still was, collecting information at the end of our audit about people's gang associations. Specifically, the team created lists of most active gang members and associates, and an example of that list is pictured here.
 The police bureau used a point system to rank people based on gang incidents and interactions with police. And these included shootings and gun seizures, but also non-criminal events. Now what concerned us was that the police bureau did not have a policy that guided this information collection or had set up safeguards. The police bureau also hadn't told the public about this most active list, so community members did not have a chance to give input.
 This, of course, is against the backdrop of past community concerns and also potential legal questions.
 And finally, we made recommendations to improve case management at the gang enforcement team. The team opened 159 new investigations in the year 2016, and we estimated that it sent 31 cases that year to prosecutors. The police needs to keep track of the clearance status of these cases and report reliable information such as the clearance rate to the public and to counsel.
 Previously, the police bureau had reported a 25% clearance rate to council, but we didn't receive backup documentation for that figure, so we carried out our own analysis and arrived at this 19% estimate here.
 We encourage anyone interested in these issues to go to the Portland City Auditor website, where we have posted this audit report on gang enforcement as well as all of our other audit reports. And that concludes our presentation, and we are available to respond to questions. Very good. Let me respond with a statement, because we've had plenty of opportunities to go through this in detail. And I think you well know my opinion about this.
 But let me state a couple of truths. Truth number one is that this is a policy that derives from a culture that has been around for many, many years, if not decades. And I hope you have heard my forceful determination to change both the culture itself
 and the policies that are associated with the findings of audits like this. I'd like to read just a few paragraphs of my response because I like them on the record. The skewed demographics of gang-related shootings demand a heightened understanding of the activities of the gang enforcement team. Accordingly, the GET must be able to justify its practices through accurate and thorough data collection, as you've recommended.
 The audit correctly notes that it's difficult to demonstrate to the community that the GET is not engaging in racial profiling if there's inadequate data collection and analysis of stops, including so-called mere conversations. I'm pleased to share that several recommendations are currently either in practice or in process by the Portland Police Bureau.
 The Police Bureau has been collecting stops data since at least 2002 and has been issuing annual stops data collection reports since 2014. Data specific to the gang enforcement team will be published in the Police Bureau's annual stops data collection reports going forward.
 Outside of the report's recommendations, it's also important to highlight the relationship-driven work of the gang enforcement team. The unit's efforts to build relationships have been instrumental in its collection of needed intelligence, its ability to intercede at critical points, and ultimately its ability to have a positive impact within the community.
 I applaud and wholeheartedly supported the recent anti-profiling bill which was signed into law by the governor. It lays the groundwork for a new standard for the Portland Police Bureau to follow.
 No later than July 1, 2018, the Oregon Criminal Justice Commissioner, in consultation with the State Police and Department of Justice, must develop and must implement a standardized method for all law enforcement agencies to record officer-initiated traffic and pedestrian stops data.
 Notably, this data must include the race, ethnicity, age, and sex of the pedestrian or driver and the results of the stop. This will apply to the gang enforcement team, and it reinforces the work currently underway by the police bureau. One more paragraph. I fully support the recommendations outlined in this report. These recommendations raise critical questions,
 that strike at the heart of the gang enforcement team's practices, and I intend to conduct a full review and analysis of the practices at issue. A particular concern to me is the treatment of so-called mere conversations and the apparent lack of unanimity between the Bureau of Emergency Communications and the Police Bureau.
 Though they may not fit the legal definition of a stop, there is community-wide recognition, and you heard this in many of your interviews, that mere conversations are more than community engagement. The gets high rate of mere conversation certainly raises questions for my office.
 and I'd like for data collection from your conversations to be included alongside annual stops data to provide a more holistic view of the GETS interactions with the community. Along with recording of investigative reasons for stops, there are some recommendations that deserve deeper analysis with respect to the feasibility and potential legal limitations.
 I'm committed to working with the police bureau to determine what those limitations are, if any, and to find solutions that will address the gaps identified in your audit report.
 Auditor, I appreciate your team's thorough analysis and review of the gang enforcement team. Thank you for your work. Chief Outlaw, I appreciate the fact that you wanted to be here today to hear this report, and I know you are committed to it.
 to the principles that I've just outlined, and I look forward to working with you to address these issues amongst many others that we will be partnering on in the years ahead. So thank you, Chief, as well. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I was really interested. It's a very interesting report. Thank you for your thorough work, and thank you for your response, Mayor. So on page 20, you talk about the few stops resulted in weapon seizures, and you cited the 2%.
 the stops and that there were no racial discrepancies between African Americans who are oversampled and because of the more frequent stops and other races in terms of weapons carrying. Am I understanding that correctly? Thank you, Commissioner, for your question. Thank you, Commissioner.
 We are looking here at, we carried out two different analysis. The first one looked at who gets stopped, and that's where we saw the racial disparities. That's where we saw 59% of people stopped were African American. Now, a subset of people stopped can get searched by police officers, and that's what we have here on page 20 you were referring to. We also tried to look for, tried to analyze that data, and this analysis here,
 did not show statistically significant differences in the search results among people of different races. And you also mentioned, I think, 10% of the stops results in arrests. Did you look at the racial disparities, if any, in those? No, Commissioner, we did not. It's obviously a mine of information here. And, you know, if the aim is to get the guns...
 out of the community, especially out of the hands of people who are using them. The 2% is not a particularly high number, is it?
 What we're asking the gang enforcement team and the police bureau to do here is to define goals for their gang enforcement patrol activities. Whether the 2% is high or low, I can't speak to that. I think the gang enforcement team would need to formulate expectations for its officers here. Thank you. And then, Mayor, as part of the budget discussion, I'm going to be interested in more conversation about...
 is having more capacity for officers to do self-initiated conversations. Is that going to be helpful in improving safety in our community? Because I think some of these numbers kind of call that into question. Very good. Thank you. Commissioner Eudaly. Thank you, Mayor.
 Good morning. So I have a short list of questions which you may or may not be prepared to answer, but I want to put them out there at least as concerns. First, can you tell me how many officers are assigned to gang enforcement? Okay.
 Thank you, Commissioner. At the end of December, I think December 2016, there were 28 sworn personnel in the gang enforcement team. That includes about eight patrol officers and the remainder investigative personnel as well as managers. Okay. Thank you.
 I'm struggling to see the difference between some of the tactics described in the reports and kind of stop-and-frisk efforts, which we're not using anymore, I believe, and are kind of associated with racial profiling. So do you have comments on...
 I guess that potential of using very minor infractions in order to engage with an individual.
 Thank you Commissioner. As we point out in the report, a lot of the stops initiated by the gang enforcement team are for minor traffic violations. So the officers are driving around neighborhoods in Portland and pull people over for running a stop sign, not having their turning signal on, speeding, etc.
 And what we're asking then the police bureau here to do is to explain the results of these traffic stops against goals for the gang enforcement team such as contacting gang suspects, how many of these stops and encounters resulted in a contact with a gang suspect as opposed to someone with no connection to gangs or gun seizures or arrests or other goals that the police bureau might articulate.
 I don't feel like I made that question very clear. It's that we've decided that certain practices are no longer acceptable, but it seems that these practices are very similar to those that we no longer employ. So that's my concern there. The second question on the patrol audit is, when can we begin seeing the data regarding the effectiveness of the tactics used by the GETS patrol team? Is there like a...
 plan or timeline? I think that in the response there are some deadlines that the chief has articulated that she wants some of the recommendations to be done by. I'm not sure about that particular issue. If there's a date specific that she wants. I don't have the response in my binder. And then as far as the investigations and gang designation audit, um,
 It's disappointing to hear that you weren't able to access the 2016 records, given that intelligence records are supposed to be maintained for five years. So what actions would you take to hold staff accountable for that? I would refer that question to the chief. To the chief, okay. Yeah, some of these questions probably are best for the chief. Okay.
 The GET is unique because it's one of the few units within PPB that has its own crime analyst who's supposed to provide in-depth research and data analysis, and I see in your recommendations that the data should be collected and analyzed. Can you give me a little more clarity on what is currently being gathered and how it's being utilized to further the efforts of GET? This is of particular interest to me because we...
 seem to be aggregating data but not analyzing it and using it. I think what the audit is pointing out is that the unit has the resource of a crime analyst, and that crime analyst would be dependent on information being brought back from the field about what the officers are trying to accomplish and what they are accomplishing. And I think that that goes to the heart of the recommendations if –
 we understood the investigative reason that gang enforcement team officers are pulling people over, then you could do that back-end analysis to see are we being effective? Was there a suspect in that car? Was there a gun in that car? And so I think that that's the heart of the recommendations around that analysis. Yes.
 And then my final question is probably also best answered by Chief Outlaw, but I would like to state it. So one of the intended outcomes of the gang designation system is to increase officer safety so officers know in advance when they're interacting with a gang member. But there's a concern that this is priming officers to...
 Act in more hostile ways with community members who are on the list who may not be Well since there's no proof that the designations are focused on the most dangerous offenders They may not warrant that level of
 And I think our concern about the list was that there were people who maybe should have been on the list who weren't on the list and people who were on the list that maybe shouldn't have been on the list. And so I think that diminishes the effectiveness for officer safety. And I believe that the officers were also concerned about the comprehensiveness of the list and whether it was useful for that purpose. Okay. Okay.
 Well, I mean, obviously, many of us are troubled by the findings of this audit. Good relationships with the community members are essential to public safety, and they're essential to the safety of our officers. And the practices highlighted in the report, I think, demonstrate with only a third of our African American community members express concern.
 trust in our police force, which is something that we really need to remedy. But I do appreciate Chief Outlaw and the Mayor's acceptance of the auditor's recommendations, and I'm looking forward to seeing some action. Thank you. Mayor? If I could just respond quickly to that. You have my commitment to action.
 I will be also asking that the chief and I get the tools and the resources we need to implement that action. And the auditor, I think, has done a great job of raising the questions and the issues and identifying the problems. It is our job to solve them.
 And as I hope my comments made very clear, there are some longstanding issues and policies and cultural aspects and training issues and data collection issues that will need to be addressed. None of this is going to come easy. None of it's going to come cheap. So I hope I'll have that support. Commissioner Fish. I want to turn to page 16 of the gang crime investigations audit.
 I thought it was interesting that you brought the Chicago experience into the conversation and that we appear to be loosely based on, although they have much more robust safeguards that you've urged us to review. You also cite to professional associations and then model policies done by third-party groups. But because you invoke Chicago, which is –
 which just in some ways may not be the model that I would normally want to turn to as the path forward for us on this. What are the other cities that are, in your view, doing a better job than we are in terms of promulgating policies, collecting data, communicating with the public, and following a number of the recommendations in your report other than Chicago? Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner. In our audit, we did not look at other cities or other police agencies. We're mentioning the Chicago Police Department here because, as we understand it, the Portland's most active list has a methodology that tried to follow the Chicago model, but during our audit, we did not look at other police agencies or cities in detail. Thank you.
 Commissioner Udali. I just wanted to commend you on your budget pivot a moment ago. I thought that was pretty good, too. I'm kind of proud of myself. And make a pivot myself, which is that given the results of this audit, I am not convinced that this...
 is the best use of these existing resources. So while I am open and actively engaged in conversations around the police budget and staffing, I want to make sure that we are making the best of our existing resources and our existing sworn officers. No disagreement there. Great. Commissioner Fish. I think we're probably winding down here, so I just want to – I think it's important to note that it was not that long ago that the auditor issued audits
 issued a press release, and we did not have the formal process of a transmittal like this with the auditor and the senior staff presenting the findings to council, having this conversation. I actually thought it was odd that we didn't do that, but it was also a different climate, I would say. I put it politely in terms of relationship between a former mayor and the auditor's office.
 So I want to compliment both the auditor and the mayor for continuing this practice of having the auditor's office formally present to the council. I think it's very important that we hear this directly and not just have an audit delivered to our office. It also gives us each a chance to ask questions. And on issues of this significance, you know, where we're likely to have follow-up work sessions and conversations, I think it's vitally important, and Madam Auditor, thank you.
 You have done a great job during your tenure, in my view, and one of, I think, the things that I'm most admiring of is the way you've defended the independence of your office, both as an advocate and at the ballot box. But we have six elected officials at this city, and you're one of the six. Yes.
 And when you do audits, they should routinely come to council for presentation and conversation. Again, because that was not the practice for a long time, I want to observe that I think this is a real plus for transparency and accountability, and thank you and the mayor for continuing this policy. Thank you, Commissioner. Thanks. Very good. I'll accept a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Saltzman to accept the reports. Please call the roll.
 I think I already just gave my closing speech. So thanks to the auditor and the auditor's team.
 Thanks to the mayor for his commitment to address this in a timely and aggressive way. I do appreciate the fact that the chief is here to hear this conversation. And I would suggest that because of the complexity of these issues and the follow-up that's needed, I would hope that in the early fall we could arrange a work session at council to have a chance to have a mayor to continue this conversation with the chief and see if we're heading in the right direction and to the extent –
 you or the chief believe in the future that additional resources are needed at the Bureau for some purpose, I think we should have that conversation well in advance of the next budget cycle so that we can understand the thinking of the Bureau more clearly. Aye. Saltzman. Well, I also want to thank you, Madam Auditor, and your staff for coming to the Council to present your audits in the quarter. I do think it's very healthy dynamic for all of us to hear.
 the audits and you know there is a tendency in the city to silo things and we tend to not delve into issues that relate to another commissioners Bureau or the mayor's bureau and Similar when we created the technology oversight committee the whole idea was to make sure that these issues around Technology and software were elevated beyond an individual commissioner to the whole council and so the whole council has Buy-in on these issues, so thank you for doing this, and I really appreciate it. Hi you daily I
 Well, thank you for the reports. I'm always excited to read them. It's an education, a way to get to know the city a little bit better.
 Thanks. Thank you for bringing the reports to council. Thanks to Eileen Argentino from Parks and Chief Outlaw from Police. I particularly appreciate that only one of the four titles has the word but in it. And so the titles are framed in a very positive way, which says what we need to do. The police bureau must show that traffic stops are effective, and lack of accountability and transparency reduce the community's trust in police. And I concur with Commissioner Udaly since we agreed,
 don't have many opportunities to discuss the budget in advance of the Mayor's propose, that I'm not entirely convinced, based on these audits, that we're using current resources effectively, or that increasing the number of patrol officers is necessarily going to help solve some of the issues identified here. And so that discussion needs to happen because...
 because we all agree that we want our police officers to be safe, we want our community members to be safe, and we want people to be able to trust through a demonstration that there isn't a disparity in who gets dropped and what the outcomes are. So I hope that you will schedule another audit on this issue.
 relatively soon because I think this is a measurable way for us to see, are we making progress on equity? Are we making progress on addressing racial disparities with the police bureau? And I very much appreciate the...
 And the analysis from an independent perspective. As I also said, I definitely appreciate the recreation scholarships and even the graphics showing the burdens and the barriers and the tug of war between access and meeting fiscal responsibilities for the community centres. So thank you. Hi. Wheeler. Thank you for the report. One of the great oddities of our form of government is that I am perhaps –
 one of the only and maybe the only person in the United States who is both a mayor and the police commissioner. And I will write a book on this subject someday because it's fraught with peril and contradictions. I also acknowledge, as I read these audits and as I indicated a moment ago, how much work there is to do with regard to building the infrastructure
 effectiveness and the accountability of the Portland Police Bureau. That's why I hired Chief Outlaw, to come in here and be my partner to actually get it done. So not talk about it, not write reports about it, not whimsically wonder about what the future could be, but to actually do the hard work. And I am hearing my colleagues' admonitions. A quick vote tells me I don't, as of this moment, have support.
 for increasing the police bureau budget at all. And so what I'm hearing is make the case, and I will rise to that challenge. I think that's an appropriate challenge, and it's the right one. And the chief has heard that we need to come up with a strategy to address this long, longstanding issue in the Portland Police Bureau, and we need to come up with it very, very expeditiously. So thank you for the report. Thanks for the challenge. I vote aye.
 Thank you. Next item, 341. Establish emergency speed for Southeast Start Street from Southeast 109th to Southeast 162nd at the city limits to support safe travel.
 Good morning, everybody, and thank you for being here from the Transportation Bureau. Many of our high crash corridors are in East Portland. Pedestrians crossing the street are dramatically less likely to survive at higher speeds. Lowering the speed limit makes a lot of sense, and that's why I support Vision Zero. And I want to thank Commissioner Saltzman in particular for bringing this forward today. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. When it comes to speed...
 It's easily... It is really a matter of life and death. Excessive speed contributes to more than half of the fatal and serious crashes on our streets. If we can get people to slow down, we can save lives. For example, by reducing the speed limit by just 10 miles an hour from 40 miles per hour to 30 miles per hour, the likelihood of fatality or severe injury for a person struck by a vehicle is cut in half. And that is why...
 Along with the mayor, I have brought this proposal, this ordinance, emergency ordinance, to the city council today to use our authority to reduce the speed limit on Outer Southeast Stark Street from 35 miles per hour, which it is currently, to 30 miles per hour. Did I get that right? It is 35? Yes. So already this year, two people have died in traffic crashes on Outer Southeast Stark. A 53-year-old woman...
 died while walking on Stark at 148th Avenue. A 34-year-old man died while driving on Stark at 122nd Avenue. One of the fundamental principles of Vision Zero is that traffic deaths are not just inevitable. We can do something about them. We can reduce them, and we can get them to zero. And that is our goal. So today we do have an opportunity to take a big step in that direction
 by reducing taking an emergency ordinance to reduce the speed on Southeast Stark to 30 miles per hour from 109th Avenue to the Gresham City Limit, or 162nd Avenue. So I want to thank the community members, some of whom are here today, who have advanced their concerns about safety on Stark Street and have asked us to take this action. Today's ordinance, as I said, will allow us to immediately reduce the speed limit on outer Southeast Stark
 which I believe will help prevent more people from getting killed or seriously injured in crashes on this street. Director Leah Treat will give us a few remarks on this, also joined by Catherine Charlo, who leads PBOT's Active Transportation and Safety Division. And we're also very pleased to have Traffic Division Captain Mike Krebs here, and they will talk, and then we will invite two invited testimony, and then turn it over to Council for questions. Yes, sir.
 Great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Mayor, Commissioners. As Commissioner Saltzman noted, the ordinance before you today will allow us to reduce the speed limit on Outer Stark from 35 miles an hour to 30 miles an hour.
 And the ordinance is necessary because we do not have the authority to reduce the speed limits on our streets in the city. It is under ODOT's purview. So we can reduce speed limits through an emergency ordinance for up to 120 days. So that's what we're trying to do today. And then we'll be, at the same time, submitting a speed reduction request to ODOT so we can have it permanently reduced.
 This is very similar to the process that we came to you last year with Outer Division to reduce the speed limit. And we're going to be doing the same thing that we did on Outer Division and backing up this movement by installing speed safety cameras. Those will come online a little bit later. But we have found that when we reduce the speed limit and have it backed up by an enforcement effort, it's way more effective than just posting signs online.
 alone so um this is also following along on our struck campaign that we just launched last week i hope you all have had a chance to see it but we're very hopeful that the media outreach campaign is going to have an impact on drivers behavior as well and
 And as I've mentioned to you all many times, there's three things that we need to be effective in these efforts, and it's education, engineering, and enforcement. Those three things are the trifecta that help us get to the impact that we are trying to achieve. So those are the approaches that we are taking
 And also, it's important to note that we're also going to be doing some crossing improvements on Outer Stark this summer that I think will help as well. So three crossings at 146th, 151st, and 160th Avenues.
 And finally, we have also started work on a safety redesign of Outer Stark. We'll begin that process with deep community engagement and feedback about what design and outcomes they want moving forward. So thank you all for your commitment to this effort, and I'm going to turn it over to Catherine to walk you through some of the details. Great. Mayor, commissioners, thank you very much for having us here. Commissioner Saltzman.
 for bringing this. I just have a few slides to give a little more detail to what Director Treat talked about. Let's see if I can advance the slides. First, the proposed ordinance, it sets an emergency 30-mile-per-hour speed limit from 109th to 162nd.
 We will accompany that with the installation of signs, 15 signs showing the lower speed limit. And we will also, as Director Treat said, install speed cameras in two locations to help bring those speeds down. And that's important because when we go back to ODOT at the end of the emergency period, we do want the speeds to be at a level that we can hopefully get a permanent reduction in the speed. Thank you.
 And just, you've seen this graphic before, slowing people down saves lives. What this graphic shows is the dramatic difference in fatalities when a pedestrian is hit by a car moving at 20 miles an hour versus moving at 40 miles an hour.
 But as the commissioner mentioned earlier, even this five mile an hour differential has really significant impacts on the reduction in fatalities. Research that AAA did tells us that a pedestrian hit by a driver at 35 miles per hour is nearly 50% more likely to die than a pedestrian hit at 30 miles per hour. So that's what we're up to.
 especially in light of a pattern of fatalities and recent fatalities on Outer Stark. Why now? I think we've heard from the community, and we'll hear more, and we've heard from the Commissioner and the Director that time is definitely ripe to address this and other major roadways in East Portland that are really presenting safety hazards in the community.
 Outer Stark is one of our most dangerous streets for all modes. It's our sixth worst street for driving. It's our sixth worst street for walking. And it's our ninth worst street for bicycling in the city. And we've heard clearly from the community that they would like to see this addressed. And this is an important step we can take to do that.
 Director Treat talked about the multitude of tools that we can bring to bear to try to improve safety, but specific to speed, we are currently pursuing speed and red light cameras on Stark at 127th or 148th Avenue.
 This is in addition to four sets or in concert with four sets statewide. And data shows us that they're effective. We've been collecting data at each of these locations and we do see speed reductions as a result of these camera installations. You've seen this slide too, the Vision Zero Action Plan. Thank you all for your support of it over the last year.
 In relation to lowering speeds, there's three related actions we're going to talk about or we're working on here. One is the installation of the speed safety cameras. One is lowering posted speeds, both as this emergency and then permanent and hopefully lowering over time. And then as Director Treat talked about, we do need and intend to improve street design to support the lower speeds and improve safety. Okay.
 This is just a quick look at some of the challenges with design on Stark Street. There's no center medians. There's long gaps between crosswalks. There's no specially enhanced lighting, and we're seeing a lot of fatalities so far this year happen in dark conditions. There's exposed bus stops without much protection from traffic, and there's no bike lanes. So there's a lot to improve.
 In terms of tools that help actually reduce speed, we're looking, as Director Treat said, at enhanced crossings this year at 146th, 151st, 155th, and 160th.
 And then we're in a planning process for more improvements in which we'll engage the community to inform those improvements. That should be wrapped up by 2019, and hopefully those improvements will go in in 2020 and 2021. Okay.
 And we use this graphic here as kind of a conceptual graphic showing some of the ways you can improve streets to slow speeds. These aren't specific plans for Outer Stark at this point, but there's some ideas. There's street trees. There's improved crossings. There's medians. There can be ways to narrow the travel lanes. And we'll be working with the community on those specifics.
 And then the last thing we wanted to do, hopefully we can make this work, I may need a little tech support here, is share just our quick struck PSA. As Director Treat explained, this is in concert with our enforcement, our automated enforcement and our physical improvements. This concept of citywide education to really help change the culture in the city and help people understand how critical it is
 to slow down as a part of saving lives and really keeping the life of the driver from changing permanently as well. So let's see if I can do this. Don't take it personally. I know. I was warned. I don't know. I think we'll have to just... You can see this on the PBOT website.
 If you just go to the front page of the website, you can click on it and you can see it. It's a 30-second spot. It's quite powerful, and we've gotten quite a bit of response to it from the community, mostly positive, with a few people having some questions for us. Well, thanks, Catherine. Captain Krebs. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Mike Krebs. I'm the captain of our traffic division.
 This is the absolute right thing to do. This is my job, my number one job at the traffic division, is to help save lives and improve quality of life. And this reduction in speed is going to have a big difference out on Stark Street. Right now, if you're traveling 35 miles an hour, it takes you 96 feet to stop. From the time you see a hazard to the time you apply the brakes to the time you skid and come to a stop, it's 96 feet.
 At 30 miles an hour, it's 74 feet. That's 22 feet where someone's possibly not going to get hit. I talked about this before. So you see the insurance commercial, cars going down the street. They collide with somebody. Then you back it up.
 And if you slow them down, the crash will never occur. The brakes will be slammed on. The person will be scared. They'll take a deep breath and they'll walk away. And no one's injured. And this is, I think it's essential for the city and for PBOT and the police bureau to make this happen. One of the things I'll commit to is make sure we have photo radar out there during this 120 days. Make sure we do missions out. We have Vision Zero missions. We run it throughout the city. And we'll make this a priority.
 One thing that I think is important, too, is that before I came to the Traffic Division, I had not known much about PBOT, but since I've been here and working with those folks, they are some of the most committed public servants I've ever seen, and they are truly committed to achieving the goals of Vision Zero. And I look forward to maybe 50 years from now, we look back, and we're going to see in this time
 the Vision Zero was the absolute right thing to do. And so maybe one day my grandkids or my great-grandkids will actually see the Vision Zero. And they'll know that in 2016, when this came forward, you're going to see that that's how this whole thing changed. And now, isn't it wonderful, kids, that no one's dying on our streets, that we can actually walk downtown or walk out on Stark and not be worried about getting hit by a car?
 And I think that, for me anyway, as a public servant, this is cool stuff. And I'm hoping you folks will do the right thing and let us reduce this from 35 to 30 and potentially save a life or even the quality of life. One of the things we talk about is fatalities. We've had 10 so far this year. But there are numerous others who no longer can work. They can no longer take care of themselves because of these crashes. So that's probably one of the most important things to me is that we're
 We can change people's lives by doing this. We never know what it is. We'll never know. Maybe 10 years from now, I wonder how many folks, you know, were not in a collision because we reduced it by five miles an hour. So I thank you folks who do the right thing, and I appreciate your support. Thank you very much. Thank you. I have a couple of questions. Commissioner Udaly and then Commissioner Fish. Commissioner Udaly.
 Well, thank you, and I definitely support this effort. I want to make a couple comments. I've been following the public response to 20 is plenty in Vision Zero, and I really think we cannot underestimate the importance of community outreach because there's still a lot of confusion in the community about it.
 20 is plenty and Vision Zero, 20 is plenty seems self-explanatory, but it's not apparently. Vision Zero is a little more obtuse and I don't think we can assume that the broader community is aware of or understands that Vision Zero is actually an international movement to reduce and eliminate traffic fatalities. So I just want to encourage
 as much outreach as possible. And I also really appreciated that slide that shows injuries and death at 20, 30, 40, because I think for a lot of people, five miles an hour just sounds like no big deal. When I was taught how to drive at 17 by a driving instructor
 He told me that I could drive five miles over the speed limit anywhere I go and not get pulled over and ticketed. And so I think that's also an important aspect of this to explain. 20 may seem really slow to some people. Frankly, it feels very slow on Ainsworth.
 which has a dividing boulevard, if not a line. But given that many people will be driving five miles over the speed limit, I think 20 is plenty. So thank you. Thank you for the feedback. We'll work on that. Thank you. I'm doing my best one-person education campaign. Commissioner Fish.
 I was at a forum the other day and they presented some data and 50% of the public doesn't get its information from traditional media anymore and only 25% read papers. So the challenges of getting information out, including branding, is enormous. I will say that I was at the Montevilla Neighborhood Association the other night and they had the 20 mile an hour sign right at the dais. So they had put it up in a very visible place and I thought that was great.
 You know, I'm a strong supporter of Vision Zero, and since Catherine's here, I have a few questions, and I just ask that you send me a follow-up email. So can you give me the cheat sheet on your ask in the budget for Vision Zero and how much of that would benefit East Portland directly or indirectly? Okay.
 Yes, we can. Number two, I've learned a few things in some forums I've attended recently that were very sobering, including the fact that 15 of our 30 high-crash corridors intersect East Portland, and we've got three or four of the deadliest intersections in the state just on Powell.
 So could I get an update on our efforts to get ODOT to bring Powell and 82nd to city standards and then transfer them to the city so that we can maintain them? I know we all sent a letter recently to the – not to ODOT, but to the body that oversees ODOT, complaining vigorously that –
 that the improvements we're seeking in 82nd didn't make a five-year planning horizon, which is just totally unacceptable. So can I get a sense of what the timeline is optimistically for getting those roads transferred to us? Sure.
 Congratulations to your team and our friends in the legislature for getting the $110 million for outer Powell improvements. I'd like to know a little bit more about what those dollars will actually translate into, what kind of safety improvements, and so I have a better sense in the next legislative session of what we're asking for and why. And then it's interesting. There's a debate in our community about enforcement, and you know this, and it's where enforcement and equity intersect. Okay.
 Now, I can tell you, because I've been out at a lot of forums wearing another hat, a candidate, there's a tremendous appetite in East Portland to see this law enforced. But we're also hearing from advocates that they're concerned about it not being enforced in a way that is discriminatory. We've had a discussion about that earlier today. There is obviously a lot of work to do to get people to slow down.
 Because, frankly, until people really feel the pain in their wallet or, you know, are pulled over, there's some shaming. I think a lot of people are going to continue to speed, and despite our best intentions. So I would like to see vigorous enforcement. But I guess my question is, are you also collecting comprehensive data about who we're enforcing so that we can evaluate whether or not any disparate impacts are revealed from the data? Yeah.
 Captain? I can respond if you like, sir. I think that's a great question. It's something that's near and dear to my heart. I pay very close attention to the stops data. I just barely gave a presentation at Division Zero committee meeting on our stops data. And traffic stops data is consistent with the crash injury rate. We measure the injury rate and the people involved in crashes. And we're very close. Our stops are very close and consistent with.
 without people's driving behavior. And each time I get the new quarterly updates on stops data, I look close at those kind of things. And my folks know that equity is important to me. And so far, my officers are doing a really good job of we are stopping the people that are driving recklessly or dangerously. Usually with LIDAR, we have a LIDAR gun, they're coming at us. So we're not looking for...
 The occupant, per se, we're looking at the behavior of the car and the driver.
 Well, and we have, I guess, the benefit of knowing where the high crash corridors are, where the most dangerous intersections are, and we can do blanket enforcement in those intersections. And I appreciate, particularly in light of the presentation earlier today, that people will be looking very closely at who we pull over and who we enforce the law against. But I'm also hearing from the community out in East Portland that they want this law enforced.
 And they want people to slow down. And it's going to take time because a lot of people haven't gotten the message yet, both on our residential streets now with the 20-mile-an-hour and certainly in places like Powell, Stark.
 And in a second, but I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman bringing this forward. I will wholeheartedly support it. And I hope we can get some further legislative approval, Commissioner, down the road to have more authority to regulate these streets for longer than 120 days. So thank you. Thank you. Okay. That concludes our presentation. We invited Kim Marks and Joanna Molina from the Rosewood. Oh, there they are. So that's our one invited panel. And then we'll open it at any other public testimony.
 Good morning. Good morning. I've prepared a few written remarks, and then I want to go extremely at just all my remarks to address something that Commissioner Fish just touched on. My name is Cal Marks, and I am the Director of Transportation Equity at Rosewood Initiative. I am here today to speak to you about the ordinance to reduce the speed limit on Outer Stark Street from 35 to 30 miles per hour.
 I want to start by thanking you for bringing the ordinance forward and tell you how appreciative the community is. I also want to give special thanks to Commissioner Saltzman, his staff, and the staff of PBOT for their responsiveness when we brought this request to them.
 As you know, Outer Stark Street is one of Portland's 30-plus high-crash corridors. In fact, it's one of the top ten since November 2016 when I started at Rosewood Initiative. Two drivers of vehicles and four pedestrians have died.
 from crashes between 122nd Avenue and 162nd Avenue. I myself have almost been hit on numerous occasions attempting to cross Stark Street. Outer Stark is primarily a residential street with a large concentration of multifamily housing complexes and more on the way.
 Without this ordinance, the chance of more deaths is a near certainty, which will only become more so as the population along Stark increases.
 I do want to point out this ordinance is the first step towards making Stark a safer place to live. Another necessary step was the passage of the $10 million for Outer Stark in the Build Portland budget. But only if we make this an opportunity to redesign Outer Stark. I would also note that just paving it will actually invite more people to violate the speed limit.
 and not let it be just another paving project. Another important step will be the proper funding of the Outer Stark safety project. We all can make Outer Stark a safer place.
 a safer and inviting place for the community. I, Rosewood Initiative, and the Rosewood community stand ready to work with you and PBOT to make Outer Start an example of how we get to Vision Zero. Now to address the questions or points that Commissioner Fish raised.
 Yes, we want enforcement. We are concerned about how that enforcement is conducted, which is one of the reasons we are very supportive of technologies like speed and red light cameras, which take potential for unknown bias or interference.
 bias that police officers are not necessarily aware of. The other thing that I'd like to point out is for too long we've relied on education and enforcement, and that's one of the reasons why we believe that design needs to take a much stronger
 bigger, be a much bigger part of the discussion. People are going to speed. People are going to do stupid things. But those abilities or those that, those behaviors will be reduced if the design of the street does not invite those behaviors. Wide streets, narrow streets,
 with long intervals of nothing to slow them down or to stop them. Those are the things that will, addressing those, those are the things that will actually be the biggest tool in the toolbox, as people like to say, to reducing deaths and serious injuries. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here. Buenos dias a todos. Good morning, everybody. Thank you for the opportunity to be here in California.
 Speak up, my tough. I think you guys need to hear from somebody who lives in that neighborhood, and that's me. I really want to thank you, to thank everybody who's behind this emergency ordinance, because with this ordinance, you guys give the opportunity to mothers to go back to their sons at home, and to sons to go back to their mothers at home.
 Five miles, maybe it's not a big deal for everybody, but it does. It makes a huge difference on people's lives, on the people that live there. Maybe a lot of people find ridiculous for me to drive my car to work. I usually live across from my job, five minutes walking. But...
 after almost being killed many, many times in 160. So I decide that I don't found ridiculous. I found safety to drive my car to work just five minutes walk because I want to go back to my house with my kids. So I want you guys to keep that in mind at the time to put in place this emergency ordinance. The last time I was...
 Crossing 116. It's a sign of crossing. I wait in the middle, and I almost get hit. The car touched my clothes, and I stopped to check if I was fine. I was scared, but I can bet you that the guy who was driving the car was scared, too, since he stopped just maybe 30, 40 feet up front. Thank you.
 But again, five miles is not a big deal, but it will make a huge difference in my life and in the life of everybody who lives in that neighborhood. So thank you, and I hope you guys think in other places that have the same issues as 129 and 160 seconds and take actions immediately. So thank you. Thank you for your testimony. We appreciate your being here.
 Is there any further public testimony? Yes, we have five people signed up. Very good, thank you. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Robert West, and Nathan Clark. Good morning. Mr. Parker, would you start us off, please? Thank you.
 Terry Parker, Northeast Portland. Bicyclists not stopping at stop signs. Pedestrians ignoring walk-don't-walk signals. Bicyclists not stopping for pedestrians in crosswalks. Pedestrians not looking both directions before stepping into the street. Bicyclists ignoring traffic signals and other traffic control devices. Pedestrians crossing thoroughfares mid-block.
 just a few feet from a crosswalk, bicycles riding against traffic on the wrong side of the street. These are just a few of the...
 Bicyclist and pedestrian infractions I observe every time I am out and about. Failing to look at the entire picture, all that comes from PBOT is profiling drivers and making it more difficult for them to get around. Road diets, slower speeds and increased densities all add up to more congestion. More congestion means engines are idling more and running longer thereby increasing fuel consumption and emissions.
 With PBOT creating more congestion, linking up motor vehicles with air quality issues must be fake news. Similar to congestion being self-inflicted by reducing, instead of increasing motor vehicle capacity, many of the hazards of biking and walking are self-inflicted, in part due to the culture this city has created. Some of it is defined in the comp plan, which includes a discriminatory mode hierarchy, excuse me,
 With no enforcement, along with the city's obvious biased car-hater mindset, bicyclists and pedestrians have been given card-blank to ignore both the rules and common sense. Equity is absent. With the housing emergency, the current policy is to build a way out of it.
 with density. The reality is with more housing comes more cars and a need for more room for cars which includes off street parking to store them when not in use. Without more places for cars, more conflicts will occur and more people will be hurt. One of the failures of the political oratory and agenda is not initiating a discussion connecting population growth with homelessness, poverty, climate change, sustainability and yes, congestion and Vision
 For everybody's health and safety, a continuing conversation needs to take a place about how to start managing population growth, preferably with the public voluntarily accepting smaller families. Yesterday, I drove on eastbound Stark Street from Mall 205 to 162nd, heading towards one of my out-and-about destinations. I'm sorry.
 Watching my speedometer while I was keeping up with moderate traffic flow, my average speed was about 32 miles an hour. I view this speed change as a feel-good, do-little way that for the most part fritters away transportation dollars that could increase cut-through traffic on residential streets. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Okay, one thing I want to talk about is an experience that I had last night.
 About 11.30, I was going down Stark Street over there by that park where there's, like, no lights. There's a situation where five people almost became bumper trash.
 And what happened was they decided to run across the street in dark clothes in front of traffic. I had to slam on my brakes and throw my brights on so the car next to me could see there was actually pedestrians crossing. So they didn't run right over the pedestrians. I see continuously pedestrians violating the law.
 up and down Stark Street. You're sitting there saying, well let's hit the cars for the pedestrians not doing what they need to do. Okay, you learn when you're a little kid, you look both ways before you cross.
 Okay, when you get older, you should be able to know, hey, I can't cross because this car's coming down the street. I'll wait until this car is done, past me, and then I can cross. Okay, pedestrians aren't learning that. They're learning that, hey, if I step out and I get hit, someone's insurance company is going to pay me. And this is wrong. Reducing the speed limit is wrong.
 It's just another way for the city to make money. They're talking, oh, we'll put up red light cameras. I hear continuously the city sits there and says, well, we don't get any money for our tickets that we write. The state gets it.
 But we have a contract with this company to set up these red light cameras and speed cameras and stuff like that. Who is paying for this contract for this company to do this? If the city of Portland is not getting no money from its tickets, then where is that money coming from? Okay.
 The state's probably not paying for it. That means the city's paying for it. Why are we paying for something that we're not getting anything back on?
 It just boggles my mind. You guys just want to throw money away. Here's a problem. We'll just throw money away. We'll reduce speed. You've reduced speed on a number of places. I heard on the scanner the police didn't want to pursue a car that was going 100 miles an hour up airport way. Now, I can't think of any more dangerous situation than a car going 100 miles an hour up airport way with all the shuttles and cars
 buses, and people going to the airport and stuff like that. It makes the city look really good when we can't pursue those people. I've also heard several times that the police decided not to pursue a stolen car because it was going 35 miles an hour down side streets, which made people in the car that I'm riding with laugh.
 You know, so, and as far as Stark and division and stuff, I see cops speeding all the time up and down that street. Are you going to tell them they got to follow the 30 mile an hour rule unless they're going to emergencies? They crash too. So I want you to think about that.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to be here today to read Multnomah County Commissioner Lori Stigman's testimony regarding the speed limit reduction on Southeast Stark. My name is Nathan Clark. I'm a policy advisor for Commissioner Stigman. And although, unfortunately, she's unable to be here today as she had a prior commitment, she wanted to make sure you knew how much she appreciates the policy work you are doing to reduce traffic fatalities and improve safety on high-crash corridors.
 Her letter is as follows. Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners, thank you for considering this life-saving ordinance. And a special thank you to Commissioner Saltzman for bringing forth this important issue. I represent District 4, East Multnomah County, which begins at approximately...
 East 148th in Portland and extends all the way to Bonneville Dam. While I have just a small portion of East Portland in my district, this ordinance, if passed, will have a big impact on the safety of our community members. Since the beginning of 2016, there have been 99 traffic deaths in Portland. Eleven have been in my district, and three of those were on Stark. One of the recent deaths on this section of the street...
 was of a woman who was trying to cross safely in a designated crosswalk but was struck by a vehicle. As residents have been pushed east in an effort to find more affordable housing, many folks are transit-dependent, and even though this area and our infrastructure is much more accessible by car,
 As you travel further east, our arterials change to four lanes, marked crosswalks become less frequent, and many residents walk along roadways to access transit, work, and school. All of these community members deserve to safely travel to their jobs, their schools, and their places of worship. Lowering the speed limit on Stark Street from 35 mph to 30 mph will undoubtedly save lives.
 Thank you for the opportunity to submit my testimony. I look forward to our continued partnership with the City of Portland to ensure an active transportation plan that is safe for pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists. Commissioner Lori Stingman, District 4, Multnomah County, Chair of the East Multnomah County Transportation Committee. And as someone who grew up near 162nd since I was six,
 and my family still lives there. I appreciate these efforts to make it safe for all of our community members. Thank you. Thanks all three of you. Thank you for being here. The last two are Dan Handelman and Mary Sipe. Good morning. Dan will go first. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Dan Handelman with Court and Cop Watch. We don't have a really position on speed limits themselves, but as Commissioner Fish pointed out, and they were Agonian, to our surprise, reduction of speed limits can lead to racial profiling.
 And there was not an answer from Captain Krebs about whether or not there's going to be specific data kept on the enforcement in this new corridor, which is, I think, the question that Commissioner Fish was trying to get at. And, of course, there's been a diaspora of the African-American community to that area of the city, so it's possible there are more African-Americans in that area, but one can compare that population to the number of people being pulled over there.
 Commissioner Fish also referenced the report you heard earlier and in that report the gang enforcement team said they will follow a person until they commit a violation because they'll do it if you follow them long enough, which is very serious violation of rights because that means they were not following them with any reasonable suspicion in the first place. Certainly hope that's not going to be happening in this new corridor.
 uh there was also discussion about the new uh stop data which again we're encouraging you to collect for this uh but um the stop date if it comes that back from the state and it's inadequate for the needs of the city we certainly hope that the city will add things to that template that will meet the needs of the people of portland so we're not only depending on what the state says we have to collect uh um
 And then in terms of mere conversations, the report also said that the G.E.T. did 1,300 stops and 500 were keyed in as mere conversations. And again, in this corridor, if you're going to be having missions, you want to take a look at how many times people are just let go with just a verbal warning if your goal is to reduce traffic crashes and such.
 So I've managed to reference a few times the report that you were able to hear earlier. This is the second time in three months that a report came forward about police that the mayor refused to take oral testimony on.
 during the presence of the report being presented in public. I can spend an hour trying to write up commentary or I can come up here and talk for three minutes and respond to what I've heard in City Council. I think the second is more effective because I don't think everybody reads it when I send in commentary from Portland Cop Watch.
 The Mayor's staff I emailed on Friday to see if there would be an exception to the report, no report rule. I did not hear back from them. I called again yesterday afternoon just to see. And it's just not getting a report back. So I feel like when you're having these important discussions around police issues, you know are important to the community, it really would be a good idea, if we're doing community policing, to let the community speak and have input about them. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Mary Sike.
 I just want to kind of piggyback on your comments about not taking testimony on reports and would just like to encourage you to be more flexible in that regard. That said, I'm really concerned about some of the comments I just heard. You know, five miles an hour is no big deal. A dead child is a big deal. And to hear people...
 put the onus on the pedestrian and how irresponsible the pedestrian is. It just blows my mind. I'd like to ask Mr. Parker and Mr. West if a distracted child were to run out in front of their car and the chances of that child being seriously injured or killed was reduced greatly because you are now going only 30 miles an hour.
 Wouldn't you support this reduction? What it says to me is, my goodness, I just avoided killing somebody's child because I'm driving five miles less per hour. You know, it's just a no-brainer to me, and I just had to say that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's all who signed up. Very good. Please call the roll.
 Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for bringing this forward. Thanks to the community for advocating loudly for this change. I want to acknowledge that when Leah Treat was hired, one of the credentials she brought with her is that she had been a national leader in this Vision Zero movement.
 and has put us on the path to doing some important things. And as we debate the tough budget choices ahead, I would like to make sure that we're prioritizing investments in street and sidewalk safety, particularly in East Portland. It is going to take a culture change. I'm a candidate for reelection right now, so I'm going all over the city, and I can tell you that on the residential streets that we're marking as 20, people are not doing 20 miles an hour.
 And what people are doing is getting frustrated and then gunning it to get to the stop sign five seconds ahead of me and putting people at risk. And so it's going to require culture change. I think the point is very well taken that ultimately we're going to have to invest in design changes because design is an important point, but enforcement has to be part of it as well. And people have to know their consequences, and they're going to be held accountable. I appreciate this action. Thank you.
 And I hope at some point, Dan, that we reclaim our authority as a local jurisdiction to regulate these streets without doing it just on an emergency basis. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I also want to thank Director Treat and the Bureau of Transportation for all of their work on making a more balanced transportation system for the city of Portland, but with special emphasis on Vision Zero and ETS.
 to really reduce the number of fatalities and severe injuries that are occurring in our city at too frequent of a rate these days. I want to thank the Rosewood Initiative for being here today and for coming to meet with me a few months ago about this emergency speed reduction, which is before us today. I want to thank Captain Krebs and the Traffic Division for the great work that they're doing to keep people safe and alive.
 And finally, I just want to thank Shana Hobbs in my office who shepherded this process, brought this all forward, and brought it to culmination today. And I do believe that we can really, as I said in my opening remarks, a small reduction in speed can produce dramatic increases in a person's safety if they are struck or struck by an automobile. And it's a step well worth taking, in my opinion. And I'm pleased to vote aye. Udailey. Thank you.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Saltzman and Director Treat, for bringing this before us today. And thank you, Ms. Sipes, for your remarks. I also share your disappointment in some of the testimony that was given today. We were asked, why are we paying for something we're not getting anything back on?
 50 people died in traffic fatalities in the city of Portland last year. And if we can reduce that number by one or more, I would say it's well worth the investment.
 Traffic fatalities have been declining since the 1970s until recently, and now we're seeing an increase. And we're seeing an increase because there's more people on the road and because there's more competition for a variety of uses of roads between vehicles, pedestrians, and cyclists. It's a false assumption to say that...
 These accidents are being caused by cyclists and pedestrians who are not obeying.
 traffic laws. Sometimes they are, sometimes they aren't. Sometimes neither party has a fault and it's a poorly designed road. Regardless, I don't think it's any consolation to families who lose loved ones or people who are grievously injured in traffic accidents that it was their fault.
 It's our job to preserve and improve public safety, and this is a step towards it. I would like to mention again that Vision Zero is an international movement to reduce and eliminate traffic fatalities.
 It is supported by the World Health Organization. Sweden, I think, was one of the first countries to implement these policies and, in fact, have the safest roads in the world. So there you have it. I vote aye. Great. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, Director Treat, Catherine Charlo, for your work on this.
 I was struck by Commissioner Udali's comments about her driver ed class, and I think many of us in the past have had the frame of, I won't get caught if I'm going five miles an hour earlier, I mean over the speed limit. As Commissioner Fish said, I think we need to recreate a new culture. And I'm thinking back to 25 years ago when the culture of Portland was not to pick up after your dog. And I live on a corner lot with a utility pole, and I had to do a sweep before I'd let my children play outside because there was so much...
 dog deposits in the yard. I don't remember now the last time that I have picked up something from my yard. And we have changed the culture. Owners proudly carry along their little baggie and are doing their civic duty. And that's what this gets down to, to me. It's creating a new culture. We're never going to be able to enforce...
 enough to be able to make people behave. We're going to need to want people to behave and explain to them why. And I've explained to my children that the reason that they're on speed limits, particularly in neighbourhood streets, is because that's the safe limit for how fast you should be going. Yeah.
 I also have, since being in office, I've mentioned that if they get stopped and Willamette Week gets a hold of it, that is not going to reflect well on me, so would they please just keep that in mind as well? You know, you try everything that might possibly register. I love the 20 is plenty campaign. Thank you, Mary Sipe, for noting that we each have a reader board within our car.
 I have been watching my speedometer on my neighborhood street and doing 20 instead of 25. I was previously watching it very carefully and doing 25. I find I arrive at the arterial more relaxed. I find that I am more aware of my surroundings. And it's just generally a better way of doing things. And so I encourage people to do this for the right reasons. Actually, Wiki rhymed to see what a good...
 for 30 would be I'm hampered that I have a TY at the end rather than a DY so I can't find anything that actually rhymes in both American and English but certainly 20 is plenty is a really good tagline that we need to help people get out. I am very very satisfied that we were able to dedicate almost half of the cannabis tax money, recreational tax money on Vision Zero and I will continue to support that allocation as an ongoing funding.
 We do have a shared responsibility, though I do differ a little bit from some of the testimony. I gave my kids flashlights, actually Mrs Santa gave the kids flashlights, they're now like 20 and 30, in their 20s and 30s but still. So they're wandering around by themselves in downtown Portland and elsewhere.
 I carry a flashlight in my bag and when I'm a pedestrian, I feel it's at night, I've got my flashlight going. And I find that cars tend to stop for me to allow me to cross the street because I flash the flashlight in their face and they know that they're supposed to. So again, it's about a culture change. And I hope that we will all do that. Take this to heart, both as pedestrians, as cyclists, as drivers. We share the road and we need to figure out how to share the road in a safe manner. I did...
 Let me do a quick calculation here. It's 2.7 miles from 109th to 162nd on Stark. And at 35 miles an hour versus 30 miles an hour, the difference in travel time is less than a minute.
 So, again, when you're feeling like you want to push it, that you're late, whatever, you're going to get at the most a minute. And as Commissioner Fish said, you may hit the lights wrong anyway. Many of the lights are set at the appropriate – so that when you go the appropriate speed, you don't get stopped at every single one. These are all common sense things that we can take responsibility together for being safe.
 Also, I'd like to say I have never looked forward more to the Rose Festival presentation, which is coming up next, so that we can move on from this topic, which, of course, is dear to my heart. Aye. Wheeler?
 So thanks, Commissioner Saltzman, for bringing this forward. And you brought what I'll call a companion package forward early in the year. I strongly support this. I think this is great policy. I'm sorry we can only do it on a limited duration basis, but I'm sure with Dan's great work in government relations and his counsel, we'll all work together to have more permanent and resilient solutions for
 Education, enforcement, and engineering are the three major categories of tools that we have at our disposal. This is obviously addressing one portion of those tools. I'm really energized by the community engagement piece on looking at a larger engineering strategy as well. I think that's exciting, and so I'm strongly supportive of this. I do want to quickly respond to what Dan Handelman had said with regard to reports.
 And I've been on all sides of this question of public testimony on reports, and I ultimately came down the way I did with regard to reports in that they are very specific reports.
 particularly with regard to audit reports. And as you heard, audit reports used to be published. They used to have a response attached. They'd go out, and people could either pick them up or not pick them up. Now, of course, people have the opportunity to hear the auditors, the auditors who are actually engaged in the process. The council has the opportunity to ask questions of the auditors who conducted their audit and the auditors.
 opportunity exists for the bureaus to be able to respond to the audit. Audits have very specific scopes of investigation, and the responses given by the bureaus are very specific responses to the issues and the findings of that audit.
 And as such, it is a very prescribed process. And I think one of the most effective aspects of audit reports is they are so specific. They drill in like a laser beam on issues of great importance. And I want audit reports to maintain that focus as they are brought forward, and I want people to be in a position to respond very specifically to those issues.
 More generally speaking with regard to reports, it's obviously at discretion of the Council.
 But we typically ask a group or an organization or an entity to go forth and by legislative requirement, they do something and they come back and they report what they are required through legislative requirements to report. So these are very, very different than people coming up and talking about police issues or talking about the police budget
 or alternative uses of resources, it's really supposed to focus on the issue at hand. That's the point of the audit report. So I just, Dan, wanted to give you my perspective on that. I see you not agreeing, and that's fair. I have no monopoly on the truth, but I wanted to give you my reasoning for the decisions that I make, and I will not speak for the rest of the council. I vote aye. Well done. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, please. 3.42.
 Grant revocable permits to the Portland Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities relating to Portland Rose Festival annual celebration from May 25 through June 10, 2018. Are you taking this first? I'll take it. Thank you, Mayor. It's my honor and Commissioner Saltzman's honor to formally bring this ordinance before council.
 So each year the Portland Rose Festival Foundation comes before us to seek permits so that it can put on the world's best festival of its kind. And that's what's before us today. And Jeff Curtis is going to walk us through the requests, but the particular permits relate to the Grand Floral Parade, the Junior Parade, the Starlight Parade, and the use of Tom McCall Waterfront Park and some street closures.
 I think we should acknowledge, as we welcome our friends from the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, that not only is this an internationally recognized event that they plan and execute, but it also generates a lot of revenue for the city and by some estimates brings in about $75 million a year, which is why.
 I have felt so strongly about including in our annual budgets some contribution back, recognizing the service that the foundation does, as our officially recognized festival. They're not just any festival. In 2010, we made them our official festival. So here to walk us through the request is Jeff Curtis, the indefatigable executive director. Welcome. Welcome.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Mayor Whaler. Morning. Distinguished counsel. It's my honor to be in front of you today. And Commissioner Salzman, thank you for your leadership of PBOD in support of the festival. And as this ordinance came by, and Allison Madsen at PBOD and the staff.
 for making this annual tradition of coming in front of council and getting this permit on board moving forward. I get the honor of being up here to represent a great organization, a not-for-profit organization, that does the work for Portland in the context of producing a celebration for Portland as your official festival. Thank you.
 But behind me is a core group of volunteers and staff that are really the heavy lifters that make it happen. Most notably, Brett Baker is with us this morning. He's our current president of our board. And taking the reins in just a few months, in October, Terry Bowles-Atherton is also joining us this morning. Volunteer leaders passionate about this organization and the mission that we serve.
 Then the details and ultimately the product of the street ends up on the streets led by Marilyn Clint and her staff producing world-class parades as well as a waterfront presentation. Those are the people, the front lines of an organization of some 3,000 volunteers. The nature of this presentation is ultimately about the reality of making it happen.
 Actually, the coursework making it happen. We'll be here in about a month with the court to tell you the details and share with you the ultimate experience of this year's festival. I just want to provide some context to the meaning from the Rose Festival Foundation of this ordinance. The theme this year, I will say, is Play Happy. And we're going to press the button on play in about six weeks. Yes.
 But this ordinance is kind of the keys to rev up the engine. It allows us to finalize our planning. And ultimately, what I think most, and Allison can speak to this because she coordinates this, is it mobilizes the city in a unified front.
 to put our best foot forward, to bring our citizens together under the theme of Play Happy this year, and welcome the world to Portland for a three-week period of time. And this ordinance and your support of that is what makes that happen. And it's not forgotten on me after 14 years of doing this that this is an important day for us, council, for you to take this item up.
 Prior councils for 111 years have had this same duty and responsibility, and I really do appreciate it. Allison, I know from a PBOT perspective, I'll allow you to share.
 Yeah, that's a little hard to follow. There's not much more I can add. We do have just about every bureau in the city touching on some aspect of Rose Festival and the activities, and your support of this document does allow us to engage in the manner that we do, happily to support this annual event. I've had the pleasure of sitting next to Jeff since...
 2008 up here with us and happy to have my portion of this annual festival. So if there's any questions for me, I'd be happy to answer. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? One person signed up. Robert West. My name is Robert West. And let me be frank and clear.
 I enjoy the Rose Festival and I like it. In fact, I like carrying my signs at it. What I disagree with is the permit. It's like this. If I go out and I do a protest and I have a permit, I got the police escorting me, not a problem, all that, right? But if I do a protest march without a permit...
 The police come out with the riot squads and beat me and my fellow marchers up. Or they pepper spray us or they hit us with gas. So as far as I look at the permit, it's legal extortion. Because you're charging these organizations, you're charging other people money for these permits. And yeah, I know you got to...
 You gotta get money somehow. The streets in southeast Portland are falling apart and got big old potholes and stuff.
 and there's been damage done to my car from those potholes and damage done to other people's cars. But I'm going to get back to what I'm getting to. Like I said, I like the Rose Festival. I don't like the idea that the city makes the Rose Festival people get a permit. I think it's inappropriate. Now, there's other people that say that the Rose Festival was started by the Nazis and...
 the Ku Klux Klan and stuff like that. But the Rose Festival brings people out, people enjoy it, people have a good time. So I don't dislike the Rose Festival. I may not like how it came to being, but that's how I look at it. I mean, it's a great thing for the city, and you get merchants that come out and want to sell things and stuff like that. You know, capitalism at its best. Right.
 And instead of, you know, if I was walking up the street and I was thirsty and I needed some water, of course there's no one to give me water. But if I had $1.50, I could buy some water, which is, in my opinion, pretty bad. But that's the way capitalism and that's the way the city works. But, yeah, that's basically what I wanted to say is I'm against the permit, but I'm for the Rose Festival.
 So that's what I got to say. Very good. Please call the roll.
 That's a non-emergency. This is a non-emergency. Oh, I'm sorry. Mayor, I move to include an emergency clause so that we can give them a head start in getting their permits. Good. Second, because I was ready to call the roll anyway. So thank you, Nick, for bailing me out on that one. This is for the purpose of it's in the public interest to get their permits going as quickly as possible. Absolutely. Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Aye.
 Permits are approved. That was just having an emergency. Oh, I'm sorry. That was the amendment. Please call the roll. Fish. Well, this gives us an opportunity to say thank you while you're here and not next week. So to Jeff Curtis and to the A-team he brought with him today, can't wait to meet the court and then looking forward to all the festivities this summer. Thank you for every year making our city so proud. Bye. Bye.
 Saltzman? Well, thank you to the Rose Festival for organizing all the events you do and doing it. It appears so flawless and smooth from our point of view. I'm sure it's not from yours, but it does run, and it's a big event for Portlanders. And I want to thank Allison Madsen from PBOT for all of her work in making sure that the city delivers on its deliverables to make this festival a tremendous success that it is. All right.
 Fritz. Thank you for all your work. This is not only a fun time, and I think the theme of Play Happy is delightful. It's a huge economic benefit to the city, and it brings people together in a very positive way. And there's always some exercise to be involved as well, so that's always a good thing. Thank you. Bye. Wheeler.
 I appreciate Commissioners Saltzman and Fish bringing this forward, and I always appreciate seeing our representatives from the Rose Festival here in Council. You come a lot.
 And I think this is one of the most positive things that we do together as a community at a time when, frankly, we need to do more together. So you provide us the platform to get together, to interact, to learn from each other, to break down barriers. But most importantly, we just have a lot of fun.
 And so thank you for being ambassadors. Thank you for being conveners. Thank you for being people who lift up our community and shine a light on all the really positive and terrific things that people are doing here. And I can't thank you enough. I always look forward to the Rose Festival, and this year will be no exception. I vote aye. The permits are approved. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 343, appoint Leah Sykes and Jessica Greenlee to the Rental Services Commission for terms to expire April 2020. Colleagues, the resignations of Nick Cook and Ron Garcia from the Rental Services Commission in February left the commission with two openings. I'd like to invite Leah Sykes and Jessica Greenlee.
 to join the commission and maintain the balance of landlord and tenant voices on the Rental Service Commission. I know both to be very eloquent.
 spokes persons for their respective points of view. I know them to be people who work really well with others to explore ideas and challenge each other and do so in a respectful manner. I know both to be very highly experienced in bringing a lot of good knowledge and information to this very important process.
 and both know how difficult and challenging these things can be. And so I was really excited to hear that both of them would be interested in serving on this commission. Ms. Sykes brings to us her many years of experience in the legal profession, particularly the legal aspects of property management, working with market rate and affordable clients.
 And Ms. Greenlee was, of course, a dedicated member of our Relocation Assistance Technical Advisory Committee and has over 10 years in property management experience. I first heard her testifying here during our first RELO. Her testimony was very impressed with the way she conveyed her information and knowledge and experience.
 She turned out to be a very, very important member of our RELO Technical Advisory Committee. Matt is here to answer any questions that we may have, or it would be great to hear a little bit from each of our prospective participants.
 Hi, I'm Leah Zikes. This is my first time in City Hall. This is really exciting. Thank you so much for allowing me the opportunity to serve my community this way. I'm an attorney, been an attorney now since 2002. The bulk of my practice has been focusing on representing property management companies, as you mentioned, in both the affordable and for-profit areas.
 genres. But the largest part of my practice over the last eight years has really focused on fair housing.
 And it's a passion of mine. I have helped form and put on every year what we call a fair housing fair, which last year, or this last year, was attended by over 600 landlords and property managers. We had speakers from the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, from Boley, from HUD, from the community, folks who had actually experienced housing discrimination firsthand.
 And it was really, you know, it's always so rewarding to be able to give back that way and to educate folks. And I'm so excited to be kind of a part of this commission because I feel like,
 I've worked really well collaboratively with folks who I think there's a perception they're kind of on the other side, right? When I go to court, I represent the landlords, and quite often legal aid, who I work very well with, is on the other side of issues. I've done joint presentations with legal aid, with Fair Housing Council of Oregon, and what I note when I do these things is how close together we actually are on a lot of issues.
 So I'm really excited to kind of have the opportunity to join the commission and to maybe have a chance to bridge some gaps between, you know, the sort of landlord side of things and the tenant advocate side of things and work together to do things that really do benefit our community. Thank you. And I think it's auspicious that we pick today to appoint you here on the 50th anniversary of Fair Housing Act. Yes. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you so much for the invitation to be part of the Rental Advisory Committee. I really appreciate that opportunity to share my voice. Leah, you're tough to follow there. Through my experience on the Relocation Technical Advisory Committee, it really showed me that it's important for everyone to sit at the table and share perspectives to formulate the best possible policy moving forward. And so I really appreciate the opportunity to participate again.
 Glad to have you. Colleagues? Commissioner Fish? I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second from Commissioner Saltzman. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Well, welcome on your first visit. I hope it was a satisfactory one. And thank you both for stepping up to serve. We have, I think, over 100 boards and commissions at the city, and each one helps us do our job better.
 And this is particularly urgent work, so to have people of your quality and your experience step up and say you'll serve really is very meaningful. So thank you for doing that, and we look forward to the benefit of your guidance. Hi. Saltzman. Well, I also want to thank you for your willingness to serve, and I think it's probably the city's newest commission. It's got to be. So we look forward as you chart the direction of service.
 our policies and also other things we should be doing to help renters and landlords alike. Thank you. Aye. Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you both for your willingness to serve. It can be a very difficult job, as you already know from your experience with the previous processes. Thank you.
 I note in the impact statement that, and the Mayor mentioned, that the Commission is required to have a balance between interests of renters and landlords. It's also required by code, which is unusual, to have membership that takes into account the socioeconomic, gender, racial, ethnic, cultural and geographic diversity and various different perspectives. So if I could possibly get a table in the...
 as a follow-up from this. Absolutely. So that you could tell me who it is and who's representing which part. Because I've found in the boards and commissions that I've been responsible for that that can really add to the richness of the conversation. And I know you've been paying attention to it since, as you mentioned, it's only very recently that this commission has been established and that direction was in the code. So... Yeah, we'll get you that. Thank you. And again, thank you very much for being willing to serve. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Thank you both very much. Thanks, Matt. Aye. The report's adopted. The appointments are approved. Thank you and welcome aboard. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next item, please. 344. Assess benefited properties for street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast Cooch Court Local Improvement District. Commissioner Saltzman. Turn it over to Andrew Abbey. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman.
 I'm pleased to report that when we formed this LID in 2014 at the east end of the Burnside Bridge, we had 100% petition support for this LID. We did not receive any objection to final assessment. And I just wanted to say that the LID funds that have been spent on this project, $487,000, have been a very good return on investment.
 with property values increasing from $7.1 million in 2014 to $190.9 million this year. So the combination of both public and private investment has helped realize a 16-fold increase in property values.
 And the work that the private investment that happened here would not have been possible without the ability for the public and private sector to partner and resolve some very intractable engineering and access issues with the tight geometry of the Burnside Bridge and the freeway and streetcar and just try to make everything fit and provide the needed road access to the new development. So we're very pleased with the outcome of the project and happy to answer any questions you might have.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I'm glad you mentioned the increase in property taxes, and I didn't think there were any ways to improve the local improvement district the way that you've been doing them. But perhaps including in this kind of a report a summary of what have the benefits been, and in particular in relation to what we heard earlier about the auditor's report, some of those findings on neighborhood improvements, neighborhood impacts, and improvements, that they're...
 that would be a way to document and bring that into the record. So I hope that you'll consider doing that. And then the second issue on that point, you had in the past suggested that the council basically allocate that increase in funding and then use it to target particular LIDs that would cause even more return. Is anything happening with that?
 Yes, I can, Commissioner. So after Council approved the value capture resolution 37205,
 I think it was April 20th of last year, if I'm remembering correctly. We just haven't had any final assessments. We were busy in construction mode. This is, as I recall, the second LID that we've recently closed out. So the short answer is, Commissioner, I owe Council a value capture report, the first one, and I will definitely be doing that.
 The Mayor also had some questions about property values, and I owe him a memo on that as well. So I have my work cut out for me, and this certainly motivates me to provide that information on both fronts. Great, thank you.
 And I also just wanted to briefly add that we had a lot of problems with the bike lane, the westbound bike lane on Northeast Cooch Street approaching the Burnside Bridge. We tried a variety of things over the years to make it work. We had tried wands. We had tried solar reflectors, striping, rumble bars, a number of different things. And one of the things that I was particularly pleased about this project is because we were building Cooch Court, it gave us the ability to –
 put in a raised bike lane and have proper drainage. So now when you ride your bike over the Burnside Bridge, you don't have the cars and buses quite wandering into the bike lane that you used to have. So we're hoping that with the Burnside Bridge having the second lowest number of bike crossings when we last did a count, we're hoping that that number will come up over time as the comfort of using that bike lane has increased, we think, since we did that final fix.
 Commissioner Fish, did you have a comment? Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. So let me just say, before I move this along, thank you again. Once again, you're doing great work. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you. So this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. We have two second readings, item 345. Thank you.
 adopt the allocation mythology for the local transportation infrastructure charge, establish a maximum fee amend charge required code, and direct staff to develop additional components of Neighborhood Streets Program. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. It has been previously heard and public testimony has previously been taken. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Well, it's a pleasure to bring this to a conclusion. As I know, staff and the public have been grappling with implementing the local transportation infrastructure charge and how best to use the resources garnered from it. And I believe we've landed in a good spot and a reasonable spot. We're bringing in transportation infrastructure dollars that have been missed for decades. Thank you.
 and we have a solid plan to invest those dollars in needed neighborhood improvements. I'm also very excited about the gravel and grading program that adoption of this item kicks off, and I look forward to working with PBOT in the months ahead to get this up and running. It's something that we need. We've needed to do ever since the city annexed East County, and it's a great example of the Bureau listening to the public during this outreach process.
 And now just for a few thank yous, I want to thank, first of all, thank Commissioner Fish and the Bureau of Environmental Services for your partnership and steadfast support throughout this process. This has been another great example of two bureaus, Bureau of Environmental Services and Transportation, working together and working better together on behalf of the city. I want to thank Christine Leone and PBOT for leading the team and developing this proposal.
 I want to thank Kurt Kruger for your efforts and assistance throughout this process. You are on the front lines with developers daily, and I know you get an earful about the local improvement charge and many other things. So keep it up. I also want to thank Matt Grum in my office for helping to keep this proposal alive and moving. And finally, a huge shout-out to Ann Hill for bringing all of this together and truly listening to the public. It was a big lift.
 and a challenging project and i really appreciate ann's rising to the challenge the occasion and i'm pleased to vote aye you daily aye fritz
 Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for your work on this. This has been a gnarly problem throughout the time you've been on the Council, and finally it's moving it forward. Thank you also for addressing the ombudsman's and the Office of Equity and Human Rights' concern. I agree that the gravel and grading program has been desperately needed for a very long time.
 I do appreciate Anne Hill and Kurt Kruger who spent many hours, a long time in my office going over all the various options with me. And I think this is a greatly improved proposal compared with what we had on the table a year or so ago.
 If I was to swing votes on this, I would vote to support it. But since I'm not, I am going to vote against it because the one issue that I think is not clearly resolved yet is the issue of whether people who pay this fee are exempted if there's a future local improvement district on their street.
 And again, while it's better than it was before, I think that if you pay into this, you've basically done your duty and your home shouldn't be responsible for anything in a future local improvement district for your street. So for that reason, it's a small detail, but I think it's important sometimes for the community to know that...
 There's some reservations still, and I know Commissioner Saltzman that moving forward, although probably not in the next nine months, I doubt you'll be bringing this back, but the Bureau will be willing to take another look at it as things work out. Thank you so much for your work. Now, Wheeler.
 Commissioner Saltzman, thank you. One of the reasons I love being on the City Council is we don't deal with the easy stuff. We deal with the hardest stuff. And it's often thorny and complicated. We often have disagreements, but we disagree agreeably. And I know that you and the Bureau and many people have worked very, very hard on this. And I agree that
 that the ball has been moved decisively forward. So thank you very much, and there will be other issues. As Commissioner Fritz just rightly mentioned, that we're going to have to wrestle with in the future as well. Thank you so much for your work on this. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, 346, please.
 Vacate portions of Northeast Weidler Street and Northeast Halsey Street subject to certain conditions and reservations. This is also a second reading. Colleagues, any further comments, discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. And colleagues, we have a four-fifths agenda item 346-1.
 Recognize April 10, 2018 as Equal Pay Day. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Today, or actually yesterday, we observed April 10th as Equal Pay Day to raise awareness on the growing pay inequities based on gender that exist in our country. Equal Pay Day usually always lands on a Tuesday because on average, across America, a woman must work a week and two days...
 to receive the same pay a man does in one week. Equal pay day is the annual calculation that establishes the extra days each year a woman must work to make as much as a man in a year. So it's generally 100 plus days past the end of the year that a woman has to work to earn the same pay that a man in his comparable job earns. And I'm unhappy to report that this year's date is a week later than last year's.
 So unfortunately, we have taken a step backwards as a nation, but the city of Portland has done a good job as an employer. In 2016, council passed an ordinance that directed the Bureau of Human Resources to study pay practices at the city of Portland. These findings have found that the city's pay practices are gender neutral. And for that, we can all be proud of it.
 So I am pleased that we as a council are united in recognizing this inequality and continue to raise awareness and support efforts to address gender pay equity. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. Did you want to read the proclamation? I'll do it, or did you want to do it? I'll go ahead and do it. Thank you. It's an honor.
 So whereas Equal Pay Day was originally created by the National Committee on Pay Equity, otherwise known as NCPE, in 1996 as a public awareness event to illustrate the gap between men's and women's wages, and whereas women across the country earn, on average, 80% of what men earn for comparable work,
 And whereas in the state of Oregon, women can expect to earn only 79% of what their male counterparts make. And whereas women of color face wage discrimination at even higher rates, with African American women earning just 63% of all men's earnings, and Latinas earning just 60.4% of all men's earnings.
 And whereas equal pay is both a human rights and economic development issue, and studies have proven that parity in wages improves productivity potential and uplifts families and children, which benefits the entire community overall.
 And whereas the City of Portland is an equal opportunity employer and maintains a comprehensive compensation policy that pays similarly situated employees at similar rates without regard to gender or race, ethnicity. And whereas the City Council believes pay equity is a foundational component of a prosperous and successful community.
 and the internal actions of our local government affects the well-beings of our employees, their families, and the entire Portland community.
 And whereas the City Council directs the Bureau of Human Resources to evaluate existing workforce data and determine whether and how gender impacts types of appointments, pay at appointment, progression through the pay range, and promotional opportunities. Thank you.
 Now, therefore, be it resolved, the Portland City Council recognizes April 10, 2018, as Equal Pay Day and will continue to evaluate and promote equal pay policies adopted by the Council, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners Saltzman, Udailey, Fish, and Fritz. Thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Please call the roll. Fish. Fish.
 Well, I'm very pleased to be part of this resolution, and we obviously have a lot of work to do. I've got a 25-year-old daughter, and I hope sometime in her adult life she, in any career of her choice, gets paid the same as her male counterparts. Hi. Saltzman. Hi. Udaly. Well, as we know, women's pay equity has moved at a glacial pace. I think that we can expect it by 2059 if it continues at the current rate, but...
 achieving pay equity for women who make up roughly half of our workforce would significantly contribute to decrease in poverty for children which is a great reason to strive for it and another great reason is because it's the right thing to do so I'm glad to say that we have pay equity on city council and
 Happy Pay Equity Day, everybody. Hi. Fritz. It is discouraging to see how sometimes we're taking a step backwards on this. And it isn't only the issue of the same job.
 disparities, it's the disparities between jobs. So I was happy to see that the resolution included our direction to the Bureau of Human Resources to look at the kinds of work that generally are done more often done by women and more often done by men within the city government and moving towards pay equity on that.
 Of course, it's also who gets the jobs. And with Commissioner Udali and I being number seven and number eight, or the other way around, it's a matter of how open are we to encouraging women and people who identify as women in our workforce.
 So I have to say that as I look back over my career and reflecting that I'm now in a dead-end job that has no career advancement opportunities, at least in this particular seat, which I'm fine with. It's an honour to be here in a privileged position today.
 to do the final votes and to say the things that need to be said. I also look back on my career as a nurse and the 56 days that I spent on strike with OHSU in 2001-2002, which increased my pay by 40% in the subsequent six years that I worked at OHSU.
 and that now nursing is a career that both women and men aspire to go into and which does pay a family wage where you don't have to choose between looking after your patients and looking after your family or your own roof over your head. So it takes time. It takes a lot of effort. It can be very painful at times, and we have to keep trying. Hi. Wheeler.
 I really appreciate your bringing this forward, Commissioner Saltzman, and I've appreciated hearing my colleagues' statements. It is disappointing to me, Commissioner Udaly, that we are making such glacial progress on this issue.
 Coming to my mind as I was reading this, I was thinking about a letter my mom wrote. She's almost 88. She's been committing a lot of her memories to writing, which I really appreciate. She graduated from Stanford University in 1952 and took a job as a stenographer.
 And that was pretty much her career path, even being highly educated. And she is much, much more intelligent than I am. She's a very, very intelligent woman. And it always kind of made me wonder, you know, had she wanted to, and I don't want to make that presumption on her behalf, had those barriers not been there, how might things have been different for her?
 And what's in this resolution that I so much appreciate is the acknowledgement that it is not only a human rights issue that has held women back from what they deserve because they have earned it.
 It also holds the entire community back from an economic development and economic prosperity perspective. When women get shortchanged, our society gets shortchanged. And that's why we all have this collective interest in making sure that these issues are addressed. And I'm glad. I didn't know how that ought to happen.
 for the city of Portland was going to come out. And I'm glad that we're setting an example as a public institution that others in the community can follow. So thank you all. Thank you, Dan. Thank you, colleagues. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. We are adjourned. I want to remind people that we have a – We have the pooled item from consent. Oh, yeah, that. Sorry, I totally forgot about that. Item 337. Please read it. I've got some talking points on it.
 accept and appropriate the fiscal year 2017 Urban Area Security Initiative grant in the amount of $2,496,835 from the Oregon Office of Emergency Management to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training and equipping emergency responders in the Portland urban area. Colleagues, the City of Portland has been a recipient of
 so-called UASI funding since fiscal year 2003. The Department of Homeland Security has designated Portland, Oregon, as the core urban area in the state of Oregon. No other cities in the state receive UASI funding.
 The funds will be used to enhance the region's partners, TriMet, the Port of Portland, Multnomah, Clackamas, Washington, and Columbia Counties of Oregon, and Clark County, Washington, emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping of emergency responders.
 Did I get that largely right? You did. Nailed it. Anything else that people need to know about? This is just the acceptance of a grant that you all approved for application last summer. So we're now accepting the funding. Very good. Receiving the grant. Who pulled this item? Lightning. I do not see Mr. Lightning here. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Selmsman. Aye. Udaly. Well, congratulations on your successful grant application. Aye. Fritz. I was really delighted to see this because we were in some trepidation that we might not get this grant. So I hope this is the beginning of now getting the entitlements that we can expect from the federal government. Aye. Wheeler.
 Aye. Thank you. And I'm sorry I didn't realize you guys were sitting around. I apologize. We're adjourned until 2. Colleagues, I just want to remind you we have a fair housing presentation from about 2 to 3.45 this afternoon. We'll look forward to seeing you. Thank you. All right, Carla, are we ready?
 Good afternoon, everybody. This is the afternoon session of the Portland City Council on April 11th, 2018. Carla, please call the roll. Bish? Here. Saltzman? Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Bish?
 Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 disruptive conduct such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations will not be allowed. I suppose unless you're under the age of one, then it's fine. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, the person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. Carla, could you please read the first item? Item 347, Proclaim April 2018 to be Fair Housing Month. Colleagues, 50 years ago, the 1968 Civil Rights Act, commonly known as the Fair Housing Act of 1968, was signed into law.
 This monumental legislation prohibited housing discrimination based on race, color, or national origin. Draped in the backdrop of the assassination of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., this legislation was part of a suite of legislation that was attached to a broader civil rights movement to address the inequities that many Americans faced.
 This focus on fair housing is especially important as we've seen a national dialogue aimed at weakening the protections that many have counted on to increase housing opportunities in America, which is why I am very proud that we as a city are gathered here today to proclaim April Fair Housing Month. We recognize the profound importance of this legislation.
 and how this blueprint legislation serves as a guide and as a model as we advance towards our collective future. It's our responsibility to create a forum for the voices of those who have the least access to power, to those who are the most impacted by the limitations of our society.
 And I'm happy that we're spending sufficient time hearing how this law has impacted their opportunities and the efforts we've enacted and those we must maintain to have a truly functioning and equitable Portland. So today I'm proud to share the Fair Housing Proclamation, to hear the history of the Fair Housing Act,
 to engage with the various speakers this afternoon and to honor the history and the future of this legislation. It's now my honor to read the proclamation. Whereas the Fair Housing Act, enacted on April 11, 1968, was adopted to prohibit discriminatory housing practices, undo racial segregation patterns, and provide equal access to housing opportunity for all,
 And whereas in Portland, the combined federal, state, and civil rights laws protect people from housing discrimination based on race, color, national origin, religion, gender, familial status, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, source of income, including housing assistance.
 military status, gender identity, ethnicity, or history of domestic violence, stalking, or sexual assault. And whereas, despite these legal protections, Portland has not yet succeeded in providing equitable access to opportunity or removing the patterns of racial segregation that persist in housing,
 employment, education, and all other institutions. And whereas Executive Order 12892 calls on government to affirmatively further fair housing by addressing and removing barriers to housing choice in all federal programs, policies, plans, resources, and activities.
 And whereas the City of Portland, as a recipient of federal funding, extends to all of its bureaus the obligation to understand which communities experience barriers to housing choice and why, dedicate resources to meaningfully addressing those disparities, and measure the impacts of these actions to all of its bureaus,
 And whereas April 11, 2018 marks the 50th anniversary of the signing of Title VIII of the Federal Civil Rights Act, the Federal Fair Housing Act of 1968, and the 30th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 2018 to be Fair Housing Month in the City of Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month.
 Colleagues, I've been informed that Commissioner Fish, who has a long history in housing and fair housing in particular, has some words to add. Commissioner Fish. Thank you very much, Mayor, and welcome everybody to this gathering. As the Mayor noted in his remarks, the 1960s produced three great civil rights laws, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and the Fair Housing Act of 1968.
 The Fair Housing Act addressed the legacy of discrimination in housing. It focused on explicit discrimination, like redlining in federal mortgage insurance and restrictive covenants in real estate contracts. But it also addressed more subtle forms of discrimination, like real estate agents steering minorities to particular neighborhoods, biased lending and underwriting, and concentrating poverty in certain zip codes. Thank you.
 The Fair Housing Act was blocked and filibustered for many years. Dr. King's assassination on April 4, 1968, proved decisive and forced action by the Congress. Now, the Fair Housing Act had champions from both parties. Remember those days? Its main goal was integrating neighborhoods and ending bias. But the original act proved to be a toothless tiger attack.
 It took the Fair Housing Act amendments of 1988 to strengthen the law and to expand its reach. The amendments prohibited discrimination based on familial status and disability, established new administrative enforcement mechanisms, and expanded the jurisdiction of the Justice Department to sue on behalf of victims in federal court. My father played a key role in brokering the compromise that allowed the amendments to become law.
 When President Reagan signed the bill into law at a White House ceremony on September 13, 1988, he gave my dad one of the pens that he used. I brought the pen with me today. Despite the laudable intentions of the Fair Housing Act, enforcement has been slow and uneven.
 Recently, the Trump administration put the brakes on a 2015 executive rule that requires recipients of federal housing dollars, as the mayor indicated, to affirmatively further fair housing. HUD Secretary Dr. Ben Carson went one step further, dismissing the rule as, quote, social engineering. Mayor and colleagues, I am so proud that we are taking the time today to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act.
 While we have made progress as a country, there is more work to be done to reach our shared goal of a fairer, more integrated nation. Now, Mayor, you're going to issue the proclamation, and it is your tradition to sign it. I wonder if you could, in a ceremonial way, sign the proclamation with the pen used by President Reagan. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner.
 I'll be checking eBay tonight. Thank you, Matt. There it is, folks. Folks, we have now Jason Trombley to make remarks on behalf of the Fair Housing Advisory Commission.
 Mayor, commissioners, I wanted to introduce Jason Trombley. He has been our chair of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee since 2014. Jason has been in his— Shannon, could you introduce yourself, please? I'm sorry. Shannon Callahan. I'm at the Portland Housing Bureau.
 Jason is a public relations professional and education advocate who has represented the Coalition of Communities of Color on the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee, and we are grateful for his guidance and his leadership. In his capacity with the Coalition of Communities of Color, he has helped develop strategic plans around economic development and education.
 In addition to his work on the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee, he has staunchly supported Portland Public Schools' racial equity work, including the Achievement Compact Advisory Committee, the Superintendent's Advisory Committee on Enrollment and Transfer, and most recently, he led the Commission to address school boundary changes, program locations, and grade configuration changes for Portland Public.
 Outside of all of this, he is also the coach and has been for 12 years of the six-time national champion Lincoln High School Constitution team. And he is a board chair of Mission Citizen, the nonprofit funded and managed by his own students, which helps to work with immigrants in Washington and Multnomah counties to become U.S. citizens. So...
 He does a lot, and he does a lot for the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee, and we wanted to acknowledge and thank him for that today. So it is my privilege to introduce Jason. Thank you, Shannon. Good afternoon, all. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, as today marks the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Fair Housing Act, I'm here to help share how the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee, or FHAC, helps to play a role in applying the Act in the region. Thank you.
 As part of the analysis of impediments to fair housing or AI report required by HUD, also known as the City of Portland, Gresham, and Multnomah County 2011 Fair Housing Plan, an analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and the strategies to address them were also known as the Fair Housing Plan. The City of Portland, on behalf of its jurisdictional partners, was tasked with collecting and analyzing data that identifies barriers to housing choice and
 and with developing report that outlines strategies to mitigate the identified barriers.
 In order to bring knowledgeable community voices into the preparation of the report, Portland and its consortium partners, Multnomah County, the City of Portland, and the City of Gresham, convened the Analysis of Impediments Committee, or AI Committee, to recommend and review research data and make recommendations on strategies to remove barriers to housing choice. The resulting Fair Housing Plan identified a number of key barriers to exercising housing choice,
 including a general lack of understanding by housing consumers and housing providers of fair housing law, as well as the need for a clear, focused fair housing champion. In response, the AI committee suggested creating a fair housing advocacy committee that meets at least quarterly to focus on the implementation of fair housing strategies and to be a strong advocate voice in Multnomah County.
 The purpose of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee as recommended in the Fair Housing Plan is to provide a strong advocate voice in Multnomah County for the implementation and recommendations in the plan. FHAC will also work to hold its jurisdictional partners of Multnomah County accountable for their actions under the plan.
 And FHAC looks forward to also supporting the work on the next assessment of fair housing in advance of the next five-year consolidated plan. So that's just a short overview of the role of FHAC and its work over the past several years. And to kind of share some broader context, I'd like to invite some of our community partners who've been a part of this work since its beginning.
 So first up, I'd like to invite Alan Lazo, who is the Executive Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Christina Dirks, Attorney for Legal Aid Services of Oregon, and Matt Sarris from Disability Rights Oregon. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, everyone. Let me get my stuff out here.
 All right, so I'm going to back up a little bit and talk about the history of the Fair Housing Act and the times in which that was passed. So good afternoon, Mayor, members of City Council. It truly is wonderful for me to be here with you this afternoon, and I was with some of you earlier this morning. You know this is one of my favorite days to come to Council and bring these young student artists with us, so we're going to get to that a little bit later. Thank you.
 But really we're here to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Federal Fair Housing Act, that landmark civil rights legislation intent on ending deeply rooted racial discrimination and segregation. Riots in more than 150 cities across the country during that long, hot summer of 1967 prompted President Lyndon Johnson to convene the Kerner Commission later that year.
 The Commission famously concluded at that time, quote, our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white, separate, and unequal. The Commission's views on housing followed the lead of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., who gave rise to the open housing movement with his work in Chicago a year earlier.
 The Kerner Commission went on to call for opening up opportunities to those who are restricted by racial segregation and discrimination and eliminating all barriers to their choice of jobs, education, and housing. The Commission recommended that the federal government enact a comprehensive and enforceable federal open housing law to cover the sale or rental of all housing. The Fair Housing Act...
 which had been the last major civil rights legislation to pass, became that comprehensive and enforceable federal open housing law on April 11, 1968, a week after Dr. King's assassination.
 This original act prohibited discrimination in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of race, color, religion, and national origin. And as we heard earlier, sex, meaning gender, was added as a protected class in 1974, and disability and familial status, meaning families with children under the age of 18, were added in 1988. Despite the civil rights progress over the past 50 years that have led to gains in educational attainment among other areas,
 there remains a persistent lack of progress on many of the issues that prompted the creation of the original Fair Housing Act. A 2015 study published in the American Sociological Review indicated that, quote, segregation is manifesting itself in other ways, not disappearing. The study notes that while black-white segregation is declining and areas no longer are divided into black cities and white suburbs, segregation between places is,
 for instance, between city and suburb and suburban suburb, may be increasing, even as overall metro neighborhood segregation declines. We know that here in Portland, that displacement out of the core of our city, due to housing affordability, continues to deny opportunities for communities of color, single mother-headed households, and people with disabilities.
 denying these groups the opportunity to fully realize all of the benefits of our community. The homeownership rate for blacks has remained virtually unchanged since 1968, at approximately 40 percent, 30 points lower than it was, than it is for whites today. And that holds true right here in Portland.
 According to the Portland Housing Bureau's 2016 State of Housing Report, white households are roughly 54 to 57 percent homeowners, while African Americans, Native Americans, and Hawaiian Pacific Islander households own homes at a rate of roughly 27 percent. Fifty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, we must acknowledge the persistent impacts of historical housing discrimination and segregation right here in Portland.
 Fifty years after the passage of the Fair Housing Act, our work in the fair housing movement is far from done. In preparing for the 50th anniversary, I've done a lot of research in preparing for this momentous commemoration. And there's been this almost universal theme in headlines around coverage of the 50th anniversary. I'm talking about the unfulfilled promise or the failure of the Fair Housing Act. Former Vice President Walter Mondale, co-author of the 1968 Act,
 called the Fair Housing Act, quote, the most contested, most ignored, and at times most misunderstood of the civil rights laws of that era. So this is a time more than ever when we must recommit to the ideals of the fair housing movement, the ideal of open and inclusive communities. We all have a great deal at stake. The future of our community is literally at stake in this work that we all do together.
 We know that integrated and inclusive communities produce better outcomes for our children and are more prosperous overall. Commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act reminds us that we have a history that divides us. But it must be our shared commitment to Dr. King's dream of creating a community open and inclusive to all that unites us. So thank you all. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for providing us the opportunity to celebrate and reflect on the importance of the Fair Housing Act. My name is Christina Dirks. I'm an attorney with Legal Aid Services of Oregon. Within the last 50 years, we have most definitely seen how discriminatory housing practices have changed and evolved with the times. We continue to see blatant forms of discrimination. However, we more frequently see subtle and equally pernicious discrimination. It's our duty to be responsive to these changes and challenge ourselves to think creatively about how we enforce these laws.
 In an effort to highlight some of the fair housing trends that we are seeing at Legal Aid Services, I thought I would highlight a few of our recent cases. One trend we are seeing is the intersectional forms of discrimination that tenants face when they are members of multiple protected classes. An example is that LASSO recently successfully settled a claim of a tenant with a Section 8 voucher who was discriminated against when she was applying for housing. While viewing an apartment, the manager both subtly and overtly discouraged her from applying based on the tenant's race,
 When the manager later learned that the client had a Section 8 voucher, the manager proceeded to make disparaging comments about Section 8 voucher holders and flatly rejected the tenant's application. Another issue we are seeing is how members of protected classes are subjected to substandard housing.
 Lasse recently represented a family of color who utilized a Section 8 voucher as well. The family suffered repeated substantial Habitavilli violations and source of income discrimination from the on-site manager in the form of delayed responses to repair requests and retaliation for refusing to lie about the condition of the apartment to the inspector from the housing authority.
 Yet another trend is housing providers' failure to address tenant-on-tenant discriminatory harassment. We're currently representing a tenant who was subjected to ongoing racial and gender-based harassment from her neighbor. Her landlord did nothing to resolve the issue and, in fact, went so far as to accuse our neighbor of being racist for complaining about the neighbor's racist harassment.
 An additional trend is housing providers granting reasonable accommodations in name only but not in substance. We are repeatedly seeing in the eviction context that unrepresented tenants are being told their reasonable accommodation request is being granted. However, they are still being forced to enter into agreements where they are required to move and vacate from their unit. One case came to us after the tenant failed to move out under the terms of an agreement request.
 He had made a request for a reasonable accommodation to stay in his housing in order to obtain treatment and maintain housing. The landlord said they were granting the request and would give him two additional weeks to move. We were able to immediately file a request for a hearing, get back into court, and negotiate a new agreement that allowed the tenant to stay in their housing and obtain the vital treatment they needed in order to maintain their sobriety.
 Finally, I would be remiss if I did not underline how the housing crisis today in Portland is the most pressing fair housing issue that we face. Through numerous cases that LASSO has handled representing large number of tenants in building-wide displacements or exorbitant rent increases, we have seen how the housing crisis is resulting in the wholesale displacement of communities of color. Through these cases, we have also seen how the housing crisis is reinforcing familiar patterns of housing segregation.
 In addition, landlords are utilizing more stringent screening criteria that make it nearly impossible for communities of color and individuals with disabilities to live anywhere in our city. This is an area ripe for disparate impact litigation. The obligation of the Fair Housing Act command that equity and fair housing be the center of any analysis of policy initiatives aimed at addressing the housing crisis. We owe this to every member of our protected classes in our city. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for inviting this testimony today.
 As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act, for persons with disabilities, it is the 30th anniversary of fair housing. Congress expanded the Fair Housing Act to protect people with disabilities in 1988. Today in the U.S., nearly 20% of people live with a disability. Today, over half of all fair housing complaints involve disability discrimination.
 As a housing attorney at Disability Rights Oregon, I see the positive impact that the Fair Housing Act has on Oregonians with disabilities. Reasonable accommodations under the Fair Housing Act empower persons with disabilities to access our community and all its opportunities. The Fair Housing Act is for veterans returning home with mental or physical wounds.
 that they may have a companion animal to provide emotional support or a service animal to perform tasks of daily living. The Fair Housing Act is for tenants in public housing who need a live-in caregiver, that they may reside with their caregiver despite the restrictions in public housing. The Fair Housing Act is for elders with crippling arthritis who face challenges moving safely within their homes.
 that they may install the assistive devices necessary to avoid injuries and maintain independence. It is for the family whose child manifests an emerging emotional or behavioral disorder that they do not live in fear of eviction due to their child's behaviors as they develop a plan to manage those symptoms.
 It is for the person with lung disease or using a wheelchair whose journey from the front door to their car has become a barrier to leaving home, that they may have access to ramps, curb cuts, and designated parking spots necessary to participate in community life. It is for the person with the disability living in poverty who relies on the Section 8 voucher, but for whom it is hard to find affordable, accessible housing.
 that they may have extra time to find a home before their voucher expires. The Fair Housing Act is for leaders of government, that they use it as a touchstone to guide housing policies that provide greater equity and inclusion.
 In 1988, the Fair Housing Act was expanded to include persons with disabilities. As we consider the future, let us imagine the ways we can extend its principles to help more people and tackle new challenges. Challenges like how to develop the Broadway Corridor Project, how to balance landlord and tenant rights, how to step up local enforcement efforts to stop discrimination and tear down barriers to accessibility.
 In responding to those challenges, let us listen to the disabled community. Disability touches everyone. It is a status that any of us may come to share. It can arise unexpectedly in our lives or in the lives of those we love. No matter what life has in store for us, the protections of the Fair Housing Act are for everyone.
 Thank you. Thank you, Matt. And, Matt, just for the record, that was such great testimony. Could you say your name and your position for the record? Yes. My name is Matthew Sears. I'm from Disability Rights Oregon, and I'm a housing attorney. Thank you, all of you. I appreciate it very much. Thank you.
 So I'd like to invite to the dais our next three presenters, Young Ho from the Community Alliance of Tenants, Sumitra Chetri, who is the Community Engagement Program Coordinator with ERCO's Asian Family Center, and Dolores Burgos from NIA. Good afternoon. Welcome, and thank you for being here.
 Hello, thank you. Good afternoon, commissioners, mayor, commissioners. My name is Jung, and I am the Education Program Director at Community Alliance of Tenants. Thank you so much for having us all here today to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Fair Housing Act, and we are excited to celebrate it through the month of April as well. I have been at CAT for over eight years.
 And in that time, I have spoken with many tenants who have been mistreated. We work with and advocate for the most vulnerable members of the community, low-income tenants, immigrants, and refugees, people with disabilities, and families. Many of these people are part of the protected classes under the Fair Housing Act. Every week, our renters, rights hotline specialists, council, tenants whose rights have been violated under the Fair Housing Act.
 And we refer them to the Fair Housing Council as well as many of the resources from people who have just spoken today. Through the Tenant Protections Team Program, which is a partnership with culturally specific organizations, ERCO, SEI, and APANO, our education coordinators work with tenants one-on-one to help them advocate for their rights and amplify their often silenced voices. These tenants often struggle to find and keep affordable housing.
 facing housing discrimination against families and recent immigrants. My colleague at Immigrant and Refugee Community Organization, Sumitra, will be sharing a story from her community. The tenant story is one small victory among many tenant stories that are not successful because the others were not able to understand how to find resources, they felt fearful of retaliation, and couldn't risk losing their home. Their family was able to connect to our resources and services and learn and assert their rights with our support.
 With our help, the family has been able to share their story, and in turn, they have encouraged other Bhutanese community members to speak up about their housing situation, the discrimination and intimidation. And with that, I welcome Sumitra from ERCO to share Ganesh's story. Thank you.
 Hello, just for the record, my name is Sumitra. I'm a program coordinator with IRCO. I'm glad to be here sharing a happy story today. So one of the clients that is from Butini's community, his name is Ganesh and he's the head of household.
 He works two jobs to just put food on the table. And Ganesh's family came to the United States as a Bhutanese refugee immigrant. And Ganesh's family lived in an apartment for several years.
 before after moving and they moved to different apartment after moving to new apartment Ganesh got a letter from previous apartment manager saying that Ganesh will be will not be getting his deposit back and Ganesh will have to pay more money and if not the manager will report to the credit because of limited English Ganesh did not understand what was in the letter Ganesh was able to connect with
 with CAT service by IRCO case manager and able to get support from CAT service.
 Daisy, CAT housing program coordinator, supported Ganesh to write a letter to the manager, also filed a claim. Ganesh was able to get his deposit back, and his credit is good now. Ganesh was now encouraged to share his story to other community members, and they're encouraged to speak up when things like that happen in the community. Thank you. That is a positive story, and thank you for your great work on that. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Dolores Burgos. I am from the Native American Youth and Family Center. I am the Housing and Energy Services Program Manager. And I just wanted to touch on some of the community's issues about discrimination as far as housing goes. The current fair housing laws are indeed fair, but neither equitable nor exclusive.
 Current VARA housing laws conform to a faulty standard which assumes that all ethnicities and classes are given the exact same opportunities and have gone through life with the same privileges. One of the communities which have, the communities of colors have endured the steepest levels of housing discriminations.
 Our community has faced not only housing discrimination itself, but has endured weighted scales which bar the community from many programs which seek to specifically address housing barriers and permanent placement. Current tools for assessing housing support eligibility are ineffective and are not culturally responsive. Screening questions are worded in language from a white business perspective and impose inherent value judgments in the way they are asked.
 Programs require their participants to meet the federal definition of homelessness, thus bearing Native community members to do communal culture where community members may be doubled up with friends or family.
 Indeed, it has been observed that information management database reports show that the community-wide effort to fight homelessness simply does not know much about the Native American community. Assessment tools give a profound lack of regard for any community member's specific tribe, and HUD has grouped the community together as all Native American, American Indian, and Alaska Natives.
 There is no regard for those who are enrolled in a tribe as well as whether or not a tribe is federally recognized. The Native American community faces discrimination not in merely gaining access to supportive housing services, but also from landlords and property managers. Native clients whom NAYA serves have disclosed potential landlords frequently asking about their Indian last name as one of their first questions.
 This question would be not asked by somebody with the last name of Smith or Johnson. Native community members face challenges such as these, as well as unwarranted exceptions from landlords of loud partying habits and frequent foot traffic.
 These faulty assumptions from a white nationalist perspective are not acceptable and do not address the fact that our community is becoming more and more diverse and is becoming more exclusive than the white standards previously set by landlords and rental application screening criteria.
 This, when combined with HOOPS, community members must jump through in order to receive support and get approved for rental units are neither equitable nor inclusive. These discriminatory practices only further the gap between communities of color and white Americans. Though the laws in the place are currently fair, fairness assumes that every single person already comes to the table with the same amount of support systems, financial security, and opportunities.
 These laws are not inclusive of our ever-changing community and do not prevent landlords from practicing their biases against the Native community. And on that note, we are very, very proud that we have come this far as far as fair housing. I know that we need to do a lot more work.
 I'm just overwhelmed. I'm sorry. And we appreciate the city's help, the state's help, partner agencies, and fighting the fight so that we could all be just treated as equal. Thanks. Thank you. We appreciate your great work. Thank you for being here.
 All right, next up we have Patricia Rojas, who is the director of El Programa Hispano, and she has a few guests you'd like to bring up as well. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councillors. Thanks so much for making the time to have this important beginning of an important conversation, remembering 1968 Fair Housing Act. My name is Patricia Rojas. For the record, Executive Director of El Programa Hispano Católico.
 And even though the Fair Housing Act clearly stated what the ambitions were, what the laws should be, we have a long way to go towards implementing those laws equitably and across the board, across communities in this country. And one of the things that we continue to see in our community is discrimination in housing based on race, ethnicity, nationality, and even language.
 And I, as Executive Director, I can speak with you at any time I think. I feel comfortable reaching out to you and speaking with you more personally about what we can do about that. I do feel like we need to have regulatory bodies and mechanisms to hold landlords accountable. But I think it's more important that today you hear examples of what we're seeing in our community every day. So we have invited some guests to come share their experiences. And I want to first of all thank them for being here.
 And there is no interpreter present today, so I'm going to interpret for them, but next time we should have interpreters present so that all community members can participate in important events like this. Agreed, thank you. Okay, . You can start with your name.
 Good afternoon. My name is Saida. My name is Sally Villatoro. Villatoro. Hace unos años yo vivía, o vivo en Portland. Fui, vivía en unos apartamentos y luego yo fui a Tlamoc. So I've been living in Portland for a few years in some apartments and then after that I went to Tlamoc.
 So when I came back, the manager told me, you can no longer be on the lease. I'm going to remove you. And I asked why. I'm paying my rent. She says it doesn't matter. So...
 And so I then went to a different place and a friend of mine remained renting. And so I wanted to return and he went to tell her that I wanted to return.
 And so when he did, she told him, if she comes back, then I'm going to have you leave as well. So her friend now, the two people facing potential displacement.
 There are a lot of people in that apartment complex that suffer racism because of that person. And now I'm living at another apartment complex nearby and the manager doesn't want to give me a parking spot.
 because I have to have a driver's license to have a parking spot. And I need to clarify. Licencia de qué? Del perro. Oh, okay. And so my son was given a puppy
 and the manager said I needed to have a license to be a pet owner or a license for that as well. We started looking for a pet owner's license, and I went and told him that I was in the process of looking for a pet owner's license.
 And so I told her that I was out looking for where I could find this license, and she said, no, you're going to be evicted on the 17th. And so we gave the dog back. That is all.
 Sorry to hear that. Thank you for sharing your story. Gracias. Gracias por compartir su historia. De nada. ¿Puede traer el micrófono y se puede presentar empezando con su nombre, por favor? Sí. Buenas tardes. Mi nombre es Lorena Galindo y soy beneficiada del programa hispano. So, good afternoon. My name is Lorena Galindo and I'm a client of El Programa Hispano. Llegué a la ciudad de Portland hace más o menos año y medio. I came to Portland about a year and a half ago.
 So I'd like to speak to the challenges that I have faced in terms of finding housing. The first requirement is a social security number.
 sin saber exactamente qué restricciones tenían yo llenaba la aplicación la entregué en dos ocasiones entonces me la regresaron y me dijeron que no podía procesarse porque simplemente no cumplía con el requisito
 So the first barrier that I faced was in simply applying and without knowing I applied and they had a requirement that you have to provide a social security number and I didn't know and I filled out two different applications and both were declined or denied because I didn't have a social security number and I did not know that this was part of the process. Sabía que era difícil porque no soy la única persona que le había sucedido entonces
 Aún así, pues, tenía la necesidad de encontrar un lugar donde vivir, así que un conocido de un familiar me recomendó con alguien que tenía apartamentos, que era igual que yo, hispano. El señor me dio la oportunidad, llené la aplicación, sabía que yo no hablaba inglés, que yo no tenía el seguro social. Sin embargo, me dio la oportunidad...
 A los dos días más o menos de que me había confirmado que yo podía rentar me dijo siempre no
 porque hay una persona que sí tiene los requisitos, entonces vas a esperar. Si hay un espacio para ti, bueno, y si no, lo siento. Y luego me llamaron un par de días después diciendo, sí, aceptamos tu aplicación, pero vamos a hacer que te esperes porque hay alguien más que tiene toda su documentación y te llamaremos si algo se abre.
 Y pues, de mi parte es todo mi testimonio, nada más es para hablar de lo que pasa realmente y no de lo que dice la ley como debería ser. Gracias.
 No solo aquí en Maloma County, sino también en Marion County. Tengo una hija disabla y en ese momento estaba embarazada, así que no podía trabajar. Necesitábamos un lugar para vivir y no pudimos encontrar uno aquí, así que fuimos a Marion. Y nos dijeron que no nos rentarían porque yo estaba trabajando en el trabajo agrícola, pero mi marido estaba y él no está documentado, así que no nos darían nuestro apartamento.
 Tuve que pasar por muchos procesos y notas de los médicos para que nos dieran un apartamento. Nos quitaron porque no pude encontrar trabajo en la agricultura porque mi hija tiene problemas de corazón y condiciones del cerebro. Así que nos quitaron. Fuimos a Monoma County a buscar un lugar de renta para mis hijas y para nosotros.
 And we encountered a very racist manager. She called my husband illegal. She screamed and cussed at me. And it's just been a very hard road to find rental assistance that would, or should I say rental apartments, that would accept my husband's status without me being the head of household. And I'm sorry.
 very thankful that you guys had a chance to listen to me. Thank you. We appreciate your being here to share your story. Thank you. Thank you very much. I just want, while we have a pause, I also want to acknowledge that we have a very esteemed elected official in the room with us today, State Representative Alyssa Kenny-Geyer. She was here this morning for our Fair Housing Act commemorative breakfast, and she's here this afternoon, and I just wanted to acknowledge her presence. We're glad to have you here.
 Thank you. Our next two speakers are Deborah Imza from Multifamily Northwest and Betty Dominguez of Home Forward. And I know Betty also has a few guest speakers as well. Great. Deborah, can you start? This way. Okay. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Deborah Imzee, Executive Vice President for Multifamily Northwest, which is a trade association, and we represent over 200,000 units in the state of Oregon. I've also been a member of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee since its inception.
 Several years ago, when Section 8 vouchers were made part of the protected classes for source of income in the state of Oregon, the Myers Memorial Trust awarded Legal Aid, Northwest Public Affairs, and Multifamily Northwest a grant to educate landlords on the changes in the law.
 Later, when the Supreme Court upheld the concept of disparate impact, the group was awarded a second grant to educate landlords on the concept and the fact that a facially neutral screening policy can have a disproportionate impact on a protected class. Recently, the same group has been awarded a third two-year grant to
 We will spend the first year researching alternative screening criteria other than criminal and credit. The second year, we will reach out to landlords across the state with the results of our work.
 I am pleased to be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the enactment of the Fair Housing Act by working collaboratively with the housing authorities and legal aid to look at screening alternatives that protect the community but are successful in providing housing opportunities for those in our communities with barriers. Thank you. Thank you, Deborah. We really appreciate your being here. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Wheeler and commissioners, I'm Betty Dominguez. I'm a director at Home Forward. I've also been a longtime sitting member of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee, and I'm proud to say a newly appointed Metro Councillor.
 Before we begin, I just want to have a personal note. As a Latina woman growing up in the late 50s, early 60s in San Diego, I experienced racial prejudice and name-calling that no child should have to hear. And so this particular event, this 50th anniversary of this act, is very personally significant and special to me. But I'm not here to talk about me. I'm here to introduce you to some very, very special people.
 Nearly one-third of the U.S. population has a criminal record of some sort. While persons with criminal records are not a protected class under the act, data shows that criminal history-based barriers to housing have a disproportionate impact on persons of color and other marginalized communities, which are protected classes under the act.
 Criminal records have a long-term collateral consequence as they create a barrier to access housing as well as education and employment. In 2016, Home Forward and Metropolitan Public Defenders partnered to begin the Record Relief and Expungement Program to increase resident access to legal assistance to alleviate barriers related to past criminal history.
 In this program, Metropolitan Public Defenders provides free legal assistance to Home Forward residents and participants. Almost 1,000 individuals since the inception of the program have been served, and we're here to introduce two of them to you today. To my immediate—what is this, my right? Yes. Yes.
 We have Sherelle. Sherelle and her three children live in one of Home Forward's public housing communities. She began engaging in the record relief and expungement partnership one year ago when her criminal record from her past was impacting her ability to meet her housing and economic goals. Sherelle, thank you for your time today and your willingness to tell your story. Thank you.
 First, I want to say thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing me to tell my story. My name is Sherelle Rosalie Anderson. I'm a gang outreach worker for the city of Gresham now, but I was at the city of Portland. I've been, at first, Home Forward denied me, they said, because I had a charge from 12 years ago. I have two felonies. I didn't know what I was doing, so I agreed to whatever they had given me.
 I, at first, was okay, accepted a job, worked seven years at that job, but then I had my three daughters. Went through DV and still was not getting no help. So I met with the community law division at the Metropolitan and told them my story.
 I had been the one person who had no charges, no problems, had worked in the community doing what I do, trying to help youth not fall in the same footsteps as me. But I still was facing every barrier as them, like if I had just committed a crime. So working with them, they fought. They got all of my fines dismissed.
 They have showed me that it's not my past that defines me, but who I am today. So I'm very grateful for them and Home Forward for giving me the opportunity to be able to be here today. Thank you. And since I believe our paths may have crossed...
 A long time ago, nearly a decade ago, I pushed forward the Ban the Box strategy of Ultima County. And I was lucky. I had a form of government that's different than here, and I could just sign an executive order, which I did. And the reason I did it was because of our gang outreach workers. Yes.
 I actually wanted people who could go into the community and speak to young people with a degree of experience and personal connection. And so ironically, I saw them as superior in that role. And I wanted to make sure that we weren't squeezing people out who actually could bring that personal experience and the benefit of hindsight to the role.
 I'm really appreciative of your being here today to share the continuation of that story and how it continues to have an impact well beyond your history. So thank you for that. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. So Home Forward went to bat in the box many, many years ago as well. And right now in our public housing we have the ability to house people that have criminal backgrounds, but we wanted to be sure that folks could leave our housing and find housing elsewhere and be able to secure jobs.
 We're hoping at some point in time we can address reentry housing second chances across our whole portfolio. By the way, Betty, I just want to say that the city of Portland also has, you know, it did ban the box, but we did it the Portland way, which is with five votes on the council, not with an executive order. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Thank you, Commissioner. So now it's my pleasure to introduce this handsome gentleman at the end. This is Ethan. Ethan and his teenage daughter received rent assistance through the Housing Choice Voucher Program. He engaged in the Record Relief and Expungement Partnership when his criminal record from his past was impacting his ability to successfully find housing with the voucher.
 even with the voucher. Ethan, thank you also for your time today and your willingness to tell your story. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My story entails I sit here as an African-American male with disabilities, mental and physical disabilities. So I've seen quite a bit of
 All these kinds of racisms. But my story ends and it has a happy ending. And so it first started in another county, which I have had an advocate speaking with me and speaking for me. But when it was time for me to show up, they wanted to raise the rent so I couldn't get the housing. We had an attorney intervene. I ended up getting the housing, which...
 Didn't stop them from coming in and doing inspections twice a month. And then so we decided to leave that county. We came here. Home Forward was blessed us enough, me and my child enough, to give us a voucher to find a home. I...
 filed an application with one app. It's one app. And so they gave me a free copy of my background check. And when I looked at my background check, I had a felony in 1997. And so that was over 20 years ago. And it said the sentencing date on it
 2006, 2001, 2011. So a person who is not educated in law would look at him and say, well he's been in jail, he's been in trouble, he's been to prison or all these different things. If they didn't know how to read it, they're like, I'm not going to mess with him. So then I applied for an apartment. I was denied because of my background check. Then I applied for another apartment through Home Forward and I contacted my Home Forward worker and she told me...
 She gave me the number to the Metropolitan Public Defenders Community Law Division. And so I called them, and the attorney there said,
 called the next apartment that I applied for, and they denied me again. And so when she called them and she explained them that, hey, he doesn't have anything on his record, he fits all your criteria, there's no reason for you to deny him, and they ended up giving me and my daughter the apartment. And my daughter's a straight-A student. She's back. You know, she's...
 Brilliant, lovely young lady. She's back in the school. She's in a high school with her friends. And now she can be able to prosper. And with a person with mental health and physical health disabilities plus background limitations, that if it wasn't for Home Forward and the Metropolitan Public Defender's Office, we would be homeless right now.
 So I want to thank Home Forward and the City Council, and I didn't even know that you guys had a fair housing 50th anniversary, and I'm glad to be here. Thank you guys so much.
 I think it's pretty clear how the program is benefiting people, but I just wanted to add one last thing. It also helps to reunify families. Frequently you'll have a parent in a unit with children, and the other parent comes out and has a record, and they cannot live in the same dwelling. So that's a big, huge advantage.
 benefit of this program and as you said, keeping families and parents and children together is really important. Thank you. Councillor Dominguez, I believe you now represent District 2 in Metro, is that correct? I'm sorry, say again? You're the Metro Councillor for District 2? I am, yes, thank you. I'm very happy
 that I'm one of your constituents. Colleagues, I want you to know that I've been serving with Councillor Dominguez on the Metro Policy Advisory Committee, which I think you were on at one time, weren't you? I was, many years ago. Yes, as a citizen representative. It's hard work. Well, when I was the citizen rep, I could vote. Now, as a councillor, I can't. So I just wanted to thank you publicly for all of your citizen volunteering, and I'm really honoured that you're now representing me on the Metro Council. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. We're delighted. Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Appreciate it very, very much.
 And finally today I'd like to bring back Alan Laza, who's going to talk about the Fair Housing Poster Contest and introduce our poster contest winners. Here he comes. All right. Sorry about that. Welcome back. Talking to the young folks. Great. Well, like I said, this is one of my favorite days to come here and be with all you folks. Thank you.
 It is the day we do the Fair Housing Month Proclamation, and then we bring you our poster contest awardees. I'm also going to call up my colleague, Ed Washington, who is going to say a few words before, as I also bring up the poster contest winners. So we've got three of our young artists with us here today. So come on up here, Lydia, Kobe, and Misha. Welcome. Welcome.
 Welcome to Portland City Hall. All right. They are all extraordinarily excited to be here, I think because they got to miss school. But just venturing a guess. Ed, go ahead and give us a few words. You know, we've talked a lot about the past, heard from some renters today about the present. My sense is that Ed's going to talk more about the past, and then we are going to move on to the future of fair housing with these young artists. Thank you.
 Commissioners and Mayor Wheeler, Ed Washington. I was asked just to, I guess it's sort of like baseball, sort of a clean up batter or something like that. But I just want to just chat a little bit about, in listening to all of the housing. My family moved here in 1944 and we came from Birmingham, Alabama.
 When we got here, we lived in Vanport. We lived in Vanport from 1944 up to and through the flood of 1948. And in 1948, after the flood, it was quite a journey for my family.
 We spent the first three months after the flood living on Swan Island, and by late fall of 1948, we moved out into the northwest industrial area where we lived in trailers for that horrible winter of 1948, 1949. And I'm sure there's none of you here that would remember that but myself, but it was cold. And so...
 Then we were able to find an apartment up on North Interstate, close to where the Portland School District Office is located today. And then from there, we moved back to Swan Island in early 1950. And by the fall of 1950, my family was able to find a house on Northeast Cook Street between present-day Martin Luther King Boulevard and Northeast 7th Avenue.
 close to Irving Park. And you know, there was not the rules that would allow us to live wherever we wanted to then. There were very, very few African Americans east of 7th, Northeast 7th Avenue. I mean, very few. And most of them, I knew them because we all attended Irvington grade school and there were not that many of us there. So after that, I,
 We stayed there, and that's where we got pretty much settled in. But I got married in 1959, and my wife and I were looking for an apartment in 1961. And these were apartments up on Alberta between Vancouver Avenue and I think it's Garfield or Canton Vine Street.
 And I went up there. We went there to check out the apartments, and the owner said, yes, we have an apartment. And we asked her, how much is it? And she said, well, it's going to be $85 a month. Well, back then, I had enough sense to know that a good apartment was anywhere from $40 to $55 a month. So I had a very good friend who was an attorney, a young man who has since passed on. His name was Ralph Cade, Jr.,
 And he was a white gentleman. I said, Ralph, I want you to go there and find out what it really is supposed to cost. And so Ralph went there, and then we would get back together. And so we got back together the next day, and he said, Ed, I can get the apartment for $55 a month. And I said, let's pay them a visit.
 So Ralph and I went over, and the way we set it up, Ralph went first, and I sort of laid back in the stairwell listening. And Ralph went on to say that a lady greeted him. She says, oh, I'm so happy to see you back. And he says, is that apartment still $55? She says, oh, absolutely, absolutely. He says, okay.
 Nothing else? She says, no. He said, you know, I don't understand. He said, I have a very good friend. You may remember him. His name is Ed Washington. And he came by here and you quoted him $85 a month. He said, something's wrong with that. And he said, well, just a minute. I'm going to call Ed. And so I was back in the stairwell and I came up. And I tell you, we got the apartment. But the most gratifying thing was to catch a person discriminating against you.
 And yes, we won the victory. But I'm telling you, you carry those scars for the rest of your life. And every time I would go anywhere to buy a house, that past still stays with me. So I'm so pleased with the work that Alan and all of the housing advocates are doing. And, you know, I just turned 81 a couple of months ago, I guess. And, you know...
 I hope that in the next 70 years that this conversation will be different. It's about time we get beyond this foolishness. So that's all I wanted to say, and thank you very much. Mr. Washington, thank you very much. And frankly, it's because of the courage of people like you.
 and the persistence of people like you that were able to be here today showing progress. And these young kids are going to be inspired by what you've said today and that vision that you just put on the table that someday this is behind us. I think that can be the case. So thank you for being here. Thanks for your leadership, and thank you for sharing it with the next generation. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Ed. It is a special day when I get to sit and listen to the stories of Ed Washington, which is often but not enough. Thanks for coming today, Ed. Could I just add, though, that Mr. Washington –
 It shouldn't be this way. And we haven't made nearly as much progress as we would have hoped. And so I just want to acknowledge that. And also with the mayor, join with him in saying thank you for your leadership. And I don't know about inspiring the children, but you inspired me. And thank you for what you've done for us. Pleasure. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner. So on to the future. Thank you.
 Thank you so much to these young artists who this year entered the Fair Housing poster contest whose theme was Fair Housing Lives in Oregon. This is the grand prize awardee, and it is by Misha to my right. Misha, I'll have you hold that. Thank you.
 Misha comes to us from Newburgh, and then we also have a couple of young folks who are from our community right here in Portland. Lydia Hall, who is from Irvington Middle School, in the eighth grade. And Kobe Chen, who is eight, and is in the third grade.
 So these young artists signed posters for all of you, and so I'll have them come up and hand those out to you. Oh, that's great. Oh, there you go. You can give these back. Hello, thank you. Congratulations. Congratulations. Kobe, come on over here, man. Good job. Nice to meet you. Yeah, I read with you. That's dope. That's fantastic.
 Thank you so much, Lydia, Kobe, and Misha. And I think that we wanted to take a few minutes and get some photos with the young folks also. Great. And with our other young folk, Ed. Very good. Should we just come down here in front to do this? Yeah, and then Misha can hold his poster. Let's see. Where is there enough room? Alan, let's go back there. You want to get back there? Okay. Kids, why don't you go back there, young people. And Misha, you want to hold up your poster? Stand right up in the front. Okay.
 Yeah. Oh, yeah. Let's have one of these. You look tall. Yeah. I should wear it. What's a little profanation? Oh. It's a great idea. All right, guys. Ready? One, two, three.
 So do we need to sign any forms to give you guys excuses? I'm here to sign a proclamation and give you the absolute off here. Great, thank you. Parents, thank you too. Congratulations on raising great kids. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Washington. It's so good to see you. Thanks, Coach. That was great.
 So with that, we wanted to thank you for inviting us to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act with the proclamation and today's events. And so for everyone who came to hear and participate, thank you very much for joining us today. Thank you. Well done. Thank you, everybody. All right. Next up are items 348 and 49. Is it not 330? Oh, Commissioner Fritz is right.
 Why don't we take a 10-minute break? We'll reconvene at 3.30. If the first part came to the presentation, could you get us in the room? All right. Good afternoon, everybody. We are back in session. Carla, could you please read items 348 and 349?
 348, amend the transportation system plan consistent with the 2035 comprehensive plan and in compliance with the regional transportation plan. Amend river district master street plan, add policies for automated vehicles, adopt findings of compliance, adopt corrections, amend transportation, and parking demand management code to clarify requirements.
 and 349, amend the transportation system plan to update introduction, modal plans, implementation strategies, and glossary. Very good. And before I turn this over to Commissioner Saltzman, could I get a clarification from legal counsel? Are these both first readings? No, all of these items have previously been continued. They're continued, yes. Okay, so on items 348 and 349 is the intention that we will actually take votes on these today?
 Yes, on the final or the amendment? Yeah, sorry. I just want to make sure procedurally I get this straight. It's my understanding procedurally that you'll vote on the amendment. Sorry, I'm Courtney Duke with the Bureau of Transportation. Thanks, Courtney. That you will vote on the amendment and vote on the full package as your first vote, and you'd have your second vote in May.
 So let's clarify. I think that means you've had a motion in second on these amendments before. Correct. Had the record open to allow people to give testimony. Council will vote on the amendments, which then means you need at least a five-day period before you can take a vote on the package. So assuming we have amendments, then we will move them to second reading as amended. Is that correct? Yes. Okay.
 Okay, very good. Just want to make sure I had that straight. There's a slight twist, though, in that. What? This twist? Staff has an amendment to my amendment, so I don't know whether we had to then...
 I think if it pertains to the same topic and it's responding to whatever information and testimony, I think it's fine for you to vote on those amendments today, and then you can take the final vote on the package when it comes back. That's good. Very good. And do we take testimony on the amendments that are being offered today, or is the record closed?
 I think you could. The record is closed. The record is closed. And, again, if the amendments are responding to the testimony and the conversation that's already heard, I don't think you necessarily need to take any additional testimony. Great. Very good. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. Sorry, Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for your patience.
 Well, thanks. We're revisiting the Transportation Systems Plan. I'll turn it over to Courtney Duke. Great, thanks. I do have an amendment I want to offer at the appropriate point concerning Lincoln High School's superblock development. Okay, so I think that's a part of Central City 2035, not the TSP. Is that correct?
 Correct, and that's a time certain at 4.30. Oh, okay. That's right. I forgot about that. I was confused, too. Okay, so just so both of the commissioners know, I gathered a couple of copies of that, and we'll give them to the 2035 staff when they appear in the room. We do look interchangeable, I know. Mayor, can I ask a procedural question? Yeah, Commissioner Fish, you go. So I'm delighted we're getting some votes here. It seems like we've been building to this moment, and today we actually get to cast some votes.
 I have a 4.30 absence, but it also says that Central City 2035 is only requesting 15 minutes. Is that true? At this point, it's a very limited set of mostly you're wrapping up.
 pieces of, or I guess amendments that you considered at your last hearing. So mostly should be relatively quick. As you've seen, there's one other amendment on the table. It looks fairly simple. So I'm sure it will go fairly quick. All right. So, Mayor, I'm going to try to push off that just a little bit because I want to make sure that we have a full council to vote on those amendments. Very good. All right. So let's move forward on 348 and 349. All right.
 So again, I'm Courtney Duke with the Bureau of Transportation, project manager for the TSP. And you're looking at TSP 3, which is the final stage of the Transition System Plan Update and its components of the comprehensive plan.
 So again, we're here today to vote on the amendments that Commissioner Fritz proposed, and we had some minor changes to that from staff. So we're just looking for any discussion that you have on that, and then the first vote.
 Is that right, Lindley? Did I say that right? So the sheet I got from your staff shows three amendments. Correct. One to policy 9XAA, 9XAB, 9XAD. That is correct. Okay. So maybe you can take them all three together or you can take them one at a time.
 That's a review, colleagues. This is to the Connected and Autonomous Vehicles, Section 8. And we did discuss it last time. One was to add supporting and encouraging use of public transportation. One was to add this includes people with disabilities as well as communities of colour, women and geographically underserved communities. And then the final one is the one that requires a slight amendment, which would now read...
 Require adequate insurance companies, sorry, require adequate insurance coverage for operators, customers, and the public at large by providers of commercial, connected, and autonomous vehicle services. So staff's suggestion is to add commercial services. So this would be, if I understood you, you had 9XAA, 9XAB, and did you say 9XAC? Yes.
 D as in dog. So this would be an amendment to 9XAD. Is that correct? It's an amendment to 9XBF. So what I have for the one that Commissioner Frisch just mentioned, that is 9XAA that has to do with the insurance coverage. I don't know. Do we need a second on that amendment? I'll second that amendment. Okay.
 So we have a second Commissioner Fritz's amendment, which includes commercial insurance, and that is an amendment 29XAA. Very good. We're in business. I think...
 Somebody's going to explain why it's no longer a committee. Mayor, Commissioner, just a suggestion. I'm Peter Hurley with the Bureau of Transportation. The policy as written, there's an explicit tools section, and we feel that the language here, which is entirely appropriate, fits well within the tools section, which is 9XB sub F.
 And so that if you look at the policy, there are A through E tools that are essentially outlining how we would implement the policy. This would...
 fit appropriately within that if it's a... No, I would prefer to have it in the policy. So I'd like to keep it in AA rather than back in the tools, please. Very good. So we have a motion and a second for an amendment to 9XAA. Is there any further discussion? Could you call the roll, please, Carla, on the amendment to 9XAA?
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. So that is the amendment to 9XAA. So now the question pertains to the amendments themselves, including 9XAA, which has now been amended. Correct. Shall we take all three of them as a package? That's fine with me.
 I have no objection. Very good. We will consider 9XAA, 9XAB, and 9XAED. D. D. I am sorry. D as in dog. Those will now be a package. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Well, I appreciate these amendments, and at the risk of beating a dead horse, I just want to restate that my view is that we are –
 poised to have a big conversation about the extent to which the city regulates and participates in this emerging technology of autonomous vehicles. Clearly, for those of us who read the headlines, there have been some glitches in some of the tests that are being done around the country. I have received some fairly terse emails from people accusing me of being somewhere between a Luddite and a Neanderthal.
 for raising some concerns here. And I just want to be very clear. I am not personally opposed to the march of technology. I just think that we first have to have a conversation about what the framework is, the policies, and our priorities before we back into anything, particularly something that has as far-ranging consequences as this technology is. So that's been the consistent theme of my concerns.
 is that essentially we not put the cart before the horse and that we carefully think through what it means to be a city that allows autonomous vehicles. As is pointed out in one of our prior hearings, maybe by Chris Smith, it may be that Congress preempts us altogether from having this conversation, which I guess they technically have the right to do, although I hope they don't. Anyway, I appreciate these amendments, and I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye.
 Thank you Commissioner Fish for your partnership on this issue. I want to make sure the Council knows that I already also submitted similar amendments to the Metro Policy Advisory Committee so that Metro's policy reflects this. I think it's very clear this technology is coming. How we allow it to happen and what...
 when and whether our questions, which I believe are entirely within the purview of the City Council, and not only that but our responsibility to make sure that these vehicles are safe for passengers and other users of the right-of-way. I think we're going to need to change what you just said at the beginning about beating a dead horse to smacking an autonomous vehicle because it's something kind of similar that somebody's got to take some responsibility at some point. Aye. Wheeler.
 So there are two things that come to mind. The first is yesterday's testimony of Mark Zuckerberg in front of the U.S. Senate.
 And it was really apparent. It was interesting, the parts I saw. But the main headline after that was that the folks in the U.S. Senate, despite their good intentions, really didn't have any clue how Facebook actually worked, despite the fact that it's been around for a long, long time. And so there they were on the cusp of proposing a regulatory framework, and then they realized, wow, we don't even understand what it is we are trying to regulate. That's sort of...
 the first thing that comes to mind. The second thing that comes to mind is what Commissioner Fritz just alluded to, which is our responsibility to try and stay ahead of the technology and anticipate what problems could exist in the community for the people who live here. It's not that we have any objection to the technology per se or are concerned about the technology per se. And, in fact, I...
 aggressively embrace it. I think there's a lot of phenomenal potential here, but we do have this responsibility to the people we represent to make sure that basic requirements that government typically imposes around safety, around insurance requirements, around qualifications, those things have to be met just as we do with the current transportation framework.
 So I think this is a really good first step. I support it. Thanks for everybody who's been working so hard on it. I vote aye. The package of amendments as amended has been adopted. So does that complete our work on 348 and 49? Or is there more we need to do? It does. And we should just mention that this comes back to council for the final vote on May 24th. Can I confirm that they actually voted for the whole package?
 I think we already voted on the amendments. They can't because they've made amendments to it. So it comes back for the vote on May 24th.
 OK. Sorry. Afternoon time. OK. So we effectively will take a second reading on May 4. Is that correct? So May 24, you're going to have a really fun day with a lot of things where you are getting complete packages that reflect all of the amendments you've made to all of these different documents. They're all coming back. And you'll essentially have a version that shows
 strike through, underline of all the changes in all these packages, and you'll vote on that, and then you'll have the second reading that comes back. Very good. And does that have to be assigned to time certain? I believe it already is, Carla. I'm pretty sure it's set for 2 p.m. time certain on the 24th for everything. Correct, 2 p.m. on the 24th.
 All right. It'll be a nail-biter. Be there. All right. Thank you so much. You bet. Next, we have items 350 and 351. Those are also to be read together.
 Item 350, amend zoning regulations to implement the 2035 comprehensive plan through the code reconciliation project. And 351, amend tree, noise, and sign regulations to effectively implement Portland City Code through the code reconciliation project.
 All right, good. So as you just heard, this is to discuss testimony received on the Code Reconciliation Project and consider several amendments. Carla has read the item. We have BPS staff, including Eric Engstrom and Barry Manning, to come up and introduce the session. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners Mayer-Wheeler. My name is Eric Engstrom. I'm manager of the Comprehensive Planning Group at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 My role in this last few items has been just to orient you once again that this is one of the several items along with the last item that's helping us wrap up loose ends to implement the new comprehensive plan on May 24th.
 So like that last item, this one will get its final reading on May 24th. We're one step earlier in the process with this, which is that you've had hearings and heard testimony, and this is your first time to discuss what amendments you want to have on the table with us. So I will turn it over to Barry to go over what we have so far. Great. Thanks, Eric. Barry Manning, Plainstaff. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Mayor Wheeler.
 So I'm just going to cover where we've been and what we have on the table today and see if we can move forward. City Council held a hearing on the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommended draft of the Code Reconciliation Project back on March 21st.
 And as you'll recall, at the March 21st hearing, the staff proposed a packet of additional amendments for your consideration. On that date, you moved and seconded to include those in the package for consideration.
 And then City Council held a public hearing. We had about nine folks testify orally on a variety of topics, but much of it on removal of a buffer overlay zone, if you'll recall, on a property on St. Helens Road. And then we've also received over 50 pieces of written testimony, a large majority of that testimony about the buffer overlay, either in the form of individual e-mails or a petition that was included in that package.
 So in response to all that, staff prepared a memo to council dated on 4-3-18, summarizing the public testimony related six themes. And as I just mentioned, we had a significant amount of testimony. The majority of that testimony was regarding that buffer overlay zone, particularly as it applied to 2425 St. Helens Road. But we also had some additional requests in that testimony, and I'm just going to enumerate those now.
 There was a request to change the FAR on a property at 2525 Northwest Lovejoy to 421 on the zoning maps. There was a request to amend the parking code regulations. There was a request to allow use of community design standards for buildings that were exercising an option for additional five feet for taller ground floors, which would allow buildings to be sixty feet high using design standards. There was a request to reduce
 the residential buffer or setback as staff has interpreted that request. And then finally, there was a testimony to support the self-service storage amendments that were included in the packet. And in that 4.3 memo, staff forwarded the council some recommendations about those testimony requests. We were supportive of re-looking at the buffer and reconsidering that. We felt the other...
 requests were discussed pretty significantly during the comprehensive plan process and probably required additional study before we wanted to move forward on any of those, so we weren't supporting those. But certainly we'd be interested in hearing Council's discussion on those topics. So with that, staff forwarded a second amendment memo to you all on 410, which is just yesterday. And I have that here. And I think Carla may have passed that order. Maybe she's passing it out now. Got it. But you should have received that via email from us.
 And that memo contains several additional amendments, including one that we understand will be proposed regarding the buffer overlay from Commissioner Fritz, and several additional staff proposed amendments that are, again, more technical in nature. And I've got a really short PowerPoint that I can show you to outline what those additional amendments are. All right. So with that.
 I'll just walk through this. Again, while we're doing the project, we're reconciling zoning and other city codes with the 2035 adopted plan implementation package. We're really focusing on cleaning up redundancies, fixing cross-references, and fine-tuning where we can. The package is largely technical, but there are some changes that do have development implications.
 As I mentioned before, there are four titles affected, 33 planning and zoning, then also 11 trees, 18 noise control, and 32 signs and related regulations. And the amendments that we have on the table will affect 33 and 32 today, potentially. So the first one I believe Commissioner Fritz will be sponsoring really deals with the buffer overlay zone.
 And I will defer to the Commissioner to introduce that, but our understanding of the recommendation will be parallel to the action that Council took preliminarily on the buffer overlay zone map project last week, which would be to
 retain the buffer overlay not only on the map as you did last week, but also in the code, so that there's a code to support that buffer overlay. And then there was a testimony on a related regulation in the sign code that related to limitations on signs in the buffer overlay that we would also say that should, if we're going to move in that direction, we'd want to make that parallel amendment as well. And then for staff amendments, we have several other minor technical changes. I'll run through them really quickly.
 In the Chapter 120, which deals with multi-dwelling, we've got several maps, 120-6, 127, 128, and 120-10, that are being changed to correspond to the new zoning designations that were adopted. If you'd like to look at those maps, I have those as resource slides, and we can look at them. They were in the packet if you'd like to look at them further. That's items 3 through 6 in the memo.
 One that's more significant and is worth talking about a little bit here relates to the affordable commercial bonus, which we talked about at the last meeting. This bonus offers additional floor area and height for projects that provide affordable commercial space, and Prosper Portland is working on administrative rules and will be the administrator of this bonus.
 And what we're doing here is amending a section of the zoning code to clarify for implementation how the affordable commercial bonus would work vis-a-vis the inclusionary housing bonus, which is also in the code, so that there's some clarity about what types of projects would access bonuses through which avenue. And the proposal is that in the code of 100 projects that were 100% residential projects
 but weren't triggering IH because they're not hitting that 20 units threshold, would go to the inclusionary housing program and either build housing units or make a contribution to the affordable housing fund in order to gain additional FAR. So clearly if you're a housing project, you are going to the housing funds for or building the housing on site.
 For non-residential projects, for projects that are 100% commercial and contain no residential units, the proposal is that those projects would first access the affordable commercial space on-site or pay into an affordable commercial fund to access part of the FAR.
 Now, the affordable commercial bonus only allows half of the maximum FAR. So if a project wanted to utilize the full floor area allowed on the site, they would have to actually use affordable commercial and affordable housing opportunity to get there.
 And then finally, for mixed-use projects, so these projects would include residential and commercial, that would like to gain bonus floor area, they can do so by either providing voluntary affordable housing units on-site, by building on-site affordable commercial space, or by first making a payment to the Affordable Commercial Fund up to the maximum limit that they can, which again is half of the maximum, and then turning to the housing fund for the rest of that.
 The other clarification here is that we're clarifying in the code that the affordable commercial space bonus, as it's structured right now, if you build space on site, the return is two square feet of bonus floor area for every one square foot of space provided. There's a slight incentive to provide it on site, much like the housing is structured to provide an incentive to do it on site. But clarifying that if you're purchasing floor area via the –
 affordable commercial space fund, the ratio is one square foot per the dollar figure. And those figures are preliminarily set to be the same as the affordable housing figures administered by the Portland Housing Bureau. So everything Barry just talked about is a situation where you're below the thresholds for...
 being required to do the mandatory inclusionary housing, but you want to gain additional FAR through paying into one of the other funds? This is all the voluntary side of the program. And it's our understanding, as my memo indicated, that Housing and Prosper Portland have had conversations about this, and they're in agreement about the way that that allocation would work, at least between the two bureaus. So they're both supportive? They are both supportive, yes. The next amendment we're proposing is to Map 426, which is the gateway...
 plan district area and there was a slight error in the way the map boundary was drawn. So we're updating that to this particular design overlay map to make it conform to the new zoning, more of a technical thing. We found an item we had overlooked in the Hayden Island plan district. This is item 10. We're amending a section of that code.
 that made reference to an allowance for drive-thru developments in a certain part of the island that is currently zoned Neighborhood Commercial 2. That zoning is being changed to Commercial Mixed Use 1. What this amendment would do is carry forward that allowance for drive-thrus in that area that exists today.
 And finally, we're making several amendments to the plan development chapter, which is 33854, in its application for use with a commercial mixed-use bonus. And if you recall, this bonus allows additional height and utilization of the floor area on large sites when they go through a plan development that has a design review component.
 And the amendments we're making after discussions with PBOT and BDS staff are to delete a transportation impact study requirement. There's no directly relatable approval criterion for this particular review, so we found that that was an inappropriate recommendation.
 application requirement. We're moving reference to a connectivity requirement. It's noted in this subsection. It proved confusing because the city has other connectivity requirements in other sections of the code that people will relate to, so this was somewhat redundant. And then finally, we're just clarifying a regulation about when modifications and adjustments can be used.
 I think that's all the slides I've got. Oh, the last two slides I'm just reviewing. Again, March 21st, you all considered several amendments that we had on the table in that package, and I just have them here for your reference if you need to refer back to them for some reason. So the next steps here, we're looking to have –
 We'll let City Council move and second these amendments as appropriate. And then we'll come back and we can talk about next steps later, but we'll be preparing an amended document and coming back to you for votes later on in the month. All right. Very good. Why don't we start with Commissioner Fritz? I know that she wants to make at least two amendments. Is that correct? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Very good. So the first two amendments are to hold off on doing the buffer changes. We heard a lot of testimony from Willamette Heights.
 and certainly they made a compelling case for their particular location. It seems to me likely that there are, if we were to look in detail at all the other sites where the buffer was being removed, there might be similar concerns, perhaps from neighbors who weren't necessarily either paying attention or able to come into the public hearing process. So it seems to me wise that we basically keep the buffer as is, both on the map and in the code, in the regulations in Title 22,
 and in 33. And so I am moving that we amend the recommendation, remove the deletion of 33.410, retain the buffer overlay zone in the zoning code, and amend the recommendation to remove the deletion and retain the related buffer overlay regulations in Title 32 and renumber the sections as shown. Second. We have a motion for Commissioner Fritz. We have a second from Commissioner Fish.
 All right. Mayor, can I propose that the staff, unless there's objection, that the staff proposed amendments be considered as a package? I actually have a question about one of them. Can we take that one out and just vote on the rest?
 That sounds fine to me. Yeah, but just do this like without objection. All right, very good. Can we get a motion and a second to incorporate the addition? Which one do you want to drop? The one about the affordable commercial space. Can I get the number? That's number seven. Number seven. So, Mayor, I move staff propose amendments three through six and eight through 13 as a package. Second. As a package, we have a second. Is there any discussion? No.
 That's all we need now. Okay, very good. And are there any other topics from the testimony that commissioners wish to discuss or additional amendments? Seven. So shall I talk about seven now? Yep. Thank you. So we had a very thoughtful letter from the Planning and Sustainability Commission dated April 5th that we were emailed that says that they agree with this proposal, but they do have some significant concerns. And the one that...
 called out to me, some Planning and Sustainability Commission members were uncomfortable with the idea of making fee in lieu payments available as an option for voluntary programs to boost floor area ratio. They questioned why funds raised in this matter based on in lieu payment would be sole source to a particular city bureau when there might be alternative uses for such funds that would more directly mitigate impacts of the allowed floor area ratio, for instance parking management programs, street trees or whatever.
 It just kind of called out to me that for the inclusionary housing, we have the Housing Bureau that has an affordable housing bond that is in charge of looking at how do we do affordable housing. And so it's clear for that that the INLU is going to then benefit affordable housing. For this commercial program, we don't have a mechanism currently for Prosper Portland to find other alternative spaces. Okay.
 And so basically what developers who would be buying this, using this payment, they would just basically be paying for extra floor area ratio. The funds, our understanding through the program that Prosper has worked on is that the funds would be
 dedicated to a particular program that is involved in affordable commercial space, both in urban renewal districts, and this new resource would allow them to do some projects outside with this funding. So it would be dedicated to a particular program that would end up being spent on affordable commercial space.
 And if I can add, my understanding is that Prosper staff will be coming to City Council with a presentation and a briefing on their program with
 within the next month or so. They're supposed to be here in early May. I might address my concerns then. Okay. So the Planning and Sustainability Commission recommends that the council adopt the affordable commercial space bonus amendments and that we further review and work with staff to amend the code and administrative rules to better address the concerns outlined above. So perhaps, I don't know what the vehicle is, Mayor, for you bringing the Prosper Portland program in,
 something related to coming back with a report on how this is working out, making sure that the amount of staff, the implementation cost, again, is called out, that staff costs of designing, implementing, and monitoring this program could be large compared with its benefit.
 So those are the concerns I have. I'm willing to move it forward. I know we're trying to look at different ways to do things. I just want to make sure that we don't open up the door to people basically buying FAR and then not getting commercial affordable space from it. And our expectation is there will be a program very similar to, again, as Eric said, the housing program that supports that space. And I'm just going to look around really quick to see if my colleague from Prosper Portland is in the audience in my building.
 She had a conflict with the commission meeting right now. The challenge is we don't have that as yet, so at least I have that. I think the comment is well taken. We acknowledge that this is an experimental bonus idea, and so it deserves to be monitored appropriately because we don't know if it's going to work. So I didn't hear anything in Commissioner Fritz's statement on the record that concerns me, did you?
 I didn't hear anything that doesn't sound like Prosper Portland couldn't do it. No, I think the issue will be with their administrative rules and how much certainty they have there. The code that we're talking about today doesn't really get into that detail. And without having had the presentation yet, I don't know how much money we're talking about here. Is there going to be enough to actually make a difference, or are we basically telling more affluent developers you can buy your way up? Two comments, if I could. Commissioner Fish.
 One is that I'm a very strong supporter of this idea of an affordable commercial space fund. It's desperately needed, and I love the idea that we'd have as much flexibility as possible to spend outside of urban or middle districts. So let's make sure that it's real. Let's make sure that the money goes to a good purpose. I have a little concern with the preamble to the letter you read, Commissioner Fritz, about flexibility to use those funds for other on-site activities.
 like trees or mitigation of some kind. We have a crisis in the affordable residential and commercial space, and this is one tool that I think offers some promise. So I'd be inclined to keep the funds segregated for this fund, but I also would want Prosper Portland to report to us so we make sure that it's accountable.
 I'm just reading what the Planning Sustainability Commission, who many of them are developers who know far more about this than I do, this was a concern that they...
 noted and it's about the increase in floor area ratio and what the impact of that is. So with all of these planning issues, it's all supposed to fit together and work together well. And so, as I say, I'm willing to move it forward as a pilot project and I would be looking to, when the Mayor brings forward the Prosper Portland Program, having something in there that says, look at what the planning sustainability objectives.
 have concerns about, not to say that we necessarily are going to agree with all of them, just let's consider it in a thoughtful manner moving forward. All right. So, Commissioner Fritz, it sounds like we are ready then to take a motion and a second on item number seven. So I move that we add seven with that stated on the record. So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. Second. And a second from Commissioner Fish on the language as stated on the record.
 Very good. Okay, so tell us about next steps. I think we completed the business we need to on 350 and 351. I think so. Yes. So our intention is to ramp all of these amendments that you have considered into an as amended document which we will submit back to council, possibly a substitute ordinance if that's necessary. We'll check with the city attorney's office to make sure how that goes together.
 And bring that back to you for, I guess, what would be considered your first vote, first action on it on April 25th at the same time or right after the map refinement project comes back to you for consideration. Yeah, I think at that point I'm looking at Lyndon to make sure we get the right language, but we'd be bringing back substitute exhibits. And so they would simply receive those and then pass it to second reading at that time.
 Yes, and we can talk about what those substitute exhibits are. Are you bringing back a substitute ordinance as well? Yeah. Okay, so then, yes, that will be a first reading because council will need to vote in the substitute ordinance and exhibits. And it will reflect all the amendments that you've moved so far. So we now have 15 minutes to pause before the next time certain? 24.
 20? Yeah. Unfortunately, the next pool of items is a time-certained. And I guess we should just verify that. I think we had the 25th was the day that you're already coming back to hear the map package, and so we were going to put this on that agenda. Okay. Correct. You're in the 2 p.m. time-certained slot with map refinement. Okay.
 So I do think that's our process, and after the 25th, we'll return for second reading final votes on the 24th of May, along with all of these other projects that you're seeing. All right, very good. So that concludes our business for a while. We'll come back at 4.30 for the time certain items number 352-355. We're in recess.
 Am I muted on? That's the problem. All right, we're back in session. This is a 430 times certain. Carla, could you please read items 352 through 355? Yes, 352, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, volume 2A, part 3, environmental and scenic. Amend the Portland zoning map and Portland zoning codes for environmental overlay zones and scenic resource zones.
 353, adopt the Central City 2035 plan, amend the Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Plan Map, Transportation System Plan, Willamette Greenway Plan, Willamette River Greenway Inventory, Scenic Resources Protection Plan, Zoning Map, and Title 33, 354, oh, Title 33, repeal and replace prior Central City plans and documents. Okay.
 354, adopt the Central City 2035 plan action charts, performance targets, and urban design diagrams. And 355, adopt the Central 2035 plan green loop concept report. Perfect.
 Very good. Thank you. Sally, do you want to walk us through the last part of our session today, please? Yes, I'd be happy to. So we have a few final amendments for you to vote on today. These are all items that were subject to the public hearing on either March 22nd or April 4th. We have one item related to access on public school sites in the central city, some minor technical amendments related to North Pearl Heights, bird safe glazing, and transfer of floor area from a historic resource.
 So once the council's work is complete today, staff will go back and prepare a Central City 2035 revised recommended draft to reflect the amendments that council has made over the last eight months.
 The revised recommended draft will also include updated commentary to explain the final code and policy language and clean up any Scribner's errors that we might find. We will also update the ordinances and findings to reflect the Council's amendments and will release these documents in early to mid-May. Thank you.
 Then on May 24th at 2.30 p.m., the same day the comprehensive plan takes effect, we will ask you to move and amend the Central City 2035 package to include this revised draft that we will be preparing, including the substitute ordinances and findings. And then on June 6th, you'll come back to take a final vote on the whole Central City 2035 plan.
 Following that, you'll hold a public hearing on the first iteration of two new administrative rules, one for low-carbon buildings and one for bird-safe glazing. And these are both needed to implement Central City 2035. And so while you will take the first vote on that, we'll be requesting that the BPS director be granted the authority to update these admin rules over time.
 After that, we'll conduct final training sessions so that staff is ready for the effective date of July 9th. So I think that's it on that. So we just have a few other things to do before we can move on to the rest. All right. So the first, Commissioner Saltzman. Well, I just want to check in when's the appropriate time for me to offer an amendment concerning the school sites in the central city. Okay.
 I think that's the first item on the list. It is indeed. Rachel, why don't you tee that up, please? Oh, okay. Sure. Thank you. Rachel Hoy with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And so just to summarize, this is an amendment that exempts public school uses from the superblock regulations. Those regulations are intended to link internal walkways, plazas, to adjacent public sidewalks, to improve circulation through a site and to an adjacent neighborhood.
 So the intent of the exemption from these regulations is to allow Portland Public Schools to design their school with open space and access ways and plazas in a way that addresses their programming needs, including safety and security needs. And our understanding is that PPS and PBOT are working on a memorandum of understanding right now, which will lay out the public access easements through the site. Very good.
 Yeah, and my amendment would simply state what you just stated more or less, Rachel, that it reads as follows. The council directs the Portland Bureau of Transportation to work with Portland Public School District on a memorandum of understanding for the redevelopment of the Lincoln High School property to ensure that specific programming needs for this facility are met and an adequate north-south public access connection is provided through the site that serves the day-to-day pedestrian and bicycle connectivity needs
 of Goose Hollow, consistent with the directives of the Central City 2035 plan. And I know Commissioner Fritz has an amendment, a friendly amendment to my amendment. So I second yours. Okay. And just to change their wording on that a little bit to...
 The direction would be that the Portland Bureau of Transportation to work with Portland Public Schools School District on a memorandum of understanding for the redevelopment of the Lincoln High property to ensure that specific programming and security needs for the facility are appropriately balanced with a north-south pedestrian access connection through the site that serves the pedestrian and bicycle connectivity needs of Goose Hollow consistent with the directives of the Central City 2035 plan.
 And I accept that as a friendly amendment. Very good. So we have a motion and a second. I do have a question, though. I'm really concerned about this because I don't know what the mechanism to make sure this happens is. We were hoping that by delaying for three weeks, the memorandum of understanding could have been signed and we would be sure about this. So is there another mechanism of...
 I mean, what happens if we don't do the exemption at all? Is there another mechanism for Portland Public Schools to come in and say, later, here's our new plan, and we've got an MOU about how the connectivity is going to be maintained? We have some people from PBOT here to...
 Good afternoon, Kurt Kruger with PBOT Development Services. Commissioner Fritz, I appreciate your valid concerns. We'd hope to have a memo of understanding prepared and signed here today. It's a pretty tall order for two large jurisdictions to accomplish in a short period of time. We're very close. We're working back and forth. There's some wording and some challenges that we are negotiating, but we have commitments from senior level management at PPS to keep working on this.
 If that were not to be signed, we also have city code, transportation code, that allows us to require connectivity through sites like this. So without the superblock regulations, we do have connectivity requirements that would need to be met in Title 17. They're just not as strong as they are with the language that had been proposed earlier. Do you think you can get the memorandum of understanding signed by May 24th? I think we can do that.
 then that would address our concerns, right? Because if it's not, then I, for one, would be looking to change our direction on this. Kurt, can I ask you a question? What's the existing north-south public access connection through the Lincoln campus? It's not necessarily memorialized. It's kind of a loose connection through fences that are open and around the track. It's not clear and distinct.
 Well, just as someone who lives in the neighborhood, I would say that when the gate is closed to the field, I don't know that there is one. No. Correct. I don't think there's one that goes south unless you can somehow navigate through KGW, but I don't – am I right? You can't. Yeah. Yeah.
 And the Friendly Amendment talks about programming and security needs. So I think that's a good addition because we have heard from Lincoln High School that they have some legitimate security concerns about access to the campus and monitoring any right-of-way. Is that correct? Very good. Were you going to say something, Sally? Okay.
 I was just going to say that if this MOU is not signed, we will, by the time we release the substitute ordinance, we'll include this as a directive in the substitute ordinance. Very good. And so to, I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz? I will be concerned. I don't want to put this out with a, there's no way that the city council can require that,
 memorandum of understanding to be signed after the central city plan is done. We lose our stick. So I would like to state my clear hope and expectation that it be finished so that we don't have to then figure out how to keep the can down the hall again. Commissioner, if I may...
 Playing through the land use application process that Lincoln High School will need to go through, they'll be going through a design review application. There's approval criteria that need to be met. Transportation will be applying connectivity requirements through Title 17. I don't want to forecast how the decision-making may occur, but city council could ultimately be the decision-maker in that land use case. Okay. Just wanted to set some clear expectations. Thank you.
 Very good. So we need to take a vote on Commissioner Saltzman and Commissioner Fritz's amendment, correct? Well, I think one is a friendly amendment, so... So that's just, I assume, is absorbed into Commissioner Saltzman's amendment.
 Yes. So you can vote on Commissioner Saltzman's. What it would do is it's a directive to an ordinance. You're going to be getting a substitute ordinance on May 24th anyway. Correct. So it will be in there if they have not done the amendment. We have to actually vote on it today in order to move it in. Is that correct? Yes, either that or you're simply directing staff to put it in there. I think it's fine to vote. Okay. Why don't we do it just to keep it clean? Could you please call the roll, Carla? Okay.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Commissioner Saltzman, thank you for your leadership on this. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you both for working on this. Dan, thank you. And Commissioner Fritz, thank you for the, I think, improved friendly amendment. Aye. So we still need a vote on the original amendment. So please call the roll on the original amendment. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. But for this, I would not be voting aye, but I am. Aye.
 Wheeler. Great. Aye. So the amendment is adopted as amended. Thank you. Next, we move on to the minor and technical amendments that were the subject of the public hearings last week. That includes the North Pearl Height Opportunity Area, the Bird Safe Glazing, and the FAR Transfer from Historic Resources. It would be my recommendation, unless any of my colleagues object, to vote on these as a package.
 Does anybody want to pull any of these for a separate discussion? Very good. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Package of amendments is adopted. That's it for today on Central City 2035. Is there anything else you want to add? No. Our next meeting will be May 24th. May 24th it is. We are adjourned. When is the party? May 24th. Okay.
 The pre-funk's outside right now, Jim. Yeah.