Yes. Really much. Yes.
 Good morning everyone and welcome to the April 13th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Ritz? Here. Ailes? Here. Good morning. Welcome everyone. We have communications items up front as usual. We'll get to them in a moment followed by four, count them four times certain items. So we have a number of presentations, proclamations and special orders of business this morning.
 A consent calendar where I believe we've had two items pulled to regular, number 351 and 358. Is that right? Anything else to pull to the regular agenda? If not, welcome everyone. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, you need only let our clerk know that you want to do that, and she'll have you on the list. You need only give your name, unless you're a registered lobbyist. If you don't need to give us your address. Okay.
 If you want to support someone's testimony in the room, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. Or if you disagree with them, give them a thumbs down or some other polite hand gesture. But we ask that we reserve applause here and demonstrations for special city employees that we're honoring, students that we're welcoming, or visiting dignitaries. So if you're one of those, you might get a round of applause. So welcome, everyone. And with that, we'll turn to Item 341. Thank you.
 Request of Sarah Hobbs to address counsel regarding Vista Bridge safety and suicide concerns Yeah, could everybody have a seat and come on up Sarah? And we'll welcome this group that's here this morning well the record my name is Sarah Hobbs and I have been working with friends of the Vista Bridge since the Campaign to get the means reduction barriers up at the bridge started three years ago and
 There was an ongoing discussion that started again with the Goose Hollow Neighborhood Association about view over the means reduction barriers. So I went to the city archives and started looking, seeing what information I could learn
 the vista bridge replaced what was known as the ford street bridge in 1926. i have here a letter dated january 4th 1915 for dr strome who was asking that a six foot
 foot of wire netting be placed on the pedestrian transit areas of Ford Street Bridge out of concerns of people looking over and getting dizzy and also he was concerned about suicides happening at the bridge, at the Ford Street Bridge even then and was wanting to address the issue out of concern people go up there because of the draw of the vehicle.
 I have here in my hand a letter dated April 12, 1926 from J.C. Ainsworth, who was president of the United States National Bank, but was also at the time president of the Portland Heights Neighborhood Association, which was –
 the neighborhood association that requested that the Ford Street Bridge be replaced, and they also carried the major tax burden for the building of the bridge.
 because they requested that it be done. Here there is a request that attention be drawn to the sidewalks of the Newport Street Bridge opening out in the center viewpoint with concrete seats. The concern being while addressing children climbing up on the seats and falling, generally as well, people falling on a whole group
 The city's response in a letter dated April 12, 1926, is, we don't think the seats on the bridge rail are going to be a problem, and even if they are, we have begun construction of the rail, and we don't have the money to stop now. So what I have here is a long documented history of ongoing issues at the bridge.
 Commissioner Novicki, you've proven if there is a will, there will be a way found to address the issues. Not only at the bridge. I noticed ODOT, if they've now completed or putting up means reduction rails on the problematic side of the top deck of the Fremont Bridge. So I see if there is a will, there is a way. But I question where is the will? Sarah, thank you very much. Appreciate your research on that. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I also appreciate Commissioner Novick's leadership on getting the barricade up and the partnership of many of the neighbors. It was recently brought to my attention by Sheila Hamilton that there has been research done with the
 barricades were going up, folks said, well, people will just go elsewhere. And the research shows that actually they don't, that if a suicide is interrupted by a barrier like that, that perhaps because people's brains are not working well, they are not able to think of another way to hurt themselves, and that saving somebody at a bridge in particular tends to have good outcomes. So that was new information to me. I wanted to share it with everybody else because that's kind of the common parlance is,
 It's a very common comment, one that those of us that work in suicide prevention find frustrating. Great research has been done through the Harvard School of Public Health in what they call their means matters study, and I greatly encourage people to Google it and look it up.
 oh thank you can i get one plug in i know commissioner fritz do you always i was just about to ask you sarah so good job veterans crisis sign 1-800-237-8255 press one it is administered by the department of veterans affairs but you do not have to be affiliated with the va to access it the only requirement is that you could be a veteran unless
 Alliance for Life will answer your call 24-7. They'll answer teenagers' texts 24-7. And so please be aware that there are community resources. Thank you very much for coming today. Thank you so much. Thank you. Why don't you read the next item, and Charles is queued up here. 342, request of Charles Johnson to address council regarding tax, equity, and fairness. Good morning. Good morning, Madam Parks Commissioner and fellow city councilors. Good morning.
 Today is a – I think we'll talk about the usualness of the day first in politics and news before we get into equity and fairness. Although we will say that we've just celebrated – I can't remember what it's called exactly, National Pay Equity Day. So I hope that we're working forward to a time when you don't have to get elected to office to get equal pay with men. It's still a tragedy that while we're giving rich people of any gender –
 tax breaks, working class women are experiencing pay inequity. I know the city has taken some initiatives on that matter, but it's still not time for us to let up. However, rather historically, our junior state senator has said, it's not quite time for a woman to break the glass ceiling into the White House. Not quite what he said. He said,
 The first sitting United States Senator to endorse Bernie Sanders for president is Oregon's Mr. Jeff Merkley. And I think we have some Sanders enthusiasts among people who are running for election right up there among the five of you. So we look forward to some vigorous voter turnout. The ballots will be mailed soon, and they're due in on May 17th. As to other issues that are happening in our community,
 I have to address the police commissioner. There seems to have been a communications breakdown on how our brave, well-trained Portland police can boldly go into areas of the city, whether they're infested with armed gangs or whether it's a business meeting of the Citizens Review Committee reviewing decisions of the Independent Police Review. I hope that there'll be
 better communication between the police commissioner and the chief of police about what real safety for citizens means so that we won't continue to see articles in the Oregonian saying that the Portland police system, according to the United States Department of Justice, is still infected with an adversarial, militarized culture. I've never seen Mayor Hale's magic wand. I guess it's not working because I know he would like to have improved safety
 police-community relations, mutual respect on both sides, and effectiveness. So I look forward to a public session where perhaps Constantine Sevier, the mayor, the auditor, Chief of Police Day can clarify about how vigorously the Portland Police Department is going to work on exceeding the standards set when the United States of America sued the city of Portland
 because of problems with our policing thank you all thank you okay next person please 343 request of craig rogers to address council regarding zoning good morning craig welcome by the way if you're talking about the comp plan you have to wait for the comp plan hearing understood that's the that's the law and that's not my idea craig rogers portland resident i'd first like to um
 Thank Commissioner Novick for being in the business of saving lives. I think of you every time I come across those flashing crosswalks. And I'd also like to mention Noel with Oregon Walks and Michael with the bicycling community, that those people are really making a positive difference in this city. With regards to zoning...
 Whether we're talking about high rises on the waterfront that block the light of day or residential lots in East Borland that would be split, I have a sentence that I want you to ponder kind of as a test before you rezone things. And it's from a famous book, and it's simply, all animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than other animals.
 I want you to ponder that before you make zoning changes. It's come to my attention that with regards to the auditor's office, that perhaps there might be a shortfall of funding. And with Governor Brown a year ago, she said that transparent and accountable are really important. And I agree. And I believe that the auditor's office is one of the most productive offices in
 in the City of Portland, and I think that they should be rewarded for doing a good job. And I really encourage you to fully fund that office, and I hope it's a 5-0 vote with regards to the lobbyist issue that's coming up also. And you just look at all the work that the auditor's office has done, and as an example,
 of what an auditor's office can make a difference is just Google Allentown, Pennsylvania and FBI. The FBI has gone in there and grabbed computers, and it's a pay-to-play situation, and it's really very serious. Right now, New York City, Mayor de Blasio, just check that out. This is even more current and serious.
 I encourage you to really give the auditor's office the attention it deserves and funding. Yesterday, Mr. Obama said, President Obama, forgive me. That's the thing about America. We are a work in progress. And that's happening right here, right now, and it's really something to be proud of. Thank you, Craig. Thanks very much. You're welcome.
 okay next one please 344 request of crystal elinsky to address council regarding taxes loans and grants crystal you're here okay then let's move to 345. request of sean sullivan to address council regarding title 11 concerns with portland bureau of transportation and bureau of development services good morning welcome good morning i was here maybe a month ago for title 11.
 And I'm back again. I want to say that I think something's wrong at development services and with PBOT, and it's impacting us in two different ways, financial damages, and it's being inconsiderate of the general public. I spoke the last time I was here about Title XI and the delays that working through that process caused to my project, The Robes and Jewish Home.
 Currently, that same project has been waiting for its public works improvement permit and we just surpassed one year in the process. We are about ready to complete our phase one of the project, which is supposed to take occupancy in two months, and we still do not have our public works permit.
 As you know, this is a continuing care facility. We have to go through DHS, Department of Human Services, inspections. There's a good chance that we may have a completed building and not be able to occupy it, which will at that time stop the project and will cause yet another delay. I find that servicing the public question, especially when it comes to PBOT, I've got a couple of examples on my project.
 One is, for instance, we went to PBOT and we asked that the two parking spaces that are at the east end of the project and their street improvements be eliminated so that we could go ahead and taper the curb back to align with the existing neighborhood to the east, their driveway or their street. And that was rejected because the standard is for those parking spaces to be there.
 I pointed out that those parking, two parking spaces in this whole project, were only accessible coming from the neighborhood side. And couldn't we just eliminate them and plant that area so that we would then discourage traffic from going through the neighborhood? The answer was no, it's not our standard. You have to put in the parking spaces. We can sign those parking spaces, no parking, which seems counterintuitive. It's counterintuitive.
 Another example is that since we have to close down half of the sidewalk area along one of our frontages, we offered to PBOT to install a sidewalk on the opposite street that matched up with the existing one. They said we certainly could as long as we put it into their standard.
 Their standard was a planting strip, a wider sidewalk, and a buffer zone. So all we needed to do was remove the trees and go to all the landowners and get a dedication of their land, which would have taken months. So I asked if I couldn't put in an asphalt sidewalk or something. The answer was no. And I said, well, you know, this is going to result in people in wheelchairs driving down the street.
 We appreciate you raising these issues. I guess I just want to let you know that there has been follow-up by members of the Council with bureaus based on your earlier comments. So I'm sorry that you had these delays, but it's not gone unnoticed. Thank you. Not there yet, but you've been heard. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's move to the consent calendar. Again, we have two items pulled, 351 and 358, unless there are any others. We'll vote now on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Rick? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, item 346. Proclaim April 2016 a fair housing month in Portland. Commissioner Saltzman?
 Thank you, Mayor. I think as my colleagues all know, April is Fair Housing Month, and the City of Portland is recognizing the federal and local fair housing laws to reaffirm our commitment to make housing available to everyone. Portland's theme for this year is Fair Housing Opens Doors, and the national theme is a shared opportunity in every community. Housing is a critical component of our lives, to our lives. It opens doors to health, prosperity, and community.
 but the doors are not open for everyone. The housing crisis is more than evident. It affects every person, every institution, and it rips apart the basis of community when relationships are broken by displacement. While this council has put in place measures to catch people in crisis by increasing the time of notice for rent increases and no-cause evictions, this coming year we will need to maintain a proactive approach. This council will continue to need to address...
 the long-term solutions that prevent homelessness, increase housing options available to individuals, and in turn, open doors of opportunity to our most economically vulnerable community members. This year, we will work on policies that create shared opportunity in every community. It may mean more affordable housing in a public transportation-rich area or more public transportation in an infrastructure-poor area.
 The approach is to share the benefits and burdens and employ partnerships and actions across all of our bureaus. Here to talk more about Fair Housing Month, we have Betty Dominguez, who is Home Forward's Director of Policy and Equity, and she will speak to us. And then we also have Alan Lazo, who is the new Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon.
 And he will introduce our very talented Portland students that are here today to be honored for their fair housing artwork. So we'll start with you, Betty. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, and good morning, Mayor and Council. So as you mentioned, I'm the Director of Policy and Equity at Home Forward. I'm also a member of the Portland Housing Advisory Committee, as well as a member of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee.
 Fair housing opens doors is Oregon's fair housing theme for the month. Through our poster contest, you'll see winners. I'm sorry. Through our poster contest, winners we see what opening doors means to the youth of Portland. I really missed that out.
 The various organizations I represent understand how policies such as redlining have historically and currently led to the fundamentally unfair landscape of racial segregation, displacement, and the creation of barriers to opportunity. To undo the legacy of unfair housing practices, we need policies that are inclusive and serve to open the doors that we know are closed to opportunity.
 In addition to some of the suggestions you made, Commissioner Saltzman, around policies and programs, there are other policies that we might suggest or consider. Those would be encouraging the city to work with landlords around educating them about their obligations to accept applications for consideration from renters with the Section 8 voucher, and then test and enforce the law when broken, etc.
 House Bill 2639, which went into effect in July of 2014, has opened doors by making discrimination based on source of income or housing assistance, commonly known as Section 8, illegal. However, despite that action, even Section 8 voucher holders are finding it difficult to maintain and find housing in today's environment of rapidly rising rates.
 I think I need more coffee. Maybe it's my allergies. So this is Fair Housing Month, and throughout the month, we've been conducting a survey of hundreds of renters.
 Preliminary results show that 11% of those hundreds of renters surveyed reported having to move recently against their wishes. Of that group, the most common reason for those who were forced to move was that their rental housing was either sold by the owner, 21% reported that,
 The second most common was eviction with no cause. 20% reported that. And 17% of those respondents said that they had to move because of a rent increase. The final results of the Fair Housing Poll will be available later this fall, and we'll be happy to share that with you.
 So, again, additional policies that might be helpful in addressing some of these housing crisis issues that we're experiencing right now, in addition to educating landlords, would be to implement inclusionary zoning, which I know the city is working on, to consider rent control and other incentive programs to include more affordable housing and high opportunities, and
 You could consider instituting a landlord licensing program in order to consistently train all landlords and tenant landlord rights and responsibilities. The city could also consider creating a mandatory rental inspection program to be sure our families do not delay in asking for needed repairs that often improve health consequences for their families and their children. They neglect to do this because they're afraid of eviction or rent increases.
 So at the time, I'll stop here, and at the time, it's my great pleasure to introduce Alan Leto, the new Executive Director of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon. Alan has owned Laszlo's Tax Service, a local small business, since 2002. He's participated on a variety of commissions and committees in Portland and Gresham, including Portland's Human Rights Commission for the past five years. Thank you.
 And one of those years, he was the commission chairman. During his tenure on that commission, he has been a vocal supporter on issues around fair housing. Alan, please take it away. Good morning. Good morning, all. Thank you, Betty, and good morning, Mayor and commissioners. It's fantastic to be back here again this morning. And it's an honor and a real pleasure this morning to represent the Fair Housing Council of Oregon and introduce these talented artists that we have with us here this morning.
 I know we all take great pride in welcoming these up-and-coming members of our community who have conveyed through their art an understanding of how important it is to open doors to opportunity through the work that's being done in fair housing among those in the community and those here in partnership.
 I, as well as the talented staff, volunteers, and board at the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, look forward to continuing our partnership with you at the city in working to end discrimination in housing and ensure that all members of our community have open doors and equal access to all that our fine city of Portland offers.
 But this morning is about these inspiring poster artists. Our annual Fair Housing poster contest raises awareness among area students and their families about fair housing and provides a visual reminder of the theme of fair housing opens doors throughout the entire year.
 Copies of these posters, depicting the work of this morning's grand prize artist, are distributed as part of our education and outreach work throughout the state of Oregon. We distribute them in government offices, in social service agencies, out at libraries, in housing complexes, and in other venues where we provide education and outreach about fair housing, such as on our bus tours of historic discrimination and displacement here in Portland, which I know that some of you will be joining us for on Friday morning.
 So without further ado, but before I introduce these young artists, I want to say, as you know, I've been here several times to talk, and one of the first times I came here was probably –
 i know four or five years ago and i mentioned that it was the very first time that i'd ever been here to city council and i've lived here for many many many years um and now we've got folks here who are maybe 40 45 years younger than i and i hope that this is an introduction to this process and civic participation for them and that they'll come here many many more times too so just another fantastic outcome from from the work that's being done
 And I was just saying, we have many, many talented students in the city, and it was very, very difficult to narrow down choices. So I just want to recognize that there was participation, very wide participation by kids in the community. So without further ado, let me introduce this morning's Fair Housing Poster Contest Award recipients, and they're right here. So I'll have them come up as I read their names and a little information about them if they could.
 So for grades one through three, our first prize award recipient is Rachel Clay from Chief Justice and Oakley Green. Rachel, come on up. Rachel, come on up. Come on up, Rachel. Come sit up there with us. Hi, sit right here. Good morning. Morning. So, Rachel, we heard that you love reading and you have an older brother named William and loves animals. Oh, don't we all? And when she grows up, she wants to be a veterinarian. So congratulations, Rachel. Thank you.
 Our next award recipient for grades four through five is Faith Culpepper. Faith, come on up. Come on up. From Innovative Housing and Futures School. Oh, you can stay. We'll bring another chair. Ah, yeah. We've got plenty of chairs here. All right. Faith is very interested in... Bring them all back up when you're done. Faith is very interested in drawing, and her favorite subject in school is science. Oh, that's a great combination. She has one brother and one sister. Oh, I'm going to move over a little bit because she also regularly practices taekwondo. Uh-oh. Uh-oh.
 Congratulations, Faye. So our next recipient is for grades 6 through 8. It's Lydia Hall from Irvington Elementary. Lydia? Come on up. Good morning. Thanks. So Lydia does tumbling at Irvington and likes dancing and gymnastics. She also likes reading and writing and takes many trips to the area libraries. She loves drawing and fashion design, and she recently received a sewing machine and uses it to sew her own clothing designs.
 And finally, our grand prize award recipient is Alexandria Nagy from Catlin Gable. Come on up, Alexandria. So Alexandria is a level eight competitive rhythmic gymnast and trains about 16 to 18 hours a week. She's been involved in that sport since she was seven. She's also passionate about running, reading, and creative writing. She has an older sister and a younger brother, and most importantly, a new four-month-old Weimaraner puppy. So congratulations on all those things.
 So thank you all for the work that you did on the posters, and we've got a couple versions of the poster here hanging up, and I think we're going to also take some photos. So congratulations to all of you. Let's hear it for our artists. So, yeah, why don't we have everybody come up, and we'll hold some of the posters and get a picture. Thank you.
 So, commissioners, what we would like you to do is to come down and sign the posters. Oh, okay. For the youth. We also have the first prize winners here for you to sign. And then they have already signed a poster for you. Oh, that's nice. And then after we do that, we'll gather everybody for a picture. Somebody could help me kind of hold these down. I'm going to look for them.
 Okay. Let's use the same hand. Great. No. All right. Good work. That's nice. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you so much. What do you want? Yeah, you can work. Sign which one? All four. Sign them all. Okay. That's the first one I signed. That's two copies. Two copies. Let's see the other one. And then the other one. Yeah. Let's see if there are all some of these other ones out here. Nice. Very good. Thank you.
 No, you don't have to sign all six of those. Just one. Just one of each. Okay.
 and if you haven't signed this one thank you all very much which one is going to be up here so this is the one we get for our office yes that's signed good job this is my hand right here yes
 Really well done. Yeah. Very good job. Thanks, Mr. Cornish. Thank you. Take a picture with us. One more student over here. No, you don't have to do the bottom one. Just the top one. Yeah. Wow. This is terrific. And the Grand Pipe Center. I'm there. Ladies, why don't you come join us and we'll take a picture. Right in the center. You in the middle here? You guys get in the middle? You get a star? Right here.
 There we go. Steve-O? There we go. Wow. Mike, don't let Josh cut the horns. One more. Thank you. Thank you. Good work, ladies. Excellent work. Thank you.
 And thanks for supporting a really important issue in our community. Thank you very much. So we have another celebration this morning. Something wonderful is happening thanks to the United States Navy. I'll have Carla read the item and we'll proceed.
 Item 347, presentation from the Navy League of the United States Portland Council on the commissioning of the USS Portland. Well, good morning and welcome. We're very pleased to have the Navy League here. This is a really exciting thing for our city that the USS Portland is getting its finishing touches here.
 and more to come. As these gentlemen know, this one's personal for me. Not only is it wonderful to have a ship of the United States Navy named after our city, but I have a special connection with the Navy myself, although never having served there since my father spent his whole career working for the Navy Department, as did my brother, and since my uncle Boats, my only uncle in the world, spent his whole life working in the Pascagoula shipyard where the USS Portland has been built.
 So this one is sweet for me, and we appreciate very much this opportunity and your advocacy for what comes next. So good morning and welcome. Thank you, Mayor. It's too bad that you're not able to go down there, and it's very interesting how some of the news media is mixed up.
 both of these events. Well, you can straighten that out for us this morning. Introduce your team, too, please. Anyway, good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Gary Piercy, and this is Mike Hewlett and Ken Bray. We're all Navy veterans. We're from the Navy League of the United States. It's a civilian group that supports all IC services, and
 Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, and Merchant Marines. The Navy League is over 100 years old. It consists of almost 50,000 members nationwide. Our two local councils have about 250 members. One of our founders was Theodore Roosevelt, who in 1904 also believed in a strong Navy. As some of you know, we get it to change. Thank you.
 Yes. Some of you know the Navy is building a large ship to be named after our city, and on Monday we got the confirmation from the Secretary of the Navy that the commissioning of the new USS Portland will be in Portland in late 2017. What a great time for all Portlanders to celebrate our maritime heritage and show our appreciation for today's sailors.
 This is the first Navy ship to be named exclusively for our city. The famous USS Portland during World War II was named after the main city, shown here passing under the St. John's Bridge in the 1930s when it visited Portland. And the more recent ship of the 1970s-20s was named after both cities, a most unusual occurrence. She was based on the East Coast, so she never visited here.
 There have been other ships, or ships named after other Oregon cities, for example, Eugene, Oregon City, Astoria had two ships named after them, and Salem had three ships named after them, but no Portland, Oregon. Now the Navy has named a ship for our city, even though both senators from Maine complained that they were overruled.
 Shown here is the Secretary of Navy, Ray Mavis, with Mary Hills during the naming ceremony late in 2014. We've been honored for Portland's maritime heritage as a major shipbuilding center in both World War I and World War II, as well as being a major seaborne commerce center since the city's beginning.
 We are still in the preliminary stages of forming our committee, but we already have many supporters, as you can see. We are asking for your public support to help make this ship and crew part of Portland's heritage. We are not asking for any funding, even though the Navy does not pay for any activities except the commissioning ceremony on a Saturday morning. Our committee will be soliciting donations.
 We would like to form a joint committee with you or for city officials to become part of our committee to coordinate activities over the next 18 months. As I mentioned, the commissioning will be here late in 2017. Later, Ken will tell you more about what a commissioning is. We expect this to be a large public ceremony, 4,000 to 5,000 people attending. What a great opportunity this is to make this Portland ship.
 Now here's Mike to tell you more about the ship itself. Mayor Hales and commissioners, when you first heard that the Navy honored our fair city, Portland, by naming the ship the USS Portland LPD-27, you probably wondered, what kind of ship is that? Let's take the next few minutes to better become acquainted with the importance of the future USS Portland. And it was a little over a year before this naming ceremony that
 that the keel of the USS Portland was laid at the Ingalls Shipyard in Pascagoula, Mississippi, with a target date of spring of 2016 for the launch and the commissioning. And the not commissioning, but the christening. The christening is the first event.
 Here's a picture of our sister ship, the USS New York. You may recognize her from what you've seen on TV, part of her ship. The ship is from the steel of the Twin Towers. It's a large ship, very large ship. It's 684 feet long. It's two-thirds the length of an aircraft carrier.
 It's over 100 feet longer than the longest ships, the cruisers, that we've had here for the Rose Festival. It's very large. And to get a better sense of the size of it, let's zoom in to see if we can see the people that are manning the rail. Point is, it's quite large. Here's a view of the San Antonio-class LPD, of which USS Portland will be the 11th ship in that class –
 And the class sister ships form the backbone for Navy and Marine Corps amphibious operations. And what's unique about the LPD class is the fact that it can house 500 to 800 of Marines, and the real big deal is all their equipment, including all the vehicles necessary for
 a land assault. Does LPD stand for something? LPD stands for Landing Platform Dock. And it's easy to forget, so we will now refer to it, as the Secretary of the Navy did, always as an amphibious transport. That way stick. Thanks for the question. You notice the large flight deck? The flight deck's capable of handling four of the TELT-router Ospreys.
 Here is a cross-section of the amphibious transport. You can see in the bays a lot of the different equipment that's carried aboard. It takes 370-plus Navy sailors to accommodate the 300 to 500 to 800 Marines embarked.
 You'll notice that the stern of the ship, the doors are open. That's to flood the well deck so that the launch craft can launch into the water. Also note that the medical, there are 24 hospital wards, two operating rooms for medical, two for the operating for dental. The doors of the
 The well deck are open. In comes a utility vehicle. Here's a landing craft that really is the workhorse that does the heavy lifting. It's called the landing craft air cushion. Here are two of them in the well deck loaded up. Notice the heavy equipment that's on that ready to be launched to the beach. Probably the most visible type of aircraft
 type of mission is actually non-planned. It's humanitarian relief. You've probably read about the humanitarian relief on the Haiti earthquake, on the tsunami for Japan, and of course for Katrina, supplying and offloading men and bringing supplies. But we've been talking about the size of the ship and the hardware of the ship. The real key is it's all about the crew.
 None of this crew has been on the ship before because it's just being built. So there's a major training effort that needs to go in place, shake down cruises, take a year to a year and a half to get the ship fully ready to deploy, ready to conduct their amphibious operations flawlessly, flight operations, prepared to meet many challenges, long-enduring bridge watches, and finally...
 Ready for duty, ready. Everybody's trained. The ship is 100%. It's now time for a major celebration, much larger than the christening, is the commissioning. It's a large public event showcasing both ship and city. And at this point, I'd like to turn it to Ken Bray, who will be describing to you what happens during commissioning. Thank you, Mike. Mayor, commissioners.
 The commissioning will see an influx of national and local government officials, Navy and Marine Corps flag officers, distinguished visitors and dignitaries, honored guests associated with the ship,
 the shipbuilder Ingalls itself, and their industry guests, as well as family of the crew members. It will certainly be an event in time for Portland to roll out the red carpet. You can see from this picture from the podium or approaching the podium of the New York that you have Mayor Bloomberg and then the CNO at that time, Lester.
 Admiral Roughead and General Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Conway, as well as Senator Clinton. She was the main speaker at this commissioning. A little story of the commissioning. While I lived in San Antonio, I was privileged to be invited to the commissioning of the very first ship, the USS San Antonio. It was quite an event. Let me share some highlights.
 First, what is a commissioning? It is actually the acceptance of the Navy of the ship and it's ready for service. It's the culmination of the construction cycle from Keel Lane launch, christening. Christening will happen on May, scheduled to happen on May 21st, Saturday, on Armed Forces Day down in Pascagoula, and finally commissioning.
 It is both a commission is both a formal and solemn ceremony at the same time. It's festive and jubilant. It places the ship in service and the Navy includes a set. The first watch first logbook entry is made the reading of our orders and the ship is formally transferred to his new commanding officer. The chief of Naval operations are his representative. There'll be a number of commemorative speech. The ship's commissioning pennant,
 Our ensign is raised, and all this is climaxed by the ship's sponsor. Our ship's sponsor is Bonnie Amos, wife of the commandant of the Marine Corps, previous General Amos, where she'll say, man our ship and bring her to life. And what happens at that time, the crew has been on the shore side, on the dock side, and now the tradition is they run up.
 of the gangways and man the rails it's quite a stirring uh event uh there's a navy of the music is playing anchors away and all that's going on it will it was a site that promises to arouse patriotic feelings and all who see it i promise this concludes the formal ceremonies which are generally followed by tours of the ship as well as lunch with the crew
 Okay, that's the event. Now we have the ship. Now what do we have to do, huh? Hosting the commissioning is a two-way street. In the months ahead, the ship's officers, crew, will seek to learn more about Portland, our history, our customs, if not our personality, if not our weirdness. While in return, Portland needs to define, organize, and support Portland.
 meaningful community activities, perhaps those that showcase the best of Portland, as well as support the traditional events befitting such a commissioning. And you can see on this list that there are a number of typical and formal events and receptions. Activities may include community service activities,
 and we have been in contact with a prospective commanding officer, and he's asking us how can his officers and crew be of service to the city. A nice gesture. Maybe athletic competitions, both internally among the ship and perhaps a friendly Portland challenge, maybe dragon boat races or something like that. Social events for not only the sailors but their families as well. Here's a reception on board the flight deck. The crew.
 i'll try to speed up a little bit just a question sir sure is it by tradition does the secretary of the navy try to attend each of these commissionings or is that too far up the food chain no he tries to come but it doesn't always make it but uh it's uh it's
 That's a problem. Gary, you want to answer that better than I? Yeah, well, quite often, and it depends on their schedule, of course. With Secretary of Defense, it just depends. I mean, at various levels, I don't think there's any set. But we expect many national leaders will be here, yes. Secretary Mavis, our current secretary, has had a great relationship with Portland. He's been here a couple of times, including the last couple of Rose Festivals. So he's been very active in building this partnership. This is something close to his heart. Yeah.
 And I'll get it summarized here. I'm being dragged here. Part of this is to create a good feeling between the crew and the city of Portland. Our relationship with this plank holder crew, and that's what they're called. The first crew is called the plank holders. And those sailors take very high pride in that.
 but with future sailors, will provide a boost for their morale while reinforcing their sense of value in the crucial role of defending our nation. Indeed, the Rose Festival has a ship to call its own, and she will only deepen our pride as she accomplishes her missions around the world. Perhaps someday in the future, some years in the future, it's going to be a very special day to see the USS Portland lead the Rose Festival fleet
 up to Columbia to the Willamette. That would be a great thing. Our mission is clear and upon us. Provide a commissioning that will leave a strong imprint on all that is good about Portland to the sailors of the USS Portland for years to come. Leave no doubt in Portland's resolve to support these sailors
 as they are willing to go in harm's way, all the while enduring long separations for family. To sum it, let's make Portland's commissioning all about her sailors and their family. Thank you. Thanks, Ken. Did we have that video? We have a nice time-lapse video of the launching of the ship from about two months ago. It came from the shipyard, and, oh, yeah, it does work good.
 So she's actually in the water now. This is how they get her to the water. Let me see. Made that look easy. So you can see, that's the launching. It takes place over a number of days. The christening with the bottle of champagne, that's on May 21st coming up. And then...
 almost a year and a half later through all the training and installing the machinery and things like that in the ship itself, then we have the commissioning here, which is when the ship is actually legally accepted as part of the active fleet. Thank you very much for your time. Any questions anyone has about this? You said the crew spends a year and a half in the preparation. Is that prior to commissioning? Yep, they're just forming the crew now. The commanding officer we just appointed said,
 weeks ago. In fact, things got a little mixed up here on this whole – usually they wait longer to announce the city, but the Secretary of Navy was very proactive. Some of the active Navy people hadn't checked off some of the approvals.
 Anyway, we do have the approval now. So there's a few officers and a few of the crew now. Over the next few months, they'll be forming the crew. Then they have to go through their training off the ship and then on the ship. So that takes about a year and a half. It's amazing how much preparation goes into this. Okay, thanks.
 Well, we thank you so much for this presentation this morning. It's really, really both great information and a lot of excitement that you bring to this work. And we know it's a big commitment on your part and the Navy League's part to do this. But we are really proud of the work that you've done already to position us for this wonderful thing. And it's going to be a great thing for Portland. We need your help. That's why we want to make it Portland's ship. I mean, this is not going to be a Navy League thing. We want to make a Portland ship. We want to get as many of the public involved and excited about this as we are because this is a
 It's been a long time coming, and it's going to be a fun affair all the way around. Mayor, I just want to acknowledge my dad was in the Navy. Oh, yes. He spent a lot of time with a mop and a bucket. Really? I'm not sure he was very high up in the command structure, but that's where he served. And so this is a proud moment for Portland. That's great. If somebody wants to get involved who has been watching this on cable, how would they get involved in participating in the preparations? Sure.
 Give us your name. We're going to have to get somebody to develop your website. We have a website, and the brochure is being passed out right now. Okay. So the website is www.ussportlandplpd27.org. There we go. We've already got it up and running. So that's the way for people to get in touch, and we appreciate you very much. Let's hear it for the USS Portland. That is going to be fun.
 Well, thank you all very much. That's going to be a great day for our city, and this is really a proud moment for our community. So we're looking forward to having lots of great interaction between the crew of the USS Portland and the people of this city. It's going to be a great experience for everyone. Thank you. By the way, Mayor, I think it's important to note that both Presidents Roosevelt were assistant secretaries of the Navy. So as far as I'm concerned, when I need a bank regulated or a national park established or a trust busted, I call the Navy. Ha ha ha.
 Always a good idea. Thanks very much. All right, let's move on, please, then, to item 348. Accept Portland Bureau of Transportation 2015 Traffic Safety Report. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues and fellow Portlanders, when we hear about a death or a serious injury on the roads, we feel terribly sad, and I think that sometimes we feel helpless.
 I think that...
 When we hear the statistics and the context on the crashes, we will still feel sad, but we'll feel somewhat less helpless. I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz for suggesting that we have a formal presentation at Council of the Traffic Safety Report. I think that it's important to look at the data and realize, for example, that we do better than most cities.
 We do better than we did 30 years ago at avoiding fatal or traffic crashes and crashes that involve serious injury. But we don't do as well as some cities. We don't do as well as we should. So I think that when you hear the data, you realize that we should be sad, we should not be satisfied, but we should not feel helpless. And now I'll turn it over to Margie and Leah. All right.
 Good morning. Thank you so much. Leah Treat, Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation, and I'm joined by Margie Bradley, who is the Division Manager for Active Transportation and Safety. And I'd also like to point out and thank Sergeant Vopel from the Portland Police Bureau, who has joined us today as well.
 So I had talking points that I am going to go over, but last night as I was getting ready for this time certain today, I came across an article that really struck me. And if you'll indulge me, I would like to read a little bit of this article to you. It's from The Atlantic, and they're talking about traffic safety and roadway fatalities. Okay.
 It says,
 Jim McNamara, a sergeant with the California Highway Patrol, where officers spend 80% of their time responding to car wrecks, believes such public inattention and apathy arise whenever a problem is massive but diffuse.
 Whether it's climate change or car crashes, he says, if the problem doesn't show itself all at once, it's hard to get anyone's attention. Very few people see what he and his colleagues witness daily and up close. What hurtling tons of metal slamming into concrete and brick and trees and one another does to the human body strapped or all too often not strapped within.
 In contrast, a roadside wreck as experienced by the vast majority of drivers is a nagging but unavoidable inconvenience, just another source of detours and traffic jams. Increasingly popular and powerful smartphone traffic apps eliminate even those brief close encounters with the roadway body count, routing savvy drivers away from crash-related congestion. The typical car wreck is becoming all but invisible to everyone but those who are killed or maimed and those whose job it is to clean it up.
 Many are aware at some level that troubling numbers of people are injured and die in cars, but most remain unfazed by this knowledge. This disparity and inattention between plane crashes and car crashes cannot be justified by the relative death tolls. Quite the contrary. In the 14 years following the terrorist attacks of 9-11, there were eight crashes on American soil of passenger planes operated by regional, national, or international carriers. The death toll in those crashes totaled 442 people.
 That averages out to fewer than three fatalities a month. The death toll on America's streets and highways during that same period since 9-11 was more than 400,000 men, women, and children. The traffic death toll in 2015 exceeded 3,000 a month. When it comes to the number of people who die in car wrecks, America experiences the equivalent of four airline crashes every week. A normal day on the road, then, is quite a catastrophe.
 Ken Kolsch, the statistics for the National Safety Council, calls it that, and he ought to know. He makes his living crafting the annual statistical compendium of every unintentional injury and death in the country.
 Car crashes are the leading cause of death for Americans between the ages of 1 and 39. They rank in the top five killers for Americans 65 and under, behind cancer, behind heart disease, behind accidental poisoning, and behind suicide. And the direct economic costs alone, the medical bills and emergency response costs reflected in taxes and insurance payments, represent a tax of $784 on every man, woman, and child living in the United States.
 The numbers are so huge, they are not easily grasped, and so are perhaps best understood by a simple comparison. If U.S. roads were a war zone, they would be the most dangerous battlefield the American military has ever encountered. Seriously, annual U.S. highway fatalities outnumber the yearly war dead during each Vietnam, Korea, Iraq, Afghanistan, the War of 1812, and the American Revolution.
 When all the injuries from car wrecks are also taken into account, one year of America driving is more dangerous than all those wars put together. Thank you for indulging me on that. I thought it was just said much better what I wanted to say today than I could have put together in words myself. So on to the data that we want to present to you today about the city of Portland and our traffic fatalities.
 Unfortunately, we have lost 37 lives on Portland roadways last year. That's more tragic than the number of homicides we saw in our community. And this year, the pace of traffic fatalities has been worse. And indeed, it has been a very rough start to our year. We have lost 14 lives in crashes already in 2016. Eight of those fatalities are in East Portland. This statistic is sad, but it is not surprising. Thank you.
 Did you know that if you live east of 205, you are two and a half times more likely to die on our roadways? That's why we held a press conference last week. Thanks to the leadership of Commissioner Novick and the support of our state legislature, in particular, Representatives Reardon, Fagan, and Vega-Peterson, to highlight the installation of a rapid-flash beacon at Stark and 151st. We are joined by our partners in the Police Bureau, who also conducted a crosswalk enforcement action at the same time.
 The beacon that we installed at Stark at 151st was one of 19 rapid-flashing beacons that were paid for by state funding. Since 2012, we have improved safety at 34 crossings in East Portland, and we are currently working on designing and constructing over a dozen more beacons in East Portland. We also held the press conference to convey our sense of urgency and our commitment to reaching zero-traffic fatalities and serious injuries.
 And it was also a moment for us to recognize Chief O'Day and the Police Bureau for their rapid response to the increase in fatalities. Their increase in traffic patrols focused on traffic safety is exactly the kind of response we need. And thank you to the Police Bureau. They have been great partners. So these are our overall trends in fatalities, including 2015. 37 people died in crashes in 2015, which was an increase in fatal crashes compared to 2014. And then we have the increase in fatalities in 2015, which was an increase in fatalities
 And looking at the history of traffic fatality for Portland going back to 1925, we have seen an overall downward trend. However, over the past decade, progress toward reducing the number of fatalities has remained stubbornly elusive. So these are our fatalities by mode. In 2015, 20 occupants of cars and trucks were killed in traffic, which was an increase over the previous year when seven occupants of cars and trucks died in traffic crashes.
 The motor vehicle trend over the last 20 years has shown a significant decrease in vehicle fatalities, primarily because of improvements in vehicle safety technology and seatbelt usage. Motorcycle fatalities stayed constant at five. Bicycle fatalities doubled from one to two.
 The best news, even if we could say something like that when discussing fatalities, was that in 2015, pedestrian fatalities were down, with 15 fatalities in 2014 and 10 fatalities in 2015. Unfortunately, only a few months into 2016, we are seeing the pedestrian fatalities go back up again. Out of the 14 who have died on our streets this year, five of them have been walking.
 Overall, among roadway users, people walking are at greatest risk for being seriously injured or killed. Despite making up just 9% of roadway users, people walking comprise 31% of Portland's traffic deaths.
 So now I'd like to transition to some of the conclusions that we have reached as part of our work on the Vision Zero Task Force. Crashes often involve multiple factors. The factors that we are seeing in 2015 and now in 2016, such as impairment and speed, are consistent with the trends over the past 10 years. Based on 10 years of data, impairment is involved in 56% of deadly crashes. Impairment includes both drinking and drugs. Okay.
 We do not know yet how the legalization of marijuana is going to impact this trend, but we know that the Portland police, with the leadership of Captain Sheffer, is working towards how to best detect and test for marijuana in drivers. Captain Sheffer believes it is underreported in this data because law enforcement have not yet found a reliable test.
 Second, speed is a factor in 47% of fatal or serious crashes. Speed kills. It's really that simple. We have known for a long time that speed is a contributing factor in many crashes, and that's why I worked with Commissioner Novick and Representative Reardon to champion the fixed speed camera bill, and we continue to pursue ways to lower speeds on the roads of Portland. Third, people disobeying traffic laws is involved in 51% of fatal crashes or serious injuries. Fourth, people disobeying traffic laws is involved in 51% of fatal crashes or serious
 Example of this type of infraction include disregarding a stop sign or a traffic signal, and it includes all modes. For example, it would include a car driving the wrong way on a road, but it would also include a bike going through a stop sign.
 distracted driving is included in this data set, although as we have discovered as part of our work in the Vision Zero Task Force, our data on distracted driving is poor. Oregon does not have a comprehensive distracted driving law. So in other words, police officers in Oregon often cite careless driving as a contributing factor to a crash, whereas there's no place on the crash form to similarly report distracted driving. Thank you.
 but we do know it's a major problem. According to the Centers for Disease Control, over 3,100 people in the U.S. were killed from distracted driving last year, so we know that's a problem. Fourth, based on our data, road design on our high-crash network plays a role in 47% of fatal crashes in Portland. So in other words, the high-crash network in Portland makes up for 7% of the centerline miles of roads in our city, but accounts for 47% of fatal crashes.
 This is a map of our high-crash network. As part of our comprehensive Vision Zero strategy, we have realized we need to move toward a better analysis of those roads that are the most dangerous. We have started to move away from the idea of high-crash corridors and are now examining a high-crash network. We feel this change is going to give us a more accurate understanding of the problems on our roads.
 And you can see that most of the roadways are multi-lane, higher-speed arterials. That numbering is not rank order, right? It is rank order. It is rank order. Okay. Thank you. We have additionally overlaid the High Crash Network with a Communities of Concern layer from TriMet's Equity Index, the dark gray areas on the map. Both the High Crash Network and the Communities of Concern layers help PBOT and our partners identify the highest priority areas for traffic safety investments of our limited resources.
 And last, our next steps on our Vision Zero action plan. I'm very honored to be leading the Vision Zero task force on behalf of the city to develop our Vision Zero action plan. The city, our regional and state partners and stakeholders are planning a multi-pronged approach to make Portland streets safe.
 The plan is going to include two-year and five-year actions, and the actions under discussion include education, enforcement, policy changes, and infrastructure changes. In May, we are going to convene the executive committee of our Vision Zero task force. That committee includes Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick, and the committee is going to have a community listening session and also present some of the initial findings of our task force.
 and we are going to be back to council in the fall for a full briefing on our task force, finding a talk about our next steps on the action plan. That concludes my testimony. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Questions? First, Leah, I want to say just personally that of all the things that you and Commissioner Novick have championed in your brief tenure here, how long have you been here?
 Two and a half years. I'm sorry, not so brief. I'm pleased when you're having a lot of work. In the two and a half years that you've been here, I think of the many things you've done that you both can be justifiably proud. I think the Vision Zero thing may be among the most important. And I want to just comment on –
 the gap between our aspirations in terms of the values proposition and what we're seeing on the streets. And it's interesting, no matter how the mayoral election turns out, come next January I'll be the only member of council living on the east side of Portland. And I can tell you my experience driving on the east side of Portland has not been good lately. And while I don't have to go very far, I live in Grant Park, I drive on some streets that are really under a lot of strain right now.
 and particularly sandy uh sandy boulevard and i recently sent you an email and i really appreciated the response i got in fact i sent you an email and i got a response that weekend and i don't that's about as responsive as you can get and i i i'm grateful for it and what i did is i i highlighted some of the worst behavior that i see routinely
 And I shared with you that I'm trying an experiment as a driver. I'm not a saint on the road. I have in the past received parking tickets. I have done other bad things in my life on the road. So I don't presume to be the exemplar of exemplars. But I guess having two children and growing older, I'm more aware of these issues. And so I've been doing a little experiment, which is following the law.
 to the letter as I drive around. And what I have found increasingly is that I am a hazard to others. And it's alarming to me. By driving the speed limit on Sandy, which is 30 miles an hour, I'm a hazard because people angrily go around me and shake their fist at me because it's like I am holding up progress. And most of the time it's people going 50% or more faster than the law allows in order to get to the next intersection ahead of me.
 putting everyone at risk along the way. So I asked you about some of the common things that I see, U-turns and intersections. People are routinely making U-turns at our intersections, and most of the time they seem to be on their phone. Well, that's a Class C misdemeanor, which could cost you between $150 and $250. Speeding. We have people that I observe routinely going between 10 and 30 miles over the speed limit.
 In Portland, that will get you a $110 up to a $450 ticket. Failure to use turn signals, I think for some people that has now just become discretionary. That's a Class D, that's $110. Aggressive, dangerous driving. If you engage in aggressive, dangerous driving, you can be charged, you can be fined up to $450. If your reckless behavior causes serious injury, $450.
 It's $12,500. You must go into a diversion program and you must appear in court. And so I looked at all the stuff you gave me and I really appreciated seeing both the statutes and the fine schedules. And I guess the point that I want to make is because I think what you're doing is so important, I want to volunteer as I'm assuming all my colleagues want to volunteer to figure out how we can help you achieve this goal. The goal of Vision Zero is noble.
 And the statistics you've just given us are stunning because they remind us that most of these are preventable deaths or injuries. If we stopped distracted driving, if we slowed down, just some of the basic common sense things, we can save lives. And I often feel powerless when I'm around people egregiously violating the law. I mean, I guess what I often do is just point to the sign that says 30 miles an hour or someone is going past me at twice the speed.
 But I have no authority to intervene. But I really, I think this is critically important. And as there are more cars on our roads and more people that are kind of stressed out and there's more conflicts between user groups, it makes what you and Steve have said is the goal more important. And I just want to volunteer for whatever service you need to make this work.
 And it literally drives me crazy to see the kind of reckless and careless and selfish driving that I see on a regular basis on the roads. And my impression is it's getting worse, not better. And I'm not entirely sure that there are folks that fully understand what the consequences are of their behavior. Okay.
 And so whatever it is, I want to sign up. And I'm just deeply grateful that you've set this audacious goal for our community. And I think the council over the next few years has an obligation to follow your lead and to fund it and to make sure that the word gets out and to do whatever we can to save those lives. So thank you.
 Commissioner Fish, thank you so much for your comments and your support. I will say we are going to need you. We're going to need the rest of the council. When we come to you in the fall with our action plan, the types of things that we're looking at addressing are going to take changes in localities,
 law, many at the state level. So we're going to need support at the legislature. We're going to need help ensuring that not only our sister bureaus in the city of Portland are coming to the table with us and putting all of their energy behind the same effort. We're going to need help from Multnomah County. We're going to need help from the private sector, nonprofit. And we have all those people at the table on our task force. Right.
 But it really makes a huge difference when there's political leadership behind the staff asking for actions to be taken. I would be honored to join Steve on one of his stings. I'd also – I have a bunch of ideas that if we could follow up, and I'll just give you one because you said you're going to seek some legislative changes. Sure.
 I was surprised to learn, and again, in your very responsive memo, I was surprised to learn that under state law we are so generous in allowing vehicles to stop, double park in places on the road. And there's some language that explains the sort of exceptions in the loopholes. The thing that I've noticed with increasing frequency is vehicles in very congested areas double parking at the intersection.
 and then waving you along as if it's a smart move to go around a vehicle into oncoming traffic at an intersection. And, you know, I'm willing to roll the dice in my life, but I'm not going to do that. And I think there's some common sense rules. I mean, personally, I think double parking in the midblock is less dangerous than at the intersection. The one thing we know about an intersection is you're going blind in multiple directions.
 And I just think there's some updates we ought to consider, and I hope you canvass all of us for suggestions. And then, again, you know, please count me in. Thank you both very much. Other questions? And then, Steve, you have invited speakers beyond our staff. I know there may be some folks that want to speak on this item. I don't think so. Okay. Thank you both very much. We'll see if there's anyone signed up to speak on this report. We have one person, David Davis. Okay. Come on up. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you both.
 Come on up. If you want to speak on this item, come on up, please. Thank you. Yes, I saw. Yes. Good morning. So I wanted to say, you know, I think it's good to reduce traffic deaths and stuff, but I also wanted to point out that the Portland Bureau of Transportation is directly involved with killing homeless people by having homeless sweeps.
 and coordinating a lot of the homeless sweeps so i'd like to see the uh same uh vision of zero deaths for homeless people and uh i think one of the ways that you could do that is by uh stopping a lot of the sweeps because uh sweeps are known for killing people and uh so i think it's kind of a
 contradictory that, you know, that motorists and bicyclists and pedestrians are put on this pedestal of safety, but homeless people basically are being killed by these same agencies that are supposedly there to stop traffic fatalities and other stuff, you know? So I don't think that the police and police
 Portland Bureau of Transportation and ODOT and all these people should be conducting homeless sweeps and killing people, especially under a homeless state of emergency. And, you know, this is a – I just see one class of citizens and –
 all these various groups that get protection, but I don't see the homeless. And you know what? The homeless are an all-encompassing group of people, which include every race, gender, you know, sexual preference, et cetera. So, you know, these homeless sweeps are still going on. They're being coordinated by the same people that are supposedly...
 all interested in safety issues, you know. So basically I'm wondering if you guys are going to maybe tell PBOT to stop sweeping homeless people and killing them, because I'd like to see the same vision of zero deaths amongst the homeless that you guys are free to comment if you want. Thanks very much. Mr. Walsh, I think you're next. Thanks.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Often in my travels, I have to cross an area down by the MAC station, Division. And what happens when you cross that main street is you hit a button that warns you to be very careful because cars may not stop.
 The problem is when you're crossing the street, the first lane is not a problem because you can see them stop. It's the second lane. If that second lane is open, I've almost been hit at least three times by cars going right through. No stop. 30 miles an hour. I mean, I'm kind of small. 30 miles an hour is going to squash me.
 Another area that I have to cross is when I go to Aventus Pavilion at Main Street when I get off the MAX. I go to the light and I push the button and it changes the light from green to red. All the cars stop, including the 15 bus. So it's a very busy area. So then the question becomes, why in that area do we stop all of the cars? Why?
 for the person walking across, but on a MAX, we don't. Why is that? It's very dangerous. And I'm very cautious when I cross that area because I've almost been there three times. Every time I get in that street, I can feel this on the back of my head, really getting nervous. So if you want to do something, I get the impression over and over that we do things on the cheap and we pay a price for it,
 And the person making the decision to do it on the cheap, like just pushing a button and saying, be careful crossing, no kidding. If you do it on the cheap, somebody's going to get killed sooner or later. Somebody's going to get killed. I don't know if there's any statistics on that area, but it would be interesting to find out. Thank you very much. I think there probably are. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, and my own personal opinion about cars is they kill people. My cousin, when I was 12, I do not drive or ever had a car because I had a cousin that was 12. When I was 12 in 1967, he was killed in a car wreck because he did not have a seatbelt on, and it was a 30-mile-an-hour crash, and his mother was driving him to school and checked in the back seat to see if he had spilled a Coke and crashed into a tree.
 In 2005, my son, my father was getting old. He should have gave up his driver's license. By the way, on that story, my uncle was this ironing thing. He was a superintendent for an oil company. It's Fowler's of cars. That was his only son. In 2005, my father drove, and he was 77. He should have gave up his license. This is a comment about older drivers.
 He lost it on the freeway. We hit the barriers. Luckily, there were water things taking an exit. My son had his seatbelt on. He lived. By the way, it was a kinetic impact at 30 miles an hour just hitting the back seat that killed my cousin. There's another sign there that I see cars as killing machines and probably the number one cause of accidental death. Okay.
 Those are just two traumatized stories. By the way, because of the experience of the car wreck in 2005 when my son was 10, he does not drive. Like most high school kids want to get a driver's license. It really turned him off. Thank you very much. Morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. I'm really surprised the Bureau Director walked out. She's learning a lot from you, Commissioner Novick. Hopefully she'll keep walking out the back door.
 It's very important that bureau directors that after they do presentations also listen to the public, whether they like their ideas or they don't. It's just very important that they do. It's very disrespectful just to walk out and have no consideration for what the public has to say. Now my issue, and hopefully since Commissioner Novick is here, I'd like to have more studies done on the pedestrian deaths. I'd like to have more studies done to have an understanding that
 A lot of people have handheld devices this day and age, from the smartphones to all different types of devices. I want to study to look at that very close to see if those are tied into these type of accidents. If we want to look at doing a possible ban on texting while you're walking, having headphones on while you're walking, etc.
 and get a clear understanding on that if that does equate to pedestrian deaths, the numbers increasing in the last couple years, and to try to look at this very close and maybe look at a solution to minimize those type of pedestrian deaths due to handheld devices. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Those folks that were signed up to speak? That's all I have. So I have a motion to accept the report. Second. Roll call, please.
 Steve, thanks again for framing the issue, for setting a audacious goal for leading. As I said, I think this is potentially going to be one of your most important legacies about educating the public about more rational behavior on the streets and then coming up with the various legislative and other fixes to make our streets safer. And I thank you for your leadership on this. Hi. Saltzman. Well, thank you for this report. And I look forward to the report of the task force in the fall.
 I do hope the task force, you know, Mr. Lightning just brought up a good point about should we consider issues around pedestrians in the crosswalks being able to text or have earbuds. I think some cities have actually started to make that illegal, and I think that's something we need to look at. And I do think that...
 All in all, we need to be more serious about distracted driving. I think we have an ambivalence in our society about it because many of us do it. And I think motorists now think it's okay if you're at a stoplight. It's okay to be checking your iPhone for text and messaging. I believe that's still illegal under the law. So I hope, and I've mentioned this to the chief, I've mentioned it to the mayor, to the sergeant, you know, we need to be more aggressive. The violations are so rampant, it's just...
 easy for the pickings you know post somebody at a corner in plain clothes although the chief says they don't have to be plain clothes they could be in uniform and they can still write a lot of tickets so i hope this task force will really get serious about that because that's the thing that's on the uptick distracted driving and the consequences are terrible so thank you again and i look forward to the full report in the fall bye
 I really appreciate Leah's and Margie's and the rest of the Bureau's work on this issue. I appreciate the service of all those on the Division Zero Task Force and everybody in Portland who has worked to improve traffic safety for years and years. Really appreciate Commissioner Fish's remarks and the support of the rest of the Council. I want to talk for a second about the issue of speed because as Leah said, it is literally true that speed kills.
 And sometimes we take actions to reduce and it's important to note that it's not just the posted speed limit, but the shape of the roadway that affects how fast people actually drive. And sometimes we take actions to reduce speeding, which has the effect for some people of increasing the length of their trips, whether they themselves are speeding or not. Right.
 I had a conversation yesterday with somebody who was really upset about what we're doing on Foster Road, where we're going from four lanes to two lanes and a turn lane. And we know that is going to increase the length of some trips by about three minutes. And some people are upset about that. And three minutes stuck in traffic can seem like a lot. But –
 making that change is going to make it safer, for example, for children at our Alita Elementary School to walk to school. And I think part of the culture change that we've been talking about and that Commissioner Fish is saying we need to make is to get people to think differently about steps we're taking to improve traffic safety and get people to think, for
 Spending an extra three minutes on a trip is an investment in the safety of those children in early elementary school. And I think if you ask people, would you be willing to take three minutes a day in order to protect people's lives, I think they would say yes. We just need to get them to think of it that way.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your leadership on this. As one of our citizen communicators said this morning, you are in the business of saving lives in all three of your bureaus. I particularly appreciate you bringing this report to us, and especially on page 5, the list of the people's names who were killed on Portland streets in 2015.
 I do notice that there is one name missing, the motorcyclist who was killed on September 20th of 2015. I tried doing a Google search and I couldn't find it either. I would encourage you, if somebody's watching and who knows the name of that person, to let Commissioner Novick know and to bring a substitute ordinance up.
 back on the consent agenda so that we can add that name because it's important that we remember the names of the people who died on our streets and almost every traffic crash is preventable we need to get much more serious about doing that
 It's been 81 weeks since Steve Fritz was killed in a traffic crash, and I'm happy to tell the council that the Oregon Transportation Commission has added more funding so that all of the barriers for the Fritz Burr Child Act will be installed before the deadline. They've now allocated $22.3 million as a result of your support to getting that –
 bill passed in the 2015 legislature. So every place on interstate highways throughout Oregon where median crash barriers are necessary, they will be installed as soon as possible. So I feel...
 certain that we can do similar things in Portland that will increase barriers so that people are protected. I note that the mode share of pedestrians who are killed is way more than the mode share of the number of pedestrians, and we need to be careful not to blame the victims in recognizing that it's vehicles that kill the pedestrians and that they're
 the speed has been noticed is often a factor in that. As I drive down to Ashland every year with my daughter to see plays and why I use the GPS, even though it's quite clear once you've got onto I-5 how you're gonna get down to Ashland, it's remarkable to me how long you have to drive at the speed limit to catch up on even a minute on time that you've lost at the beginning after you've been in a traffic backup.
 Three minutes is really not that long. And what I've started doing is looking at the clock in my car when I'm stuck in traffic and getting annoyed and realizing, no, actually, I have only been there for three minutes. That's not that long in the grand screen of things. We all need to be sharing the road and being more careful in how we do that on bicycles, in cars, as pedestrians. Thank you.
 It's, they're our streets, and we need to be more careful, and we need to do the things that fund the programs, including not only the physical barriers, but the training for police officers, especially now with marijuana, we need to be able to fund the training that allows them to direct police.
 to arrest people who are driving under the influence of marijuana so that's something that i'm going to be talking with the council about over the next few months and working with the police to make sure we have that annual training again thank you so much for bringing this report it's so important bye
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Novick and PBOT, and I want to thank Sergeant Vaubel for being here because it does take the classic three E's, education, engineering, and enforcement, for us as a city government to have an effect on this crisis. But I think at a different level, first it has to start with our own hearts and minds. Yes.
 You know, thinking a little bit about this is a public health issue, you know, it was once possible to smoke in this chamber. In fact, members of the city council smoked in this chamber. But it became understood that that's a public health problem and that smoking kills you and you shouldn't do it around other people. Our hearts and our minds changed based on the facts. The facts are here. Leah recounted the dismal reality.
 factual record of what we lose in our community and in our country every year to traffic fatalities and injuries. So first we have to change our hearts and our minds, and then we have to speak really clearly about the issues at hand. And one way I try to do that is to remind everyone that driving is not a right.
 It's a privilege. That's why we issue a license. I don't need a license to exercise my right of free speech. But for the privilege that the community grants me to drive on the public's streets and roads, I'm given a license. That license can and should be revoked when my behavior on that common space is unacceptable to the community. So those words matter. Um...
 Automotive homicide is homicide. Automotive assault is assault. Negligence, i.e., driving while trying to send a text message, is negligence. Those are crimes.
 We need to be clear with both our hearts and our words about what's at stake here. That alone won't solve the problem, but I think it's the foundation to solving the problem, much as understanding that smoking is inherently dangerous.
 started a trend there in the right direction. So thank you for your work on this issue. The Police Bureau and I are committed to being effective partners in Vision Zero, and we need 600,000 other partners in the hearts and minds and actions of our neighbors and our friends. Thank you very much. Bye.
 Okay, now we have a time-certain item, and we also have Commissioner Smith here from Multnomah County to talk about our regular agenda items. So I want to suggest that we take the time-certain item quickly, 349, and then move directly to item 361. 349, proclaim April 10 through 16, 2016, to be National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week in Portland. Commissioner Novick, would you like to lead off? Sure.
 Actually, Mayor, I think that first I'll ask Lisa Turley and Laura Wolf from BOAC to make a few remarks, and then we'll read the proclamation. All right. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Lisa Turley, the director of BOAC. And with me is Laura Wolf, our senior management analyst. And I just want to say that we appreciate your recognition of the efforts of my staff, because my staff is also your staff.
 They are the first people on the scene of many incidents that go on in this city, medical, fire, and police. And they are dedicated servants to the goal of providing public safety.
 and laura's been working really hard this week on tweeting and retweeting a bunch of information about how our bureau works and so i'd like her to speak just a little bit about that good morning laura wolf mayor commissioners first of all i'd like to thank commissioner novick for implementing the idea of tweeting about our the work that we do every day and recognizing the dispatch of their um
 And having a fun time actually taking pictures and all of you who've participated in sending out pictures about supporting BOIC and the work that they do and then getting to retweet them. And also thank you for attending the banquet we had on Sunday evening. Commissioners Novick and Fritz were there. Thank you. Great. Thank you.
 And would you like to read the proclamation, Commissioner? Thank you very much, Lisa and Laura and everybody at BOEC. It's my great honor to be the BOEC Commissioner, and one of the most honorable things I get to do is read this proclamation every year. Thank you.
 Whereas dedicated public safety telecommunicators at the Bureau of Emergency Communications serve Portlanders by responding to their request for police, fire and emergency medical services and dispatching the appropriate assistance as quickly as possible, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. And whereas when an emergency occurs, the rapid response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics is critical for the protection of life and preservation of property. And whereas,
 Whereas professional public safety telecommunicators are a vital link between responders and victims and are often the first contact people have with emergency services. And whereas public safety telecommunicators seek to ensure the safety of police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel by monitoring their activities by radio and providing accurate information obtained from 911 callers.
 And whereas public safety telecommunicators of the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications have contributed substantially to the apprehension of criminals, suppression of fires, and life-saving treatment of patients experiencing medical emergencies...
 And whereas stable, adequate, ongoing funding for the Bureau of Emergency Communications is critical to support the work of our public safety communicators, who often work long hours, and often as an understatement, to ensure the Bureau fulfills its mission of answering 911 calls and dispatching help. And whereas telecommunicators and the Bureau of Emergency Communications exhibit compassion, understanding, and professionalism while performing a critically important job as Multnomah County's first first responders.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, and the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 10th through 16th, 2016, to be National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much, Commissioner, and thank you and everyone in our wonderful Bureau for the great work they do. COMMISSIONER SACKVILLE. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BERNANKE. Thank you very much. Keep it up. COMMISSIONER SACKVILLE. We'll do our best.
 okay let's move on please then to item 361. the spend system development charges for parks and recreation environmental services transportation and water for the construction of accessory dwelling units or or the conversion of structures to accessory dwelling units
 until july 31 2019. let me make a couple opening comments i know commissioner salzman has some as well uh it's really this is really a good piece of work in my opinion that we're extending this sdc waiver program for accessory dwelling units you're in a city that's growing very rapidly we're looking for all kinds of ways to make that more livable and more equitable as we struggle with growth and housing costs and these other issues
 So ADUs, as we call them, accessory dwelling units, are a great tool for both livability and affordability. And they give people a lot of flexibility about how they might help meet the housing needs of our city. So providing that incentive was a good idea. Continuing that incentive is a good idea. And I'm pleased to bring this resolution forward with my colleague, our housing commissioner, Mr. Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 i believe that we should hopefully uh we will act to extend the uh system development charge waiver for accessory dwelling units uh this would be the third time the council has created an exemption for a three-year period we've seen the exemption incentivize the construction of this popular housing option and it's good public policy i think we all want to see infill development occur it's consistent with our growth and our comprehensive plan goals
 And, of course, I recognize that not charging the system development charge fee has an impact on our infrastructure bureaus, and council needs to be cognizant of this. But the tradeoff is, as I said, creating infill housing stock and providing property owners options on how they and their family members use their property, I think outweighs this impact. Thank you.
 I don't know if we have anybody we have a formal presentation okay Matt from your staff is standing by for questions but I think we should first call on Commissioner yes I'm a county because she's here I've been looking forward to asking Matt Grum some questions under oath okay that'll be if that'll be a pleasure good morning and welcome good morning all my friends are in one place right that's right thanks for coming thank you thank you for inviting me I
 We missed you the other day, but we know you were doing God's work. Yes, sir, I was. Our condolences to Roy and his family. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Mayor Hales and Portland City Commissioners. My name is Loretta Smith, and I am a resident of District 2, as well as a District 2 County Commissioner.
 Today, I'd just like to share my support for Commissioner Saltzman's and Mayor Hill's efforts to highlight how accessory dwelling units, ADUs, play a role in the ways we can take up and address issues concerning housing affordability in Portland.
 And as you all know, housing affordability is a huge, huge issue in Portland. I think we have every level of government who is trying to figure out strategies, you know, and together how we can make this a little less, you know, cumbersome for people who can't afford to live in the city at all. And as you saw last week, we,
 I think both chambers, the county and the city, we were bombarded with a lot of folks who were really, really hurting behind the affordability issue. And while there is a common perception that ADUs are for those people with higher incomes and means, in the Portland area, this is an alternative housing option being offered as a solution for building neighborhood density.
 Portland and the surrounding Multnomah County's identity is woven into the fabric of its neighborhoods. And as a longtime resident whose family roots go back to my grandfather who worked in the Kaiser shipyards back in 1942, I've seen firsthand how this place has developed over time.
 and how the identity of North and Northeast Portland, including historically black neighborhoods, have changed. And as a county commissioner, I am all too aware of how these same neighborhoods change.
 buildings, ADUs is difficult due to the high costs and impact on homeowners. So I think what you're proposing today is a huge, huge help to make sure that we can do infill and that we're not trying to push out the urban growth boundary.
 ADUs are an important part of the conversation about neighborhood identity. They represent a way to accommodate community members, their caregivers, and family members. They also benefit homeowners and renters alike. And research has indicated ADUs offer real potential for comparable, affordable rents and living arrangements here in the Portland area.
 And this resolution being brought forth today, extending the sunset on system development charges on ADUs until 2019, it alleviate or it will alleviate the high cost for construction and development of ADUs.
 At a time when the cities of Portland, Gresham, Troutdale, Beaverton, and Milwaukee, Oregon, and other regional cities wrestle with the issues of housing affordability and availability and seek to offer ways residents can afford the adequate living spaces, it is very clear to me we must promote strategies that offer a means to an end, and this is one of the strategies.
 The use of ADUs, although not the only answer, presents us with a simple yet effective means to create living units for people who are unable to afford the skyrocketing prices associated with homeownership and renting. ADUs can provide a win-win situation.
 Homeowners can offer living units with reasonable costs for development while the region gets increased density without bumping up against urban growth boundaries.
 I realize that this is just one part of a larger narrative about housing access, availability, and affordability. And I know that many of us, both in this room and beyond, are confronting just how we look at residential security for people we represent here in the city and in the county.
 But I hope our efforts like these, which lessen the cost and ultimately benefit homeowners and renters, can keep fueling this dialogue. I hope that we can collaborate on this as we remember housing is more than just appropriate dwellings. It is also about enabling people to say where they want to live and call home.
 It is going to take creative solutions and ideas for us to make sure we're helping everyone, and I just think that this is one of those creative strategic ideas that we need to continue. I want to thank you for your support of this for the original resolution, and today I hope I urge everyone to support and vote for the second extension. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. I thank you for being here today. I appreciate it. I was peripherally following. There was a discussion of the property taxes for accessory drilling units. Can you, do you know where the County ended up on that?
 Well, as you know, we got an interpretation from the Department of Revenue. I lost track long before that happened, so if you could refresh me and others. Well, one of the issues that I was concerned with is that Multnomah County was assessing the entire property instead of just the ADU. There is an interpretation that is underway right now that suggests that
 We should only be doing just the newly built ADUs. Currently, the Department of Revenue has a task force looking at this, and I think, Mayor, that they're going to be coming up with an additional assessment on how we should be looking at it. But just to back up just a bit, we did refund from the county some of those ADUs
 some of those dollars for property taxes, because I got so many calls from people who said our taxes went up by $8,000. They had no idea that they would be reassessed for the entire property and not just the 800 square feet that they're putting in their garage. So, uh, hopefully we'll all get the same interpretation and that we will be able to add additional density to the urban growth boundaries. And I could say, uh,
 The number of ADUs that have been built are in my district.
 And so it is a huge issue. It also offers an affordability for seniors who may want to rent out their big home and move to the ADU. So hopefully we'll be able to get a standardized interpretation of, you know, what we should do. But for right now it's still pending, and so that's something that if people are thinking of doing it, they should factor that in, that they could be assessed a higher property.
 Well, what I would suggest to them to do is to call Multnomah County Assessor's Office to see what they're doing today. Because at the high end, if that's what we're doing, they need to know what their ultimate costs are going to be and not just assume that it's going to be, you know, retracted in some way. Right.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for asking the question. We appreciate your help on that issue, too. We appreciate your advocacy on that. And I just want to say to you why I am on the record, Mayor and City Council. I so appreciate all of you and your support of the Summer Jobs Program by the name of Summer Works. And I know we have partnered with work systems.
 the county and the city, and you all have been so great to continue this program. I don't know what some of our kids would have been able to do without this summer job. It is so important. And just to leave you with a statistic, so if you have any other requests for additional summer jobs, just know that we have about 32,000 students who are from the ages of 16 to 24 who have no job and they're not in school.
 So they're just randomly out here in the Portland region with nothing to do. Summer jobs offer an alternative and it's an additional strategy to try to train some of our youth. So I just want to say thank you so much for supporting this for the last five years. Loretta, you just said something that I think bears repeating because I had a similar conversation with the head of Work Systems, Inc., on whose board you serve.
 And when I learned that there are 30,000 young people who we describe as disconnected, I want to go back to what you just said. 30,000 young people between the ages of 16 and 24 that are not in school and that are not employed. That's right. So these are young people at the greatest risk of maybe getting involved in activity we want to discourage or seeing their horizons limited or a number of other things. And so...
 It really didn't hit me until I heard the number, 30,000 young people that are at risk of seeing their horizons limited if we don't, in these critical years, give them a hand up.
 And Commissioner, one of the things that we have been advised to do through the Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of Labor, we're not calling those students at risk anymore. We're calling them opportunity youth. And those opportunity youth need an opportunity in this community. And for whatever reason, whether it be gang violence, homelessness, drug and alcohol, or just not being able to get along with your family and couch surfing in different places,
 We have a very serious problem, a youth employment crisis, and not just the public. And we have stepped up in a big way, Mayor. Eighty percent of the money that our work system uses for summer works is from the public dollar. What we need is the private sector to step up and join our efforts so that we can at least have a couple thousand kids and work. It's not going to bend jobs.
 the 30,000, but we need to figure out some strategies on how to put those folks back into the queue. So I thank you for your support, and I'm going to thank you in advance for supporting the Summer Works program. Thanks. Thanks very much. I appreciate you being here today. Thank you. So I know we have some folks that are signed up to speak on this item. Let's call them, please. I'm going to have questions first. We can have questions for Matt first, if you'd like. Come on up. I think –
 I may have some amendments. So, yeah, one of the reasons we think it's important to have this three-year window is because there is a chill as a result of the Department of Revenue's interpretation of property tax reassessment. There's been a really chill on ADU development. So we think if this task force does result in a ruling that property owners can rally around and want to go resume their ADU plans, it's probably going to take at least a year for that to happen.
 So with that, I'll just turn it over to questions for Matt.
 Yes, question for the Commissioner and Matt. I totally agree that we need to increase density and increase the supply of housing, which improves affordability. But when we allow apartment buildings to be built, that increases density, but we require the developer to pay SDCs. And we have SDC waivers for affordable housing, but we require that the housing actually be affordable. Okay.
 I have two main concerns about a three-year extension. One is that I don't think that we know how many ADUs are actually going to be used as Airbnbs to use the one company as a shorthand for short-term rentals. And if they are largely being used for short-term rentals, they aren't actually increasing the housing supply for Portland residents.
 And second, I think there's no guarantee that ADUs will be affordable. There's nothing to stop people from renting out an ADU for $1,500 a month. So I've talked to Matt about this, and I understand that there are some questions about the logistics and the administrative ability of us to say that we only have the waiver for the ADUs that aren't used for as short-term rentals or that we impose a requirement of affordability.
 and maybe we can't overcome those logistical problems immediately. But it concerns me to have a three-year extension without having fully addressed those issues. I'd like to think that there's some way before three years we might be able to resolve the administrative and logistical issues and put some parameters on this waiver. Thank you, Commissioner. I'm Matt Grum with Commissioner Saltzman's office. Excellent points.
 um the one first i'll address the infrastructure and the difference between a multi-family apartment building and an adu um the feeling oftentimes and i've read this from different advocates is the infrastructure impact oftentimes when an adu goes in the same water meter you have can be used for the adu you don't build a new parking driveway for the adu perhaps whereas obviously a multi-family building has a lot of impacts on the infrastructure so it's felt
 that there is a lower impact on those infrastructures, and that's some of the rationale on that. As far as... Excuse me. If there wouldn't be... If it was the same water meter, there wouldn't be the water SDC. I've heard that as well, and it depends on how it goes on that thing. Oftentimes, there might be a... I've heard another story where it was a garage that already had a bathroom in it, and they put a sink in, so that, yes, the sink would have...
 but it wasn't as large. Just the issue of a lower impact on the infrastructure is one of the rationales that I've heard about the SDC waiver. But, I mean, in terms of usage of parks and the transportation system, new people are new people. That's true. That's true. Can I? Can I? I just wanted to maybe add on the affordability issue. I mean, we have looked at this issue of, is there a way we could tie the waiver to affordability? And I know, I think Eli Spivak is here somewhere. He is. Probably want to testify on that.
 put forward some very thought-provoking ideas. But I think what we're confounded by is that ADUs can go through a cycle of uses. They can be used as a short-term rental. They can then be used perhaps to house aging parents. They can then be used to be put into the rental market. So trying to choose a point in time and say it must be affordable is
 I think is hard for us to figure out how to get around that. Yeah, excellent point. The best research we have is 2013, the Department of Environmental Quality, the state did a pretty good analysis of what's happening in Portland. They really support these for the efficiency uses. And they found that about 80% of the ADUs were being used as a long-term rental.
 But what was even more surprising was 20% of that 80% were actually at zero to much lower amounts of rent, oftentimes zero, not paying any rent for either a child or a grandparent or something. So we believe there is an affordability aspect. Again, it's hard to jump on that number exactly.
 I am concerned that the resolution directs the affected bureaus to come back with ordinances by May 11th, which is very quick in order for us to be able to figure out some of these issues. I share the concern about short-term rentals, and I'd like to know more about how, at least initially, if the waiver is for three years, there's a possibility that it has to be affordable for three years, if it's not used as a short-term rental for three
 What is the average system development charge on it? We've been told that right now for an ADU, it's around $17,000 if you add everything up. That's different from the number that I was given, which was a range between 8 and 13. 8 and 13, I believe that was about three years ago, which might actually still be listed in the resolution. I might have missed that on my analysis. And what's the average cost of building an accessory dwelling unit? I think the professionals here can talk to that best. I believe it's somewhere between $80,000 and $120,000.
 so as a fraction of what the cost is it's you know it's 8 to 13 or even 17 is this a relatively small amount of 120 000. um and the accessory dwelling unit charge would apply if there's an accessory drilling unit purchase being constructed as part of a new construction there's developers who are building both the main unit and the accessory dwelling unit and if the waiver were not in place they would
 be required to pay on both is that correct correct so i'm wondering if there's a way um to um set the waiver so that it doesn't apply to new construction where people are going in um with that in mind um and so i'd have you looked in at all into the short-term rental issue because that's what we're hearing more and more is that the homes are becoming
 residential areas are becoming commercial districts with lots and lots of turnover in the short-term rentals. Right. We definitely examine that. We're looking at could you compare it to what we do for a single-family home in the SDC waiver in the sense that, okay, if you were to turn it into a short-term rental, then you would come in and pay the SDCs after the fact. The problem that we sell is we just might be creating scuff laws. People that would come in and say they're not going to use it as a short-term rental, maybe they really don't want to use it as a short-term rental.
 for those years that the child is in the home or the grandparent is there. Then when they move on to a different stage, they want to use it as a short-term rental. They will come into the city, and we would tell them, absolutely, now you have to pay your $17,000. We feel they would probably walk out the door and not get their permit and do it as a short-term rental anyway. Well, then we wouldn't know where they were, though.
 So I think that that's something that we should be looking at. And then finally, did you consider the fact that in the park system development charges that are going into effect in July that we did already say that there was going to be a greatly reduced system development charges for structures that are under 800 square feet? Right, yes. And my understanding is that's still being challenged, so we're not sure that the SDC program will be in effect. We're planning to implement on July 1st. So, Commissioner, did you have some other questions?
 questions. Thank you. You actually very nicely framed some of the concerns I had. I want to just build on what Commissioner Fritz said and just ask three questions. So in the teeth of the recession when we first agreed to this SDC waiver, my recollection is we did it in part to incentivize ADUs.
 and in part because we were seeing rampant noncompliance with the building code. So we thought if we lowered a barrier, a cost barrier, more people would come in, get a permit, and therefore they'd be safer units. Is that fair? Those are two rationales, absolutely. Okay. When we waive SDCs, we, in effect, shift some of those costs to another class of people. Is that correct? It's a way of looking at it, yes. And we have two kinds of SDCs. We have some that are forward-looking and then some pay back retroactively, correct? Correct.
 Yes. So for me, because we're talking about the backward-looking effect of waiving SDCs for utilities, I think it's very important to identify what's the public benefit because we are doing a little bit of cost shifting. I believe that when we waive SDCs for affordable housing with regulatory agreements, there's a clear public interest that's obtained and it's enforceable.
 I was persuaded during the recession that bringing an illegal industry out into the sunshine and making it conform to our building code and incentivizing them was laudable. I'm even currently persuaded that limited use of ADUs for short-term rentals has a community benefit because it may very well keep some of the folks in their homes that Commissioner Loretta Smith is concerned about.
 the extra income allows a homeowner that wants to age in place to cover those costs. We've heard that testimony. And I've heard that, so I appreciate that. I guess for me, because it's a closer call, I just want an understanding that if the sponsors intend to continue with the three-year period here,
 that we're clear that if a member of council wants to bring this back in a year for further consideration, that's agreed. And I see Commissioner Saltzman nodding. And the reason that the utilities may want to do that is that our oversight bodies, both the Citizens Utility Board and the Portland Utility Board, are pushing us to do better on cost recovery, including on systems development charges. And since...
 we have a delicate balance of all the funding sources to stabilize rates. I want to make sure that our regulators are on board with what we're doing. So reserving the right to come back in a year with a proposed modification. Understood. Would an alternative be to amend the ordinance to just do it for a year and then come back and see again? Well, I would, you know, that's an option, Commissioner Fritz, and I –
 i i know that for the from the utilities point of view we would we are likely within a year to come back and have this conversation and one of the things we want to do is run some numbers and do a little more analysis uh with our partners so my yeah my preference i mean i'm happy to revisit it's always the will of the council to revisit this in a year but i think we should establish the three-year window because as i said earlier this
 this assessor's ruling has put a chill on ADU development. And so we have a lot of pent-up demand that if it gets cleared, the green light from the assessor's office
 we're going to be telling people, well, we may be revisiting it ourselves in a year. It expires in a year. So it creates more uncertainty for people to go ahead and build ADUs. Wouldn't having it just for a year be hurry up and get it built? Sure, but – But they're not going to do it now, given the assessor's ruling. No, the assessor's ruling comes in, and then they know that they've only got another year to do it while they're certain of this waiver. Well, as we heard earlier today – We have a crisis. Right.
 projects take a while to develop, even small ones. And sometimes the rest of our permit process, as we heard earlier today, does not always go swiftly. So I don't think giving people a one-year window to build things is necessarily going to be a long enough duration that it actually works in the real world of construction. But I would suggest we hear from the people that are here to talk about that because we have a bunch of practitioners here. So maybe you save the rest of our questions for Matt until after testimony.
 So let's call the folks that are here to speak. Thank you. I show seven people signed up. The first three are Jodan Palmieri, Sharon Nelson, and Hans Dohr. Come on up, please. Good morning. Welcome. You can go ahead and start while they're getting settled. Okay. Thank you. Mayor Hales and City Commissioner.
 Commissioners, my name is Jordan Palmieri, and I work in the Green Building Program at the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. I'm here today to support the SDC extension that you're considering today.
 DEQ has researched and promoted ADUs in conjunction with the city for the past five years. Our research showing the low carbon footprints of small dwellings has led us to support ADUs through zoning codes, building codes, financing, appraisals, tours, and survey research.
 Our 2013 survey research showed that ADU owners in Portland, Eugene, and Ashland showed that over 80% of these ADU owners are providing long-term housing with their accessory dwelling units. Additionally, the survey demonstrated that approximately 16% are providing free or affordable housing with rents below $500 per month.
 For Portland ADU and ours specifically, we found that the two biggest barriers to ADU development are cost and design challenges. Waiving the SDCs may be the most substantial action that council can take to support ADUs.
 ADU development is driven by homeowners and provides flexible housing in a growing city. Despite the current incentives, ADUs still represent less than 1% of the total housing units in the city. However, single-family zoning dominates the city's land area and represents an important area of growth that homeowners themselves have the control over.
 portland is a leader in adu development research and education a continuation of the waiver will allow these low impact homeowner driven flexible housing forms to continue to flourish there's a lot of other things we surveyed about in the survey i'm happy to answer any other questions about the survey research and including short-term rentals and thank you so much for the opportunity to comment thank you do you think there might be an opportunity to re-survey soon um you
 I don't know. I'd have to think about that. It was worth exploring just because we could get some more data about this short-term rental issue. Yeah, happy to discuss that with city staff. Good. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good morning. Who would like to be next, please? Good morning. My name is Sharon Nelson. Good morning.
 I live in an ADU at 2235 Northeast Emerson Street in Northeast Portland that was constructed in 2012 on the property of my daughter, son-in-law, and grandchildren. I moved to Portland in 2012 to be closer to my children and grandchildren after the death of my husband. Being able to build and live in an ADU has provided me with
 an affordable long-term housing option stable housing costs and the opportunity to age in place the opportunity to live intergenerationally with my children and grandchildren and also maintain my autonomy the city of portland adu permit fee waiver made the construction of the ado more affordable for my children saving approximately 11 000 dollars
 ADUs can provide a long-term housing option that is more affordable than retirement facilities. I am able to maintain my autonomy, yet have loved ones close by for social support and day-to-day living needs. ADUs house two households efficiently and affordably on one property. I encourage the city.
 to extend the ADU fee waiver to continue to make ADUs a viable option for affordable long-term housing. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Hans Stohr, and I wish to talk to you in support of continuing the fee-advantaged treatment of ADUs in Portland. I'm 83 years old, and my wife died three years ago.
 I was looking to move closer to my daughter in Portland. I searched for available options, which were very limited in terms of price range and proximity to her residence, and then became aware of the ADU program in Portland, which afforded me affordable ways to meet my needs. My daughter's property lent itself to construction of an ADU program,
 where I now live quite independently, but still am able to avail myself of family support, such as transportation to health care providers, etc. And I believe that for many older residents, an affordable ADU is an excellent solution to continue living in our city on our own, but still within reach of support systems, needed support systems.
 I also believe that our city will gain from continuing to encourage ADUs by fee policy in terms of attracting and retaining senior citizens, which are not a burden but continue to contribute to society. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for coming. Thank you all. Appreciate you being here this morning. Okay, let's call the next three people, please. Our David Davis, Joe Robertson, and Janice Thompson.
 Come on up, please. What was this again? ADUs. Good morning. Why don't you go ahead and start? Good morning. My name is Joe Robertson. I'm owner of Shelter Solutions. I'm a builder, and I've testified in front of this commission a couple times concerning some ADU issues. I've been building ADUs in the Portland area since the Planning Code amendments of 1998.
 I wasn't actually going to testify this time. I was going to let my previous customers testify about their experiences. Until yesterday afternoon, someone asked me, of the recent ADUs that I've built, how many were for the use of the elderly? And so I went back and looked. In the last two years, 32 ADUs I've been involved in.
 nine of them involved directly, the elderly. I'm very passionate about aging in place, and universal design and ADUs are ideal for that use. So I looked a little further, and to address Commissioner Novick's concern about short-term rentals, three of them are being used as short-term rentals right now. Three out of 32. Three out of 32. So 28% of those 32...
 for elderly use and 9%, 3 out of 32, for Airbnb at the time. I believe Airbnb itself is kind of a non-issue or it should be dealt as an issue of Airbnb, not as an issue of ADUs and regulating use for Airbnb as far as bedrooms, ADUs, or however they're used. Okay.
 I also believe it's a temporary thing that I believe Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, that it's going to transition in and out of short-term rentals to long-term rentals to family members, and that's the beauty of an ADU. And also to Commissioner Novick's statement about, which is a valid point, that apartment builders do build many units and have to pay SDCs on those many units. Well, ADU builders are individuals. They're individual homeowners. They're not developers.
 and they've already got a home, they're already paying for utilities, and that's not adding to the infrastructure. So I wanted to make that point. And one other point real quickly, if the fees were in place, and whatever that number is, let's say $17,000, which I believe to be fairly accurate, we just in January had the planning code amendments changed to allow for smaller ADUs, to encourage smaller ADUs, and –
 That size of fee would just completely take that possibility out of play. And I think we do need smaller and more variety of ADUs, and I think that the fees would just completely do away with the chance of building small ones. Thank you. Thanks very much for your experience. Very helpful. Thank you. Good morning. Hi. Janice Thompson, Citizens Utility Board of Oregon, CUBB.
 So you may wonder why we're here on this. Obviously, CUB monitors matters affecting Portland's public utilities, and the SDC exemption reduces the revenue from those bureaus. However,
 A CUB doesn't not care about parks and PBOT and whatnot, and certainly with a personal Portland resident hat on, I think it's an issue. So what I want to do, a CUB is not inherently opposed to these kinds of exemptions. I want to make that clear up front.
 But I want to take this opportunity to map out kind of our initial thinking. You know, this is the first time we've kind of been thinking about this, so I want to reserve the right to learn more and come back. But here's what is striking us as three important evaluation principles. One is that any SDC exemption should –
 be across the board. You shouldn't, you know, shouldn't apply it just to the Utility Bureau, shouldn't apply it to, you know, just the Parks or PBOT. And that's, you know, that's the case with this situation. That the exemptions need to have a really clear policy goal that,
 focusing on a needed and important benefit to the city and I think the affordable ish affordable housing issue that's under discussion here kind of meets that criteria what was striking and just looking at the ordinance language was kind of lack of data and
 lack of information on enforcement and how to ensure accountability. So I think it's not only meeting a clear and important, you know, goal and benefit for the city, but, you know, just having it, having there be some meat to it, you know, some teeth to it. And then third, to keep in mind the bigger picture, right?
 You know, one dynamic of concern here is like, is that, well, okay, we could have an SDC exemption here, and then another issue comes up, and, oh, maybe we should, you know, have an SDC waiver there. And so I think keeping in mind of the bigger picture, I mean, for example, for the two utility bureaus for the last fiscal year, the total SDC exemption lost revenue came to $3.5 million.
 A healthy chunk of that is related to the ADU, but not all. But, you know, that's starting to add up. And then, you know, I think looking at the lost revenue data from PBOT and Parks also seems like a good idea. So it's not – there's just this bigger picture. So those are the three suggestions we have. You know, we're not housing experts at all. So I had a few questions tossed out, not thinking that, you know,
 we were the group to answer them but pretty much all the questions that we had have been raised by you're out of time but you're an important resource so what are your three questions or your few questions oh well no no they're there I don't want to their repeats I mean it's you know mr. Novick's questions about you know how many what the units so no need to repeat questions that have already been raised mayor can I just make an observation first we've
 We've had now two public budget hearings, and each time during the utility rate portion, we've had someone from the Citizens Utility Board come and testify. So we really appreciate that and lay out the issues and concerns you have. And second, Janice, you've made a number of recommendations in this budget cycle, which the mayor and I are evaluating. Thank you.
 And it's my intention over the next year to engage the Pub and the Cub in a review of systems development charges generally, and at the end of the one-year extension, if this passes, to then come back to council with ideas that our regulators have come up with. So I just want to put that on the record. Yeah, I think this is a tool.
 Like I say, CUB's not inherently opposed to it, but those are our three initial thoughts on things to factor in when evaluating. Thank you very much. Appreciate it, Janice. Thank you. Mr. Davis, you're next. So...
 I'm all for affordable housing and affordable dwelling units and all that, but I hear a lot about affordable housing, affordable housing, this, that, and the other thing all the time. But the reality of the situation is people cannot afford housing whether it's so-called affordable or not.
 And there's homeless people that are falling through the cracks. You have an ongoing war against the homeless in this town. There's all these zombie houses you guys are all talking about now. And, you know, that is a good way to actually solve some of the housing problems in this town. But I don't think zombie houses need to be...
 revived by zombie politicians because, you know, it seems like half of you people up there aren't really operating with brains. So, um, you know, I, I'm more, uh, actually into the concept of the community taking over these zombie houses and, you know, uh,
 A lot of people talk bad about squatters. Well, there's actually a lot of squatters that go in and improve neighborhoods. There's actually a lot of these places that were seen as zombie houses, but actually they've been taken over by squatters, and they've drastically improved a lot of these zombie houses without the help of the city, without the help of anyone. Right.
 You know, you people seem to demonize squatting. Well, I can see how you would demonize someone who actually trashes a place, but there's actually a lot of squatters all around the world that clean up after their mess, that improve buildings. There's a project called ABC No Rio that my friend started in New York City called
 This is back in the 90s and they took it over from the city. And now they actually own the building. And this was an occupied space that...
 community activists and artists and community members took over and revived on their own. So, you know, I'd like to see you guys move beyond just talking about affordable housing. And when you do talk about affordable housing, actually talk about it being not so affordable for a lot of people. And
 Until there actually is affordable housing, maybe we can establish some more homeless camps or rest areas or other places.
 And for a start, we could take over a couple of these zombie houses and turn them into a community resource that actually benefits homeless people. Thank you. And stuff like that, you know? Thanks very much. Okay. Let's take the next three folks, please. The last two signed up are Eli Spivak and Charles Johnson. Come on up. While we're waiting for the next two guests, can I just get a prescription?
 a procedural update is it your intention because of the busy afternoon to work push through to one o'clock to try to complete the morning agenda yes indeed welcome
 Thank you. Planning Commissioner Spivak, welcome. Thank you very much. My name is Eli Spivak. I live in the Cully neighborhood in Portland. And I am supportive of an extension of the ADU waiver on system development charges. And a couple things to toss out there based on questions that I've heard so far. For affordability, Santa Cruz
 linked affordability requirements to their accessory dwelling units and they got none built because mom-and-pop landlords didn't want to deal with recorded agreement on their property. I think that I built my first ADU ten years ago. It was a third the cost of anything else in the neighborhood, saving neighborhood. Since then prices have basically doubled. There's still a third of the cost of any house in that neighborhood. So it's a way of providing some market-based affordability in neighborhoods where it's hard to build anything.
 I think it's fair for accessory building units to pay system development charges. They do have people living in them, part of the system. This is a case where Portland's done a wonderful job of supporting the growth of the industry. They've been on the books. They've been legal for 20 years. We're building 20 or 30 a year. Now,
 There's as many people last year as about a pretty good size apartment building, like 300 or so. Portland is a leader nationally in this, thanks to our city's initiative. And we're not a leader if you look at the continent. Vancouver, B.C., goes way beyond Portland in the accessory dwelling unit support. And it's the perfect kind of affordable housing to slip in discreetly into existing neighborhoods, where it's hard to build any housing. On the short-term rental side –
 Portland obviously has a compliance and enforcement issue on short-term rentals. But the biggest problem is single-family homes being decommissioned and being taken out of the housing market. Accessory dwelling units, we're basically putting new housing into the market, and it's the hardest kind of housing to provide in places where it's hard to build it, small homes in existing neighborhoods. If there's pressure to not make this go three years, I say do it two years, but here's a few things to work on during that time period. One of them is...
 Sure, try and quantify the short-term rental issue. I think that based on the subjective information we're hearing, it's not as bad as people worry about for accessory dwelling units. People who have those using short-term rentals like to brag about them a lot because they want customers, right? People who live in them or build them for their parents or for their kids are just quietly living in the place.
 Another thing they can work on is the county tax issue. I'm excited that the county tax issue. I mean, that literally, I've heard contractors who could take on no more ADU projects for the past six months, suddenly they've got time on their hands because people have canned projects left and right. And I know the county is working hard to try and resolve this, but it may end up being a tax court thing. I mean, I don't know how it ended up getting resolved through their interpretation of the county statute. And lastly is tell people what to expect.
 I've heard numbers, 17,000 a unit. It was 12,000 or 13,000 before the waiver was instituted the first time. I don't think anyone really knows what the charge is because before the waiver went into place, each bureau had a different way of doing it. Transportation charged 50% of the SDC. Each bureau did it differently. Right now you have a situation where people see this hammer coming up where the waiver might go away, and they're scared to death of what it might be for their $10,000 fund.
 garage conversion or the 150 000 new one if we just provide some predictability then people would um it might not be that scary after all so that's something else we can do is actually let people know ahead of time what are the fees going to be when they come back in so maybe a couple years thank you thanks very much johnson good morning again commissioners uh thank you i really appreciate that county commissioner loretta smith she's had to leave but
 uh she's taken very seriously the concerns uh that were very evident six days ago when hundreds of people came to the county commission to talk about the huge problem our community is having with low income and affordable housing um adus our answer i think that given the amounts of money we're talking about and the extreme need it would be appropriate for you to make this last for three years unfortunately this housing state of emergency
 Hopefully, we'll be better in three years, but given the 20s plus thousand of low-income and median-income people that are housing distressed right now, we're not going to be looking at a beautiful world three years from now where this isn't going to need work. So I think you can feel safe about leaving the original language for a three-year waiver. I do think that however difficult it is to work with Salem, we had to work very hard to get inclusionary zoning done.
 We really need for the state to recognize the state of emergency about rents here, but we need to see more publicly coordinated effort, especially now that Governor Brown has come to Portland and seen the tragedy of so many people living in tents. We need to get public forums that aren't just political campaigns, where people talk about the numbers of ADU productions, ways to incentivize people
 to house low-income people, not just trust the market, because the market is hurting tens of thousands of people in Portland right now. So we need to open up the public forum with legislatures, city and county commissioners, working to incentivize ADUs that provide low-income housing. And for people who choose to use an ADU or a private home as an Airbnb, we need to really accelerate our efforts to get ADUs
 fair, effective taxation to make those high-profit properties provide public services for the most distressed units. I know that that's a difficult conversation, but in the housing emergency, I think that many of the tens of thousands of low-income people have not heard enough real numbers and statistics, except for the 600 coming homeless shelter beds,
 about what we can do for people who are extremely rent-distressed and the numbers of people that – how many people – we still don't have the information from Administrative Judge, Chief Judge Nan Waller and the Oregon court system about how many people are really getting evictions and finding themselves stuck on the streets. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Okay. So I guess in light of some of the concerns about the duration of this, I'd like to suggest that we –
 come back to council a year from now with an update on this. And it's council's prerogative where it wants to go in a year from now. But I would still urge we keep the three-year window, but include a report back to council. Okay. I appreciate that suggestion, Commissioner. Let me just give some data. Between the beginning of this fiscal year and March 11th, we have had 195 accessory dwelling units built. In comparison, the previous entire fiscal year, we had 190.
 So there may be some value in having, say, a two-year deadline. I appreciate the Mayor's observation that it can take more than a year to get these things planned. If we support accessory dwelling units, which I do, I smiled when Commissioner Spivak mentioned that we've had them for 20 years. I was on the Planning Commission when we first crafted the regulations for them. So I certainly support having more accessory dwelling units built for the reasons that everybody stated.
 Wouldn't there be some incentive if we made it two years to just get on the stick and get them done? Well, what do we – I like the idea of returning to the issue at some point, particularly with more data, about what's actually happening. Because I think we have had some speculation about –
 the level of activity with ADUs. So that's information. Mike Lindbergh always says the facts are friendly, so I think the facts will be friendly to further deliberations on the question. Obviously, I won't be here in either case, but I think it's going to be useful for the council to return to the question and say how is this working, particularly since hopefully during that year the tax issue is resolved, and it's resolved in a way that people want to build ADUs.
 mayor despite the lack of information in the resolution my staff have been able to get the information for those 195 units that would have been that have been built this year with the waiver that inc if they had been charging system development charges there would have been 952 thousand dollars in the parks um system development charge fund remember that we have changed the system development charge methodology in
 uh going forward so that there'll be a bigger break for for smaller units
 Transportation would have gotten $274,365, so over a quarter of a million dollars. And again, transportation already charges half of the charge for a single-family home for the accessory dwelling units. Environmental services uses the 80% rate, and they would have gotten another little over a million dollars. And for water, it depends on the meter size. If they're not changing the meter size, there isn't a system development charge already. Okay.
 So we've already built into the system incentives. Now, whether there are enough incentives, it seems like the fact that this waiver might expire has been an incentive to get more units built this year than last year. So I'm not seeing why we would want to extend it for such a long period when really we want to get this housing built sooner. But as I...
 You know, I still think we should go with three years because I do think there's a chill. As we heard from the gentleman who's doing ADUs, there's a lot of contractors now that aren't doing anything as a result of the chill of the county, or I should say the state tax ruling. And as was mentioned, this could go to tax court. And so I think there's an uncertainty out there that we need to at least provide some predictability by saying three years, revisit it in a year, council's free to do whatever it wants in a year,
 on this issue, but at least provide a short-term planning horizon of a three-year window of predictability. Mr. Fish? Mayor Hales, I have particularly benefited from this discussion in laying out the issues and the testimony, and I am prepared to support the resolution with the friendly amendment that Commissioner Saltzman has proposed.
 So I don't think we don't necessarily need to change the text of the resolution here, but it is an understanding that in addition to returning to the council by May 11th with policy and code changes, that there will be a report back to the council in one year. Great. Okay. So, yes. May I just ask a question of the city attorney on that? You referenced code changes. Are there code changes required from the three bureaus? Yes.
 Pop quiz, sorry. I'm sorry. I can check with the attorney who covers SDCs. I'm assuming that if it expects it to happen with code, rate, ordinance, and policy changes, I've got to assume that the SDCs talk about who's subject to it and to exempt them. I'm assuming there's a code change. I think we've done this twice before, I believe. We extended it. We did it first at the beginning of the session, then we extended it, and I think we've done
 At that time, I wasn't in charge of any of the bureaus. But in order to be able to file on May 2nd, which we would need to do for a May 11th hearing, we would need to have any code changes prepared by next Monday in order to get them to the city attorneys. They require two weeks ahead of time. So that would give my staff in parks two days to prepare this. Okay, well, so this is a July 1 effective date. Is there anything magic about May 11th? That was what I was leading up to ask.
 See if Matt has any light on that.
 I was able to connect with the bureaus, and if this was passed, this is exactly what they have done before, so it's very easy, because they basically just print out the ordinance and file it. And I understand the city attorney's, again, looked at it multiple years, so it's a quick thing. The idea with the May 11th was if there wasn't, obviously, it would be a non-emergency ordinances if there wasn't support on the council, so that would then push it out, obviously, into the June. You could probably go a week or two later, but we definitely wanted to have it the second reading, the 30-day. That is almost a month from now. Okay. So, okay.
 With the understanding that the meaning of that is with any necessary code rate ordinance and policies of change is necessary. In other words, if they don't have to do anything but a boilerplate ordinance, that's sufficient, right? Okay. I would really appreciate if we could make it. Is there any reason that we can't make it a week later? All right. Let's make it May 18th. So we're going to change May 11th to May 18th.
 And, again, an understanding that this topic is going to return to the council next year.
 Okay. Let's take a vote, please. I'm sorry. Actually, yes. Commissioner Saltzman, actually, Katie and my staff and Matt were having some discussion about the three years, two years, one year issue, and I think Matt gave some indication that one year was unacceptable, two years might be feasible. I would actually like to support this, but I'm uncomfortable with three years. Would you, are you going to fall on your sword over three years, or would you accept an amendment to make it two years?
 I think it should be three years because of the reasons I cited. We need some certainty. There's a cloud over it right now. I do think it's going to take three years to clear it up. But, you know, I'm not going to fall on my sword on it. Well, I want to see if we have support for three years, and if not, then we can take it up again, right? Or change it to two years. You could informally pull your colleagues, Mayor, so that, I mean, whatever. All right. So maybe someone would like to make a motion for two years, and we'll see what happens.
 So moved. Second. All right. Let's take a roll call vote, please, on an amendment for this to have a two-year effective timeline rather than three. Roll call, please. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Thank you. With that amendment, I will also be able to support it. Aye. Nails? Aye. Made that look easy. Well, vote on the resolution as amended. Thank you.
 Were we changing that date, the 11th to the 8th? The 18th, yes, correct. That needs to be a motion? Well, sure. So moved. It's been moved. Is it seconded? Second. So roll call, please, on that amendment. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Now on the resolution as twice amended.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Thanks for a great discussion, and thanks to all my colleagues for a collegial way of resolving this important discussion. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank Commissioner Smith for her testimony and the great testimony we had from some ADU residents and builders and others. And I want to thank Matt Grumman, my staff, for helping to shepherd this through. Aye. No, thank you.
 I appreciate the accommodation on the number of years. I appreciate the difficulty of trying to figure out what the right data is and how the world is going to change. And I also appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's continuing efforts to ensure that we have a supply of affordable housing. All right.
 I think the remaining piece that needs to be figured out is the short-term rental piece and also new construction. So that's something that I can be looking into before we bring the ordinances back on the 18th.
 And I know that Thomas Lanham is working on both enforcement and compliance, as Commissioner Spivak noted, on short-term rentals. So that piece can be done separately, potentially, if a short-term rental application came in on a recently built accessory dwelling unit. We might be able to do some kind of a surcharge at that point or something.
 So that certainly there are other options to make sure that we encourage these accessory dwelling units to be used for affordable rentals and also for families. Aye. Thank you all very much. Aye. Thank you, Dan. Okay. Let's move on to the rest of our regular agenda. Then we'll at the end go back to our passed up items. 362.
 362 strengthen regulations for tree preservation in development situations okay mr fish here i move to suspend the rules uh while we have a new voting order mayor i think in this instance since we have two co-sponsors who've done the lion's share of the work i would ask we suspend the rules and give the sponsors the opportunity to make the first vote and comment of course i'm happy to grant that request okay rules are suspended for that purpose so let's take a vote please in that order sponsors first
 Okay. I thought there were no further surprises on this. Thank you. And I'm very relieved to be finally in the points of voting. We had our first hearing on this stopgap measure on March 3rd.
 So this is a not so quick fix to a problem that needs a long-term solution. It's important to note that this proposal has a significant impact only on trees greater than 36 inches, which is a very small percentage of trees on private property in Portland. And I appreciate the testimony from the Urban Forestry Commission and the Audubon Society that indeed we're not going to have many more of those large trees unless we find better ways to protect them, as well as provide mitigation.
 I would urge everybody to read Jim Labby, returning from Audubon, his article in Street Roots a couple of weeks ago about the myths of the tree code and the tree project, which did indeed detail that there are many successes of the code. And again, I'm going to thank many of the staff who were involved in it. We did carve out the exemption for affordable housing and potentially at the expense of large trees, and that is a policy choice that the council has made.
 There are many issues involving the tree code that need to be addressed sooner rather than later. And once again, I ask the mayor and council to prioritize staff time in your bureaus to address these issues in the next fiscal year with the money coming from money within the urban forestry funds. And so I also want to thank the many folks who were involved in this project from the beginning.
 Well, not quite from the beginning because it began back in 2007, and I acknowledge all of the community members who pushed for it. But in particular, Mike Hayakawa of the Bureau of Development Services, who was the project manager for implementation, who did absolutely wonderful work before his retirement, and I greatly appreciate all of his service to the city. I think he may be the only city employee who is twice a winner of the Spirit of Portland Award.
 Also, Mika Keenan, Patty Howard and Tom Abuzo on my staff, Pooja Bhat and Tim Crail, who picked up where Patty and Tom, who have both now retired, also left off. The Tree Oversight Advisory Committee, the Urban Forestry Commission, the Planning and Sustainability Commission, Development Review Advisory Committee, Emily Sandy, Jill Grenda, and Rebecca Esaw in the Bureau of Development Services, Jen Kira, the City Forester and her team,
 in Portland Parks and Recreation and everybody who's worked so hard on this so-called stopgap measure, but on the whole realm of how do we value the many different things that make Portland special. Thank you to all of my colleagues for working on this. Aye.
 Well, let me start by thanking all the staff that worked on this project, my colleagues and Commissioner Fritz, who I was happy to partner with on this stopgap measure to protect significant trees in development situations.
 I want to thank my colleagues again for supporting my amendment to lower the threshold from 50 inches in diameter to 36 inches in diameter for trees that will require an inch-by-inch mitigation fee. After seeing the cardboard diameters of those trees at the recent hearing we had, I was convinced that we need to act to preserve a 36-inch tree or larger to the maximum extent possible.
 or to capture the funds necessary to make sure that replantings will occur to mitigate the loss of these trees. I also wanted to take this opportunity to flag something we heard in testimony.
 And that was to make sure that approved planting and tree mitigation and tree retention plans are actually implemented correctly. That's a huge issue. It's one thing to require the plan. It's another thing to make sure it's being implemented. And I share that concern. And I'm concerned that many of the building inspectors in the Bureau of Development Services are focused on structure and state building codes.
 and may not be as vigilant when it comes to the tree planning requirements. And to this end, I have mandated Title XI training for all BDS building inspectors and managers, knowing that this is a priority. So thanks again to everybody, and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 i'm pleased that the two sponsors spoke first because they've said everything needs to be said so i'm just going to do my thank yous thanks to commissioner fritz and commissioner saltzman for taking the lead on this thanks to whoever sent me on my facebook one of my favorite um cartoons and i think it it it's poignant on a day like today it matches up great cities with great iconic structures and on paris it's the eiffel tower in new york city it's the statue of liberty
 Seattle, it's the space needle, and in Portland, it's a tree. And we have a special relationship with trees in this city and a reverence for trees. And a lot of work has been done for a long time in protecting and expanding our tree canopy. And today's stopgap measure is another step in that direction. I want to thank everyone who's already been identified and including the folks on my team, starting with Hannah Kuhn and the wonderful folks at the Bureau of Environmental Services who worked so hard on this. And I'm pleased to support my colleagues today. Thank you.
 I am going to cast something of a process protest vote. When the Planning and Sustainability Commission voted on this issue, they noted that the PSC found it challenging to be presented with two different proposals from two bureaus. It was also challenging to be asked to make a recommendation absent of full policy discussion and vetting of the proposals with stakeholders and the public.
 when this first came to council it was presented as a stop gap measure to protect trees of 50 inches or more which everybody soon agreed these are really big trees worthy of protection and it's not going to have an impact on housing availability we all of course can change our minds in the base of basis of citizen testimony but it's it worries me a bit when one of the sponsors of a proposal
 offers an amendment on the fly and respond to testimony because normally I would expect that we don't get surprising testimony. We've sort of gone through things in advance.
 So when the amendment was proposed to reduce the inch-per-inch mitigation requirement to 36 inches, based on the information that was in front of me at the time, I voted for the amendment but reserved my right to change my mind based on what we heard afterwards. What we heard, immediately we heard from Habitat for Humanity that would affect some projects of theirs. That's been addressed by the affordability amendment. We also heard from the home builders that this was a really big deal and could affect the availability of housing.
 I don't know if that's true. I don't feel like I've had the time to work through what has now suddenly become a controversial proposal. And my instinct, actually, is that if we're going to move to a different level, I'd be interested in exploring the possibility of adding some nuance. Okay.
 preserving trees is good for the environment adding density is also good for the environment so I could see adopting a proposal where you require inch for inch mitigation for trees over 30 inches if somebody's cutting them down to build a mansion but you don't require that if you are building three units in the same size lot even if those units don't quite meet the definition of affordability um I'm
 I think that $350,000 houses or row houses are more valuable to the community than a $1 billion house. I was also very interested in the discussion of the fact that we have different levels of tree canopy in different parts of the city. In East Portland, there's hardly any really big trees.
 So that made me think that maybe if we were going to dig into this, we would say that we have stronger protections for trees that aren't quite 50 inches in East Portland and apply a different standard when we're talking about areas that have strong tree canopy. So in light of all that, knowing obviously this is going to pass anyway, I'm going to cast a no vote, not because I necessarily disagree with the policy, but I don't think that it's been fully explored and we've had the chance to look for new odds. Okay.
 May I stand the rules again? I actually appreciate Commissioner Fish was intending to be gracious in allowing me to speak first. I actually relish speaking last and it's my favorite quarter of the year when I get to speak last. Not
 Not because I intend to rebut what Commissioner Novick just said. We can have a discussion about that. But mostly because when my colleagues have made their statements, I remember something that I should have said. And so the big omission that I made in my list of people to thank was Directors Maikabate and Paul Scarlett, who worked together extremely well in directing their staff on...
 the nuances of how to implement the tree code, and just to mention that we're those two directors and are looking forward to working with Susan Anderson, the Director of Planning and Sustainability, in the next project, which has a minor answer to Commissioner Novick, yes, and we'll do that in the next session. Thank you.
 Good resolution to a naughty problem. Thank you. Thank you very much. Okay I am let's move to the cold items because I think we have staff here standing by People waiting for pay equity. Oh, okay. Let's do it. Let's do that. All right Let's let's do let's do pay equity and then move to the cold. I don't be six eight three six eight three six eight
 368 direct the Bureau of Human Resources to evaluate existing workforce data and determine whether and how gender impact Impacts types of appointments pay at appointment progression through the pay range and promotional opportunities Mr. Saltzman Thank You mayor yesterday April 12th was equal payday for women it symbolizes how far into the year women must work and
 in order to earn what men earned in the previous year. So, in other words, average women had to work until April 12th to earn what an average male would have made in all of 2015. If I may just interrupt, it's for white women. For women of color, it's even longer. I've got that. So rather than reading and passing a proclamation and reaffirming our values, which I know we all share here, pay equity, I decided to bring forth a resolution that calls on the Bureau of Human Resources...
 to begin looking at our workforce data that will essentially create a scorecard or baseline for council to look at how the city of portland is doing in regards to pay equity as we've heard women on on average in oregon white women earn 82 percent of what their male counterparts make which is slightly better than the national pay equity gap and women of color face an even wider pay gap and women are less likely to negotiate for pay increases or promotions
 And studies show that as more women enter traditionally male-dominated professions, the average pay for the profession actually goes down. The economic effects that pay inequity has on families and communities is profound. A study that just came out this week by McKinsey and Company found that if we could eliminate the pay equity gap, not even eliminate it, if we could just reduce it by half of what it is, so take that 20% gap and reduce it to even 10%,
 That would generate and grow our economy by an extra $2 trillion over the next 10 years if the public and the private sector, as I said, did more to shrink that gender pay gap.
 and that figure as i said only represents reducing the pay gap by half so that's a tremendous amount of infusion into our economy that means women making more supporting families and ultimately our community is better off and so with that i just wanted to say i think here in the city of portland we are doing a good job but it's important to start baselining the information to give us the ability to
 pursue policy initiatives both in public and potentially private sector as well. So I'm not waiving any particular concerns about what we're doing here at Portland or raising any particular concerns, but to rather reaffirm the importance that we look at this in a systematic manner as I think BHR is doing a good job of doing. And so we should be reviewing this yearly to ensure that we have a good baseline and perhaps pursue policy initiatives later.
 as they may lead. And with that, I want to introduce, for the first time before City Council, my staff person, Tia Williams, who will talk a little bit more about this. Anna Canwood and Elizabeth Nunez from BHR are both here to answer questions. Great. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Tia Williams from Commissioner Saltzman's office. We are extremely excited to bring this resolution to you this morning as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned.
 mentioned yesterday was National Equal Pay Day for Women, April 12th, which symbolizes how far into the year white women, thank you, Commissioner Fritz, have to work to earn the same wages as their male counterparts earned in the previous year. And we know that women of color have to work even farther into the year to achieve their equal pay. Thank you.
 Commissioner Saltzman tasked me with looking at different pay equity policies being implemented in the public sector around the country. And in that research, we were finding really innovative policies being passed by state and local governments that not only began chipping away at their internal pay gap, but that encouraged pay equity across sectors within their jurisdictions. Thank you.
 Before looking any further at how those policies could work for the City of Portland or how we could implement them, we realized that there was little internal pay equity data for the City of Portland that we could point to and no formal way to report such data to council. Commissioner Saltzman felt it was important as a first step to create that baseline data by asking the Bureau of Human Resources to look at current workforce data and begin to review our pay equity practices.
 The goal is that this data would act as a scorecard to measure where we are now and then continue to track our progress in the future.
 We recognize that the City of Portland is already a leader in this area and has done an outstanding job by having policies and procedures in place that protect and promote pay equity. So our intention in bringing this resolution forward is to begin a dialogue about creating a formal mechanism to look at the workforce data. Some of the factors we're interested in looking at are outlined in the resolution, but we hope to gather data about appointments, payout appointments.
 promotions and progression through the pay range to see if there are any notable gender discrepancies and thank you I'm of course happy to take questions but I'll turn it over to Anna and Elizabeth maybe the first to say that was the most impressive debuts we've seen
 Thank you, Mayor, Commissioners, Anna Canwitt, Bureau of Human Resources. I did want to make a few comments and then, of course, be open to questions as well. As Tia mentioned, one of the things that has worked in the city's favor when we're looking at pay equity is we have a written compensation policy adopted by council that talks about how –
 the factors we use to set pay for employees, difficulty, complexity of job. We look at the market. We look at internal equity across our jobs in the city. And we very, very carefully guard that. You've probably had complaints from your bureau directors and managers, as have we, that we carefully analyze requests
 to change employees' job classes to increase their pay, we apply a duties test. So that policy that council has adopted and the implementation of it now by Elizabeth Nunes, our class comp manager, has really assisted the city in that. When we have, we looked at some data in preparation for this resolution and said,
 What the data tells us, if you look at percentage of female to male applicants and match that to percentage of female and male hires, the percentages are almost identical. Okay.
 When you look at promotions, we see the same thing. The data Elizabeth had gathered for Commissioner Fish's request is looked at something for nonrepresented employees called range penetration. It is a class comp term, but it does mean where the nonrepresented employees are
 move on our ranges because, as you know, unlike our contracts, which have steps that you move, you know, based on time in class, year one, year two, the ranges are more fluid, and employees can be hired in at any point in the range with some approvals needed and also can move up through the range based on merit pay increases. That data shows us that, and controlled for time in class and the type of class, also shows us that,
 also shows us that we don't see...
 a major discrepancy, but there is data we need to look at, and I'll get to that in a minute. This finding is similar to what Seattle found when we had a consultant look at their data, which was Seattle was paying similarly situated employees similar rates regardless of gender or race, ethnicity, and what we did, we weren't looking at race and ethnicity. They also found two things that I haven't talked about yet that we found as well. One of those is...
 that lower average salaries are likely due to higher percentages of women being in our lower ranges. So, for example, when we look at ranges one through five for our non-reps, which are our lowest ranges, we have about 255 women to about 76 men.
 Those numbers slowly reverse themselves as you progress through our pay ranges. So at our executive level, we have far more men in those positions than we do with women, far less people of color as well. In fact, a greater discrepancy there than when I'm looking at bureau directors as an example of our executive level. So that is similar to what Seattle saw.
 Second, what Seattle found is women are more likely than men to be in part-time jobs. Our dashboard data shows the same thing. Much greater percentage of men than women in our regular permanent jobs. Those percentages practically reverse themselves when you're looking at casual and part-time work.
 Now, we don't know the reasons for this. And I'm going to touch on one more thing. As you know, we did promise in Elizabeth's work on the non-rep class comp study that we are applying, I think for lack of a better term, a pay equity lens. Because, again, as I mentioned, our compensation policy, part of what drives our how we set wages in the city is the market.
 And as Commissioner Saltzman mentioned at the beginning of this resolution presentation, is historically, you know, we have white women and women of color are paid less. We have professions that have historically paid less because they're female-dominated. And, in fact, unfortunately, there was recently an article in The New York Times that says, as women move into male-dominated fields, that pay is going down.
 But at any rate, what we are looking at, what Elizabeth and the consultants will be looking at as part of the non-REP study, is to be sure that the market data doesn't continue what we would consider to be the artificially lower pay for those classifications, our entry-level classifications and others that have been considered female-dominated work.
 So, as Commissioner Saltzman stated, there's reports that we have that we can generate that I do think we should be providing to Council on a biannual basis.
 that is a little more pointed than our firm of action data. You get that anyway, but to drill down and show you what this data means, I think would be incredibly helpful. As far as next steps for us, as you know, we are resource constricted in my bureau.
 But there are some things that we would like to do to try to drill down to some of this data. You know, we don't have the resources to bring a consultant to do a regression analysis and some of the very complicated things Seattle did. But we can start asking our business partners to talk to hiring managers when they have, for example, three final candidates, two women, one male. Why did you hire the male? And, in fact, Elizabeth's team said,
 pushed to do that in a recent recruitment out of BDS. And I'm happy to say BDS actually, they did look at it, and the manager said, I talked to both women.
 One was soon to retire, wasn't interested. The other was part-time and wanted to be part-time. But that kind of information, I think, is something that we can start having bureaus look at, hiring managers look at, and track to see really what's going on. The other piece, and I'm sorry, I'm being a little more long-winded than I thought I would be, is we now, as you know, mandate bias awareness training for all of our hiring panels. What?
 my training in Workforce Development Manager and I have talked about is including that kind of training with our supervisory training because bias does make a difference. I hear anecdotes that come out about,
 I don't know if I wasn't considered for that work because they didn't think I dressed so femininely. I'm not talking about me. This is a female. Dressed so femininely, I don't think the manager thought I could really go out and work on the line out in the field crew.
 We hear some stories about that. That obviously is very hard to get to, but when you do bias training, it helps people, our supervisors, managers, hiring managers, start to think about are my unconscious bias, we make them conscious impacting our hiring decisions. Anna, can I just ask you a question because two years ago,
 After Steve and I did the citywide span of control study, we had this conversation about the class comp study for nonrepresented employees. So can you just – because it's going to be a long day and it's –
 going to get longer, I think, here. Can you just restate what you just said about what you're already doing as part of that class comp study to address pay equity? I can, but I think why don't I turn it over to Elizabeth Noon since she's here. Would that be fine? Yes. Can you just remind us two years ago when we framed this and there was a component that you were going to do, what is that component and where are you on that? That component?
 that component is actually looking at all the work that all employees do. So we had everyone fill out a position description form, which was not enjoyable to most people, but what it did was break down everybody's work into duties, responsibilities from their perspective because they're the experts on the work. And so we're using those position descriptions to describe classifications of work. So instead of having a manager somewhere say,
 okay, this is what I think people are doing. We're going to the employees. So each one of them is telling us, this is the actual work I do. And that's going to be the basis to create the broader classifications. And then those broader classifications are going to be used to go out to market, as well as look internally
 to compare across different avenues of work the actual duties that people are doing to figure out what it's worth, what it should cost, what we should price it at. And so that makes it an even playing field. And as far as where we are right now, about halfway through, we should be delivering recommendations to you next year.
 So as a follow-up to that, and I know as one of our nine of 26 Bureau Directors who's female, that you've been working on this issue for a long time, and indeed, as Commissioner Fish noted, the Council funded the Class Comp Study. Is there anything in this ordinance that is in addition to what you're already doing? No.
 Yes, well, yes it is. I think what we would do in addition, based on the resolution, is, well, the two things I've talked about, I think asking the HR business partners who work with the hiring managers
 to ask those questions in terms of the rationale for hiring the one candidate versus others when we're looking at and it would be, I know this is focused on gender of course but we have similar concerns around people of color. Second, expand our training but third provide you counsel with data on a regular basis which I think would be really helpful and I
 you've been getting affirmative action data, but I think that's a little bit overwhelming because it's so detailed and we can do something, take that so it's the concept, well, the data will be much easier to read. You won't have to go through line by line by line. You know, you've seen them. It's, you know, literally, I think, almost 100 pages.
 of information to go through, but I think our commitment would be to provide that on a bi-yearly basis. You can look at trends and then decide what else you'd like to see us do. And you can do that within existing resources? That we can do within existing resources, yes. And without detracting from the work on race and disability? Yes. Thank you. Yes, we can. Okay, other questions for the team? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? David Davis signed up, but.
 He may have left. He's going to be here. Okay. Then let's take a vote, please, on the resolution. Fish? Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman, for shining a light on this issue and bringing this forward. Thank you to our outstanding team members. And I look forward to collaborating in the look and the design of this annual report card. I think it will be helpful. Aye. Saltzman? Aye.
 Well, I want to thank Tia Williams and my staff, Anna Canwit, Elizabeth Nunez, for all their help in helping to put together this resolution and to really identify a tangible product that will come out of this, which is the scorecard or baseline under which we can then really see how we're doing and, you know,
 Against that evaluate any policy options the council may wish to pursue and there may be some options there's some interesting things going on as as we know in other cities and and states, so We'll see where where things lead us, but appreciate all your work and pleased to vote aye Okay, I really appreciate Commissioner Saltzman's leadership in this and Tia and Anna and Elizabeth your work You know, I'm
 old enough to remember a time when we thought that all the great inequities in society would have to be resolved by, you know, at the latest 1988. So this is one of a number of areas, but a very important one where it's kind of embarrassing that it's 2016 and we're still where we are. But I'm proud to be part of a city that is trying to figure out, at least in our own ranks, what we can do to improve. Thank you.
 Well, thanks to you for your work on this, and thanks to Director Kenwitt for your ongoing work and leadership within the Bureau and looking at multiple aspects of training, hiring, and reporting. So I'm glad that we're going to be getting this biannual report. I also note for the
 remind the Council that we did hear testimony in our budget forums from AFSCME about the police record specialists who get paid less than their counterparts, and many of them are women. So that's another aspect of what we can do right here and now, including right here and now hiring within our bureaus. And if the female candidates don't ask, may I have an extra week of vacation because I have had...
 20 years experience or whatever, maybe we offer it and make sure that the different ways of promoting, and I don't mean just promoting into different positions, but promoting and allowing, giving opportunities for everyone to reveal how well they can do a particular job is incumbent at every aspect of our organization. Thank you for your work. Thank you.
 Seems like there may be a march of progress here in Portland where we start things like domestic partners agreements or ban the box, not start, at least be in the vanguard in this case. I'm glad we're part of this movement. Thank you, Tia, for making us part of this movement. Look forward to more work for all of us on this very important justice issue. Thank you. Aye.
 okay I think we need to go back to our poll items because we also have people standing by on those and then we'll try to demolish the rest of the calendar in time for a 1 o'clock break so let's take item 351 please pay claim of Severo Gonzales in the sum of $25,000 involving the mayor's office anyone want to speak on this item Mr. Walts for the record my name is Joe Walts I represent individuals for justice
 In the charter for Portland City Council meetings, you will see the provision that if a pulled item on the consent agenda will be taken up directly after the vote on consent agenda. Now, I don't think we can force you to follow your own rules, but I think we may be able to force you to follow the charter. The charter is very clear, and I suspect the reason for that
 is that you don't have somebody sitting here for two hours waiting to talk about something that they pulled. Most citizens cannot do that. So I would urge the city attorney to research it and say to the mayor, you know, you have to follow the charter. And the charter says this. You will take this up after the vote on consent agenda. Now, the reason that we pulled this item...
 Items 50, 51, 52, 53, 54 are all claims against the city. You wanted to do it on a consent agenda because you don't want to talk about these things. And the one that we pulled is because we are familiar with this case. This case had to do with the person in the mayor's office being harassed. And then there was retaliation. And then the person that did it left.
 And then the person that suffered the retaliation has to go someplace else. What you wanted to do on the consent agenda underneath the table. It's only $25,000. So why not talk about it? That's what people say government is supposed to do. I know that's an embarrassment to the mayor's office. That's not a reason to put it on consent agenda. People should know about this stuff. It happened. Why not?
 Why isn't the mayor explaining to the people of Portland what happened in his office? He doesn't even have the courage to sit there and listen to this because he knew. He knew this is embarrassing and this is terrible. We don't harass people around here, do we? Is that policy for the rest of the three of you that remain? Is that policy? And then retaliate? Is that policy? I don't think so.
 I kind of like some of you. I don't trust you, but I like you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Walsh. Colleagues, this is an emergency, so we need to... Yes, get them back in here so they can vote on this crap. So we now have... Hi, Novick. And, colleagues, before we vote on this, I just want to acknowledge that, according to the ordinance, there is a lawsuit that has been filed. It makes a number of allegations...
 The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has ruled and found no violations of law. So what is before us is an assessment by our risk management folks that in resolving this case now, rather than incurring the cost of proceeding to lawsuit, there's a benefit to taxpayers. And I just want to make clear that
 Whatever people's view of the merits, there is a pending lawsuit and no finding, and I think we have to be clear about not prejudging matters before there are actual findings of law, in fact. But in this instance, we've been advised that it will save taxpayers money if we resolve it at an early stage, so I will support this.
 What happened? Excuse me, sir. We're going to proceed. What happened? I appreciate your comment. I will further note that any one of the five claimants on the consent agenda had the right to pull it to the regular agenda. The fact that none of them did might indicate to me that perhaps those persons would prefer that their personal business not be discussed in a public hearing. I don't think so. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Roll call.
 fish hi salzman hi novick hi prince hi hail all right okay sir you're gonna you go go where you want let's take the other pulled item which is 358 please
 Authorized contract with David Paul Rosen and Associates for $169,025 for services of support of the development of a comprehensive inclusionary housing program structure for the city. Okay. Dan, you had a request here. Have you already? Yeah, this was requested to be pulled. We're happy to. It's real brief. We have a contract with...
 David Paul Rosen and Associates, they were under contract to look at a linkage fee for supporting more affordable housing. And in the meantime, the legislature thankfully passed a lift of the preemption on inclusionary zoning. And so we wish to amend the scope of work with David Paul Rosen and Associates to include their work on helping us to implement the inclusionary housing program that we have underway. And I should say, David, thank you.
 david rosen's associates has a stellar track record they've worked with over 40 communities throughout the country on doing things like linkage fees inclusionary housing policies and i believe their their methodologies have been affirmed three times now by the u.s supreme court so i think we have great consultant team on on board and they're being managed by our most capable matthew schibold if you have any further questions all right questions for matthew maybe not
 All right. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, let's take a vote, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I really appreciate this being off the consent agenda, actually, because I think it's important to let people know this is a really important issue, and Commissioner Saltzman and his team are going about developing proposals in a deliberate way with the best advice. So I'm glad that this was pulled off consent, and I'm happy to vote aye. Great.
 Thank you for being here to answer any questions. And obviously we have confidence in the work being done. I concur with Commissioner Novick. I'm glad that this was pulled because it is important that community members know we're moving forward as expeditiously as possible. By amending this ordinance, it means that it can be done quickly rather than going out for a bid. And I think it's likely that this group would have been chosen for this work too. Aye.
 important work thank you all right okay let's see what we have left we have 363 amend code removing barriers to employment to clarify the exemption of volunteers second reading roll call I know thank you Rachel hi 364
 Accept bid of Wildish Standard Paving Company for the Southeast Bybee Glenwood Culvert Replacement Project for $2,198,623. Ms. Moody.
 Christine Moody, Procurement Services. We have before you a procurement report recommending a contract award to Wildish Standard Paving Company. The engineer's estimate on this project was $2,228,000. On March 1, 2016, four bids were received, and Wildish is the low bidder at $2,198,622.56. Thank you.
 The city identified nine divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities.
 MWESB subcontracting participation at the time of bid was 5%. But in working with staff, Wildish was able to find additional opportunities for women-owned businesses for handrail, fabrication, and traffic control. The participation is now at 22.2%. I will turn this back over to Council if you have any questions. Okay, thank you. Questions? Good work. Anyone want to speak? Roll call then.
 motion to accept the report move the report is there a second second okay now we can move vote to accept the report thank you christine for your good work hi hi novik hi thank you miss moody for your ongoing efforts to increase the percentage of minority and women's businesses participating it's still very low and again the council needs to address this sooner rather than later hi hi 365
 authorize a grant agreement with elders in action for the arts education and access income tax outreach In an amount not to exceed twenty five thousand dollars meeting vote, please We had wonderful testimony last night from principal in a
 school that benefits from the arts tax this is just another reminder that April 18th is coming up and many Portland residents are required to pay the arts tax it's very easy to do please do it hi 366
 Authorized contract with Black & Veatch Corporation to provide engineering services for the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant Influent Pump Station, Headworks, Primary Clarifier, and Odor Control Improvements Project not to exceed $6,687,914. Mr. Fish. Mayor, we've saved some of the best for last today. Thank you.
 Environmental Services owns and operates a wastewater treatment plant in Lake Oswego called the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant.
 In 2004, the Bureau completed a facilities plan that recommends several upgrades and equipment, excuse me, several improvements and equipment upgrades. This ordinance would approve an agreement with Black & Veatch to provide engineering services for those upgrades. Scott Gibson and Jim Brown are here from the Bureau of Environmental Services to give you a brief overview. Gentlemen. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, City Council. As the Commissioner said, my name is Scott Gibson, and we have another debutante today. With me is James Brown. James Brown, the hardest working man in wastewater. And he is our project manager and engineer for this effort. And we have a very short presentation, as the Commissioner said, and I'll run through it. The first thing to note is that we do own this smaller wastewater treatment plant in the city of Lake Oswego.
 Here's an aerial view with the river beyond. It was constructed in 1964 and its last major expansion was in 76. So it's 52 years old now. The last major work on it was 40 years ago and the last time we spent any significant money was in 2004.
 So this plant is due for an overhaul and to bring it up so it can meet all its requirements for environmental protection on the Willamette River. I'd like to just show you basically the service area for the wastewater treatment plant and note that there are about 15,000 City of Portland residents served by the plant, another 2,900 that are in the Dunthorpe Riverdale sewer district and they pay through an agreement for us to maintain their sewer system.
 And also Lake Oswego has 32,000 residents that contribute to it. And this plant, when it was constructed, we have an agreement with Lake Oswego and other partners in order to manage the costs and to share the costs. And so that's a part of paying for this effort.
 I'll turn it over to Jim, and he can talk about the work that he has going forward. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. The project that we're here today for was the first project identified in the 2014 Facilities Plan Update. The Facilities Plan was an engineering planning document completed to identify those capital projects needed for
 to ensure that the Tryon Creek wastewater treatment plant continues to meet levels of service for protecting the environment and as a good neighbor through the planning period, which was through 2040.
 This plan was developed with the advice of a Citizens Advisory Committee that included ratepayers from both the City of Portland and the City of Lake Oswego. And the planning effort was overseen by a steering committee or an oversight committee that consisted of the BES Director, BES Commissioner in Charge, City Manager of Lake Oswego, and Council Members of Lake Oswego.
 As I said, the Headworks Improvements Project, we've truncated the name since the slide has been made, includes an influent pump station, primary clarifiers. The existing Headworks is an open-air Headworks. It was originally constructed in 1976 with that expansion and has seen no improvement since 1994. The flow to Headworks.
 The Tryon Creek wastewater treatment plant is heavily influenced by the weather. And both the Lake Oswego and the Portland collection systems suffer from a lot of infiltration and inflow, from leaking manholes, leaking pipelines, and illegal sewer connections. And so, we're going to be looking at how we can improve the quality of the wastewater.
 As a result of those, the peak flows experienced by the plant, and most recently at the beginning of December 2015, those flows have exceeded the capacity of the plant to deal with them. So this project, by increasing the hydraulic capacity of the headworks and the inflow pump station, will help address those issues. Thank you.
 The project will require procurement of new land adjacent to the existing wastewater treatment plant that's currently owned by Public Storage. The current project estimate to complete is $49 million. Now, this estimate is an American Association of Cost Engineers Level 5, Class 5 estimate. That's minus 50 percent, plus 100 percent.
 but it is our best estimate of the cost to complete. There are still a large number of risks associated with the project, both on the permitting and site conditions are currently unknown regarding what is underground there. The project schedule will extend through to completion of construction in 2021. And on to the next slide.
 So what we're here today for is the approval of the professional services contract for design of the project. Following the PTE selection procedures, we've received three proposals from firms, and Black & Veatch Corporation was selected by the selection committee based on an evaluation of those written proposals. And the negotiated contract amount is $6.687914 million.
 It's important to note that this contract is a type of materials contract, and this is the estimated contract amount at completion after all services have been provided through completion of construction. So this is design, planning, permitting. The initial proposal on the contract amount was $8.3 million, and it's been negotiated to its current value, and that process...
 We have taken certain contingency and risk items out of the contract. So those contingency and risk items, if they do, if any of those events happen, there is the potential for additional costs on this contract. On the minority women emerging small business participation on this procurement, the selection committee included a minority evaluator program participant.
 And the estimated contract or the final contract amount includes 21% of the contract total amount for MWESB firms. We have eight emerging small business firms at $601,000, two women-owned businesses, $130,000, and four minority business enterprises at $672,000.
 The future actions, both council actions and public involvement on the project, we will be coming back for an ordinance to authorize the acquisition of the property adjacent to the plant. That property is located within the city limits of Lake Oswego. We will also be returning for an ordinance authorizing the construction contract.
 On the public involvement side, we are going to establish a citizens' advisory committee for projects, future projects, both this project and upcoming projects, for the Trinidad and Creek wastewater treatment plant. And there is a lengthy and extensive public involvement outreach process in the conditional use permit process for the City of Lake Oswego.
 So our recommendation is for authorization of the PTE agreement with Black & Veatch Corporation for the contract amount of $6,687,914. Thank you very much. May I just say in advance of whether we have the votes or not, that's a terrific PowerPoint. I appreciate the way you laid it out, and I appreciate your very clear presentation. Thank you. Nice work. Good work. Thank you. Questions?
 Okay, thank you both very much. Anyone want to speak on this item?
 If not, then. I'd like to, while the staff are here, I want to note since I'm always calling out when subcontracting amount is less than ideal, this is actually 21% of the whole contract, or over a million dollars that is in the minority and women's emotional small businesses. So I very much appreciate, I don't know whether that required extra effort, but the fact that you've achieved that, and with that much money going to disadvantaged businesses is commendable. Willie.
 And if you don't mind, the project manager for Prime Consultant is in the back of the room, and I'd like to thank them for being a good partner, because they brought to the table existing partnerships and new partnerships which help us meet our targets. And so that's, we can't do this without partners with the vendors that come to us. We have to make clear what our expectations are of them, and then they have to step up and help us meet these targets. And I really do appreciate the work that Black & Beach has done. Well, I'm thrilled, and this is, hopefully we can learn from this one, and I know that
 Environmental Services has taken the lead on making sure that more of the money gets out to the businesses that are good partners. So thank you very much for your work on that. Both. Okay, this passes to second reading. And let's take 367. Authorize a cost recovery agreement for $24,237 to fund an environmental analysis to renew an easement with the U.S. Forest Service for continued operation of Water Bureau facilities at Bull Run Lake.
 Second reading roll call. Yes. I want to especially thank Edward Campbell, one of the stars of our team, for his great work in managing the environmental side of the Water Bureau's work. Thank you. Aye. Saltzman. I'll join in that accolade for Edward Campbell. Aye. Novick. Three cheers for Edward Campbell. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Let's make it unanimous about Edward Campbell. Hi. Okay. Colleagues, I've been admonished. He prefers to be known as Edward. My wife has also announced she wants to be known as Patricia, so we just, you know, we adapt. In both cases, it's always good to listen. Okay. Let's now take. Edward. Thank you, Edward. Let's take 369. Create a local transportation infrastructure charge to fund improvements to unimproved streets. Roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick.
 colleagues very much appreciate your support and really appreciate my bureau's work on this um over it's been quite some time coming um i think that portlanders expect their city council to be progressive and also to be fiscally responsible and in the past on this issue of street improvements we've often been choosing between two somewhat fiscally responsible options either leaving money on the table that could have been spent on speed improvements or requiring people to make street improvements that
 It didn't make much sense. So I'm delighted that we now are going to start charging this fee that we put aside for meaningful community priority street improvements. Aye. Commissioner Novick, you're starting to be commended on bringing this to council and getting it passed. It's been something that's been worked on for 20 years or more. And I have taken the admonishment of former Mayor Sam Adams to heart in not letting the good be the admonishment.
 the perfect to be the enemy of the good. This is a good start, and I am supporting it primarily because I trust Director Lea Treat and the staff who've worked on this, particularly Kurt Kruger, Bill Hoffman, and Christine Leon. They have been working on it for as long as I know,
 And I trust them to work with the community partners. I want to thank Marianne Fitzgerald in Southwest Portland in particular for her leadership over the past 20 years working on this issue. Where it's only part, it is definitely a half-baked product, and yet the
 The part that's baked is that we're going to charge a fee. So we're going to do that. I'm hoping that you will also continue working on those streets that are not labeled problem in that they have a curb, but that they don't have a sidewalk, and figuring out how we can add that into the mix so that we don't have orphan sidewalks.
 built on streets with curbs where there's never going it's very unlikely that in the next 50 years there's ever going to be a connected sidewalk so thank you for your work on this i appreciate your staff working with mine and with me in puzzling through and being able to get me to the point where i was able to support it i old problem new solution thank you hi okay 370
 Amend contract with Eco Northwest for additional implementation work for the local transportation infrastructure charge project phase 3, not to exceed $340,000. I understand there's a proposed amendment, or do I have that right? Okay. And the proposed amendment is, drumroll. Well, it's Commissioner Novick's. Steve, have you got a proposed amendment? Do we have a proposed amendment? I thought that we were... Maybe not. I thought we had an understanding. Okay, maybe not. No, it's an amendment.
 It's an amendment to the attachment.
 Oh, I move the amendment. Second. So if I might explain to the public and for those who are not tracking. I know it's late. This is, we had a memo from Bill Hoffman on April 11th, and this is an amendment to Exhibit A, and the Exhibit A would be amended to replace paragraph 2 on page 5, the scope of work. It previously said that the community involvement efforts on this project will primarily focus on those who have a direct stake in the outcome,
 those who live on or own property on problem streets. That phrase has been deleted, and it now says the process will be inclusive of both those who live or own property on problem streets and those who live or own property in the neighborhoods that surround problem streets. The process will also build on the lessons and recommendations of previously adopted street design plans. So that's the amendment. Further discussion of the amendment. Roll call on the amendment, please. Thank you.
 Chris. Aye. Gassman. Aye. Novick. I apologize for forgetting we actually had an amendment. I thought we were just going to make a statement that the outreach was going to be not as limited as the language seemed to suggest, but as expansive as Commissioner Fritz had said it should be. Aye. Fritz. We should have more amendments that just say do what Commissioner Fritz said. Aye. Ailes. And they'd be shorter. Aye. Okay. Now we'll take a vote on the item as amended.
 bish hi saltsman hi novick hi congratulations aye aye and let's take our fourth item at the beginning of our 2 p.m session that's all right with everyone and we're recessed till then mercy break
 session in the Portland City Council on April 13th. Would you please read the roll for us to check in? Fish. Here. Saltzman. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hale. Here. We have one item remaining from our morning calendar, which is a four-fifths agenda item, item 370-1.
 Declare City Council opposition to Mississippi's Protecting Freedom of Conscience from Government Discrimination Act and temporarily suspend the authorization of using any city funds for travel by city employees to the state of Mississippi.
 So, as I said, when I mentioned that I would be bringing another such action to the Council, I'm very sorry that we have to act on the second of these two items in a very short time. First, North Carolina, and now Mississippi, having enacted what I believe are both
 unconscionable and unconstitutional legislation on the subject of human rights. So we have taken a stand in previous instances with Indiana last year, successfully joining a coalition of states, cities, and private business that got the state of Indiana to
 reverse such a discrimination effort. We hope that the same thing happens in North Carolina and also in Mississippi by the combination of public and private efforts across the country. So this resolution is before us, open to discussion. I think we might have someone here who wants to speak on the item, but any other council members want to say anything at the outset? If not, is there anyone here who would like to speak on this item? Please, come on up.
 And sorry to have kept you waiting. I know you were here this morning. It's okay. I'm fine. I've recently moved here and I'm retired, so I'm relaxed. Where did you move from? From western Massachusetts, Northampton. My brother lives in Green Bay. Possibly even more progressive than Portland. We're only here. That's a tough crowd. Well, give us your name and support that outrageous statement. Strike that for the record. Thank you.
 We're not going to get into a Hadfield and McCoy situation here. No. Kenner Swain. And so I have no family in Mississippi, but I have family in North Carolina. They're not happy with this. And I have had family in North Carolina for 300 years. So I have feelings about it. And I appreciate the city council. Was it Commissioner Novick? I appreciate the city council bringing this up. It might seem that Oregon and Portland are a long way from Mississippi and North Carolina. But.
 you know if you study some of the books by colin woodard and david fisher you you know that portland oregon are not that far away from mississippi and north carolina in many ways and i think that the and i'll be brief the resolutions like this is not going to be the last time something like this happens that is completely unconscionable unconstitutional and it's not the last time that businesses public and private will hopefully do something to express their feelings
 I think it would be good, a couple of things. One, just a small copy editing kind of thing or a suggestion. You might say the so-called freedom and so-called, because the moral high ground of who's for freedom is absolutely what's at stake. And who's, and what discrimination is, all of that is up for grabs. And really the language is very important. And so that kind of thing, yeah.
 I move that amendment. I second that amendment. Thank you. We'll do that, and we'll take that as a friendly amendment, and it is so ordered. Second of all, in contending with these kinds of issues, which are symbolic, and you have a whole lot of things with big money on the table, so I'll be brief. You think about what would Gandhi and King or Gene Sharp do in these kinds of situations. I would suggest perhaps in future, as more of these come along, too,
 invite people in Mississippi or North Carolina to meet anywhere along the Oregon Trail to hash this out, to talk about it, to do something to say, we don't just disapprove, but we're here for reconciliation in the long run. And Oregon, I don't know the whole history, but I don't believe allowed African-Americans or blacks into the state, didn't allow black people to vote until 1927. There was a Supreme Court case called Pierce versus, perhaps you know this, 1925 Supreme Court case where
 Basically, it was a very anti-Catholic thing, where it was outlawed to private schools were outlawed completely. So that was very anti-religious freedom, and specifically anti-Catholic. So the point would be to acknowledge our own failings, sins, shortcomings, in the sense that Oregon is not a very few of us have come to this point of view that we're at 100 years ago or 50 years ago or whatever. But to make that kind of point in the resolutions, perhaps going forward.
 Oh, Commissioner Fish, briefly, that T-shirt with the tree, I was volunteering at the Hoyt Arboretum, and they're for sale up there, and we'd love to have you come up and contribute. You can buy all sizes. They're there. They're there in the visitor center. I wondered where it came from, so thank you. They're in the visitor center at the Hoyt Arboretum. Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Then let's do please take a vote on the resolution as amended. Aye. Aye.
 Opsman of Novick. I really do appreciate the amendment because we should not be reciting people's self-serving language without taking note of how self-serving it is. Aye. Fritz. I want to thank Brian Adams for cancelling his Mississippi concert and Bruce Springsteen for cancelling his North Carolina concert and Mayor Hales for not going to Mississippi for the...
 The launching, the christening of the USS Portland, it does make a difference, and it's more than symbolic. And even if it were just symbolic, it's necessary symbolism. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. I do have relatives in Mississippi, and I won't be visiting them either, but I'll be inviting them to come out to Oregon and see what freedom is like. Aye. Okay, thank you all. Let's move on to Item 371.
 direct the Portland Bureau of Transportation to develop a performance-based parking management program subject to City Council approval. Good afternoon. Welcome. Commissioner Novick, do you have some comments to start this off? Yeah, a couple. When we last approved increases to the downtown meter rates, we talked about the fact that we were going to be raising the rates throughout the central city without differentiations.
 and we were trying to meet certain performance targets, but we acknowledged that historically we hadn't really had a clear criteria for how we manage the parking system. And we acknowledged that sometimes what we do might seem from the outside somewhat random. Like every once in a while, we raise the downtown meter rates.
 what should trigger doing that and should we have some differentiation within the district. In Northwest we decided years and years ago that it was time to start thinking about putting in meters and we wound up arguing about that for 15 years.
 What we are hoping to do now with the council's blessing is establish a performance-based parking management program, which, as the resolution says, includes accepted performance targets and defined program parameters. That such parameters will include the purpose and prioritization of the parking system, performance targets and other trigger conditions, means of coordinating on and off-street parking into a more seamless system, criteria and procedures for establishing new meter districts and sub-districts.
 define parameters for adjusting rates, frequency of adjustments, hours of enforcement, monitoring, evaluation, enforcement protocols, and communication procedures designed to inform the public of changes in parking management in particular areas. So this resolution, in fact, instructs PBOT to develop such a program. And to elaborate and explain, I give you Mauricio Leclerc.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Senior planner with PBAT. Here with me are Judith Gray, also with PBAT planning, as well as Dave Benson and Melissa McCready from Parking Operations. We have a brief presentation, and I think the commissioners –
 greatly summarize what we're here to do. So if you don't mind, we'll go fairly quickly. Again, the language on the resolution itself, on what is that we're doing, what is the process, the context on which we've been working on, and a little bit more specific as to what we mean by performance-based parking management.
 The resolution title says direct PBAT to develop performance-based parking management program subject to City Council of Pujo. We will go, start a process, come back to you with the results. So the commissioner read the parameters, and we'll also discuss the next steps. This has all been wrapped up in about a two-year conversation that PBAT has been having with the direction of PBAT.
 the commissioner, to have a holistic approach to parking. The scope they've been working on includes private parking as well as private parking, and we've had at one point four committees working on this at the same time, as well as many other committees on which parking is an element, such as things that you're planning leads that affect the zoning code, for example. We've had over 50 meetings and briefings all over the city and over 1,000 Portlanders.
 We touched throughout our process. Summarizing the last year, we've had four committees, and one of them recommended adjustment to the downtown. That was one of them. At the same time that they did that, they also said, please move to a performance-based parking management program. But also we have three, the Central City Committee, where a lot of the meter areas are recommended also performance-based parking management programs.
 But also Centers on Corridor, other committee outside of the central city, we work with them to develop a broad toolbox of parking management tools, and we want to integrate them into a logical sequence so that we can have a data-driven, logical, transparent decision-making process. So this is an effort that is actually citywide. Thank you.
 This is guided by the comprehensive plan policies that you've been working on, and we have updated recently. But on the macro scale, we're talking about all things parking, holistic approach, but things are falling into two buckets.
 Private parking, you know, what comes with new development, zoning code-related stuff, and things that are public. Those things that are public, we want to bundle them into a logical system that we're calling performance-based parking management. And those are affecting their house under Title 16 of our code and also in administrative rules. So this is the process to change those, and next time we'll be back. We'll be bringing amendments to Title 16 and the admin rules. So...
 Very briefly, what have we been hearing from the public? Three major themes. One is to better use existing parking. Before you create a new one, let's make sure that we get better use of what we have. That applies not just to the private sector, but also our small park. We have a peak about noon, but most of the nights and some of them in the evening, they remain open.
 empty, and we can make better use of them. Also, redefining the function of parking within their curb zone, make sure that it is for the highest and best use, and have the program to support that. On the on-street management itself, we've been working –
 throughout the city, and very clearly we have to do more to manage on-street parking, given the increase in demand in our main streets and the fact that we have limited on-street supply and we're not going to grow it. So better management is very important. Today demand spills into adjacent neighborhoods, and we're doing much to address that, and we'll be coming back to you with more work on that end.
 And finally, more demand-responsive management. Today it is very challenging, as the commissioner said, to initiate parking plans and actually adjust the rates. We do it on average in the downtown once every six years. And today we have technology, smart park meters, that allows us to do a lot more work.
 not just to adjust rates, but also to collect information about transactions and so forth so we can have better monitoring, know how this system works, and also have the ability to respond. So we're bundling that public parking effort into what we're calling performance-based parking management.
 It is under the umbrella of the comprehensive plan, so we'll be working under the policy for public parking that the system be to encourage safety, economic vitality, and livability of our commercial and residential areas, and as well as to manage parking to achieve the best and highest use.
 So, we've been talking with the public about this performance-based parking management. What is it that we want to do? What is it that it would do? So, it has not been developed, but, you know, our aim is that it's a citywide program. It is data-driven, clear. It is transparent. It relies on performance metrics, such as, you know, 85% occupancy, to make sure that that's success, and that's what we can aim to. It maximizes customer experience on the parking system. You don't have to be cruising around looking for parking and that.
 It's not driven by revenue, but actually by the performance of the system. It improves reliability of the transportation system, as you have fewer cars driving around, as well as the overall availability of places. And includes industry best practices for the management of parking, and that includes the toolbox that I just referred to. So as I mentioned, we had a lot of conversations with the public, and three of our committees, we really discussed
 got, two of them got to endorse performance-based parking management. That's the central city one, which they recommended. That's in the middle there that we recommended.
 develop performance-based parking management, including establishing performance targets coordinated on and off street. That is basically that the on-street and the smart park work more as a seamless system in adjusting the parking prices to meet those parameters. The downtown meter rate, as I mentioned, also recommended as part of the rate adjustment that we moved to performance-based parking management. And the centers and corridor parking project
 endorse a toolkit that also in a residential permit program that needs to be integrated into this program. An example, we brought it to you at the work session. This is clear. We like what Seattle does. Other cities are doing it. This is for downtown, and it applies to meter areas. Again, we're talking about more than just meter areas. But as an example, we talked.
 They have set up parameters between 70% and 85%. That's the target range. You collect information, and that gets published. You can see it here in Ballard area in an annual report in that case. What is the occupancy, and what is the action? Very clearly detailed, very transparent, done in certain periods of the year or...
 or so. And then, basically, we tell you, you know, the occupancy in this case is 83%. No need to act at this point because we are within target range. If you're getting below, you will, we will monitor it and then lower the rate. If it gets too high, you know, we will actually increase the rate. It's simple as that. And, you know,
 It's very successful. San Francisco has done it as well, and it has led to the benefits of getting traffic off the street and getting citations quite a bit down as a result, and in greenhouse benefits as well as you get that traffic off.
 So, again, I want to mention that it's not just about meters or permits, but also we have about a toolkit that we've worked with a consultant and a committee. It was a TGM project funded by ODOT, and we ended up with a list of 60 projects, 60 ideas that we can do to better manage parking, and we want to integrate that. So, to summarize...
 These are the parameters that I think the commissioner read, and I'm not sure I need to read them again, but it is to develop targets, basically, coordinate our parking, develop criteria for new districts, and in breaking up some districts in areas that make, in chunks that make sense, for example.
 adjusting the rates and knowing when to adjust and how often, how to adjust hours of enforcement, how to do the monitoring, how to evaluate and do the enforcement, and also how to communicate all these changes to the public. And not only as to what we're going to do, but actually when we do it, there needs to be some predictability that the parking system will be there at a certain time
 rate for a certain period of time so that nobody gets surprised. So all of that will be the core of the process that we'll be doing and working with that committee and developing a public outreach process and bringing all of that to you for adoption. So that's the presentation. And actually, before we end, I want to thank all the committees that have worked with us. They've done a lot of work and devoted a lot of hours, and we appreciate their ideas and support. Thank you. Questions?
 How will the needs of people with lower incomes and the effects on people of color be evaluated and incorporated? Yeah. Equity is an element that is incorporated into everything that we're doing at PBAT. For the things that relate to parking, public parking, we'll be looking at tools that affect, you know,
 They have some sort of a cost component and determine what is the impact on low-income people, for example, and determine the proper action, for example. It could be that no action is needed. It could be that we need to provide some sort of a subsidy or something that upsets or mitigates the impact. So that will be part of it.
 how we integrate tools into the different tools into performance-based parking management. So we'll look into it. We did it for the rate adjustment, and we're doing it also for the permit that we'll be introducing to you in June. Other questions for Marisa? Thank you very much. Let's see. Do you have any invited speakers here, Commissioner Novick, or just those on the sign-up sheet? Actually, I just have one more question. It says in the impact statement that the legislation doesn't have long-term financial impacts for the city, but it will.
 This action will not this time because we're coming back with the formal changes. So at this point, we're just setting up a committee and coming up with ideas. Next time we come to you in May.
 So it may. So we're setting it up for next time where it may have some fiscal impacts. Our experience, based on what other cities have done, is that it does not lead to more or less revenues. It's pretty much revenue neutral. But we'll come back to you next time with the actual proposals, and then we'll fill that out appropriately. So it does say that there are no changes in current or future revenues. Is the intent for it to be revenue neutral? No.
 The intent is to do what we do, which is manage parking for a certain objective, not by revenue.
 Commissioner, I think this action, simply instructing the Bureau to develop a program in and of itself, is not going to change revenues. Once we develop a program, it might potentially have the same impact, although as Bruce says, it might not. I understand that. My question is, is part of the way we're setting up the program making it intended to be revenue neutral?
 Well, I mean, what we're intending to do is to have a more rational parking management system. And sometimes that will lead to more revenue. Sometimes it will lead to less revenue. For example, one of the effects of having meters in Northwest is to raise more revenue. But the purpose of having meters in Northwest is to better manage the right-of-way. Right. So it isn't one of the criteria for success that it be revenue neutral? I...
 don't think that's necessarily the case, because if we had set that as a criterion for putting meters in Northwest, we would have had to decide to cut rates somewhere else in order to offset that. And in terms of managing parking, I don't know that that would have made sense. And I concur with that direction. I just want to be clear that there may be some increased revenue which may be seen as a positive side effect or a negative side effect, depending on which side of the paying and receiving you're on. I agree.
 good point thank you right thank you very much so do you have any invited speakers or is there just a group people signed up okay great let's take those please yeah four people signed up the first three please come on up are chris smith chris chiachirini sorry and risa farhudi good afternoon welcome
 Mayor, members of council, good afternoon. I'm Chris Smith, vice chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, but testifying today as an individual. I'm going to start by saying thank you to all of you for joining us today.
 I'm going to try and connect the dots, and I'm tempted to say that the whole comp plan depends on this, but that might be just a little bit hyperbolic. Wow. But, in fact, it is a keystone piece, I think, of success in our comp plan objectives. As we talked about here in work session a few weeks ago, part of the challenge in the comp plan is to –
 facilitate Portland's growth, which includes growth in trips, while essentially keeping the number of auto trips constant, because we're very close to the limit of our infrastructure to accommodate auto trips. And adding auto trips would both be very expensive and contraindicate other goals that we have in the comp plan. Okay.
 We know that auto trips, one of the biggest determinants is the availability and pricing of parking. So parking will be one of the key tools to facilitate meeting those goals. And we know that off-street parking in large part responds to the on-street parking environment. And, in fact, one of the things that screws up off-street parking is the perception of free on-street parking –
 And we know that on-street parking isn't really free. We just hide the costs other places. So moving to a performance parking system gives us the tools to very intentionally manage that. I think will be critical to achieving our overall comp plan goals, particularly those related to reducing drive-alone trips. Yes.
 And as the added benefit, generally it makes parking available for the people who need it to be available. So I strongly encourage you to adopt this and start down this path. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon to you too. My name is Chris Caccarini. I am the Vice President for Planning and Operations at the Oregon College of Oriental Medicine. We are the number one school of acupuncture in Chinese medicine in the United States.
 We offer master's and doctoral degrees in acupuncture and Chinese medicine, and we are located on Northwest 1st and Cooch in Old Town, Chinatown, that we relocated there in 2012 as part of a remodel of the old Global Hotel building, Import Plaza building. I want to testify in favor of this proposal, and I have a couple points that I'd like to make.
 Each day, we welcome more than 400 visitors to our campus. Parking is consistently the number one concern in our customer and community feedback surveys. While 67% of our campus community use alternate means of transportation some of the time, half of all of our commutes involve a car. We see roughly, depending on the year, between 17,000 and 21,000 people
 patients in our clinic. We have a student clinic, roughly 50 to 70 per day. Out of that population,
 particular number, 89% of those drive to their appointments. While we want to continue to encourage more use of transit, cycling, and walking, not everybody can do that. We will always need some parking to meet our various needs. Transportation alternatives are particularly challenging for those with disabilities, which is a large part of the community that we serve in our clinic.
 parking management is critical to the continued success of OCOM. Old Town Chinatown, as you know, is unique in the sense that it has trip characteristics that are very different from, say, downtown. Both OCOM and University of Oregon reside in Old Town Chinatown. We have multiple clinics there, public clinics there.
 serving low-income patients. As you know, we have nightlife and two major tourist destinations in the Chinese Garden and Saturday Market, in addition to the standard office retail and restaurants. This requires a more customized management of parking
 We look, as a college, we're really looking forward to a clear data-driven and transparent decision-making process for managing parking. We've actually experienced this approach, so we know what we speak. When we reviewed our own parking data, we learned that a significant number of our community members need to stay longer than the meters allowed, and
 In response, PBOT lengthened the stay of time to 90 minutes to two hours. This was a game changer for our clinic patients, given that our appointments are one hour and 15 minutes long. It gives them a little bit more time to get dressed, check in, and check out. We also provided bicycle use data to PBOT and have appreciated the support we received to expand our bicycle parking capacity as a result of the data we provided.
 that we captured. I'll wrap up, and finally, we found PBOT to be a beneficial partner, heavily focused on customer service. We look forward to working with PBOT on developing performance-based parking management system. Great. Thank you very much. I'm glad you had that successful pilot project of adjusting to make it work better. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hayles. City Commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Reza Farhudi. I'm a Pearl District resident and I serve on the Neighborhood Association Board. I also served on the Central City Parking Update Committee and the Meteor Rate Adjustment Committee, but my comments today are mine alone.
 I'm testifying today in supporting the resolution and urge you to greenlight PBOT's proposal to develop a comprehensive performance parking management policy for your future consideration. Dynamically priced, demand-responsive parking management has many benefits. It will reduce vehicle congestion and emissions. It will help businesses by making it easier for customers to find parking.
 a free parking space, it will help make housing more affordable, and it will support Portland's ambitious mode split and climate action targets. Performance parking will also succeed in shifting parking demand from the peak to the shoulders, that is, to locations and times where there is excess capacity. In the Pearl District, we have much higher demand closer to Burnside Street than we do north of Lovejoy Street. We also see considerably higher demand in the weekends and evenings areas.
 implementing performance parking will raise prices where demand warrants it to make sure they're high enough to ensure enough free parking spaces. It will also help reduce prices where we have lower demand, allowing for better utilization of our public right-of-way, one of the most finite resources that we have in the central city.
 So in closing, I hope that you adopt this resolution and allow PBOT to move forward and create a performance parking management policy that meets the needs of Portlanders in a rapidly growing and urbanizing city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. The last two signed up are Ian Studi and Tony Jordan. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 go ahead all right thank you well thank you for the opportunity to speak today um i i well my name is ian studi i am the director of transportation and parking services for portland state university and i'm also the chair of the city's bicycle advisory committee i also served on the the stakeholder advisory committee for the central city parking policy update and also as an alternate on the centers and corridors stakeholder advisory committee um
 And suffice it to say, I've spent a lot of the last two years talking about parking, to the point that my wife would like me to stop.
 I would really like to encourage city council today to support the resolution in front of you. I think that the performance-based parking plan that PBOT will develop will be a major step forward in really a smart, modern approach to how we tackle one of the largest obstacles in improving our transportation network and really how people get around our city and enjoy our city.
 If I may, while I'm not here to testify specifically on behalf of Portland State, I would like to tell you a little Portland State story, which is, in case you're not familiar, has grown from 20,000 students to 30,000 students in the time that I've been there. That's a 50% increase in enrollment.
 a commensurate or close to commensurate increase in staff, and a tremendous number of regular visits to campus on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. We estimate almost a million visitors a year. It's incredibly compact and incredibly challenging to manage parking for those folks, and we've done so with only a 10 percent increase in parking in the last 10 years.
 Largely, we've been able to do so because the system that we've invested in is twofold. One, the alternatives and really the approach to transportation demand management, providing access to our robust transit network and supporting the transit network.
 with some very hard-earned dollars as well. We're very appreciative to TriMet and others and the system that the city has laid out that's allowed PSU to grow in a very economical and very sustainable fashion.
 But I want to point out that one of the key functions that's made PSU's growth and management of transportation successful is exactly the same kind of thing that you're considering here today, which is performance-based parking management. We adjust rates and adjust the availability of parking based on demand throughout our campus network of parking, and it has been enormously successful.
 We are continuing to modernize that system, and we're looking forward to utilizing some of the new technology that's becoming available. But I think that if you look at PSU as, in some ways, a test case, and we look forward to hopefully continuing to work with PBOT in a test or beta fashion, I think you'll find that this can be an enormously successful thing for the city at large. So thank you. Thank you very much. Mind if I just ask one question? Yes, certainly. The other night –
 I had an event teaching a class at PSU. I had to be there at 7, so I ended up about 6.30 parking on Broadway just near Lincoln Hall. But in the innovative parking you have on the street. So there's a protected bike lane on the other side of the car and then the sidewalk. What's been the experience? How have people reacted to that parking configuration? Sure.
 Quite well. Thank you for asking about that. The effort to introduce, in many ways, Portland's first on-street cycle track at PSU was one that was championed by the university, and we worked very closely with PBOT on that. The response has been excellent.
 overwhelmingly positive while it's a little there's a little bit of challenge in learning how to park in a facility like that for the first time and when it's really dark out we see people miss the paint and they head over and park next to the curb we've mostly ironed that out and folks pretty much know what to do
 And we find that they're often parking in the right spot. There's the occasional hiccup with a delivery vehicle and whatnot. But the benefit to those who are riding and who are riding to our campus on bikes has been enormous. And particularly the group that has identified themselves as interested but concerned in cycling, we found that that type of facility directly correlates with a positive reinforcement for cycling and encouragement to do so.
 And that's through some very academic research done by PSU staff and students. I think the only thing that I learned is that I'm now conditioned to look at my rearview window to see if there's a bike coming driver's side. And so since all I had to worry about is a car on the driver's side, it's remembering that when I then crossed over to get the ticket for the car that I looked both ways to make sure there's no bike between me and the sidewalk.
 It takes a little bit of adjusting. And I think that what the Bureau has planned in terms of protected bikeways into the future looks very positive. And I think that the designs that are there and that PBOT staff have been working hard to modernize and emulate from other cities are in some ways even a step above what we have on Broadway today. So it is a great example, though, of how parking can be utilized today.
 not just as auto parking, but as a buffer between two different modes of transportation that really we'd prefer did not mix, if possible. Thank you very much. Thank you. And we have to keep experimenting. Some of these experiments have proven right the first time, some wrong the first time, and some need work. So it'll be interesting to see how the cycle track idea evolves that way. Well, we're always happy to help.
 Part of the challenge is that people come here from other places and they don't know about this stuff. So every now and then I'll see a driver stuck in the queue at the back of the line of parked cars who hasn't figured it out yet that they're not moving. That's always a good question. Welcome. Hello. Mayor Hales, commissioners, thank you for the opportunity to speak today. My name is Tony Jordan. I served last year on three of the parking committees that were mentioned.
 Since serving on those committees, I founded a group called Portland Shoe Pistas, which is a group that advocates for effective parking policy here in Portland. I'm the president of Sunnyside Neighborhood Association, but I'm not speaking on behalf of the Neighborhood Association today. I support this resolution and encourage you to direct PBOT to develop the performance-based parking management policy for your review and approval later this year. Thank you.
 Our public right-of-way is one of the city's greatest assets, and we have an opportunity to manage a significant portion of that asset to make housing more affordable, encourage commerce, make our streets safer, and make progress on our mode share and climate action goals. There was a common refrain at all three of the committees I was on to use new ideas and technology available now to better manage our parking supply in a data-driven manner. We can learn from and improve on systems in place in other cities like San Francisco to create a fair and efficient system here in Portland.
 concerns over on-street car parking drive much of the opposition to additional housing supply in our neighborhoods. The parking toolkit approved by the Centers and Corridors Committee provides a path to a less acrimonious environment for these developments, and the performance-based parking management is an essential component of that toolkit. These policies will enable neighbors to focus on other important issues and make it easier for developers to add the much-needed supply that we have.
 Convenient parking is also an essential resource for many businesses and commercial districts. By ensuring that there's always some space available nearby, this policy will stimulate business and increase customer satisfaction. Cash-conscious consumers will be able to find cheaper parking in areas with less demand, and quite possibly they'll see the lowest rates that we've seen in quite some time in downtown Portland, maybe lower than they were 10 years ago. But the benefits of performance-based parking management aren't only for people who drive.
 Pedestrians and people on bikes will enjoy downtown streets with less car traffic. In San Francisco, areas where SF Park was used to manage parking saw 30% decreases in vehicle miles traveled, and fewer driver circling blocks while looking for parking equals fewer opportunities for collisions and injuries. Thank you.
 Finally, these policies will help us meet our mode share and climate action goals. Performance-based parking management will enable more efficient use of existing parking supply, reducing the need for additional parking garages. Less cruising for parking will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and awareness of the true value of curbside parking will reframe discussions about the use of right-of-way for alternative modes of transportation and public space. There is one suggestion I have for improving this resolution. Several members of the Central City Parking Committee agreed
 express concerns about the impact of allowing the shared use of commercial and residential parking in the city center. This is in the Central City 2035 plan. It's a good thing to do that, but this proposed change may significantly increase the private off-street supply available to visitors and commuters, which will make it harder to meet the mode share goals.
 Adding parking supply to rates, hours, enforcement, and other adjustable variables in this resolution would acknowledge this concern and provide more opportunities for repurposing of existing supply when it's appropriate in the future. So thanks for taking this step, and I look forward to it. The concern is, you're talking about existing private garages, right? Yes. The Central City 2035 draft contains language that would allow existing supply that's off-street in buildings that's...
 for residential only to be used for any purpose. It removes the designation between commercial and residential. And that's good because it will probably lead to less supply, less structured parking built and free up some supply now, but it could have some, it could increase supply, which would make it harder to meet the load goals because those are connected. All right. Good point. Thank you. Thank you very much. Other questions? Thank you both. Anyone else that wants to speak on this item? No.
 All right. Do you want to take action on this resolution? And let's take a vote, please. Mr. Novick, thank you for your great work and thanks to your very able team. This seems innovative and thoughtful in the approach, and we look forward to seeing the fruits of the next phase of this effort. Thank you. Aye. Aye. Thank you, Mauricio. Thanks to the whole team. Thanks to my colleagues. We are well on the way to a rational system of parking management. Aye. Aye.
 Hopefully, a treat, and Commissioner Novick, I'm really bringing them home in the stretch here. So congratulations on this one, too, and thank you to the team for your work. Aye. Yeah, thank you, Commissioner, and thanks both to the team and the other folks who provided testimony here today. I think the last point was an interesting one. I've got to make sure that...
 all the system effects whether it's in land use or elsewhere in transportation or thought through as we do this work and obviously peabody's eminently capable of that but i appreciate the point being raised look forward to seeing the next phase of the work thank you aye okay let's move on then please to the next item
 Which is at 11 sorry at 345 245 and and I think we have Our honoree in the house. So we ready We'll take a two-minute break. All right, two minute break and go back You're gonna grab my talking talk do that?
 Okay, we're going to get back to order here and have some fun. So we're returning to business, please. Let's take up that item, which is item 372. Proclaim April 13, 2016, to be a day of honor for Portland's first women fire chief, Erin Janssens, in Portland. Commissioner Salzman. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to take a moment to recognize everyone.
 the outstanding and honor our fire chief, Erin Janssens, for her outstanding service and her many years of service to the city of Portland. She is set to retire at the end of this week. Well, tomorrow, as a matter of fact, which happens to be her birthday as well.
 And she has provided excellent leadership for the fire bureau and for the past almost four years that she's been chief. As was noted, she is the first female chief the city of Portland has ever had, fire chief. And she has served in.
 served professionally for 28 years in this field and has really reached the peak of her leadership and has really helped the Bureau of Portland Fire and Rescue deal with the increasingly complex balancing act of responding to fires, but also dealing with the ever increasing, in fact, majority of calls now for emergency medical services. And she has continued to be an innovator in looking at ways that we can better serve
 the emergency medical side of the equation while still maintaining our commitment to be there to save lives and property when we actually have fires as well and she has helped pioneer the use of rapid response vehicles which are two-person vehicles that can respond to low-level medical calls rather than calling out the calvary so to speak
 And so I want to thank you. And we have a proclamation here, but just want to personally thank you. You've been a real catalyst for change in Portland Fire and Rescue, and I appreciate having the chance to have worked with you in the last.
 almost four years. So thank you. And we have a proclamation that the mayor is going to read. I'm happy to do that. It says this, whereas Portland Fire and Rescue has had a rich 132-year history protecting lives and property in our city, and whereas in 2012, Portland Fire and Rescue added a milestone to its rich history with the appointment of its first female fire chief, Erin Janssen's,
 And whereas Chief Jansen has brought a wealth of experience as chief, working at every level of the Fire Bureau, being promoted through the ranks of lieutenant, captain, battalion chief, deputy chief, and fire marshal,
 And whereas Chief Janssens has always pursued innovation and cutting-edge programs throughout her time with PFNR, from reinstituting the use of rapid response vehicles to educating youth in after-school programs to partnering with health care providers on a myriad of initiatives, Chief Janssens has embraced all forms of innovation and change. And whereas Chief Janssens has provided excellent leadership in carrying the fire bureau through Portland's challenging times.
 maintaining high levels of operation during record population growth that increased call volumes, and whereas the City of Portland would like to honor and thank Chief Janssens for her 28 years of service to our city. Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby declare April 13, 2016 to be a day to honor Portland's first female Fire Chief, Erin Janssens, in Portland and observe all residents to observe this day and to thank her.
 Thank you, Aaron. Before we give you a chance for rebuttal, others of us might want to add some comments to Commissioner Saltzman. I've got this, and that is any of us who deal with the leadership of organizations with strong traditions, I have some experience with that with the Fire Bureau and also with the Police Bureau, know that a change agent has to walk a careful line between honoring those traditions and supporting people's adherence to those traditions. Thank you.
 and making the change that you need to make. And I just really appreciate the way you've done that, not just that you have done that, but the way you've done it. You've always been a firefighter's firefighter. You've always stood up for the Bureau at every turn, but you've been willing to move things forward in the right way. And that's an art.
 I tried to describe it in those words, but I've seen you do it. And you'll be, in that sense, a very hard act to follow as well, because there's always a need for change as we, as a society, change. And that's been true for the Bureau and always will be. But you've done that very adroitly, and it's been noticed and appreciated by your mayor. Yes, please. Yes, please.
 Commissioner Fritz has noted on many occasions, and the Mayor has also noted, that we have four current or former Parks Commissioners on this Council. We also have four current or former Commissioners in charge of the Fire Bureau. And so many of us have had the great honor, albeit for two of us very briefly, to work with the men and women who wear the uniform and provide such great service. I first want to say, Erin, that it was an honor to serve on your interview panel
 and to learn about the many current then challenges that the Bureau faced, and also to have a sense of how you stacked up against the other candidates. And as you know, when Commissioner Leonard appointed you, it was his view that I concurred that you were the outstanding candidate for the job following an extensive search. It's been an honor to work with you on a number of things. Thank you.
 And in particular, while we don't work day to day as colleagues, I have worked with you during two weather emergencies where I've gotten to see the very best of you and the Bureau under difficult circumstances. I know that Hannah Kuhn would kill me if I didn't say something on her behalf because you and Hannah and Bill share such a deep friendship. And it was actually a wonderful dividend for me that you would occasionally visit Hannah in my office so I got to see you.
 but hannah thinks the world of you and i know that you and she have a a deep and lasting friendship and finally i want to echo what the mayor said because today we're really celebrating public service and lord knows this is not the easiest time in our history to be in public service we face a lot of headwinds there's a lot of uncertainty out there it takes a person of special grit and character to be successful in public service
 And I think what you'll hear from all of us is that we have been honored to know you and to work with you. So thank you. Well, I would like to say that I'm very honored and I'm very humbled to be here before you today.
 it has been an honor to be your fire chief and it has been an honor to work with all of you and all of your staffs i have the utmost respect for all of you and your staffs all of the people in the city that work so hard to
 um make the city work move the city forward and advance the the best interests of the city um i think that until people are up close and personal they may not recognize or appreciate how much and how hard everyone works and i want to say that i know that about each and every one of you and i greatly
 admire and respect each of you, and it's been an honor, again, to be your fire chief. So thank you very, very much. How many females were there in the fire bureau when you started? When I started in 1988, there were three of us. We were all on probation. Well, there were three of us on probation at the time. By 1989, there were two of us. And then in 1990, there were three of us again of about 800 men.
 So I surmise that that in some ways was more challenging than being the first woman fire chief and entering a highly male-dominated environment and being the trailblazer who was able to do all of those physical tasks that I certainly would not ever have been able to do in the past.
 That is part of your legacy in my mind, having been one of those first three and succeeded and worked your way up to the top. And then I know that you have had significant challenges as a...
 woman decision maker in our society as I as the seventh woman on the council have also experienced and this morning we had some directions to look at gender issues in our city bureaus and I hope it's not another
 132 years before we have another female fire chief. And I also hope that there is increasing awareness, not only within the Fire Bureau, also within the Police Bureau, also within some of the other very traditionally male-dominated bureaus, that women can and do as well or better, and that when we have women in authority,
 that we have earned our way to be there and that it will in the future be easier than in many ways it has been for you. So I wanted to acknowledge, it's not only the honor of being the first woman chief, it's the honor of having worked your way up and been part of that groundbreaking trio. So thank you very much. Thank you.
 I had a chance to give a speech to the Women in Transportation seminar. Of course, I touted the fact that we had a number of women in positions of leadership. Not enough, but some significance. And, of course, a woman fire chief is a distinction still. But I said that actually what Portlandia was doing is reaching down and saying, come on up, sister, let's break that glass ceiling together. So thank you for your effort in doing just that. Absolutely. Thank you.
 chief as commissioner fish said some of us have been fire commissioner for a very brief period of time i think i was that for maybe six weeks but it was an intense time because we were threatened with budget cuts and we were trying to figure out how to explain exactly how devastating it would be to start shutting down fire stations and i really appreciate the education you gave me on the bureau in that short period of time i also wanted to say that i really appreciate your support of the neighborhood emergency teams
 our NET folks are going to be very sorry to see you go and hope that you'll be back to support the NETs in some way in the future. Very good. Could we commemorate this moment with a photo with you and perhaps invite Amy to join us? That would be great. Thank you. Come on up, please. Get in. Great job. Hey, Nick. I'm trying to split. Almost got me, sir. We're going to suspend the rules. Yeah, yeah.
 jerseys that's probably the wrong word uniform okay let's uh then move on to our remaining two items this afternoon since it is three o'clock and take item 373 please
 amend regulation of lobbying entities and city officials to improve administration clarify requirements and auditor duties okay
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I am City Auditor Mary Hall Caballero, and with me today is Deborah Scroggins from my office. And Deborah oversees the Lobbyist Registration Program, in addition to her duties as the City Elections Officer. We are here with a proposal to strengthen sections of existing code that make transparent the activities and expenditures lobbying entities bring to bear on city policy choices and other decisions.
 The proposal also broadens the revolving door prohibition so that the public's interest is not made deferential to personal interests when officials, their at-will employees, and bureau directors leave their city jobs. The city's code of ethics was adopted in 1994. That document says the purpose of this government is to serve the public and calls on officials to treat their offices as a public trust.
 It also calls on us to ensure public respect by avoiding even the appearance of impropriety and for policymakers to place long-term benefit to the public as a whole above all other considerations, including important individuals and special interests. In keeping with the Code of Ethics, Council in 2005 passed an ordinance requiring lobbying groups to register and report their activity.
 It also obligated certain city officials to report with whom they were meeting and when they received gifts from lobbyists. The ordinance authorized the auditor's office to establish reporting mechanisms and enforce provisions of the code. The model chosen back then emphasized disclosure, and our proposed amendments are in keeping with that choice. They require no additional resources for my office to implement.
 Our goal is to make clear the expectations and consequences of the code for the people who fall within its requirements. We think the public will be better served by a code that adds transparency, clarifies requirements, and is more straightforward to enforce. Deborah will now walk you through the specific changes, and then we have some invited testimony for you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. As Mary said, my name is Deborah Scroggins with the City Auditor's Office.
 So I have a brief summary of the proposed changes to City Code 2.12, the lobbyist registration program that I'm going to present, including a brief background on the program, why we're bringing these proposed changes now, and a summary of the major amendments. The stated purpose of the lobbying regulation program is to preserve the integrity of the decision-making process by making public the extent of lobbying activities. It's primarily a disclosure-based program that requires registration and reporting from certain entities and also from city officials.
 The program was passed in 2005 and has been in effect since 2006. Oversight and administration is conducted by the auditor's office. I just wanted to give a quick snapshot of activity captured by the lobbying program currently. There's 39 registered lobbying entities right now. This number ranges between 30 and 50 throughout the year, depending on items coming before council. The types of organizations reporting activity range from small nonprofit organizations to multinational companies.
 The amount of individual lobbyists fluctuates between approximately 170 and 190, also depending on the issues before council. Right now we have 188. In 2015, registered lobbying entities that are required to disclose this information reported $288,000 spent on lobbying, which is more than double the amount that was reported in 2014. These expenses include salary or other compensation to lobbyists, travel, advertising, gifts, and other similar items. Thank you.
 So why are we bringing these changes now? The last time substantive amendments came before council was 2007, and we think it's overdue to present some changes. The initiating ordinance states that these regulations establish the transparency that fair and open government warrants. To that end, we think it should be continually updated and reviewed for effectiveness and to approve administration. In particular, there are areas that have caused confusion, both for lobbyists and city officials, and we want to address those with these changes.
 There are some really strong pieces of the lobbying program. In particular, the definition of lobbying is broadly defined to capture additional activity at the local level. Specific lobbying contacts between city officials and lobbyists must be disclosed in public reports for certain entities. And city officials are required to post their calendars of official activities, which balances out that transparency responsibility between lobbyists and city officials. These are all strong components of a lobbyist registration program.
 However, the pieces don't work together cohesively with the rest of the code unless there is little room for gray area, strong accountability measures, and meaningful enforcement mechanisms. The changes we're proposing today are a step in that direction.
 So the first change I'll go over is to close the lobbyist disclosure loophole that we think exists. Lobbying entities are required to register and disclose their activities, lobbyists that are working for them, and their expenses after reaching a certain threshold of lobbying. And that is set at eight hours and a quarter. Thank you.
 This singular threshold leaves room for financial expenditures to go unreported and disproportionately affect civic and nonprofit groups. That's because entities that spend significant amounts on travel and compensation and make other related expenditures may not need to register under that single hourly threshold. So with this proposed change, a lobbying entity would have to register after they spend eight hours lobbying the current policy for $1,000 and a quarter. We think this will capture additional lobbying activity, be a more accurate picture just using different resources.
 so i'm going to go into the prohibited conduct section and first i wanted to address an amendment that we had before you for this item and this amendment was regarding certain boards and commissions lobbying for compensation while serving as a volunteer city official this is an important issue worthy of consideration unfortunately we added it too late and it did not get the same amount of time for comment and feedback as the other changes did
 To allow the officials affected by that proposal to digest information or their concerns, we've proposed removing it for the time being. I can go into more detail on that if you would like. Otherwise, I'll move on to the post-employment prohibition section. I'm sorry, I just... I'm not following that either. I'm still catching up from the previous one. Oh, okay. So we submitted an amendment to this code, and that was to remove the section on...
 PDC Planning Commission. Section number is that? Design Commission. 12-080. 2.1, 2.080. So in other words, you're removing the restriction on those commission members from lobbying until you have time to process it more. Yeah, exactly. Oh, okay. Okay. Sorry, keep going. Okay, thanks. So on the post-employment prohibition section, in general, these types of policies, I think, are preventative, good government measures.
 They serve the purpose of preventing impartiality, independence, and trust in city decision-making by imposing sometimes a cooling-off period. And that's what our code does. This period creates distance from the special relationships and access city officials gain throughout their time at the city. And these types of policies have another very important impact. They prevent even the appearance of impropriety.
 Cooling off periods are typically one to two years. We suggest a two-year period to allow for additional turnover and to diminish the appearance that a former official could hold special influence over city decisions. Under the city's current code, all employees are prohibited from lobbying city officials regarding any subject they were personally and substantially involved in for one year after their term of office or employment. That personally and substantially policy has been difficult to define and is hard to monitor. The proposed amendments instead provide a clear separation of city officials from their public service.
 It also appropriately narrows the individuals covered by the prohibition. Instead of being citywide, it focuses on top-level officials. The proposed changes prohibit elected officials, I'm just going to go through them individually, the proposed changes prohibit elected officials and their at-will staff, once they leave the city, from lobbying for compensation or other consideration, current elected officials and their at-will staff, for two years. Thank you.
 In addition, city directors, once they leave the city, would be prohibited from lobbying the director of their former bureau and the current commissioner in charge of that bureau for two years. We think this proposal is clearer and stronger than current language while balancing the expertise and unique perspectives lobbyists can bring to government. So we'd also like to add some meaningful enforcement mechanisms to this code. At the discretion of the auditor currently, the maximum penalty for violations of this code is $500. That has not been reviewed since the ordinance went into effect 10 years ago.
 The proposed change to the section would increase the fine from $500 to $3,000 per repeated violation.
 That's an amount that's – Just on that, if that's all – does it still provide for $500 for non-repeated violations? Absolutely. It would be at the discretion of the auditor. Okay, because given the language change, I wasn't – I mean, just reading the penalties revision, I wasn't clear on that. It seems to only talk about the period of repeated violations. Right. So it would be up to $3,000 for repeated violations. Okay.
 and we would not charge $3,000 for the first violation, for instance. Okay, but I think it just leaves it a little unclear. It doesn't say anything about non-repeated violations, so it leaves it, you're sort of puzzled. Is there a maximum for a first violation, or is there any penalty at all?
 So that would be something that we would clarify through an open administrative rule process that we were going to go forward with, and to outline the different considerations that we would have, such as the budget of the organization, the type of violation, whether it's very technical in nature or something else. Okay, I bet –
 It just seems it's just worded very strangely now because it seems to only talk about repeated violations. And I don't think it would be hard to fix in the language. Yeah, I don't think actually you need the words for repeated violations. If it's up to 3,000, otherwise, as Commissioner Novick says, it looks like it's only for repeat. I'm looking for the city attorney because that was actually advice that they gave.
 But I'm happy to look at that and see if we can do an amendment. I mean, it sort of implies that there's a lower threshold for single violations, but it doesn't say what the threshold is. So it's just confusing. I think we can clarify that. Thank you. Okay, so the reason that we're doing this piece is to bring the penalties closer in line with other jurisdictions who have penalties for this type of law, and that would be Seattle, San Francisco, State of Oregon. They have $5,000 as their maximum penalty.
 So we think this amount allows the auditor's office to recover costs associated with the enforcement, including the ability to seek recovery of attorney's fees. So the next steps for the auditor's office would be to continue to focus on education and outreach regarding lobbying regulations. Our goal is to get the most disclosures we can under the code. In particular, we'll be focusing the next four months, if these should pass, on increasing awareness of the program in general with targeted outreach to folks that would be subject to it. We're going to update public information, manuals, and increase the number and frequency of trainings.
 We'll also be creating administrative rules through an open process before the effective date. Thank you. That's all I have. Okay. I have some questions. Why don't you go ahead with yours. Thank you. A number of questions. My first set is on the calendar postings. Yes. That's section 070D. Yes.
 It says that we're required to post calendars. And let me first say I totally appreciate this whole project. I support the vast majority of it. I'm just trying to understand what the requirements would be and how I would do them. So it says that otherwise exempted calendars required by this section shall include the date and length of scheduled official business. What's the purpose of saying that the length of the meeting is important? Well, one of the requirements to register is that eight hours threshold of lobbying. Okay.
 And if we can have some idea of the length of some of these meetings, that helps us with letting lobbying entities know that they may be subject to this ordinance. Okay. You know, I have half-hour meetings if they end 10 minutes early or if they end 15 minutes late.
 and the lobbying entity enters it differently? Am I in violation if I say that it was 20 minutes when they say it was, or vice versa? So I think it's how it's scheduled. We would want to see however you intended it to be. If it varied dramatically, perhaps that would be something to update on your calendar. But whatever it was scheduled as would be important for us to know. And this is for all official business, so it's not just for lobbying meetings, right?
 Correct. However, we've narrowed that down so that there's an emphasis on outside meetings and that you wouldn't have to have the extra administrative burden of putting all this information for internal meetings with your staff.
 I don't think it says that, so that's something else that I'd like to have clarified. And then the second part of that section says, if scheduled activities include non-city staff and are private, the primary participants or organizations shall be listed. So does that mean if I have a birthday party, I have to list everybody who's at it? Well, are you having the birthday party? I think the question would be as a part of your official business, that sounds like it might not be something you would include on an official calendar. So yes.
 Activities that reflect official city business. I actually was looking at the same language and I think that it's relatively clear, but if I make it a little clearer to say if scheduled official business activities include non-city staff, just repeat the phrase. Yes, that would be helpful to me.
 And then the other clarifying question I have is about the two years instead of one year, and particularly about including at-will staff. You frame that as high-level officials, and I consider all of my at-will staff high-level officials. I currently am employing somebody part-time for $15 an hour while she's in school, and she's helping with our front desk and other activities. She would come under this category. One of my...
 policies is to try to employ folks who are getting their start in public participation and public business, and I'm hoping that they're going to get offered fancy jobs in either the private sector or elsewhere. So I'm just troubled by that provision and wondered if you could talk about what's the purpose of that.
 The purpose is to capture everyone who is involved in activities that your office may be discussing and to prevent the conflict that may happen and the appearance of undue influence after that person leaves office and then may have different levels of access than someone else. Isn't that up to the elected officials to prevent that undue appearance of influence as opposed to the at-will employee, him or herself? No.
 I think it's everyone's responsibility to watch out for the appearance of impropriety. I would also like to look at... You consider Atwell stuff to be... I consider them to be public servants. What do you consider them to be? Public servants. Public servants. But public servants at the risk of going bad?
 After two years? No, I think that this is... That's why they need a two-year timeout from future employment? No, if you go back to my introductory remarks, this is about keeping aligned with the code of ethics, where it lays out that we're supposed to avoid even the appearance of impropriety. And I think that the public trust, can the public trust,
 I mean, I don't think the public should have to understand what the intricate details of your relationships with your staff are. And I think that it's an appearance issue that if it looks like the playing field is not level, that someone can come back in and essentially trade on information they developed when they were public servants, that I think that is what chips away at the public trust. Well, the current language does prohibit
 an employee from working on lobbying on an issue that he or she has uh had a substantial involvement in and we're saying we're suggesting that that is very difficult to define um is that they spent three hours on a topic or 100 hours on a topic and that that's why we're trying yeah but you're choosing sort of a blanket approach and i'm sorry to interrupt commissioner for itself be happy to see my time back to you but i think you are you both have at it for a while i think you're you're
 doing two things. One is you're penalizing people that have been loyal, hardworking public servants by saying for two years you can't pursue any employment that is any remotely related
 to City Hall or City Garden. That is not what it says. And then secondly, you're going to make it very difficult to hire good, inspired people who maybe hope to have careers, you know, either in the private sector or in the public sector, from ever wanting to go to work in City Hall. And that's not what we're proposing. No, that's what I'm suggesting is the impact of this, which is why I'm supporting keeping it at one year. And I would respectfully disagree with you, Commissioner. What it prohibits is coming back to lobby activities.
 So there's all kinds of employment possibilities for talented public servants when they want to leave public service. And all we're saying is that one of the things that they should not be doing is coming back to lobby their former elected official or their former colleagues. And so it's a very narrowly tailored prohibition around lobbying, not employment. Have you ever heard the phrase, let knowledge serve the city? That's PSU's motto. Right.
 I think there's something to be said for having people who understand the quirky form of Portland government, which is pretty unique. You know, we're one of a handful of governments, one of one government left that has this quirky form of government. And I think, in my own opinion, I think it's useful to have people who understand and have gained experience through working in that system to help guide decision making for the public, for their clients, for those of us who serve in office. Thank you.
 Commissioner, let me come back and ask you for clarification. For myself, I think that the two years is reasonable for the elected officials and the bureau directors. I think we're just talking about the at-will staff. Right. I absolutely agree with the elected officials and the bureau directors. Yeah. But I'm concerned about the impact on at-will staff in both attracting them and penalizing them for working as public servants. Okay.
 So since I have a lot of questions, I am going to let Commissioner Fish go next, and then I'll take up my long list. Well, I just want to strike while the air is hot here on the prior conversation you had with two of my colleagues on the calendar issue. So, Deborah, here's the context. We find that from time to time there are discrepancies between the reports filed by lobbyists and our records. Okay.
 And I just want to connect the dots on how this is constructed to make sure that we're all on the same page. Under the code, by the 15th of the end of each quarter, the lobbyist or lobbying entity is required to file their report. Correct. And that becomes a public record.
 There is a safe harbor provision in the code that gives city officials up to 25 days from the end of the close of the calendar to make any amendments without consequence. So the way we've interpreted this is that from the moment the lobbyist reports are filed, we have 10 days to do a quick scan to make sure that our records and the lobbyist records correspond. And the kinds of things that we often find is complicated.
 there's a, the wrong date is listed or maybe the wrong time or something. I'm not trying to cast aspersions to the people filing, but these are human errors. And so as I understand it, there is that 10-day window to fix, to update a calendar or to make other changes if a discrepancy is identified. Is that correct? Yeah.
 That 10-day period applies for lobbying entities, for city officials who are required to post a calendar. That date is 15 days after the end of the quarter. At the end of the quarter. So then that, I guess, frames the other question, which is, so the city official does his or her best to get it all right. But at the moment that the lobbyist report hits –
 A light goes off and says, boy, there's a problem here. It has to get sorted out. Somebody has got an error in how they've reported it. Can that be amended thereafter without consequence of fine or penalty by the city official? No.
 I think that's something we could consider. Pardon me? I think that's something we could consider. Well, because my sense is that you in particular are very focused on just getting it right. And if people make good faith efforts, you want to get it right. And that sometimes there's just human errors in how things appear. This is pretty prescribed, but I also think there's a rule of reason. And we have found you...
 problem-solving oriented. But I want to make sure that we're not handcuffing ourselves, because sometimes by the time when that lobbying report comes out, it's an additional tool to sort of verify. We don't want to discourage people from doing it, because sometimes you find that either you or the lobbying entity made a mistake and you correct it, as we should. And I think at least from the city official side, it should be done within a reasonable period of time without a penalty. Thank you.
 So I think this proposal has big problems, and I don't intend to support it. And I want to go through some details of that and questions for you. But first, some disclosures, because it's important to disclose so that people don't ascribe motives that aren't real. First, I am not going to lobby the city of Portland after I am mayor in any way, shape, or form for any reasonable time period, probably for the rest of my life. So I will not be subject to any of that.
 to the provisions that we're talking about. So let's get that out of the way right away. Secondly, I think I bring a unique perspective, without being immodest, to this discussion.
 From 1979 to 1991, I served as a paid lobbyist for two different business organizations. First, the Oregon State Lodging Association, and then the Home Builders Association of Metropolitan Portland.
 I lobbied the Portland City Council, the Washington County Board of Commissioners, 23 other cities in the metro area, a couple of other counties in the state legislature. So I understand lobbying. And part of the perspective that I bring to this also is informed by any of us who goes to Salem, even today. And there are hundreds of lobbyists active in the state legislative process.
 all subject to the Oregon Government Ethics Commission process, which is what we were subject to in the city, I believe, until what year did we establish our own separate lobbying regulations from the state? 2005. What's that? 2005. 2005. So I served as a member of this council for 10 years while we were under the state regulations. Okay.
 I see no discernible difference by having our own regulations. I'm sorry that that sounds threatening to you because it's your job, but I don't see any difference. The difference I do see, actually, is that there are a lot less lobbyists involved in the city government now than there were 10 years ago. I mean, I've been really struck by that during this term of office. Where are all the lobbyists? There are maybe a half. There's one. On cue. Okay.
 Lynn, you couldn't have made a better entrance. So there literally are a half a dozen professional lobbyists who ever appear in these chambers. At least that appears to be the case, and I'll get to that a little later. In the interim, between working as a lobbyist, serving as a city commissioner, and coming back here as mayor, I worked all over the country.
 Not as a lobbyist, although some newspapers have occasionally described me as promoting streetcars. I was actually a consultant to local governments who hired my company in a competitive process, and then we did engineering design for light rail and streetcar projects all over the country. But I got to see the political cultures of lots of other cities. And believe me, I saw self-dealing, I saw conflicts of interest, I saw really outrageous special interest influence, and I saw real corruption.
 employees in my company wore a wire in one particular jurisdiction where they worked, and the FBI came in and arrested 24 people that worked for the Department of Transportation in that city. So let me tell you, I can tell you about real governmental corruption. And it ain't here. It's not in Oregon, and it's not in Portland. So I'm a little puzzled as to why the city in 2005 bothered to enact its own regulations here.
 versus following the Oregon Government Ethics Commission process, which requires forms and disclosures and dollar tabulations and all the rest of the stuff that we duplicate in our regulations. So we're getting to the heart of the matter, which is what's the problem that we're trying to solve,
 Frankly, I don't see one, not because I'm blind, but I would say because of that experience, I have a context that, frankly, you don't have because I know I'm old enough that in 1979 you weren't doing this work. And again, I've had this context of working in places where there's real corruption, where people go to jail, right?
 In Miami-Dade County, at any given time, I think there's at least one elected official serving time. That's, by the way, where we wore the wires. You can look it up. So I'm being a little playful here, but I don't see the problem that we're trying to solve. But then I start seeing all kinds of side effects. So let's get out of generalities and get to some specifics, because law is about what's right and what's wrong.
 So, let's get to real specific cases and let you give us some answers. Right now, okay, so the city works with lots of organizations, public, private, nonprofit. We can't make a distinction in this code about, well, it's okay to lobby for a nonprofit, right? We can't say that, I don't think. So we have to treat everybody alike. So Hacienda Community Development Corporation is currently in the process of hiring an executive director. Would it be right or wrong?
 for a current city under your proposed code, would it be right or wrong for a current city hall staff member to seek that position? And wouldn't that put Hacienda Community Development Corporation in a terrible position of hiring someone to work with the city who was barred from working with the city? Would it be wrong for that city hall staff person to take that job? It's a yes or no question. No. No.
 It would not be wrong. No. But it would be contrary to your code. So we've got to work on that. No, it would not be contrary to the code if they accepted a position. It would be contrary to the code. Well, then they couldn't do the job. Well, if their job is lobbying the city, then. Hacienda CDC has lots of relationships with the city, which under our very broad definition of lobbying constitute lobbying. So they couldn't do the job. Well, that's a different issue than whether or not they should take the job. So I'm saying this code is not. Well, let's set the distinction without any practical difference. They shouldn't hire somebody who couldn't do the work.
 I would suggest if you're the executive director of a nonprofit organization, you have more responsibilities than lobbying. So you're saying they should take the job but reconfigure it so that they don't work with the city of Portland? I would suggest that if they've just left your office and take that job. Not my office. It could be anybody's. Anybody's. That they, under the proposed changes, then they would be prohibited from coming back to lobby their colleagues. Okay. And therefore that it would be wrong, it would be foolish for Hacienda to hire such a person.
 Zari Santner, the former director of the Portland Parks Bureau, now after leaving the Parks Bureau began volunteering for the Parks Foundation on the Wildwood Bridge project and served as a paid consultant to help a group plan a new urban design around the Moda Center. Would that be wrong? Would she be prohibited from doing that work?
 Now or under your proposed ordinance, she would have to be interfacing with PDC and the Planning Bureau and and PBOT and other agency, Parks Bureau, in order to plan the Wildwood Bridge project. And in order she was acting as a lobbyist, she would what would what constitutes acting as a lobbyist based on the definition of the code? Right. So she would be talking with.
 people in city government. Yeah, the city government folks are fine. We're talking about the higher-level decision-makers. That's when it's considered lobbying. So if she talked to anybody on the city council or a bureau director or a PDC commissioner... And was attempting to influence official actions of the city. Right. So she would be prohibited from doing that. That would be a loss. Zeri has done a magnificent job on those projects. The vision they've come up with for the Rose Quarter is wonderful.
 Ron Paul, my former chief of staff, left city government and became the executive director of the James Beard Public Market Foundation, seeking city funding and other partners for the construction of a public market. He would, I assume, not be eligible to do that if he were alive today and able to make that same decision.
 under your proposal. And I assume you think that that is fundamentally wrong for Ron to have done that. Because legislation is about what's right and wrong. So I believe you're saying that all three of those scenarios would be wrong. Can I just clarify? For example, though, he had been out for more than a long time. If he, yeah, okay. So it was more than two years. But it wasn't more than two years.
 Can I just clarify something? I'd just like to say, you know, ethics laws, from what I have read and what I have seen being here, they're a lot about appearances, so it's not always about right and wrong. But a lot of times with government ethics, it's about appearances, and I think that may be the piece we're missing here. Newspapers are about appearances. Law is about what's right and wrong. So I disagree with that completely because the next subject is enforcement.
 So, again, I mentioned I've had this long – Could we – could I – if you don't mind, could I respond to something you said in this session? Sure, please. When you were talking about that, you know, there's not corruption here and there's not the terrible things that you've seen in other communities, how I would respond to that would be to say that these types of ethics, codes, and rules are about preventing those very things from happening. And –
 Well, I don't agree because those things didn't happen before 2005 either here because the political culture in Oregon is honorable and we have a very high standard of public ethics. You know, we've had legislative scandals in the past over people accepting vacation time in a lobbyist's condominium in Hawaii.
 So, you know, we have such a hair trigger when it comes to public ethics that, frankly, what's on the books in the city since 2005 hasn't made any difference that I can tell. Well, and I would say that I think the disclosure provisions of this code do make a difference about that. Yeah, I completely disagree. So let's talk about enforcement. I've been mayor and serving as the presiding officer of this council for three years and change now. The current law says...
 that prior to offering public testimony before city officials at the beginning of any meetings or phone calls with city officials or in emails and letters to city officials, a lobbyist must declare which lobbying entity he or she is authorized to represent for that commission. That's the law. Okay.
 This is a guesstimate because I wasn't keeping track. I didn't know this was coming. But I've noticed that actually Mr. Bernstein's in the room. He's one of the few people that follows that law. I would guesstimate that maybe half a dozen times someone has actually disclosed that in this chamber. And I would guesstimate that 50 times there have been lobbyists in this chamber who didn't disclose it.
 the auditor is the keeper of these records and the custodian of the moment by moment video of each of these council chambers have you sought violations against any of those folks who appeared here in the council chamber in the last three and a half years who were lobbyists and who didn't disclose that they were lobbyists i certainly have and what was the result of those cases they were informed of the requirements which is what we do when there are
 violations like that on a first case scenario. I spoke with the person and let them know about the regulations. Also, I'd just like to point out that... But you haven't fined anybody, right? No. Because the behavior isn't improving. Right, but the exemption, one of the exemptions for lobbying is when you're in an open forum like city council. And so I think that is a little... Prior to offering public testimony. Yeah, but I just want to point out that it is still public testimony in that case. So there is some level of openness to it. Right, but they're not disclosing.
 you're not finding them, and they're not getting any better at it. So we might want to try to make the code we have work.
 I would suggest that we do do that. When we see discrepancies, like I said at the beginning, a lot of the code that we have and the program we have was developed to be a disclosure model. That's why we count on you to do your calendars and the lobbyists to report because that's how we match up to see. You are checking them, they are checking you.
 And that's how we do that. If you want something that is much more enforcement-oriented with a lot more investigation, then that's not the model we have. And we would need the resources to do those things. Well, but how are you going to carry out all this without more resources? Yes.
 And actually have it mean anything, because the current disclosure obviously isn't meaning anything. They're not doing it. You're not fining them for not doing it. People in the audience aren't noticing that they're not doing it. Well, in terms of fining, we never start out with a fine. We, like Deborah said, she contacts them. Sometimes they don't know the requirements so that they will register if they're over the eight hours. And so it's very much a stepped-up process. We don't start out with a fine.
 So if you have some concerns about people appearing in the chamber, then I would hope that you would alert us to that concern, and then we would follow up. I've also spoken with your office about this particular piece. I just wanted to let you know I've spoken with your office about this particular piece and asked if that could be communicated, that particular rule could be communicated at the beginning of council. I did that for a while. I think that's helpful. Yeah, I did that for a while. It didn't have any effect either. So, again, I don't want to be too harsh here, but I think we have –
 a body of law on the books that was largely unnecessary because the state Oregon Government Ethics Commission process was adequate to the task of making sure that professional lobbyists were properly disclosing their activities. Again, it's swimming against the tide, but I'm here to tell you based on 40 years of experience with government, quite a bit of it here.
 This is a solution in search of a problem. We are the cleanest place in America when it comes to politics here in the Northwest. I won't necessarily include California in that, but that's another story. But Oregon and Washington are the cleanest place in the United States for politics. We have a great system for public disclosure under Oregon law.
 lobbyists are few and far between in this chamber. Again, Mr. Bergstein, it's nice to have you here, but it's very rare to have a paid lobbyist actually in the room. And we hire great people who work in city government for a while and then go do something else in the community, and everybody knows that...
 this person working for PCRI used to be on Dan's staff, or that person working for the Parks Foundation used to be on Amanda's staff. People know that. We take that into account. But it doesn't have undue influence. But what you're doing with this proposed rule, if we are...
 weak need enough to adopt it is making it really difficult for good people to work here and then do anything else in Portland afterwards. And that would be a travesty because what Zeri did and has continued to do as a volunteer and as a paid person, since she was a parks director is simply wonderful. What Ron Paul did after he left my office, went to PDC and then went on to be the executive director of the James Beard public market is an amazing public service. And I don't want to stop people from doing that.
 Mayor, I have a couple of amendments to offer before we take public testimony. I've been looking more at the calendar requirements, and I go in with the length thing. That's fine. If it's not clear under – this is Section D, Part 1 again, colleagues. For the date and length of official business, I don't see where it says that that's for meetings other than those meetings.
 with city staff. So I'd like to add at the end of that sentence, except for meetings with city staff other than city officials, because I don't think you want me to list every time I'm meeting with my scheduler to go over my schedule. So that's the first part of that. And then to delete and are private in the second section sentence, if scheduled activities include non-city staff, I would like them to list the primary participants or organizations, whether they're so-called private or not.
 Yeah, that was to get at various public events that would be clear already. Yeah, the public events, we're going to list that we were at whatever event it was, and that would be the organization. So you certainly are briefing me in my office saying that as long as I'm listing the organization, I don't have to list everybody who's there. So that's my First Amendment is just to clarify that calendar requirement, which I think would make it a lot clearer. Is there a second for that? Second. Thank you.
 I don't know whether we want to take this as a package. My second one was to delete Section B under 12080, which is about the at-will staff. I have a little bit different opinion from the mayor in terms of bureau directors who are city officials. That can be really uncomfortable if they're in a different role soon after they've left city office. Okay.
 I think my main concern is the at-will staff within our offices who, as I said, I want them to be able to go on and do good things, and in some cases will want them to be able to go and give their expertise to the other offices. So I would suggest we leave the two years for city officials, including bureau directors, clarify that for contracts it's forever, but remove the at-will staff from this office.
 requirement second where's that appear I'm sorry oh I see it's the whole subsection B there okay all right okay you want yeah other proposals for amendments before we take public testimony wait I'm sorry could I just make sure that you want to take out all of section B or just at will staff out of that sentence
 It's only just, it's only at-will staff at Section B. You'd remove the entire post-employment prohibition for at-will staff? Correct. And that actually gets to your concern about what's substantially involved in. I don't, it doesn't, I don't think that the public interest is whether the person in my office spent 10 hours on something or 100 hours on something. It's...
 probably a value that they can get. I will just note that as weaker than what's currently in the code. What's that? I will just note that that is weaker than what's currently in the code. I know. You raised it as something to be fixed. What is the problem to be fixed is that what is substantially involved. And I see that this is a problem when city elected officials or bureau directors come and lobby. I don't see it as a problem when folks who may have had any kind of involvement.
 I know we want to get to public testimony, but that leads me to a conversation I wanted to have with the auditor's office, which is on this issue. I mean, the mayor's right. We traditionally have a squeaky clean ethics record in Oregon, or actually more specifically, we've heard of an unwritten rule that all scandals involve sex. They never involve money. But that is an unwritten rule. It's not a written rule. And we could conceivably someday in Oregon have a scandal that involves money.
 But that leads me to my main point, which is- This doesn't regulate sex. What? This doesn't regulate sex. Right, yeah. But I think that in terms of public perception of corruption, what the public is normally concerned about is people making a lot of money off their former public position. And if somebody left city employment and went to work as a highly paid lobbyist for a big business that does business in the city and makes a lot of money off it, I think people might certainly raise some eyebrows. Right.
 But if somebody came to work at the city because they're interested in homeless issues and then they got a job at the county working on homeless issues and occasionally they were lobbying the city on how to address homeless issues, I don't think the public would be upset about that at all.
 So I think that it's worth having a discussion about drawing distinctions between going off and taking jobs, making a lot of money, and then going off and taking jobs for nonprofits and other governments. Although I have to say that after reading Nigel Jacobs' piece on hospitals today, maybe one might want to distinguish between nonprofits and only address those that are really nonprofit. But I just wanted to ask you for your thoughts on that general question.
 you know philosophical question it's isn't what people are really worried about people going off and making lots of money off their government service well so one thing is that some jurisdictions have a waiver process that allows for an open determination of whether the city's best interest would be served by a waiver to the prohibition and that is
 potential that we could add in. San Francisco has that, and they've had maybe one waiver per year. But they don't exempt work for other governments or for nonprofits? I believe they do exempt work for other governments. I don't believe nonprofits are exempted, although I'd have to take a look. Deborah, can I come back to something that you said earlier? Because we're
 We've had two amendments offered for which we don't currently have the draft language, so I'm trying to just track it. We have the draft language for one because it's a deletion, but yes. Well, it's a deletion that has a further complication, so that's why I'm asking. If we delete B at page 5, then you said earlier, then we're actually diluting the existing prohibition, because as I read A at the bottom of page 4,
 There is an existing prohibition for a period of time of a former at-will employee lobbying his or her former boss. So my chief of staff under this could not leave and come back and lobby me tomorrow, correct? Currently, under something they were personally substantially involved in, they couldn't do that. And if we simply delete B at the top of page 5, we're actually – we're not just eliminating a proposal that you've made –
 in your judgment, to strengthen the code. As you said, we're actually weakening the code off of the existing prohibition. Yes, that's correct. Okay. Well, but they've said that that's not really enforceable. And you haven't had a case, right? Based on the definition of, what is it?
 personally and substantially involved, that is what it takes a lot of back and forth and judgment on our part. And we're saying that we could make it clear for the employees who fall under this code if we clarify that language and didn't get into was it 50%, was it 60%, was it 2% of some topic that came up. Right. Yeah, but your proposed solution was at all.
 Correct. I understand the reasoning behind Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Other suggestions for amendments before we proceed? Subsection A only deals with us elected officials, right? No, it originally dealt with or other employees. And they're at Willstead. They struck him.
 They struck that in order to create that. Oh, okay. So if you – It was for all city staff. If you eliminate this, then this is – or this is modified as part of the proposal, so you actually go backwards. So you're right, Commissioner. And now I understand the auditor's question to me. So we're actually just striking no former at will. We're –
 That does need to be further amended. It seems to me that we might need to carry this over. We're not going to get this. So I'll work on that with you. And we also need, and I do, move the oldages amendment to strike F from O.A. Doe. So my suggestion is we leave all these amendments on the table because we're going to get testimony. This is going to need more work, obviously, if it proceeds. And, Mayor, can I just say that I appreciate that because they're –
 The way we have a red line copy, Commissioner Fritz has asked that we do red line copies whenever they're thinking, and it actually makes it a lot easier for all of us to follow, so thank you for doing that. But the challenge is if you strike one thing, it's delicately balanced, and you're actually modifying another section to correspond, and I agree.
 We can have a vigorous debate as a council whether we want to approve or not any of these provisions. I want to make sure there's no unintended consequences of an amendment. And so I think, and I appreciate Commissioner Fritz suggesting that we reduce these to writings, cross-reference them, and make sure that we know exactly what's on the table, and then we can debate it. We might also want to involve some folks other than this little bubble of elected officials. So did you have a task force working with you from the community here?
 We did outreach to various ethics organizations, and we consulted some. So I have here who I spoke with. I did outreach to neighborhood coalitions, the League of Women Voters, the Center for Public Service, Tom McCall Center for Public Innovation,
 the city ethics group and others duty outreach to at will employees have a meeting with city that your executive staff absolutely might suggest that it downstream here we might want to involve some of those groups and maybe some others like the ACLU because people that work here have rights in
 in maybe some kind of a further task force effort that gets beyond, again, the closed conversation of a few of us in this building. So it might be something worth pursuing. And these also were distributed for general public comment as well, so we did our best to advertise that we were making these changes, and Bobbius also provided feedback. Okay. Other questions? All right. Thank you very much. You have some invited testimony, did you say? Okay. So let's invite them.
 I don't know who they are, so you'll have to invite them. I'm sorry.
 Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Dr. Sana Raikouf. I am an adjunct assistant professor at Portland State University and at the University of Oregon here in Portland. And I specialize in political science with an emphasis on American political behavior and psychology and trust in government. I'm here to just provide my expertise on the topic and not to give any opinion about what
 what you should do with the proposal, try to be neutral and objective with regard to this matter. So research shows that there are, by and large, three main concerns when we are talking about revolving door lobbying because that's what we're generally calling this matter of public officials getting a lobbying job after they leave office.
 And the first of those concerns regards career concerns in the lobbying industry that they may affect government decision-making. So, for instance, if elected officials are worried about their career after their term is over and after...
 I'm sorry, I'm mixing two points now. Let me get back and go back to the first point. So the first concern is raised with regard to career concerns in the lobbying industry that may affect government decision-making. So lobbyists may be concerned about their own career and about their own existence that may affect government decision-making.
 Another concern that comes up in the research is the prospect of post-governmental careers and the potential financial windfall of that. That can change the type of person who runs for office. So if officers or government officials are worried about what they may do after they're leaving their office, it can actually influence the people that are deciding to run for office in the first place.
 And then the third concern that shows up in your research is maybe the one that's most applicable here, and those are concerns...
 regarding any disparity or axis and influence over elected representatives create ethical issues or may create ethical issues and perpetuates the impression that government is controlled by a tightly knit elite. That's when we come to talk about citizens' perceptions and citizens' public trust in government.
 whether these concerns or whether the concerns about revolving door lobbying are actually outcomes of any process or whether they are actually present here at the local government level doesn't really matter for the public. It's about the perception that they may be, and it is about the perception that they're therefore possible. Okay.
 Often these concerns with regard to revolving door lobbying undermine public and popular support for democratic institutions. Citizens perceive and believe that public officials are sort of cashing in on their government experience and they shouldn't be doing that anymore.
 So the appearance of undue influence itself casts aspersions on the integrity of government. This is why most governmental agencies and why the state of Oregon also has this ethics provision and has some sort of policy regarding revolving door lobbying policy.
 Furthermore, research on public trust shows that trust in government is decreasing. This is not a new finding. We hear it in the media daily. We know that overall, in comparison to the federal government, local government does
 fairly well, but ratings of public trust are still dropping. When we ask people what their biggest concerns are, are these perceptions of conflicts of interest and the perception that their elected officials are not serving their best interests, but are actually serving special interests. Okay.
 Again, whether this is true or not doesn't seem to matter because once people perceive that this is true, it's difficult to convince them otherwise. So values such as integrity, purpose, and also effectiveness are especially important to citizens. So why is this important? Well, as a scholar researching trust in politics and trust in government,
 We can kind of give several reasons for why trusting government is important, and they're very obvious. We need trust from citizens to have a working democracy. Citizens need to participate in democracy. But also we know that trust increases cooperation between the government and the public, so we can actually create better policy and create better outcomes for the larger society.
 So citizens overall want to be a part of local government, and they want to be heard, and they want to give their voice. So often meetings like this are perfect opportunities for citizens to actually talk with their elected officials and let them know what they like to see.
 Unfortunately, many citizens develop slightly negative orientations about the local government. These negative experiences outweigh positive experiences. The positive experiences are viewed as, this is normal business. We pay our taxes. The government should provide for these things. And yeah, it's great that this worked out positively, but that's sort of the normal way of business.
 they tend to remember the negative experiences. And especially when those experiences harm public trust, it's really hard to get away from that and the trust may be harmed permanently. So luckily, scholars have also come up with certain strategies to provide local governments and other government officials to include so that...
 the citizens' questions to their government or citizens' doubt towards government are limited, and their relationship with government are actually improved. So...
 Three of those strategies are reaching out to citizens, show them what the government does, show them how it ensures to serve the interest of all citizens and not just special interests, show citizens that they are being heard.
 The second strategy is listen to citizens in decision making and providing opportunities to make their voices heard, not just in council meetings or in public hearings, but also in surveys and in focus groups, invite them to meetings. Often this is done and citizens don't answer, but it's also up to the local government to really try to invite and include citizens in that process.
 And then the third is maybe the hardest one to do. It's perform well, right? Don't make any mistakes and avoid any perceptions of conflict of interest. So even though the government can perform really well, citizens may take that as for granted as this is what the government is supposed to do.
 but avoid any perceptions of conflict of interest to make sure that the citizens really see that the government has their best interest at heart, and also communicate those good performances to citizens. Of course, these strategies are not solving any problems with public trust, and we cannot have a 100% public trust rate problem.
 But they do help. They do help with the confidence of citizens in government, and they do help with perceptions. So much in politics happens without public attention. So much happens in committee hearings, in decision-making that is not directly available to the public or the public doesn't pay attention to it from themselves. So...
 And the public does pay attention when something seems to be going wrong or something is going wrong. The topic of lobbying is one of those that kind of...
 takes place behind doors for many citizens, and that's why they're fairly skeptical of it. So reducing any perception of potential conflict of interest or potentially serving special interests would always be a good way to go.
 Lobbyists are providing valuable information and expertise to the government, and I think maybe that would be something that a government should focus on more in communicating with its citizens instead of really just trying to keep this interaction closed or close them behind doors.
 When I was listening to the previous conversations, there was a comment made about citizens are afraid that politicians are making big money or that they're cashing in on their experience. And that's indeed one of those main fears of citizens today.
 they are afraid that they're kind of helping through a sort of legal system to create this elite decision-making model. And often staffers are viewed as the extension of elected officials. It's hard for citizens to kind of distinguish between this is my official that I elected in this seat and the group that supports that official throughout all the years is really a different part of it.
 it. So I wanted to give you just a little bit of a summary on the matter on this topic and like where current research stands and that it is really about the perception instead of the actual outcomes or actual results for that. So I want to thank you for your time and I'm
 Happy to take any questions if you have them. Well, thank you for yours. Just first, your testimony provoked a comment, and then I do have a suggestion, or at least a query about a topic or two to research here, because this combination of psychology and public policy is very interesting. First, the comment is that...
 You know, last night we had a public-budget forum. There are 18 people in the chambers now. There were 300 there. There were no paid lobbyists, and the room was suffused with – I don't believe there was any press, although there's press here now. David Ashton. David Ashton was there. Yeah. The room was suffused with a feeling that people had their say.
 and it was I think all of us felt like second of our two public budget forms that we really have an open and accessible process in which in this case a lot of young soccer players got to come in and advocate for their soccer program in the parks bureau and a lot of parents of kids that go to preschools at city community centers got to come in and advocate for that and again
 don't take my gloss on it, go look up the tape and watch the three hours, but my perception was that was genuine democracy, uninfluenced by special interests, and with an elected body genuinely listening to their citizens. You know, sounds like self-praise, take it at that as you want, or go watch the video and reach your own opinion. But it contrasts sharply with this proceeding in which we are purporting to talk about the public, but
 Only a handful are here. Now, here's my question. I think there are a couple of areas in public policy, and it would be interesting if you or someone else could research this, where essentially because of the fear of looking bad, elected officials are wary of stopping the march. One is ethics legislation, which we're talking about, and the other is security legislation.
 There's this relentless march of always more security. We have to have metal detectors now in our city buildings. And there never comes the day when the security professional says to the elected official, you know, it's a safer world. You can take some of that junk out of here.
 And so when I arrived as mayor, I had to make the decision, or I chose to make the decision, it's okay. We don't need those stupid flippers on the ground floor of City Hall and someone asking which office you're going to in order to be safe. We can do something else. But someone had to take the political risk of swimming against the tide. And I'll celebrate that I did that. It's still a little controversial on this council, but I think it was the right thing to do. It restored this to being a public building.
 There would never be a day when a police chief or a security professional, whoever was on the payroll to provide security, would say, you know, Mayor, it's a safer world. You don't need that junk. Get it out of here. Well, it's kind of the same thing with ethics. There will never come a day when an ethics regulator comes to a public official and says, you know, we didn't really need to duplicate the state code, and we don't really need all this code. It was working fine. You can go back to a less regulated environment.
 So I think it's an interesting problem for those who study government. If it's a one-way street, how do you ever get back to balance? That's a great question. I'm not sure if I'm able to answer it entirely. I think that's indeed a political risk that a politician takes. I'm sure that for an elected official like all of you are, the public perception is different.
 It just works really hard in favor of you or against you. And if you're, like, from the security perspective, it's almost a political suicide to say, now I'm not tough on crime because everybody is expected to be tough on crime. I'm not saying that somebody is soft on crime, but saying, well, we're doing what we should be doing, and it's okay like this, right?
 I'm, yeah, like I mentioned, I'm not here to plead in favor of the policy
 the proposal or plead against it, I'm here to raise awareness about that public perception, awareness of potential conflict of interest. And I think if the city council could make a convincing and persuasive argument that what is currently happening
 provided is sufficient, then it is at that point indeed the political risk that you take, whether citizens perceive that that's the case or not. I mean, don't you think there's – I think the mayor's point was there's people who it's never going to be sufficient for, that it's always going to be you've got to do more, you know, and –
 With all due respect to our election officer, she went to a conference, probably a taxpayer-paid conference, heard about best practices, what other cities are doing. And Portland's very competitive. We like to be on the top of the heap. So therefore, we come back and suddenly we have some new recommendations. It's time to update our ethics law. Or as I think the mayor was pointing out, the 2005 law seems to be working pretty well.
 So I guess that's the point he's trying to make, is there's never going to be a sufficiency in certain people's eyes. But we are put in a position of being against ethics, just like we would be against security. Right. And so politically, that's very difficult for elected officials. Right. It's an emperor's new clothes problem. Right. Yeah. I would say, though, in fairness,
 I know we're having a – at some point in this debate, you're going to give us college credit for this. But I do think we are at risk here of leaving some important things out, which is it's precisely because we typically have so few people in these chambers and the people that are here are generally so unrepresentative of the city we serve that we hear from people in the community that they want to see more sunshine.
 because Sunshine is the way that they have confidence in tracking what we do because we disclose things. I frankly haven't. The lobbying rules may or may not be a success, but I don't often hear from lobbyists complaining about it. The safe harbor provisions actually exclude a lot of the groups because the eight-hour rule, for whom this would be burdensome. So I come at this a little differently. I think Sunshine is intrinsically a good thing.
 And I think the more transparent we are, the more confidence people generally have in our work. How we talk about that, to the mayor's point, is important because I too bristled the idea that ever since Amanda, Steve, Dan, you and I got elected, somehow our character became less worthy. My experience in government is very high standards of character and ethics generally. But I think that
 I think that this idea of doing our business in the sunshine in a very transparent way as a way of, depending on your point of view, building or maintaining public trust is a very important thing. And it's not just me saying this. It's the reason that there are all these wonderful public interest groups around the country representing grassroots people fighting for it. I would actually argue, in fact, that this – I hope we have this same debate, although even go deeper –
 if at some point in the future there's a desire to bring back a discussion about public financing of campaigns. Because, frankly, I have often felt that the language we use there, Charlie, is even more pernicious. And I'm a big believer in transparency and contributions, and I would love to see Citizens United overturned, and I'd like to see stricter contribution limits. But, you know, the idea that at some point, the last time we debated public finance here,
 the provision was called clean money, which inherently suggested that the money that a lot of my friends take is less than clean. And I think we have to be careful about how we frame these things, because there may be a public interest in moving in a particular direction, but I don't think that we necessarily have to establish base corruption as the point of departure for having those discussions. And I know we wouldn't do that if we were discussing public finance. I hope we
 I hope we can also in this context recognize that there are some inherent goods that we hear from ordinary people who are not generally here because they're working or they can't hire Steve Janik or they don't have a lobbyist or whatever, where they feel more connected to their government because we make this extra effort to be transparent. And frankly, I even think that that appearance standard is an important standard because I know how high the ethics are of my colleagues. Right.
 And I know that people try to follow the letter and the appearance, and I think it inherently reaps dividends in building and maintaining public trust. Thank you so much. I appreciate you being here. Questions? I just have to get on this. I appreciate your saying that you're not going to restore trust in government simply by passing more ethics laws. That's right. Because, I mean, I've done something of a study of the history of trust in government, and trust in government was at an all-time high in 1964 when we didn't have –
 didn't have any ethics laws or government in the sunshine laws, but we had had 20 years of uninterrupted shared prosperity, and people would remember beating the Nazis. And now we've had middle class income stagnating since 1973, and we've got more ethics laws, but people don't trust government. And I suspect that unless we do something about income inequality, we'll continue to see lack of trust in government, and rightly so. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't pass strong ethics laws, but I'm
 It sounds like you agree that that's not the only thing we need to do. Yeah, no, that's absolutely correct. Like, context always matters as well. And we see public trust go down even, like, in minor fluctuations when the economic circumstances are bad or even when –
 usually even in an election year because there's so much more attention actually in focus on the government. So, yeah, no, public trust is not only based on the integrity of the government. It's based on so many other variables. Really? Trust goes down in election years? Mm-hmm. Wow, I didn't know that. Makes sense, though. This is the exception. I'm not so sure about that.
 But I also I think one of the things that we also need to acknowledge is that a precipitous decline in civic literacy is at the root of a lot of these challenges. And, you know, the last poll that was done in Oregon where 50 percent of the respondents didn't answer correctly the question, how many U.S. senators do we have that a lot of people couldn't name them?
 It does seem to me that as we have declining civic literacy, in part because we're not teaching civics correctly, in part because we have a, sometimes the mainstream media doesn't really cover local events in a way that would give people meaningful information, that as civic literacy declines, it's not surprising to me that trust also declines, because I think you have to first have a baseline of understanding in order to make certain judgments. And I think
 Those of us who've been on the ballot know that as people become less familiar with what we do, it's easier to disparage what we do because there's no baseline of sort of established norms about talking about what we do. We just sort of – whatever myth has enough money behind it can actually make a dent. I will say around trust that going through the worst recession in our lifetime –
 the cities after getting pounded with a recession, we still, according to the auditor's survey, are at about 50 percent in terms of public satisfaction with what we do, which when you consider where Congress is, is a minor miracle. It's actually a minor miracle that we are at about a 50 percent rate. Thanks again. We appreciate you being here. Thank you. Are there other invited speakers, or should we turn right to the sign-up sheet? Come on up, please. Okay.
 We'll be breaking for dinner in about half an hour and coming back for the second round. It's been that kind of day. Good afternoon.
 Hi, I'm Debbie Iona, representing the League of Women Voters of Portland, something I say every time I come up here because I know the rules. You are the exception that proves that. So the League was an early supporter of the city's lobbyist registration program, and along with other good government and public interest organizations, assisted Commissioner Sam Adams during the development process.
 As with any city program, regular evaluation and updates increase effectiveness and address changing circumstances. The League is pleased to support Auditor Hall Caballero's proposed improvements.
 From the beginning, there was a desire to set a reporting threshold that would capture the activities of not only nonprofit volunteer organizations like the League and City Club and associations such as the PBA, but also other highly influential lobbyists operating in City Hall. The hourly threshold was reduced from 16 to 8 hours in 2007 for that purpose.
 instituting the financial threshold is a welcome addition, and we encourage the auditor's office to monitor its effectiveness over time and take additional steps if necessary. The broadened scope and length of the prohibition on former city employees' ability to lobby will help improve the public's confidence in the integrity of our city government.
 there should be a clear line between public service and private interests, and this provision is a big step in the right direction. The increased financial penalties for violations are appropriate for
 given the fact that they have not been adjusted since 2005 and do not cover the cost of enforcement. It is reassuring to know, however, that the auditor's office will write administrative rules that describe the factors she will consider when setting fines for violators. A $3,000 fine for an all-volunteer organization like the League would have a much greater impact than a fine of that size on a large corporation.
 Then I just want to address a little bit about the conversation that's been going on. You know, we recognize that Oregon and Portland are not, you know, hotbeds of corruption and criminality. But even in spite of that fact, I think it's important for the public to know, you know, what's going on behind closed doors. And that, to me, is one of the things that this lobby program does.
 I also, to talk about the higher level city officials being prohibited from lobbying for two years, you know, when I look at those lobby reports and see the name of somebody who used to have a job in City Hall, you know, I think that person probably has a lot easier access to coming to speak to you or your staffs than ordinary citizens or even representatives of volunteer organizations like the League. Right.
 You know, it's it just I don't know it is it's not terrible or anything. It just feels like that's Something that sort of undermines people's feelings about how decisions are being made and that's why I think it is important to really think carefully, I mean maybe that you want to think of some adjustments to do some sort of a lesser prohibition on at-will City Council staff
 maybe not the chief of staff but maybe down to the you know the next step down but i do think that um a two-year prohibition seems fair and i i think in the case of zary if she was working as a volunteer on that project this new provision wouldn't apply but you'd have to double check with auditor about that so but what if it had been paid no i agreed on the page she'd be yeah she'd be you know that she wouldn't be able to do it do you think that's appropriate well
 Well, although if she's just working with city staff, my sense is that's not lobbying. If she was helping design some sort of a new thing around the Rose Garden, I guess I could be understanding this completely wrong, but my sense is she isn't coming to you and saying, I want to do this. She's working with Parks Bureau staff to help think about that. Well, they make presentations to the Planning Commission, so –
 But take Ron Paul's example. I don't think that counts as lobbying. Ron Paul worked for me, worked for PDC, then went to work for the James Beard Public Market. Seeking city funds. He was never shy about it. Oh, yeah. I definitely didn't realize that. I wasn't here to lobby, but there were other people here to lobby. But it's just two years. Two years. That's it. You're saying he should not have done that.
 He may not have done it for two years. You're saying he should not do it. If that scenario were recreated today, that would be wrong. I think a two-year cooling-off period is fair, and then he can do it all he wants. And he does do it. He did do an excellent job at it. I saw him many times presenting about the public market. But a two-year prohibition seems like a fair amount of time. And are you concerned that we would lose a lot? I am.
 terms of people being willing to serve on staff here and what we would gain from a Ron Paul doing what he did in the city after he left city service or was there he's done in the city or you know Mike Lindbergh the only elected official that I can think of from the City Council in our lifetime who has engaged in any kind of lobbying since he left the council
 Jim. Okay, Jim Francis Coney as well. So fairly rare instances, but frankly, in my view, they're all positive. Of course it's understood in public that they used to be an official here. So I'm a little – I'm very worried about what we lose in the effort to appear to be pure.
 But again, as the professor talked about, is appearance is also important. But isn't the transparency what we're after? Well, that too. But I think this cooling off period is also important. No, I agree with you. The transparency to me is the most important thing. That's what we really need to know. Why do you perpetuate with your choice of words behind closed doors? What do you mean by that?
 well because the meetings are i mean i take i engage in meetings behind closed doors with you but we report them so that's what i'm saying is i think the lobbying program we report every meeting we have so do i yeah yeah so why do you say why am i saying the phrase that contributes to the
 Low esteem held by elected officials by using that phrase behind closed doors The insinuation is we don't meet with the public We only meet with lobbyists and you know, that's not true Have you ever had it not been able to get a meeting with any one of us? No, it depends, right? Yeah No I think the answer is no and the point is we all have open door policies anybody who wants to meet with us Can meet with us. All they have to do is request a meeting I'm sure that I speak for all five of us in that regard. I
 Were you there last night? I didn't see you. No, I didn't. The contrast with last night was just breathtaking. Oh, I'm sure. Yeah, no, I had been to big public meetings like that. It is. It's wonderful. Debbie, can I throw you a little softball? Yes, go ahead. The mayor has, I think, raised a couple of excellent examples. And, by the way, every time you mention Ron Paul's name, I hope we soon have a conversation about how to truly honor his legacy. Amen. Thank you.
 Before your term's over, Mayor, because you have been a champion for that. Do you draw a distinction between someone like Ron Paul, who goes out and leads a quasi-public-spirited effort to build a public market, and whether he went to work for Exxon and came back trying to undermine our climate action plan or something? I'm just making it up. But if there was a waiver provision or a distinction to be made, do you draw a distinction between those two paths?
 That certainly makes sense. Yeah, it's definitely worth exploring that kind of option. I don't want to say for sure. I know the answer to that. The mayor has mentioned a couple of examples of things which I think instinctively sound like advancing the public interest
 around a park or a market, which to me, I'm not drafting an amendment here, but do seem to me qualitatively different than using, where we're likely to be quite underpaid, if at all. Yeah. And there's a sort of a guiding principle.
 There's a city interest in a public benefit here, which is different from just purely mercenary work. Well, and I didn't just pick those for effect. I mean, again, you work in Salem, too. I mean, Salem is full of lobbyists working for corporations. We hardly ever see one, right? We see lobbyists working for community development corporations like REACH or NAYA,
 they have to describe themselves as lobbyists, right? Those are the lobbyists that we see. And I didn't just pick those examples because I didn't want to talk about all the city staff members who went out to work for Exxon. I can't think of anybody. This is Portland. You know, everybody goes to work for a nonprofit. Absolutely. So, you know, I just can't think of the pernicious scenario. And the trouble with issues like this, whether it's security or this, is that, or term limits, if I may make a really strange comparison, but we get mad at Congress for,
 And we enact local law. Yeah. Because we can't change Congress. Congress is a swamp. There's a place that needs more ethics legislation and term limits too, right? But they have neither. Charlie, I'm proposing an amendment. I'm opposing term limits for this body. The League agrees with you. If you're concerned about the next shoe dropping, I'm going to move that. Well, I definitely think that there's, you know, I think –
 If I heard right, you're thinking that you'll continue this conversation. I do think that those kinds of things should be considered. Is this person going out and helping a nonprofit or working for a nonprofit on something? Maybe there's a way to make distinctions on the revolving door policy. Debbie, I just wanted to let you know that most of my staff have confided to me that their real ambition is to go to work for the League of Women Voters lobbying for ethics reform. And I would hate to deprive them of that opportunity.
 we're volunteers remember thank you others that are invited or then do we want to turn the sign up sheet go ahead please show three others Debbie I start David Delk Kate Titus and Craig Rogers come on up afternoon good afternoon I don't think you're first I think you're third but I think she's next um
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. Thank you for staying so late for this testimony and for all the work that you're doing. I'm Kate Titus, and I'm here representing Common Cause. I'm the executive director of the Common Cause Oregon chapter. And I've submitted written testimony, which you'll get copies of, basically expressing our support for the measures. Rather than go over that right now, I want to comment on what's being said, because I think that's more relevant hearing the comments on the floor.
 And one thing I'd like to say is just listening to lobbyists like myself or people in a public service elected official role like yourselves. I'm sorry, did you need to disclose? That's not the reason for my comment, though. But listening to any of us in these roles speak about ethics rules is a little bit like listening to white people talk about racism.
 And not to make anyone feel uncomfortable, I'll just speak to my own experience. I am white and I think of myself as a good person and I don't intend racism. And it's also, since I'm not the brunt of most racism, it's easy for me not to see it and believe it doesn't exist. So when I talk about racism, it's very easy for me to write it off. And I think we have to be careful at all of us in the role of lobbyists and public officials,
 recognize that
 Our scope of understanding the ethics issue is somewhat limited, and not to assume that our own individual experience with it and opinion is really representative of what the broader public that we are accountable to sees and experiences. I think there's a fundamental misunderstanding of ethics rules that's come up in the conversation. This is not primarily about us setting rules to deal with the bad guys.
 I mean, it does that, prevents corruption of bad guys, but first and foremost, we're actually talking about setting clear guidance for the many good guys, like hopefully all of ourselves, who go into public service wanting to be accountable to the public. I think the nature of this is that we're not talking about just preventing our own...
 self-interest and going astray. The reality is we are all facing many conflicted interests daily, and it's other people's interests of us.
 We may all have the very best intentions, but the reality is we have to navigate multiple interests all the time in the roles that we're playing. And so there needs to be clear guidance of how to navigate those roles to ensure the public trust, uphold the public trust. And many people have raised that up, that it's as much the appearance as anything. Thank you.
 but also to ensure that our own actions are putting the public interest first. And I know we all like to think that that's what we're doing at every moment because that's what we're intending to do. But if you talk for five minutes with any social psychologist, you know that
 that there is a level at which we're all influenced by various incentives unintentionally and below our even conscious awareness. So we don't even understand often the ways that we are being influenced.
 That's the purpose of ethics rules primarily. So it's not impugning anyone, and I don't think anybody needs to be defensive, but we need to have clear guidelines, and I think it's really great that the auditor's office has taken the initiative to update and continue to keep our ethics rules strong. The one last point I'll just highlight, and this is in my written testimony, but best practice around that cooling off period or revolving doors.
 is when there's any substantial personal involvement in an issue, actually you never, again, you've given up your right to then lobby on the private side and the public side of that interest. Two years for other things and most officials is considered standard good practice interest.
 You will see one year many times, but it's often considered a little too superficial and cosmetic. So what the auditor is proposing is in line with best practice around the country in terms of two years. And I know that there is a tension. It can drive away good talent and make it difficult. I appreciate the challenge that all of us face in sometimes having to limit ourselves or our staffs
 staffs from taking other roles. But the reality is, it's not about any of us individually. Ron Paul, yourself, myself, we have no entitlement to professional advances. If we choose to go in and represent the public,
 then what becomes uppermost is we set up systems that ensure that the public accountability to the public interest is always first. That's our intention, of course, going into it, but we have to make sure that there are guidelines for navigating those many inevitable conflicts of interest. So those are my comments. Thank you. Craig Rogers, Portland Citizen.
 I support this proposal, and the reason why I'm speaking was because I did hear the remark of alluding to perhaps things were squeaky clean in this city and in this state. Nonetheless, a year ago, our Governor Kate Brown emphasized transparent and accountable. I believe that that was in part in reaction to who she was replacing.
 Because the Kitzhaber administration, the last administration, was not necessarily transparent and accountable. And a local example is with the parking meters. And I believe the FBI was involved with that. That's probably something that whoever was involved with that didn't really want it out there. And an example that I was involved with.
 was the basis numbers during the street fee that actually some of my colleagues had to go to court to get that basis number. And I believe that when they got that number, it was wrong, and it showed that actually the biggest employer in the city of Portland was Kalonix Clinic with 32,000 employees.
 So I think that transparent and accountable is important, and I really support the intentions of this. Myself, I've been in leadership roles with Coca-Cola and the Teamsters Union, and there were certain guidelines that I had to abide by, and not only did I represent the members and employees better, but they made me a better person. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog PDX. One of the concerns I heard is that from the elected officials and the directors, I myself, in my opinion, think the staff also needs to have the two-year and or more limit placed on them. And the reason why I say that is that what I don't want to see is that if you have an aggressive lobbyist company
 And they understand the importance of having that inside information if they can possibly get that advantage. And what I don't want to see is a company making offers to potential staff that are currently working for the city with the statement of, we can hire you maybe in one to two years when you're done working here. And also, in a way, making that staff individual feel like, well, maybe I can show them,
 why you might want to hire me. So I want to have a cutoff point made very clear that when you're a public servant, don't expect to go work for that, become a lobbyist immediately. It's not going to happen. Don't expect offers to be made prior to you leaving City Hall. And it's the same thing I have a problem here too is that let's talk a city attorney that's worked for the city for many years.
 Where do they fit into this equation if they leave and go to and become a lobbyist? I mean, of all the people that I would have the most concern of any information on city business would be through the attorneys because they know what's going on at this city. They understand the details of it. They understand certain problems. They are the ones that I would be watching very close to possibly ever becoming a lobbyist
 based upon their knowledge of what goes on at this city. So I have a lot of mixed feelings on this, and I heard the mayor, if I was correct, say that I don't ever want to be a lobbyist when I leave here. You heard that correctly. But when you do make that statement, then what would be the concern about having a two-year cooling-off period for everybody at the city? Because you don't want to be a lobbyist, but there is a concern for the public to look at this and say,
 They have a lot of information. I don't necessarily want them to just go to become a lobbyist and begin to influence policy. I want to have the same advantage. I want to have the public from the special interest to the general interest. And this lobbyist issue is a big concern to me. Because the difference, lighting under our code, is that you become a lobbyist not when you
 go buy an expensive suit and show up on the 15th floor of an office building down the street with gold letter on the front. You become a lobbyist if you become the head of a local nonprofit that works with the Parks Bureau or with any other city bureau on providing public services. You are a lobbyist under our code if you do a lot of things, not just work as a paid lobbyist for clients. And at that point, what I'm saying is that the lobbyists
 The lobbyists currently out there that have the true knowledge of what they're trying to do and how they're trying to get certain things done are the ones that are going to focus on the most knowledgeable people at the city to try to have them work alongside them or special interest groups that they want to ensure that they can have maybe possibly some influence. And that's a big concern to me on a...
 on not having something set into place and in my opinion mayor i'll say this is you made a statement i don't ever want to be a lobbyist when i leave city hall in my opinion any elected official in the mayor
 should never become a lobbyist. Under the definition of lobbyist, which I do agree, there's a lot more interpretation on that and understanding on what that truly means by this ordinance. Yeah, the trouble is we use that word, which applies to professionals. Right. Maggie Talmadge, who works for the Coalition of Communities of Color, also serves on our Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 Is she a lobbyist when she shows up on behalf of the Coalition of Communities of Color? She's paid. She's on their staff. She's meeting with city officials on subjects of equity. I think she qualifies as a lobbyist. And that's my point. I think there needs to be a lot more interpretation on that term and a clear understanding. And I'd like to have the city attorneys also get involved in on this because –
 They, I think, have a more clear understanding on what that term really means. And my position is that I don't want to see certain information leaving City Hall in a reasonable manner and utilized in people's position that...
 I think there needs to be a cooling off period. I really do, especially on staff, because in my opinion, staff is just as important as these elected officials and the mayor up here. And I would fairly say this, is that a lot of that staff has just as much knowledge, if not more knowledge, than some of you sitting up here. So that's my concern. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Others on this item?
 I'm going to recommend that we ask the auditor to form some kind of a work group with some more representation from our offices. I'm not going to be here next week, so I don't think this could come back to the council that quickly. So I'd like to maybe set this over for 30 days and give you the chance to form a work group and work on some of the issues that have been raised today.
 I would be happy to follow up on some of the issues that were raised and to talk more with you all about those issues. Great. Good. Thank you. Can I just respond to something? Commissioner Salzman, I just have to come to the defense of Deborah Scroggins. This is not – we came here today because this code exists already, and we have had some activity in the last year where we got to –
 investigate cases and to try out those enforcement mechanisms. And we found that there were some gaps there and some problems. And so we came here today in good faith to try to strengthen the code that exists. I said at the outset that we were not trying to wildly expand things and that we were trying to keep it within the resources that we already devote to this program. And Deborah did not go off to a conference today.
 and come up with some wild hair idea to come back here and i i just am very disappointed that you characterize why we are here that way and that is a an unfair representation of deborah's role i guess i differ with you because when i met with you on this rule i expressed you from the outset my concern about extending this two-year uh no contact period whatever you want to call it and i asked yeah cooling off here i asked where she got this idea
 And she said, at a conference, it was a best practice listed. You were there. You were in that meeting. Right, and it is a best practice. But it was at a conference. She said she learned it at a conference. I don't believe that's what I said. No, she said. But I don't believe that's true. I don't think she learned it at a conference. We'll settle that later. So let me suggest it. I want to test my memory 100%, but I'm pretty clear on that. I would not have.
 gone out of her limb like that if I didn't believe that to be the case. I think if you disagree with provisions, and you did express that, that there's ways that you can do that. But I just wanted to call you on the fact that that was, I think, very unfair to Deborah.
 All right, so I'm going to continue this to May 11th. Actually, Mayor, speaking solely for myself, I just wanted to make one comment, which is that I think that there's pieces of this proposal which strike me as no-brainers that I would think that we could implement pretty quickly and I would hope people agree with. I thought that the changing from eight hours to eight hours or $1,000 sounds perfectly reasonable, and raising the penalty threshold from $500 to $3,000 for multiple violations, that strikes me as eminently reasonable, too. So it may be that we can...
 split apart the less controversial and more controversial pieces of this proposal and enact something like those very quickly with no work grouping okay that's a good idea maybe we can try to do that as well okay so i'll continue this to may 11th give that process a chance to work thank you very much okay let's take the final item on the calendar please item 374 establish reporting requirements for political consultants
 Okay, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. And by the way, originally we divided up the 90 minutes, five minutes for the auditor on hers and 85 minutes with mine. So I want to apologize in advance. We may be a little bit behind schedule here. Have at it. I'm pleased to bring this ethics reform package to council today for your consideration. It builds on the reforms adopted by the council in 2005 and the pioneering work of the city of San Francisco.
 It was developed in partnership with the auditor, the elections officer, and a number of well-regarded local public interest groups. And I would say, very importantly, it is straightforward and easy to administer. Let me start with some context. The City of Portland is committed to open, transparent, and accountable government. And the public has a right to know who is influencing important public policy decisions at the city. In 2005, as we've discussed at length today, led by then Commissioner Sam Adams,
 The city tightened its rules on the registration and the reporting for lobbyists. A decade later, the political landscape has changed quite a bit. Political consultants now exercise enormous influence that arguably exceeds that of lobbyists. They enjoy privileged, confidential access to the people they help to elect, and therefore it is no surprise that they are doing more lobbying at the local and national level. My ordinance is based on the notion that more sunshine is a good thing,
 and the public has a right to know who is influencing the decisions that we make. Here is how it would work. The ordinance defines who qualifies as a political consultant. It lists activities typically done by political consultants, and when a political consultant provides services to a city elected official, both parties are obligated to disclose the relationship to the public.
 The simple act of registration and reporting will provide the public with more information about who is influencing important decisions. Now, as I mentioned, my proposal is modeled after the reforms pioneered by San Francisco, but we adapt and right-size them for our community. And unlike San Francisco, this ordinance would not create a prohibition on lobbying for any period of time after activity as a political consultant has ended.
 While I initially supported this concept, we have been advised by the city attorney that it may run afoul of the free speech provisions of the Oregon Constitution, and that, of course, is Article I, Section 8. This ordinance also closes a loophole under state disclosure laws. Under state law, a candidate for office must disclose payments to a political consultant. However, if a political consultant provides services, quote, for which no compensation is asked or given, end quote.
 A campaign is not required to disclose the relationship. My ordinance proposes to close this loophole by connecting disclosure to the activities, not the compensation of the consultant. The proposed ordinance defines narrowly who is a political consultant. Specifically, a political consultant is someone who engages in political consulting services as a trade or profession, and those services are defined in some detail.
 volunteers and city employees are exempted. If this ordinance is adopted, the city will not prevent someone from acting both as a political consultant and as a lobbyist at the same time. However, for the first time, the public will be able to know when this is happening. In our democracy, political consultants do important work. This ordinance will ensure that in Portland they do it in the full light of day.
 Mayor, I have a panel that's prepared to testify. And just procedurally, would you like me to offer the amendment first and then bring the panel up? Whichever you'd like. I have an amendment which I'd like to present before the council, which makes a very simple change to the ordinance. I don't think this is an amendment. This is your email. All right. There you go. Does everyone have it? We will. There we go. I believe that this ordinance has been discussed.
 with each of my colleagues. An issue came up, we got some feedback about the fact that from time to time, or let's say more frequently, consultants provide services to a campaign committee for the benefit of the candidate. It was an oversight on our part in terms of the drafting. So this amendment would define a political consultant as someone that provides services to a city elected official,
 a successful candidate for office, or a successful candidate's principal campaign committee registered with the Oregon Secretary of State. Is there a second? Second. That's on the table. And Mayor, I'd like to invite our panel to come forward. Give me one second here. I'm buried in paper. So I'd like to invite the following people to come forward. Kate Titus from Oregon Common Cause, Aram Andresian,
 from represent us um hugh mcgavick a concerned citizen and debbie iona from the league of women voters of portland good afternoon welcome welcome everybody kate would you like to begin yeah sure uh so i am submitting this testimony on behalf of common cause in my role as the executive director of common cause oregon and i've been up here before and spoke to who common cause is
 I am here to express support for the ordinance. We've reviewed it and given some thought, and I've also reviewed it with other colleagues within Common Cause, our legal director and others who deal with this in other states and others.
 I feel quite confident that this is a good direction to go in. I wanted to just speak primarily about why I think this ordinance matters. And in my testimony, I speak a little bit to the reasons why we have ethics rules generally. But since I just spoke to that, I won't repeat myself. But I think inevitably the role of political consultants is one that creates those conflicts
 And it's not simply a matter of a few bad apples who are trying to game the system in some way or use the information that they, or the expertise or the access they have gotten in one situation to gain advantage in another. Even those political consultants who would really like to avoid any conflicts really can't do so because they cannot firewall their own brain. I mean, so again,
 Again, it's not a matter of bad intent, but the nature of the consultant role and the increasing ways that consultants are playing roles, I think, creates these conflicts, and it's to our advantage to have both transparency and eventually guidance in terms of how to navigate them. I would also say that from a national perspective –
 This problem appears to be on the rise, and I expect it's likely to get worse. As campaigning and lobbying evolves, we're seeing political consultants come into more and more roles where there are conflicts. So I think we haven't seen this be a problem.
 significant problem. It's only raised it's been raised up here in Portland, but we have not yet had to really deal with it. But I think it's only a matter of time where we will. For instance, as in New York, where we've seen both the mayor of New York City and the governor really under intense scrutiny and
 lambasted in the press for the situations they've been in dealing with political consultants. So I think it's smart for Portland to get ahead of the problem before it raises itself up repeatedly and the public and press response to it grows harsher.
 I'll just say briefly that I think this is a good approach. I think it's a good first step. Transparency is always the key, the first key when dealing with conflicts of interest. It's a necessary piece, and it's the foundation for doing anything further. So that's a great place to start. Thank you.
 I think eventually we're going to want to go beyond transparency, setting some guidelines for how to navigate these. I think, you know, looking to San Francisco's model or guidelines for recusal. But I think given that this is new territory, simply making sure that these relationships are transparent is a great first step.
 I also think that eventually we may want to broaden the definition so that it doesn't exempt those professional fundraisers and pollsters who only do that from the definition of political consultant. My understanding is that it significantly makes it easier to manage, and I think that's a good tradeoff. If it's more practical to implement by narrowing the definition simply, that's a good place to start. But at some point we might want to review that and think further about it.
 But overall, I think the policy as written is very reasonable. Could you just explain that piece to me? It's late in the day and I'm not following up. Yeah, my understanding, if it's still in the measure, and Commissioner Fish will answer this, is that in the definition set of political consultants... Well, I'll give you the citation because my colleagues have it. It's 2.14.020 definitions, sub-capital C,
 There's a carve-out for attorneys who provide only legal services, accountants who provide only accounting services, professional fundraisers, or pollsters who provide only polling services. And why did we take out pollsters? Well, because we thought that was sufficiently removed from the consultant. Consultants often hire pollsters to provide information.
 I can't think, I'm not familiar with it. I'd be hard-pressed to think of an example of a pollster who then becomes a lobbyist. They tend to have a unique role, and they provide information to a consultant that then takes that information. We deliberately, and I think...
 Your testimony may, I think, frame this nicely. We deliberately tried to come in with sort of phase one that was easy to explain, narrowly tailored, and easy to administer without any substantial new cost so we could test drive it and then see what additional changes we want. And this is an except. And we also borrowed heavily, Commissioner Fritz, from the experience in San Francisco. Okay. Okay.
 And I received some input from Felisa Higgins at SEIU. Is this language – does that respond to her concern? The concern that APANO and SEIU and some other organizations have raised is they want to make sure that the definition is tight enough that someone isn't inadvertently caught in the political consultant mesh. Right.
 And so I am going to propose legislative history, because there's going to be rulemaking, that is designed to make clear that the universe of people covering this is not meant to be
 endless, that it really is focused on people who are primarily involved in the business of political consulting. We want to start with that class of people and see how this works. And just like the public interest groups who under the lobbying code wanted to make sure they had a safe harbor so they could, you know, under eight hours or whatever, they could do some things without being burdened by regulations.
 We don't want this to be so expansive that, frankly, it results in a situation where people don't know whether they're covered or not. We want some clear lines to begin with. And are you also trying to make it so that nobody has to be registered as both a lobbyist and a political consultant or not? No. It's a dual registration because the person may be functioning in one capacity, in a dual capacity. They're not prohibited from which –
 We just think that there's a heightened level of – we think the public has a heightened level of expectation of transparency if someone who is both a political consultant is simultaneously lobbying because obviously that person has – I was trying to think of an analogy. The only person that is similar to a political consultant who might be lobbying me is my wife.
 And I only say that because just as my wife is privy to lots of confidential information about me, covered, thank God, by the marital privilege, to the extent my political consultant is also very aware about things about me, which I disclose in order to get good services, they have a unique relationship with the elected. All right. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Kate. Sir, did you finish? That was really the essence. I commend you for looking into this. Thank you. Thank you. Awesome. Okay.
 All right. I'm Mayor Mandriessi, and I'm representing Represent Portland. First, I'd like to thank Commissioner Fish and his staff for writing this ordinance and for inviting me to testify today. I'd also like to thank Commissioner Fritz for connecting me with him. That was very good of you. So earlier it was mentioned that these smaller groups at City Hall don't often represent Portlanders.
 I just want you guys to know that though we're still small and growing, I represent a grassroots movement made out of soccer moms, graphic designers, neurosurgeons, and more. Pretty much the only thing we have in common is that we're Portlanders who are passionate about improving our democracy, and we're willing to volunteer our time and be really late to class in order to do that. Sorry about that. No problem.
 While we care about pretty much the gambit of honest elections issues, one of our main values is ensuring that anyone who lobbies is playing by the same rules as lobbyists, regardless of their title or official position. This is a common sense approach, and this addendum to Chapter 214 would close a gaping loophole in Portland's largely respectable ethics code. Represent Portland supports this and hopes to see it passed today.
 That said, I hope everyone here recognizes this ordinance as a small stepping stone and not a stopping point. The lack of a revolving door clause between time spent as a consultant and time spent lobbying that same official serves to weaken the impact of this ordinance immensely. While there are concerns over Oregon's constitutional guarantee of free speech as it relates to this ordinance, I hope someone will rise to the challenge of reinforcing it in the years to come.
 uh where am i here um represent portland's members envision a future where cities like san francisco look to us as a paragon of political transparency not the other way around we will continue working on good legislation like this until that becomes a reality thank you all for your time by the way thank thank you for your contribution and commissioner fritz thank you for making that connection yet another of the many dividends of serving with commissioner fritz and i um the
 The one, as you know, the prohibition on...
 on lobbying after you cease being a political consultant, something I'm very interested in, and it's functioning now in San Francisco. There's two issues that we've learned about. One is that San Francisco has about 18 people in their ethics office administering their law with a huge budget. And so it's administratively a lot more expensive and burdensome. And we did not want to impose an unreasonable first round of requirements on the auditor and her office.
 And the second is the two constitutions, the California Constitution and the Oregon Constitution, are sufficiently different. And we in Portland know that because virtually every variation on sit-lie has been declared unconstitutional under the Oregon Constitution. So I thought rather than risk having the entire package caught up in litigation, we get something launched and then see if there's something we could add to it. And this is a great example of –
 Thinking of the previous ordinance, somebody who took one of my constituent spots came and told me what he was wanting to work on. I said, well, I know Commissioner Fish is working on that. Go talk to him. And then you got in at the ground level. You helped shape this proposal. So it's an excellent example of actually the Portland City government is open and accountable. I'm sure you showed up on my calendar and have now helped craft this ordinance. Thank you very much. Thank you. You can go to class if you need to get away.
 Or maybe you could skip it and use us as an excuse. I've got to get to Wilsonville and rush over traffic, so I don't think it's even going to happen. Good luck on that. Welcome. Yeah, good afternoon. I'm Hugh McGavick. Thank you for allowing us to be here. I'm a concerned citizen, and because Aram got invited to Commissioner Fish's office to discuss this, he invited me, so...
 the further the loop I got pulled in as well. So thank you very much. I'm here in part on behalf of Represent Us, but substantially as a concerned citizen. And it was interesting going through the sausage-making of putting together an ordinance from the desired audience
 right size to follow the San Francisco 60 month prohibition between leaving political consultant to lobbying. And the two years sounded like a reasonable compromise to me, I'm sorry that couldn't get through this time. I now see how it's gotten to the point where we are at openers and you've identified a problem.
 which is constructive and you've created mechanisms for identifying and reporting certain activities, that's constructive, that's a step forward. The omission of a timeframe is problematic in that I can envision where a political consultant goes into one of your five offices and you're the only five this ordinance covers and providing,
 giving information and guidance as a political consultant, and then saying, by the way, now I want to lobby you on this. And I think that's just a tremendous, that would be tremendously inappropriate, and the appearance of fairness would be, it would be really foul, and I think there needs to be some sort of distancing between the two.
 If you've gotten as far as you can get this time, okay. But this is a primer for where you have to go later to avoid those appearances of impropriety and conflict of interest and to let the sun shine in.
 I appreciate the civics lesson of sitting down here for the last couple of hours, not that I'm a martyr for having done it. You've been here all day, and you are all to be commended for the civility you've exhibited towards everyone who's come before you and this meeting and every other one I've been to, and so thank you very much for that. The ordinance should be passed as is, as it appears to be the best it can be at this time. Thank you.
 Thank you. Just a quick question. I just want to make sure you know what the current law is. If I understood you right, you were describing a situation in which a political consultant was sitting in one of our offices talking about giving. You mean political giving?
 No, sir. Okay, because that's against the law. The distinction I'm making is magic words here. Political consultants come and give things. They give advice. They give guidance, direction, whereas a lobbyist comes to get something. Okay. So that's my distinction. Yeah, I understand. I just want to make sure you understood that conducting political campaign business on city property is illegal under state law. Okay.
 We don't. Okay. Well, that's a distinction I didn't know either. Yeah. Very important. Debbie, welcome back. I'm Debbie Iona representing the League of Women Voters of Portland.
 The League is pleased to support the Political Consultant Registration and Reporting Proposal. The League works at all levels of government to increase access to information and protect the public's right to know. We support reforms of this nature because they reveal information on the pressures exerted on the policymaking process.
 Based on our conversations with Commissioner Fish and his staff, we understand that blurring the lines between political consulting and lobbying is a relatively new phenomenon. We commend the Commissioner for developing a proposal that addresses this new reality and takes an important first step in shining a light on these relationships.
 The League urges your support. We are also pleased that the Auditor's Office plans to incorporate this new program into the existing lobbying, registration, and reporting system. The information will be more readily available, I'm sorry, accessible to the public, and this approach should add to the ease of administration. Thank you.
 The League encourages the auditor to evaluate the effectiveness of this program after it has been in place for a period of time. It is possible Portland might want to follow San Francisco's lead with even more comprehensive regulations if necessary. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, and to the auditor for all the work on this. Mayor, I just want to specifically thank this panel for not only –
 attending meetings and providing great feedback, but wordsmithing, language, testing assumptions, and really helping us fine-tune this. And I share the remorse over taking out the prohibited conduct piece.
 But I don't, my enthusiasm for investigating that and determining if there's a path in the future is unabated. So I thank you very much for your service. Thank you all. Okay. Others that you wanted to call on or just public testimony? Unless there's public, other people signed up. Public testimony on this item? No one else is left. Okay. Could you just clarify the reporting requirements, Commissioner, under this? It's a dual reporting requirement, so it's,
 Both the elected and the consultant must report on a quarterly basis, must file, must report with the auditor's office. So dual report. And it's not this for obvious legal reasons. You are not required, as with the lobbying registration and disclosure, to disclose what you talk about. It's simply that you provided consulting services in that quarter.
 So it's not requiring that on day six I had a five-minute conversation or whatever? It is to identify that you are in that role so that it becomes transparent, and then if you happen to perform another role, there's a public record that you are performing both roles. So giving the example of a consultant who was involved in the Fix Our Parks bond measure,
 That is a past relationship, but is that one that would be – when this goes into effect, I would document all of the consultants I've ever used? So this goes into effect in September, and it has a one-quarter look-back.
 So if – and it covers consulting services provided to the elected official, the successful candidate, or his or her political action committee. This as drafted does not cover a committee for a bond measure. All right. It's a political committee, though, isn't it? I think it's something to consider, and I appreciate that this is a first step, too. We kind of want to know –
 I mean, if it goes into effect in September, Lord willing, I might win in May. And so I wouldn't have a political consultant in the reporting period. In fact, I don't have one anyway, so this may be moot. But the point is it's not just in the previous quarter. We want to know, or is your intention, it's forward-looking? May I make a suggestion? Because the issue you're raising about politics,
 not the candidate's principal campaign committee, but a campaign committee on behalf of a measure, a ballot measure. Because my amendment makes clear that if the services are rendered to you or to your committee, then they have to be disclosed. It became harder to define the relationships around a political action committee set up for a ballot measure.
 Because there's lots of cooks in the kitchen. There's lots of people who technically benefit. It's less clear what the relationships are. So our initial effort here is limited to the elected official, a successful candidate, and a principal campaign committee for the elected, not another campaign committee that's established for the purpose of driving a ballot measure.
 So then in the following quarter, after the election's all done, thank goodness, whenever the quarter is after that, what's the reporting requirements of that same or different political consultant to say, I contacted X? Let's use a concrete example. In my last campaign, I hired Jake Weigler to be my consultant. Once the campaign ended,
 If Jake came to see me six months later after I was sworn in for my new term to talk to me about my political future, to discuss my fact that I've had a precipitous decline in my polling, that at the rate I'm going, I won't see another term or whatever. Well, he's providing political consultant services to me. We have to disclose that in that quarter, he was my consultant.
 Right. Even though there's no active election, it's just that. And my my sense and looking at some of the headlines around the country right now confirms it. You know, a political consultant is often someone that handles your major election. But then you sort of get married to throughout your political career because they're the kind of person that can come and give you ongoing advice about how to be effective in your job. All we're saying is that in each quarter.
 in which that person provides that service to you, you and the consultant have a duty to disclose it to the auditor, just the fact that you have that relationship. And that's whether or not they ever do any lobbying. Correct, because they would be picked up as lobbyists if they did lobby, and then you'd have a situation where the public would know that my consultant was also lobbying me.
 We're not putting a prohibition on that. We're just shining a light on it. Now, in my case, my consultant is not allowed by mutual agreement to lobby me, but this approach is heavy on sunshine and disclosure, light on regulation, and in part because of issues like cost and constitution and others. And it is, as has been noted, it's a first step. It's piggybacking off the existing framework,
 It's not unduly burdensome, but it shines a light at least on that unique relationship between elected and political consultant. Commissioner, I have a question, which is, what do I do about my wife's aunt, with whom I'm having dinner in another hour and a half? My wife's aunt happens to be a professional political consultant.
 And it is quite possible that when I have dinner with her, she will have some left-wing bee in her bonnet and she'll start ranting about it. And she'll tell me, you should give a speech about this. And I might even think it's a good idea. Now, as I read this, it says the political consulting services include developing, assisting, and strategic communication such as news releases, talking points, and speech writing.
 Now, I have to tell you, there might be times when I wish that I could tell my wife, Sant, no, no, no, you can't suggest that to me because you're not registered. But there might be other times when I don't feel it's politic to tell her to stop talking. So would my wife, Sant, have to register in order to rant at me? Why not? Because the primary purpose of her work is not providing political consulting services to you.
 Right, but the way I read what it says is that the term political consultant does not include a person who does not engage political consulting services as a creative profession, and she does. Excellent point. So when Commissioner Fritz earlier flagged the question that was sort of a first cousin of what you're raising, which is what if there's someone who is a political operative for an organization that has a conversation with you about your future in politics?
 Because that person's primary purpose is not to provide political consulting services to you, under the rules that the auditor is going to draft with legislative intent, that person would not be covered. So in order to be covered, does the person have to have been paid by you to provide political consulting services? No, that's the loophole we close. So under state law, the trigger is –
 for disclosure is some kind of payment and the loophole is someone declaring that they're a volunteer and therefore not foregoing compensation, that consultant would not show up on a C&E. But this does not seem to me like there is going to be a clear distinction because, I mean –
 Well, let's say Mark Wiener has been my political consultant. He's also a close personal friend of mine. If two years after the last time I paid him for something, we had a conversation as friends and he commented on something, I could see under what – I actually don't know whether –
 under these rules he would have to have registered or not. I mean, in the context of that conversation, his primary intent might not be to advise me in my political career, but to just, you know, we're having a conversation about some political issue. Steve, I think one way to get at that, and we can come up with all kinds of hypotheticals, the rulemaking is going to have to get at some of this. Unsolicited political advice is not intended to be covered by this. And the fact that you have lots of friends who are,
 who are thoughtful people who also happen to be political consultants and you like to talk politics we are not trying to turn your dinner and your dinner parties into a nightmare of reporting requirements what we what we however since you use the example of your consultant if you have an ongoing relationship with you know a first-year consultant who is giving you advice compensated or not
 then yes, you will probably err on the side of reporting that in that quarter that he provided some services to you. You don't have to disclose what they were. He's not subsequently barred from doing anything else in your life.
 But the closer it gets to that line, you might want to disclose that he was providing consulting services. We decouple the trigger here from compensation. It is the service that is the trigger, not compensation. Right, okay. But where you draw the line is whether that person's primary relationship to you is as a political consultant or as something else? Whether their primary role is to provide political consulting services to a city-elected official. Right.
 And there's lots of people that we interact with that are with organizations, nonprofits, advocacy groups, where their primary purpose in life is not to be your political consultant. But they also may be custodians of interesting information about the political landscape they're going to share with you, such as an advocacy group that says, you know, Oregonians think sick leave is a great thing. You should support it. We're not trying to make that conversation into a reportable conversation because that person is your quote unquote political consultant. Right.
 The other question I had, actually you might have addressed this when I was briefly out of the room, is I heard a conversation of whether pollsters should be included. I think somebody else raised the question of whether professional fundraisers should be included. And I actually think that professional fundraisers, if you're going to have a rule like this, definitely should be included because the kind of advice people give you about what would be best in your political career in terms of getting money from people is, and I think that people would want to know about that.
 who's advising you as to how you should comport yourself in a way to raise the most money we we carved it out because it because we we found it more difficult to show that sort of connection that's a council decision what i will say commissioner novick is that the rulemaking for this particular proposal is going to require under the rulemaking the auditor will invite the public to comment and there'll be a process to try to create some rules which anticipate some of these
 i i hope that if this is adopted you will participate in that process to create some clarity on where you think there's a gray or an edge we're trying to make this as clear as possible in terms of enforcement so i also stepped out of the room for a second but uh does this apply to all city-wide elected city council and the auditor it currently applies to the five of us should it not apply to all city-wide elected officers well we didn't draft it as such that's that's the council's the council is is free to have to make that determination i would
 I would think it's good. I mean, their political consultants work for auditor candidates probably in the past as well. So I guess I would make that amendment. Second. Okay. Madam Auditor, would you care to be heard on that? We happen to have an auditor here who can testify, followed by Marshall McLuhan. Okay.
 I think that the auditor's office was carved out of this process in an earlier iteration when there was some discussion about appeals going to the hearings office. And since the hearings office is in my office, that created a conflict. And so now I think the code says that it's going to circuit court, so there's no problem with the auditor being included in this at all. Thank you for that very clear explanation. Good. That works. Thank you. We now have two amendments before the council.
 Okay. And I have a clarifying question. I was trying to find out the answer, but I'll just ask it here. The amendment that you've proposed, Commissioner, adds or a successful candidate's principal campaign committee registered with the Secretary of State. Right. Can you explain the reason for that addition? Yes. So the way it was originally drafted, we were trying to figure out what was the relationship between the consultant
 and the elected that create a reportable event. Upon getting some feedback from both practitioners and others looking at this, we realized that typically in a campaign, it is the campaign committee which retains the consultant. So when I run for re-election, Friends of Nick Fish goes out and is the entity which hires the professionals in my life, even though they're clearly providing services to me.
 By not including campaign committee, we were inadvertently creating a loophole where a consultant could provide services to you but be recorded as being engaged by your committee, and it would not trigger a duty to disclose. Okay.
 And since the way we structure our campaigns, we typically run all of our money through our campaign committees by law. We're required to have a committee, and they are the party that pays for services, retains people. We don't do that individually. We just wanted to clarify that the consultant who provides services includes the provider services to our committee on our behalf, which is typically how the consultant relationship is structured with most campaigns.
 Jake Weigler was hired by my campaign committee, not by me personally. I wasn't on the hook to hire him. Yet he provided services to me as the candidate. So we're just clarifying, and it was a good catch by the folks we were talking to and by the city attorney's office, that we don't want to imply inadvertently that you can get around this requirement by saying, well, that's not my consultant. It's the consultant of my campaign committee. Okay, I understand that.
 The campaign manager may or may not be a member of the campaign committee as registered by the state. Is that correct? But what I'm getting – what I'm –
 wondering about is you're trying to, you're intending to get the volunteer consultant as well as the paid consultant. So the paid consultant would be paid by the campaign committee. Is there maybe a refinement, maybe this is another step later, where it's a volunteer, the person who may be a paid political consultant but is not being paid by this campaign is giving advice to a campaign manager who...
 It's not on the campaign committee. That person is covered. I understand where you're going in trying to create a... It's almost like a shell. It's like a shell game to try to insulate the elected from the relationship. A consultant that provides services on behalf of the candidate, directly or indirectly, under this law, under this proposal, for which they receive compensation or no compensation, is required to disclose that they're providing services. And I think the issue...
 I think potentially the issue you're raising can be clarified through rulemaking, but it is my intent that there not be any – this is meant to be low barrier. If you are a political consultant and you are providing services to a candidate that are elected under this, you must register and disclose. But I appreciate that you're raising an issue that perhaps through rulemaking we can clarify. So should we act on the amendments? Yes.
 Do we have open testimony on this? We already did have testimony on this, I think, unless I've missed anyone. So let's take action on the First Amendment, which is the change to subsection C, which Commissioner Fish provided in printed form. Further discussion of that? Let's take a vote on that amendment, please. Yes. Aye. Aye.
 falzman novic aye right aye hales aye now the other amendment i was just looking at the ordinance i think um we may need to do a little um uh quick surgery here and that is uh it looks to me like finding number five needs to have the phrase especially specifically the mayor and city commissioners removed from it
 And then definitions, A, city elected official means the mayor, comma, or a city commissioner, comma, or the auditor. I think that might do it. It's still a little, I'm just trying to think this through. I think conceptually it makes sense to have the auditor subject to the same rules because auditor is an elected official too. But the auditor is adopting the rules. The auditor initiates action in circuit court.
 I'm trying to think that through as to whether that makes any sense for the auditor to be the person filing in circuit court on a case involving the auditor. Help me out, city attorney. Didn't they recuse themselves? Well, I don't know. That's why we ask. Or at least that's why I ask. I'm batting substitute today. I'll do my best. I think the answer is that...
 In most circumstances, it obviously will not be a problem. I think we can probably use the administrative rules to figure out a process for the auditor delegating that function of making a decision. If we find out we can't, we can certainly come back with an amendment. But I don't see it as being a tremendous barrier. And I do understand. I think the amendment to add the auditor makes some sense. So, yeah.
 We can certainly work with that. So the two changes that I just iterated, do you think that does it for now in terms of both finding number five, where it's just mentioning the mayor and city commissioners at the moment until we change it,
 And then definition A, adding the auditor there, it appears to me from just a quick look through this that that might do it. Yes, I think just for grammatical beauty, I think I would have it read, means the mayor, comma, city commissioner, or auditor. I think you had an extra or in there. Or A, all right. Grammatical beauty is always one of the options. All right. No Oxford comma. I'm very disappointed. If you would like an Oxford comma, that's fine. Okay.
 Mayor has forgotten more about grammar and syntax than most of us know here, and I'm offended by the information. I'm glad to hear your attention to detail, Mayor. It does raise another question for me in looking through this in 214070, prohibited conduct. It says a city elected official shall not utilize a political consultant who has violated this chapter.
 That might seem a bit harsh if there was an inadvertent or a first-time offense that they didn't understand the rules or whatever and corrected it as soon as it was brought to their attention. We had that discussion under the previous that you get to amend your lobbying rules. To say that a political consultant who has violated the chapter is never, ever going to be employed ever again in the city of Portland doesn't seem reasonable. No, I believe it's a present tense. It shall not utilize...
 Oh, I see your point. It's not meant to be a lifetime bar. I appreciate your point. And it really shall not utilize a political consultant who has violated this chapter and continues to... How about repeatedly violated? Or during a period of repeated violations. Yeah, you're right. It was not meant to be the heavy hand of dictating... One track and you're out forever. I would accept a friendly amendment on that.
 shall not utilize a political consultant who has repeatedly violated this chapter? That's what I just said. What do you think, Heidi? I think repeatedly is a little hard to take. Whoever would like to take a shot at that. Repeatedly versus, I mean... How about this? Who is in violation? You see the problem? Well, and I'm also... I mean, the issue here is...
 enforcement by the auditor and putting them in a situation. I think with the direction, if there is some intent that you can give to the auditor staff so that when they come up with administration, if you want to put in repeatedly and give some idea of what you mean by that, meaning we don't intend for somebody who on their first offense makes a minor ticky-tacky error, we mean for it to be somebody who's doing it.
 Certain things. That would be helpful to the auditor. Flagrant? Flagrant? Would that help? That's probably hard to define. This is, Council, can we give legislative intent at the time of vote?
 You certainly can. Or would you like to set this over and have more time? I mean, I'm not going to get it done. I'd like to get it done. I'd love to just bring this home. But I'm just saying we can wordsmith it now or we can wordsmith it and bring it next week with the vote. I do think, though, at this point it is stated in the absolute. And I think if you want to be able to vote next week –
 It's not an emergency. If you want to be able to vote next week, you probably need to have a modifying word in there at this point. What do you recommend to soften it so we're not using the death penalty for any violation, including a technical violation? Commissioner, can I offer a suggestion? What about if we said that
 you shall not knowingly utilize a political consultant who is in violation of this chapter. Because it seems to me that what we want to achieve is that if you, the elected official, know that your political consultant is a violation, you should stop using them until they come into compliance. I think that's a smart change.
 it sets a it sets a by putting the knowing in you're setting up a standard of knowledge and and and you're raising the burden a little bit so i got the first modification not knowingly but what was the second one is in violation is in violation of so i think that's a that's a significant improvement thank you commissioner fritz for catching it thank you steve for wordsmithing all right so add the concept of until said consultant
 Comes into compliance that we can do by roll. I mean, I think you want to do that by roll I think it's implied that it's until there's the implication is until you get to compliance. Can we move that as an amendment mayor? Yeah, i'm just going to include that in the package of changes that we have to this one which includes the inclusion of the auditor with the appropriate grammar and And the changes to 214 070 a which we just talked about. Thank you. Everybody comfortable with that?
 So vote to adopt those amendments, please. Yes. Aye. Galston. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Commissioner Fisher, I really appreciate all your work on this. Aye. Mayles. Aye. Mayor, can I, one last matter? Yes. This goes to a vote next week. You may not be here. I don't know what our compliment of team is. May I make a very brief statement? Sure. I want to thank Linda Law, Ben Walters,
 Jim Blackwood and Sonja Schmansky for the tremendous work they put into this. The lawyers really gave us their A effort in helping us draft this. The wordsmithing on this is complicated, and we really appreciate their work. Jim Blackwood in my office and Sonja Schmansky did great work. I really want to thank the citizen volunteers from distinguished local public interest groups who came to the table and helped us get it right. Thank you.
 And I'll have some additional comments next week, but I do view this as a first step. And if adopted next week, as I expect it will be, I think we can rightfully be proud of becoming the second city in the country to put in place this mechanism.
 which I think is a common-sense reform, which again will bring, which uses the tool of transparency to give the public more information about how we do our business. And I'm extremely proud of the work that's gone into this. Thank you. Thank you very much. So that passes the second reading, and we're recessed until tomorrow at 6 p.m. Really? Don't we have tomorrow afternoon? Thanks, Dan. Let me give you something. No.