Okay. Are we ready? Commissioner Fritz is going to be here. I think we should go ahead and start. Good morning, everyone.
 We have this proclamation. Yes. I think that's right. Yes. Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the April 15th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. Welcome, everyone. We have some informal business up front and then some communications items and then the regular agenda. So let me first turn to Commissioner Novick, who has a proclamation to read.
 Mayor, I want to offer my thanks to Deanna Wesson Mitchell of your staff who came up with the idea for this proclamation, which is highly embarrassing because I should have come up with it myself. No harm done. No harm, no foul. Whereas emergencies can occur at any time and require police, fire, or emergency medical services, and whereas when an emergency occurs, the prompt response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics is critical to the protection of life and preservation of property.
 And whereas the safety of our police officers and firefighters depends on the quality and accuracy of information obtained from citizens who call 911, and professional public safety telecommunicators are a vital link between citizens and victims and are often the first contact our citizens have with emergency services. And whereas public safety telecommunicators monitor the activities of police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel by radio and provide them with information while seeking to ensure their safety,
 And whereas, according to the Association of Public Safety Officials International, National Public Safety Telecommunications Week was initially conceived in 1981 by Patricia Anderson of the Contra Costa County Sheriff's Office in California, and Congress formally designated the week in 1991,
 And whereas public safety telecommunicators of the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications have contributed substantially to the apprehension of criminals, suppression of fires, and life-saving treatment of patients experiencing medical emergencies. And whereas telecommunicators in the Bureau of Emergency Communications exhibit compassion, understanding, and professionalism while performing a critically important job as Multnomah County's first responders.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 12th to 18th, 2015, and I note that the fact that this week includes the day of the midnight riot of Paul Revere is very appropriate, as public safety telecommunicators play a similar role, to be National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you, Commissioner. Let's hear it for our 911 operators. They do a great job. Thanks.
 I've had a chance a couple of times, I think everybody on the council has to actually sit on the floor and watch them work. And I think when we call, we have no idea the highly trained complexity of their work. So it's pretty impressive. It's nice we could recognize them. Thank you. So we have some communications items up front, some folks who've signed up to speak to the council. And we'll take them in order, starting with number 371. Okay.
 Request of Amanda Shore and Jade Bradford to address council regarding civic scholars at City Club of Portland. Good morning. Welcome. Thank you. Dear Mayor Hales and Commissioners Novak, Fish, Fritz, and Saltzman, I'm pleased to also have Park Row's Superintendent Karen Gray here in the audience. On behalf of the City Club of Portland, I'm pleased to present to you today about Civic Scholars, City Club's youth civic engagement program.
 Civic Scholars seeks to demystify leadership, advocacy, and government for youth from underserved schools. To do this, we invite students, many for the first time, to a formal business environment. We also include students in discussions with community leaders and work with them to build advocacy skills.
 After a Q&A with Portland Police Chief Larry O'Day, a young woman from East Portland told me, I had been prepared to ask him all these tough questions, but then I met him, and he seemed like a nice guy, and I froze. The ability to speak one's mind in front of intimidating leaders takes practice. By including students in multiple events per year, this program provides the practice necessary to build confidence and have one's voice heard.
 This advocacy practice also takes the form of questions at the microphone at Friday Forum, where I've seen future leaders bravely ask questions about gun control, legislation protecting undocumented immigrants, affordable housing, and the lack of affordable arts opportunities in Portland.
 These questions again build confidence. If a student can look the governor in the eye and ask a question in front of 300 people and the whole state on OPB radio, I think they'll be fine lobbying their school board for money for new planners or impressing their next employer in a job interview. The Civic Scholars Program works with youth to build these skills, but the program has just as profound an impact on the adults surrounding them. Scores of people have approached me at these events and sent me emails to tell me how inspired they were by a student's question.
 I set out to inspire youth, yet most of the emails I get are from inspired adults. I believe this is because for all the despair that can go around about kids today and the future, not many people are actually asking young people what they care about or giving them a chance to voice their passions, concerns, and ideas. This program has shown that our future is in innovative, smart, and compassionate hands. On that note, I now introduce Jade Bradford, a senior at Park Rose High School and a civic scholar. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good morning.
 thank you amanda good morning mayor hales and fellow commissioners novick fish fritz and saltzman my name is jade bradford and i'm 17 years old and i'm currently a senior at park rose high school i'd like to express my gratitude to you for taking the time to listen to my colleague and i on behalf of the organization that we represent this year the city club of portland introduced their civic scholars program and little did i know that i would end up being a participant in the organization's pilot session
 The program was introduced to me through our school's Student Senate Association. I didn't think much of the program at first and simply saw it as something I could put on a resume. But then I attended my first Friday Forum and experienced a life-changing event. The Civic Scholars Program has opened up so many doors for me, and just as a young 17-year-old, I've done and experienced many things that many established adults haven't been able to.
 I was just one of very few lucky students who were able to experience this wonderful program, and I feel that all students across the nation should experience similar organizations so that they may receive a small taste of what the world has to offer. Thank you. Thank you both for coming. Well, we'd love, if you're willing, council members, we'd love to take a picture with five current and two future occupants of these five chairs. I'd love that. Thank you both. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I got to be closely cross-examined by these civic scholars at that Friday forum. And actually one of the great things, a number of great things that former Mayor Adams did with his revitalization of the City Club was introduce this relationship with the Civic Scholars Program. So it's just one more sign of how that...
 old institution has become new and has really reached out to and started to include student leaders. So very happy about that and very happy about what you're doing, and we look forward to having you back in civic life in a number of roles over the next few years. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to 372. Request of Michael Krupp to address council regarding military and the commissioner of police. Mr. Krupp?
 Okay, let's move on to 373. Request of Charles Johnson to address counsel regarding taxes and justice. Good morning and welcome.
 Howdy, y'all. I am Charles Johnson. I'm here to actually talk about how our taxpayer money is being kind of squandered on this lie of Portland being a champion for climate change. It seems like every year we actually get an award for being champions of climate change because of the great work of people like Tom McCall back in the 70s and 60s.
 But really, we have kind of seen that Portland has become a fossil fuel center. It's a corridor. The fossil fuel industry is booming here. They get wonderful tax breaks. They get wonderful incentives to come into our community and work.
 It just doesn't sit well with me with the green reputation that Portland has. So coming up, we actually have the propane vote that I'm sure you all are very aware of. I hear it's a win for the climate. It's a win for the environment. But really, it's going to be sending propane from tar sands and fracking operations in Canada that are poisoning indigenous communities' water right through our city, creating a giant blast zone in St. John's.
 I really encourage you members of city council to actually take a stand on this vote. This is something that's really important to people in my generation because we're going to have to deal with the effects of catastrophic climate change. And the propane terminal, when it's burned, will contribute to 0.07% of all global emissions of carbon dioxide. It seems like a small amount, but Portland really is the leader on these kind of things.
 But I have a little bit of lack of faith. Unfortunately, Steve Novick, I know that you have accepted several thousand dollars in campaign contributions from Greenbrier Industries, one of the largest constructors of coal barges, oil trains, that sort of thing. And you say that coal is social justice for China. I hope you actually fall back on your environmentalist credentials on this vote.
 Saltzman, I know you used to work for CH2M Hill. You may go back to work there again after you're done. But CH2M Hill is in the business of constructing fossil fuel terminals. And I know City Council has voted to give CH2M Hill many contracts to build these things. And then Charlie Hales, I know you worked for HDR Industries, which is in the same boat as CH2M Hill in constructing fossil fuel terminals, both upstream and downstream.
 But I think this is an issue of environmental justice and the violation of public trust. So I'm here to plead with you all to actually think about my generation and the effects that it will have on not only me, but my roommate's daughter, who's still even younger than I am. Also, injustice to communities of color in St. John's and North Portland. They have higher rates of cancer and lack of access to food because of the increasing drought in California.
 And they're also just dealing with a lot more injustices promoted by the city in general, like less than $15 an hour minimum wage, rapid gentrification promoted by the city developers, and police violence on a daily basis. So as we kind of come up to this propane vote, let's really think about our climate action plan and take an action on it instead of just kind of talk about it. Thank you.
 I appreciate your interest in the issue. Actually, we're having a hearing this afternoon on commercial energy benchmarking in order to actually reduce carbon emissions from commercial buildings. So I'm not sure if you're available, but that's at 3.30 today. And then secondly, you might want to check, but I'm pretty sure that neither the city or the state has ever given tax breaks to fossil fuel companies. It happens on a lot of different levels.
 Well, it may happen in other places, but I don't think it's happened here because we have a very limited number of tax incentives that we can offer, and I don't believe they've been offered to anything associated with fossil fuel, but it would be worth checking. They pollute our climate, which in turn they should be paying taxes on. Oh, sure, you bet. But, again, in terms of tax breaks, I think it's pretty important to know when the city is actually giving people a break on taxes. We do it for affordable housing.
 but I'm pretty sure we haven't done it for fossil fuels. And then don't mandate that the affordable housing gets built. We're working on that. Commissioner Novick? Sir, I have a question, which is that
 Right now, people in Portland use propane in their backyard grills. And do you think that if we—and that obviously has to come from somewhere. It's transported here somehow. Do you think that if we choose to deny the propane terminal that's proposed, to be consistent, we should also prohibit the use of propane by Portlanders? Yes.
 I definitely think we should be cutting back on that. I don't think sending propane to China so that we're sending our jobs over to China because this propane is just going to fuel jobs in China where they have lax labor laws. Unions here in the USA aren't going to be getting those jobs. They're all going to be.
 sent to a place where workers are dying on a daily basis because of lax labor laws and they're not unionized. So with your labor credentials, I think you would probably see that it's
 It's an important union issue to make sure that those jobs are staying here and not going to China. I just note that actually the union organizations that have spoken out about this issue, because the building trades would like to get the jobs of building the terminal, have actually spoken out in favor of it. There were also several unions that spoke out against it at the hearing last week. Good. Thanks. Appreciate you coming. Okay, 373. Sorry, 374.
 Request of Lightning Watchdog X to address counsel regarding Joint Terrorism Task Force Memorandum of Understanding Amendments. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog X. I'll have a few issues to go over. Now, pertaining to the Joint Terrorism Task Force...
 I didn't feel we had adequate time to make any amendments to the MOU. A couple of the current concerns I had was who was going to pay the overtime. We didn't have enough transparency. In the event of excessive use of force being used, can we maintain our compliance with the current settlement agreement by joining Joint Terrorist Task Force? That's my main concern.
 I think the timing of this should have been after the settlement agreement expired and then possibly consider going into the JTTF. So remaining in compliance, I have a concern about that. Now, pertaining to affordable housing, one of the concerns I have is that the 30 percent MFI are below. We're not meeting the inventory out in the marketplace. We're meeting the inventory from private developers for a higher MFI.
 And I think we need to plan aggressively on the affordable housing issue to meet this demand, like Pearl District has done in their location, like North McAdam has done in their location. As I would propose that we set aside the purchase of the U.S. Post Office at 715 Northwest Hoyt, approximately 13 acres, and designated that toward 30% medium MFI,
 and develop that whole parcel out for that purpose. We have a lot of area there to work from, we have a lot of land, and we can build a tremendous amount of affordable units at 30% MFI. I'm asking that foundations will step up to the table and offer assistance on this project
 And again, we need to focus on a large-scale effort at the 30 percent MFI. And I think we can do that if we begin planning now and understand the demand is there of 23,000-plus units.
 We're not meeting that demand. The number is growing higher. We can do that with the planned development with the U.S. Post Office if it's purchased through PDC of 13 acres and designated for that purpose, that purpose only, and to have no height restrictions on how high they want to build the buildings there and offer assistance from foundations, corporations to get the job done, get the people off the sidewalks into housing.
 Now, as far as on Uber coming to town, you ask a question all the time, well, why didn't we regulate the caps or why did we regulate the caps in the past and why aren't we doing it now in the future? Well, you need to turn that question around back to you in the past administration and ask that administration why they did that.
 exclusivity, scarcity offers value in the marketplace. That's why they did it. When Uber comes to this town, it will saturate the market. The values of these other companies will go down. And remember, that was past administration that put that into place. So that's who you need to be asking on why that was put into place and how that's going to affect the current cab companies in the future. Thank you. Thanks, Lightning. Thank you very much. Okay, 375.
 Request of Michael Blass to address council regarding proposal to help everyone. Boss, you here? Okay, then let's move on to item 376, please. Do you want to do the consent agenda first? I'm sorry, do you want to do the consent before the proclamation? No, we can do the proclamation. Well, it's a time certain. It's time certain. Okay, we can do consent. We've got some things to pull off. So let's see. We're going to pull item number 380.
 and 382 from consent to regular. Anything else that anyone wants to add? I'd like to pull 384 onto regular agenda. Okay. Anything else? Okay, so let's take a vote on the balance of the consent calendar, please. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Now, 376.
 376. Proclaim April 2015 to be Fair Housing Month in Portland. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. And before we begin our presentation this morning, and I'll read the proclamation, but I'd like to call up Diane Hiss of the Fair Housing Council of Oregon, Housing Director Tracy Manning. Oh, there she is. Okay. And Jason Trombley, the Chair of the Fair Housing Advisory Commission. If you could all come to the table and I'll read the proclamation.
 declaring April Fair Housing Month. Whereas our community is committed to equal opportunity and housing choice for all, and whereas the theme of Portland's Fair Housing Month is overcoming and mitigating disparate impacts, along with this year's National Fair Housing Month theme, Fair Housing is Your Right, Use It. And whereas the City of Portland and its partners are working together to combat discrimination, disparate impacts, and other impediments to housing choice,
 and whereas the city council adopted portland's first ever fair housing fair housing action plan in september 2011 and established a fair housing advocacy committee to oversee its implementation and whereas the plan calls for a combination of enhanced outreach and education increased testing and enforcement an expanded supply of quality affordable housing options mitigation of displacement and increased inter-bureau coordination
 And whereas the Portland Housing Bureau is working with landlords and tenants to increase choice for low-income renters citywide, and whereas under federal fair housing laws, Oregon civil rights statutes, and Portland City Code, it is unlawful to discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, familial status, national origin, marital status, sexual orientation, source of income...
 military status, gender identity, age over 18, type of occupation, or history as a victim of domestic violence, and whereas Housing and Urban Development Memo of 2001 states, actions to affirmatively further fair housing should further practices of the Fair Housing Act by actively promoting wider housing opportunity for all persons while maintaining a non-discriminatory environment
 in all aspects of public and private housing markets, and whereas Executive Order 12892, as amended, requires federal agencies to affirmatively further fair housing in their programs and activities, and whereas 2015 marks the 47th anniversary of the signing of Title VIII of the Federal Civil Rights Act, also known as the Federal Fair Housing Act of 1968, and the 27th anniversary of the Fair Housing Act amendments of 1988.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hills, Mayor of the City of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 2015 to be Fair Housing Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month by joining the effort to promote fair housing for all. Because fair housing is your right. Use it.
 And now I'd like to ask our distinguished panel to provide some testimony. Should we start with Tracy? Or are you going to start with Diane? Yeah. Okay. Hi. I'm Diane Hess, Education Director from the Fair Housing Council of Oregon.
 And April 11, 1968, 47 years ago, one week after the assassination of Dr. King, President Johnson signed the Federal Fair Housing Act, which at that point made it illegal to discriminate based on race, color, national origin, and religion. The history of—oh, and it actually covered both individual acts of discrimination and systemic segregation. So that was in the act right from the beginning, actually.
 And our history in Portland and Oregon kind of mirrored the nationwide history of discrimination, segregation, and displacement going back to the Oregon Trail. And I think most kids that learn about the Oregon Trail and the Oregon Land Donation Act may not learn that it was for whites only.
 So starting with that and our original constitution in Oregon where it said that African Americans and people of Chinese descent could not purchase any real estate and it was illegal for African Americans to actually live in the state under that exclusion clause.
 which is one of the reasons there was not a lot of African-American migration to the state until World War II. Here in Portland in 1919, the Portland Board of Realtors Code of Ethics basically said a realtor who sold a home to an African-American or an Asian in a white neighborhood, which was considered four blocks of...
 housing where whites lived would be kicked out of the Board of Realtors. And at that time, an area of north-northeast Portland identified as the Albina neighborhood was the area for African Americans. There was a history of redlining, lack of loans, lack of sidewalk and other infrastructure repairs. At that time, restrictive covenants became common. So many individual homes and neighborhoods in Portland were restricted to whites only. And even today, you can...
 purchase a home and be at the title company signing the paperwork, and there in the deed are...
 This language, which is no longer legally enforceable, the house can only be sold to African Americans. I mean to whites, but African Americans and Asians can live there as domestic servants. So the trend continued in the 20s when the Klan was very big in Oregon, and the legislature passed a bill preventing Oregonians of Japanese descent from purchasing real estate.
 Long history of displacement, starting with Native Americans and the Oregon Trail. I don't know how many folks know that there was a community of Chinese vegetable farmers near the Multnomah Athletic Club and Providence Park that were displaced by the city in the early 1900s. 3,700 Japanese, two-thirds of them U.S. citizens after Pearl Harbor.
 The Roma community that lived in the Pearl, displaced by the mayor, Mayor Riley, in 1944, and the Jewish community of South Portland, displaced by urban renewal later in the...
 later in the century. African Americans in Portland were displaced by a series of urban renewal projects in the 1950s, 60s, and 70s, Memorial Coliseum, moving I-5, and the planned expansion of Emanuel Hospital. And during that time, over a thousand homes in business, a thousand home, people lost their homes, and many businesses were eliminated. So first African Americans were restricted to North Northeast Portland, and then after building community, they faced
 Steady displacement, first from these urban renewal projects and now for about a quarter of a century, gentrification that completely has altered that community and forced many whose families have lived there in the area for generations to move into other areas, primarily East Portland and East County.
 So looking back to 1968, fair housing rights have continued to evolve since President Johnson signed the Act. Women's movement in the 1970s made it illegal to discriminate based on sex. 1988 Fair Housing Amendments Act, the Commissioner Salsman mentioned, illegal to discriminate based on disability, families with children. Here in Oregon before 1988, between 60% and 70% of the rentals were off limits to families with children.
 And that's when we first had strong enforcement mechanisms. And as the proclamation mentions, over time, Oregon and the city of Portland have expanded the protections. So there's been tremendous progress over the last 47 years, but discrimination and segregation persist.
 HUD estimates more than 3 million instances a year, and I can say just from the calls that come into our hotline, we had 3,000 calls last year, some of the things we see a lot of. We don't see much anymore of, you know, no Jews allowed or no children allowed, those kinds of things, but we do see a persistent, more subtle discrimination where the landlord might not say they want a Latino family.
 where they'll say the unit has already been rented. We've seen an increase in harassment of individuals based on protected class and also continuing problems with not only landlords, HOAs, and so on, that are refusing to provide reasonable accommodations for people with disabilities. Racial segregation persists as well nationally and locally. Locally, for example, 75% of our African Americans are living in just 16% of the census tracts.
 So whether intentional or not, housing policies may have a discriminatory impact or a disparate impact on protected classes. We see this on an ongoing basis in individual situations. For example, in Newport, there was a landlord who refused to rent to anyone who worked in a fish cannery.
 Unlike Portland, occupation is not protected in Newport, but we found more than 90% of the folks working in fish canneries there were Latino. So whether it was intentional or not, that policy had a disparate impact. Or a large apartment complex that says no tricycles anywhere in this community. They're not directly saying no families with children. So intentional or not, that falls under housing discrimination, and it's not just the individual acts themselves.
 but systemic acts as well. We deal around the state with communities that don't want low-income housing, don't want group homes for people with disabilities that clearly have a disparate impact. Here in Portland, we still have that legacy of urban renewal and gentrification that has obviously had a disparate impact on the African-American community.
 As the proclamation says, jurisdictions have the responsibility to affirmatively further fair housing, and that means using a fair housing lens in planning, code enforcement, allocation and resources, and really all aspects of housing and community development. And Tracy Manning and Jason Trombley are going to address Portland's fair housing efforts. Thank you, Diane. Thank you.
 Good morning. Happy Fair Housing Month. So now the good news. We as a community have for years partnered with our neighboring jurisdictions, Multnomah County, City of Gresham, some of our great community organizations, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, the State Bureau of Labor. Labor Industries. Thank you. Thank you.
 to really try to impact people's ability to live where they choose to live. And I think some of the things that Diane cited, there's a real growing awareness that it's not okay that people can't access the communities they want to live in. And if you look at...
 city of Portland and your housing policy as it's evolved over time, we've spent more and more time really focusing on the opportunities that people have based on where they live. So while it is true that our history of racial segregation is
 Both present, it's also changing. And that whether that segregation is present because of discrimination or unintended consequences, our intention has the capacity to impact those problems.
 And so Diane shared the history of North and Northeast Portland. It's a great example of where recent council action has directed us to impact the access of people to fair housing. So while in those neighborhoods, the percentage of African Americans has been reduced by half since 1990,
 And those community members do still feel at risk of displacement because in part of council action and also because of the City of Portland's Fair Housing Action Plan, which outlines exactly these kinds of actions that we can take to address issues of segregation and displacement. We can have an impact.
 One example is the funds that you've provided to offer foreclosure assistance, home repair assistance, first-time homebuyer assistance. There's a wait list of 100 people. We're going to be able to start chipping away at that. We know these programs work. Based on our current program performance, at least 80% of those assisted will continue to live in their homes 12 months after receiving services. So I think it's important.
 to know and acknowledge our history of how we got where we got. I also want to put in context that our work partnering with Fair Housing Council of Oregon and with our really great community organizations, we have the ability to have an impact. It's not just the list of offals.
 So with that, I'd like to give the floor to Jason Trombley. Jason is the chair of the Fair Housing Advocacy Committee. That's a committee that we share with Multnomah County and the city of Gresham.
 It includes all kinds of community members who sit at the table together to create a plan to actually change the way our community looks. And I'm deeply grateful for their volunteer time and their intelligence. Thank you very much, Director Manning. Mayor Hales, members of the council. So first, with regard to FHAC, I wanted to talk about the fair housing assessment.
 So we're very proud of the work that the City of Portland has undertaken to address fair housing choice. Every year, we educate a significant number of landlords. For example, over 776 landlords received fair housing education during the annual Bureau of Development Services Landlords Training. From the training, we can see the awareness of the rights of people with disabilities
 to have pets at their apartments and an awareness that all landlords in Oregon must take an application regardless of the source of income. The Portland Action Plan also sought to increase fair housing awareness in renters. The national theme is fair housing is your right, use it. In the annual community needs hearing, we learned from our recent immigrant communities that many do not know their fair housing rights. And until we share the knowledge, they will not know that landlords cannot refuse basic
 Habitality repairs like repairing leaks and broken appliances. There is evidence of the growing awareness and the increase in visits to the Fair Housing Council's website. 13,556 website visits in fiscal year 2014. Also, market conditions are changing in Multnomah County and new populations are arriving. To address the changes, we are creating our next five-year plan for prioritizing spending of federal and local resources in ways that expand housing choice.
 To prepare the consolidated plan, housing and urban development requires a fair housing assessment. Demographics, segregation, disproportionate housing needs, disparities in access to community assets and exposure to adverse community factors, disability in access and fair housing complaint outcomes, fair housing knowledge and practices that further or hinder fair housing choice in Portland, Gresham and Multnomah County. Next is disparate impact.
 The Fair Housing Advocacy Committee is focused on disparate impact because we are hearing from the community about the impact of displacement. There is a lot at stake in the national conversation about fair housing. In a recent Supreme Court case of the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs versus the inclusive communities, a decision in favor of the state of Texas could potentially weaken the Fair Housing Act by not recognizing disparate impacts as a condition of discrimination.
 and thus reopens the door to housing policies and practices that excludes people on the basis of their race, color, national origin, gender, religion, disability, or family status. A decision in favor of inclusive communities could complicate how and where public dollars are spent if they are made in places of poverty.
 Regardless of which direction the decision goes, it should not weaken our city's resolve to actively prevent, overcome, and mitigate disparate impacts in Portland. We need to do both, invest in low-income communities and invest in high-opportunity areas in ways that increase access for low-income families and communities of color and other protected classes. And third, which I think is the most exciting part of the morning, which is our fair housing poster contest.
 Today we are honoring two students from the statewide Fair Housing Council of Oregon Fair Housing Poster Contest. Both won third place in their respective age groups. The students are Jasmine Bonahan from Gresham Valley Elementary and Morgana Cartwright from Southwest Charter School. She could not be here today because she's attending outdoor school. So Morgana is from Southwest Charter School, won third place in the four to five category.
 Again, she couldn't be here because of outdoor school, but we still wanted to acknowledge the efforts of Morgana and her school. The Fair Housing Council of Oregon has been working with the Southwest Charter School for several years now. They did an amazing comic book on the housing discrimination and the local history of Portland. You can take a look at the copy on display at the table today. And lastly is Jasmine from Gresham.
 from Gresham from Powell Valley Elementary School, the third-place winner in the first- to third-grade category. Jasmine has family here and in the Philippines. She excels in gymnastics at Northwest Gymnastics Training Center. She's won multiple trophies and medals at every meet this season and recently was asked to join their junior Olympics team, which she began on April 2nd. And so very quickly, I'd like to invite Jasmine to come up and share a few words about her poster. Hey, good morning. Which of the two is hers?
 Top one? Great. It's okay. Welcome. Don't be nervous. We're really happy to hear you talk about your poster. How did you get the idea? Did you change your idea as you worked on it? Tell us more about it. Well, I just thought about it, and I was just thinking, and I was doing the poster for fun. I didn't know if I was going to win. I was just thinking of doing it for fun.
 And I just thought of it, and then I just started drawing houses, and then it all just started coming to me. Where do you go to school, honey?
 Powell Valley Elementary School. Excellent. I like how you included a lot of trees in your poster. We're a city that loves trees and loves our parks, so a bunch of us up here noticed that, I think, in particular. We'd love to take a picture with you in your poster. Yeah, we want to do that too. Do you have anybody with you today from your family or friends? I have my mom and dad and my sister. Let's give them a round of applause. Thank you.
 Okay, why don't we have a picture? Can I just make one comment? Today is actually the day that the arts tax is due. That's right. Yeah, that's right. The arts tax has allowed us to have 70 arts teachers in schools throughout Portland serving 30,000 children. And as we look at your beautiful poster, we're reminded of how important it is to have art as part of the normal curriculum.
 And you obviously have a lot of talent. And by putting all the trees in there, I know you warm Commissioner Fritz's heart. So she's the Parks Commissioner. Well, why don't we get the posters up there and picture. And family members are welcome to join us. Yes, for them. I'd like to ask you guys to sign her poster right here. Okay, I'll sign this whole one. Come on in, family. Okay.
 So we get one of these for a lot. We're getting a head start on first Thursday. I'm going to leave Kim in the picture. So Kim is the Bureau of Fair Housing guru. Kim McCarty. Thank you. Thank you for the . Sure it worked. Thank you all. You guys, you want us to pass them out?
 Dan has already taken all the posters. We have to argue with him about that. Yeah, well, we have time for a couple questions. We sure do. Let me kick it off by asking Diane. The last two weeks, we all saw full-page ads in local newspapers saying,
 declaring the commitment of the private landlord community to observing fair housing laws. Two questions. How did that come about? And I don't remember ever seeing full-page ads in newspapers signed by multifamily Northwest and other industry leaders making explicit commitments during this week. So could you give us the back story? Sure. Sure.
 Well, there are a number of different organizations that represent landlords and property management companies. Multifamily Northwest we've had a growing partnership with. We've always done trainings. But they now have a fair housing committee. And they actually just had a fair housing fair for property managers that hundreds of people came to.
 So that is an emphasis, both education and outreach. And a great thing is they're doing more and more of this, not just in the Portland metro area, but other areas of the state. So this is the first year they did the full page ad. And I think a lot of it is that they have this activist committee. We're actually next Friday doing one of our fair housing bus tours for their members. And I know we have a waiting list. So there's obviously an increased level of consciousness.
 I will say one of the challenges is that there are so many landlords that are not affiliated with an organization like that. And that would be great. Actually, I think it would be great, I'm just going to throw this out there, if right at the point people purchased rental property,
 either licensing or at least a requirement to take a test or something like that, which they do have in other states and jurisdictions in other parts of the country. I mean, one of the things we try to do is give information on an informal basis to realtors, to title companies, to give it to these folks so they don't find out they did something wrong at the point that the Bureau of Labor and Industries has a complaint against them.
 But it's a great thing how multifamily, how the industry, and other industry groups too, are really affirmatively making efforts to educate their folks to get a real understanding of fair housing. And we hope that we can get more of the individual mom-and-pop landlords hooked into that. Other questions?
 I want to thank our panelists and today our actions restate our commitment to housing choice and affirm that we hold ourselves to a higher standard so thank you all for being here today
 Commissioner, I'd like to bring up a fairness issue. Uh-oh. I think that it is grossly unfair, and I made this clear to her, that Tracy Manning is planning to leave. And I want to let her know that I've asked the city attorney if we have authority to draft her and compel her to remain in her current position. Thank you, Commissioner. I appreciated your email. Thank you very much. She's going out with a bang. She'll be here several times more this morning. That's true. Before we're done. We won't let her off that easy.
 thank you thank you all very much thanks commissioner saltzman thank you so we're going to move in a moment to the rest of our agenda uh we have a relatively brief one this morning and uh i want to just ask that folks testify on the items that are before us specifically if you are a lobbyist we need you to disclose that information if if you're here representing an organization we ask you do likewise
 Please testify to the matter at hand. We typically limit testimony to three minutes per person, and I think given the small group of people here this morning, we won't have any trouble staying on schedule. We have a relatively new member, Denae Vanner, from the city attorney's team here serving us this morning, so I do know him. So let's begin with...
 regular item and we'll return to the past consent items after that. So the regular item is $385,000. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for construction of the Hollywood Grant Park Sewer Rehabilitation Project, number E10384, for $9 million. And this is the second reading and roll call vote.
 Mayor and colleagues, last week we had presentations from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Water Bureau. They were two of the, I thought, better news presentations that the bureaus have had in a while. One was this BES item about a major sewer rehabilitation project and the extensive community outreach they've done in laying the groundwork. And the second was the Dam 2 project up in the watershed that came in on time and under budget.
 We had a bare quorum of the council when these things came before us, and I think the chambers were empty, and Steve made some comment about
 about good news and being no news. But while we can't control that, I do think it's important at these moments just to acknowledge that the good work that these bureaus do is a result of a lot of highly dedicated people doing their job, usually without a claim. And I'm very proud of what they do, proud to be their commissioner in charge. And this is a project that is very promising.
 There's been a lot of work done and I know I will be hearing from people in that community if it doesn't go as scheduled because after all, I live in Hollywood. Today I'm pleased to vote aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. So let's return to our items from the consent calendar that we pulled to regular calendar starting with item 380.
 Authorize police officers at the rank of captain or above who have previously been members of the Portland Police Association or Portland Police Commanding Officers Association bargaining units to contribute upon retirement unused sick leave into a voluntary employee beneficiary association trust. Mr. Amberg from the City Attorney's Office is here to walk us through this, and there's a proposed substitute.
 Yes, good morning, Mayor and Council. We have introduced a substitute ordinance because of a little bit of a change in the direction, not on the substance of what is going to happen with regard to this, the basic issue, the contribution of sick leave into this VIVA trust. In consultation with the attorney for the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association, which is,
 signed the settlement agreement we entered into last fall, and the attorney for the PPA Viva Trust, which is the trust into which these contributions will be made. Long story short is originally we thought there was going to have to be a – this entity created a Captain's Beneficiary Association. In consultation with the Viva Trust attorney, it was determined that's not necessary anymore.
 When the ordinance was originally drafted, we drafted it with the idea that there would be this Captain's Beneficiary Association. We've eliminated that, and there was a substantial enough change in the ordinance that we felt it was appropriate to ask this to be introduced as a substitute ordinance rather than an amendment to the ordinance. Okay.
 The practical effect of this is that after members of the police bureau, in effect, graduate out of represented status by being promoted from lieutenant to captain, they can pay into this VIVA trust, and it will be managed by their former union, the Portland Police Association, right? Correct. Yeah, if I could clarify a couple of issues. Sure.
 This happens only upon their retirement from the city. There's a formula where if they have accrued unused sick leave, a portion of that can be placed into this VEBA trust upon their retirement from the city. It's only for officers who, as the mayor has stated, have graduated, so to speak, or risen up through the ranks from a representative position in either the PPA or the PPCOA.
 And the PPA VEBA Trust is the, again, is the trust. And they currently administer these trust funds for VEBA.
 the represented police officers in the Portland Police Association as well as the Portland Police Commanding Officers Association. So this is an existing relationship and arrangement that is being transferred over to these officers in their non-represented positions. Mayor, I move to substitute. Second. Further discussion on motion to adopt the substitute, so let's take a roll call on that.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then we'll take a roll call on the substitute as an emergency ordinance. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Mark, thank you. Thank you very much. Okay, item 382. 384? 384.
 No, 382 first. All right. Sorry. Did we pull 384? We did, but we did both of them. Sorry.
 Authorize a contract with Pierce Manufacturing Inc. to provide up to nine triple combination pumpers for a not to exceed amount of $5 million. Yeah, I think I pulled this just because even though it maybe doesn't technically require that we have it on the regular calendar, I just thought it was a significant enough purchase that I wanted to make sure we noted it's coming through. And Commissioner Saltzman, anything that you wanted to add about it? But it's a big deal. We're keeping our equipment up to date.
 yeah we're purchasing new equipment pursuant to the uh expressed desire of voters when they supported the general obligation bond uh which i believe was 2010 so this is uh purchasing new firefighting or fire apparatus uh consistent with that bond measure
 Are we still maintaining our practice of occasionally making used equipment available to one of our sister cities when we cycle older vehicles out of the fleet? Yes. In fact, I think just last year we donated a vehicle to Guadalajara, another one, which we've done. That's great.
 one of the great traditions is when the bomberos come up here and accept it yeah and they actually drive it on i-5 which is amazing ultimate road trip okay any other questions about this item anyone want to speak to it um then it uh motion to adopt the report please so move or second further discussion roll call
 Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? This is a remarkably rapid purchase considering you passed the ordinance to authorizing the purchase on March 18th. Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, item 384. Extend real property lease for Portland Children's Levy staff offices in the Spalding Building, 319 Southwest Washington Street.
 So, Commissioner Fish, did you have a question about this item? Yes, Mayor. I could make some opening remarks. Please, go ahead. Since I pulled it, if I could just explain why I pulled it, Mayor, and we can figure out the procedure. It is not my practice to pull things from the consent agenda generally, and certainly on a second reading, that is procedurally irregular. Okay.
 I had a couple of questions about this that only came to my attention this morning. My preference is to set this over a week unless there's a reason it has to be voted on today to get answers to my questions from facilities and then come back and vote on it. That would be my preference. I don't control that. Otherwise, I have some questions which I could raise in a hearing, but I actually think it's more respectful to the sponsor to do that during the interval.
 well this pertains to the lease for the Portland Children's Levy and the registered historic building the Spalding building this is we've been there for over ten years no issues have ever been raised before so I regard this as we have no other place to go we just we need this lease we have been working fully with OMF on its efforts to consolidate offices and relocate and we
 Something's happening to the Portland building and it's going to be involving moving people out in the next few years as opposed to moving people in but we have examined all those options in terms of relocating the Portland building relocating the 1900 building and This turns out to be where we are where we've been for over ten years Again an historic building which is consistent with our city policy building policy to support historic buildings
 So we need the space. I think everybody knows the commercial vacancy rate in Portland is at a record low. We have no other place to go. And I think if you read all the supporting documents that have been filed with us, it documents everything I've just said. It's all here. So I would urge us to move ahead with this lease. So, Mayor, I don't have a substantive objection to the terms that have been negotiated. I have some questions about the duration of the lease.
 how this fits within the policy we've been grappling with as a council about using city-owned space first, and also the labor conditions of the building. My preference is to address those with a one-week setover, and normally that would be a professional courtesy, but it's up to the council about whether this is set over for a week. Are you willing to do that, Commissioner Saltzman? Is that something you'd entertain? I want to make sure that's not going to interfere with the terms of the lease. Let's see.
 The lease term expires on May 31st in the ordinance. Yeah, okay. Okay, I'm willing to set it over a week. Okay, and that's what we'll do. We'll set that over for one week and make sure that those questions get answered. Mayor, if the questions are answered, I'd be happy to sponsor an emergency clause if that becomes a question. Okay, great. That might be helpful. All right, I believe we are done with this morning's agenda, right? Did I miss anything? If not, then we are recessed until 2 p.m. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the City Council. Would you please call the roll? Yes. Fish? Here? Fish?
 Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We have two items on the afternoon calendar. They're both time certain. So the first one's at 2 o'clock. The second's at 3.30. If you're here to testify on those items and you are representing an organization as a lobbyist, please disclose that because that's required under our code. If you're representing an organization, it's helpful to know that, too, so let us know.
 We'll have some opening comments and presentations, and then we'll be taking testimony on this item after the presentation. We will typically limit individual testimony to three minutes, and again, we're a little bit time-constrained this afternoon. So with those parameters and understandings, why don't you read the item, please, Carla. Thank you.
 Item 386, accept park system development charge methodology update report for implementation and amend the applicable sections of city code. Mr. Pritz. Thank you, Mayor Hales. It's my great pleasure to introduce this item. Since 1998, we have had a park system development charge program that has been the primary funding source to meet the impact created by growth. Thank you.
 During the recession, under the leadership of Commissioner Nick Fish, our scarce SDCs, that's what we call system development charges, SDCs, paid for the E205 initiative, which provided some parks improvements in East Portland. And SDCs also began paying for development of a new park in one of our growing neighborhoods, Connemux Park in Cully. And the dedication is going to happen next month.
 Over the past two years, I have had the honor of working with neighborhood coalition park subcommittees reviewing options for SDC eligible projects. So that we have a community process for deciding which of the hundreds of millions of items on the necessary projects list are constructed with the scarce money that we do collect. We've been able to build bridges and paths to connect people and places, play areas to keep up with demand, and adding entire parks in developing neighborhoods.
 And I also was able to announce building two entirely new parks in East Portland and one in Southwest Portland. We've been strategic in our priorities and we've leveraged other funding, including Metro and state grants and other partnerships where possible. Today is the culmination of a multi-year effort to review this park system development charge program. In December 2012, Commissioner Nick Fish and Park Director Mike Abate convened a task force to assist parks in updating the program.
 These task force members have worked very diligently and I'm very grateful to them. I am very pleased to have the parks staff here to present it and so bear with us everybody. It's a complicated issue so I want to make sure that we explain it well both to everybody in the chamber and to those watching at home. Parks Director Mike Abate. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor, members of the Council, Michael Bate, Parks Director. I'm joined today by Randy Young, principal with Henderson Young & Company, national experts in system development charges, or SDCs. Today, our presentation will cover several topics. First, I'll help define system development charges, give a brief history of parks SDCs in Portland, and discuss why we update them every five years. Thank you.
 Randy will then discuss the primary changes to the methodology, how this compares with other cities, and what we've heard from the community. And then I'll close the presentation and open it up for questions. And finally, we have four people who have been invited to testify about this topic. Thank you.
 So what is an SDC? It really is a one-time payment paid by new development for capital improvements that are needed by new development. In other words, whether we're talking about transportation, sewers, or parks, the essential purpose of an SDC is that growth in demand pays for growth of the system to meet the demand. In 1998, the council established a parks SDC for residential development.
 At that time, the rate was set to recover about 30% of the demand created by growth. In 2004, that cost recovery rate was increased to about 50%. And in 2008, the last time we updated this, commercial development was also added to the SEC calculation, and the recovery rate for residential was increased to about 75%.
 So why do we update SDCs? There's two main reasons why we're required to update the SDC program every five years. First of all, there are changes in our community, whether it be population, employment, development centers, types of development, and location. And the second reason is to improve the accuracy by updating our levels of service, our costs, and persons per dwelling unit.
 So at this point, I'd like to ask Randy to discuss the proposed changes included in this update.
 Thank you, Mike. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. We're going to be talking about five major areas in which we've changed the methodology to improve it and make it more accurate. The first we'll talk about is the level of service that's used as the basis for calculating the fee. Our second topic will be changes that affect residential development. Then I'll talk a little bit about changes that affect commercial development. The fourth topic will be changes in the types of park facilities that are included. And then I'll close with a discussion briefly about the recovery rate.
 After I finish discussing these changes, there will be about a slide or two on each one. I'll then summarize the changes in rates for you, talk briefly about some of the concerns we've heard from the community, and then turn it back to Mike to finish our prepared remarks. So the first change about level of service. In the current study, the 2008 study, the method that is used is a traditional park benchmark. It's called Acres of Park per 1,000 Population.
 When you as a city adopted the goal setting document for parks, Vision 2020, you established in that a benchmark of 19 acres per 1,000 population as the aspirational goal that you want to get to.
 you have not ever used that number in your actual SDCs because you haven't attained that number yet, and state law would prohibit you from charging more than you can actually achieve. So your SDC is based on the current ratio of parks that you own in relationship to your current population. So we started off this 2015 update thinking we would use the same methodology, and we updated the acres of parks that you own, we updated the number of population that you have, we did the math, and we did a projection of how many more acres you would need in the future.
 And we ran into a little problem, which is it's starting now to generate some really unrealistic numbers of acres that we would have to acquire in the future. Let me share some facts. Right now, the city of Portland, every square inch of land, whatever its use, is approximately 95,000 acres of land.
 of that land, only about 6,700 acres are remotely undeveloped or vacant or available for any use, not just for parks, but for commercial development, for growth, for housing, for anything. Parks right now constitute about 12% of all the land in the city. So we did the math and said 12% of the remaining 6,700 acres, that's about 800 acres. But when we did the methodology from the level of service, the current ratio of parks is
 It doesn't say we need 800 acres. It says we need 2,200 acres. Well, 2,200 acres, that's a third of the remaining acres. That would diminish your ability to attract business, development, and housing. Our task force, to whom we are eternally grateful for being very bright people and paying attention to all this, really looked at that presentation and said, you've got to find another way. There's got to be a better way to have a defensible park SDC without being stuck in these rigid ratios of park acres. What can you do for us?
 Well, with our background, having done SDCs and impact fees around the country for nearly 30 years, we started introducing some new strategies. And what we're here today to talk to you about is a strategy that we've been using actually since the late 80s, 1980s in some jurisdictions. And we think now is the time for Portland to consider this. It's called investment per person. So instead of acres per person, it's investment per person. And here's how it works. It's really a pretty simple set of calculations.
 the first thing we do is we get a list of everything you own and Portland Parks and Rec has got a good inventory of all the land and all the improvements so we took that and said great what is it worth not what did you pay for it but what does it cost today because if we're going to calculate a future SDC payment and then we spend that we're going to pay today's prices to buy something we can't buy it in yesterday's prices so we asked the staff
 to research what it costs for a new ball field, a new light pole, and bleachers and those kinds of things. And we came up with the current value of the entire Portland Park system. Now the city, Portland Parks has been maintaining an inventory for other purposes and the value without land was about $1 billion, $1.3 billion. But adding the land into it, we're now at $3.5 billion worth of park assets and land
 And if we divide that by the current population, that gives us a number, a dollar amount, that we would ask new development to simply match so that they don't use up the parks we have, but we are also not trying to make them pay for any existing deficiency. We simply want you to keep up with what we've got. And that, in simple terms, is the level-of-service methodology that we're proposing in this new update. So that's our first big change. Change number two has to do with residential development. The current fee...
 based on the 2008 methodology, which really goes back to all of your previous park SDCs, has a method of charging all new residential development a flat rate, regardless of whether it's a big house or a small house. If you're building a single-family house, it's X dollars. If you're building a multifamily like a condo or an apartment, it's a little bit less than X. Those are the two fees. There's another fee for accessory dwelling units and one for single-room occupancies. But that's it. And size really hasn't mattered. And what we've discovered is,
 is that in the real world, size does matter. One size does not fit all. And we've been able to obtain, with the help of the demography experts at Portland State University, a detailed analysis of census data that tells us that there is a variation in the average number of persons per dwelling unit based on the size of the dwelling unit.
 Remember, you charge SDCs, whether they're for parks or transportation or whatever, when a permit is pulled. But you're not really charging that house or that condo. You're charging for the impacts on your system. And so we're talking about people impacting your park system. So I'd like to give you an example of what it looks like from this new data from the PSU folks. We're going to look at the average number of persons per...
 per dwelling unit, and we're going to show you two versions of the future. One is to continue what we have now, and the other is to change our way of thinking and base it on size. So here's what the table would look like. Down the left, the type of housing or the size of housing. The blue rows are the old way of doing things, the way we're doing it now. A flat rate for single, a flat rate for multi. But these numbers are not rates of fees. This is the average number of people in a house updated to today's data.
 And you can see there are important differences. I'd like to do a version of this slide and highlight some numbers to tell a little story about how this works out in the real world. So stick with me as we look at an example. Imagine you're going to build something in the central city that's multifamily in character, like a condominium building or apartments. Here's our same table, and I've highlighted in black two numbers for comparison purposes.
 Under the old system, every condo or apartment would be charged for 1.03 persons per household. Big apartments, small micro units, they'd all pay that same rate or pay for that same number of people. Down below, if we can switch to a size-based system, you can see that there would be, for the small units, actually fewer persons per household because the census data documents that that's the factual case.
 and for the larger houses there would be more persons per household. Let's do a different example. Let's go to the non-central city and let's imagine we're building a single family house.
 Same background table, but here I've highlighted in black the flat rate for a single-family house in the non-central city would be charged for 2.57 people. Down below, if you're building single-family houses in the non-central city, you're probably going to like our new schedule, because unless you build the very largest houses, you're going to pay for fewer persons per household. Only the very largest would pay more. And so we think that...
 Basing this on persons per dwelling unit is a much improved way of being more accurate in our SDC charges. So the third topic of making changes involves commercial development. Now what you did as of year 2008, you for the first time started charging park SDCs to commercial development.
 And in the course of establishing that, there were two distinctions that are listed here. There was a question of where the workers live, and a decision was made at that time to charge new businesses, because only new businesses that are building in new buildings would pay this SDC, those new businesses would pay only for the workers that come from out of town. And I think the theory is that the new workers who live in town are probably new residents in residential places.
 But the problem was that didn't make those businesses pay for their fair share. And the other distinction that was made that didn't seem to make a lot of sense was there are local access parks. And in the current method, the central city new businesses have to pay for local access parks. But for some reason, the decision was made not to charge in the outside, out in the non-central city. New businesses there don't have to pay for local access parks. And I couldn't find a rationale for that and recommended that we need to –
 get rid of this inconsistency, and so our new update eliminates those differences in where the workers live and eliminates the difference in where the local access parks are. It sounds complex. The study has the data, and it is a bit complex. Let me summarize for you the outcome of this in very simple terms. In 2008, taking all of these decisions into account,
 The net effect was that businesses were responsible for just under 13% of the impact on the park system, 12.9%. After all of these changes, we've increased that all the way up to 14.5%. So it's not a huge change, but we think it's accurate, and it has led to a somewhat small increase in the commercial rate category as a result.
 The fourth area of change I want to talk about is the type of park facilities. In the 2008 study, some things were excluded. You have a half dozen or so community centers and another five or so community centers that also have pools in them. All 11 of those community centers were left out of the 2008 methodology.
 You have five or so aquatic facilities, great facilities, and new development would benefit from them too, but they were left off the table. We're not sure why that happened, but we thought that the problem was obvious. It meant that growth SDCs weren't contributing to the entire array of park facilities for which they would get benefit, and it would prohibit you from buying more facilities of those types in order to serve their needs.
 So the update says get rid of the exclusions. If Portland Parks and Rec owns it as an asset in the public trust, it belongs as part of the consideration and the value per person of everything that we own. The last change that I want to talk to you about, and then I'm going to show you the rates themselves, is the recovery rate. As Mike said in his introduction, we've gone from 1998 30%, 2004 50%. Now 2008 we got up to 75%.
 One of the problems is none of those documents said, how are we going to make up the missing percent? If we only recover 75%, where's the other 25% going to come from? And so the problem was that growth wasn't paying for growth, and it isn't. What we're recommending is, for the first time in the city's history, a 100% recovery rate program,
 We do recognize that Portland Parks is the beneficiary of some modest amounts of money on a regular basis from urban renewal funds, from the occasional grant, occasionally from transfers from some other bureaus. And so we need to, under state law, recognize those funds and not double charge SDCs plus that money when we have that other money available. Turns out that other money doesn't.
 is only worth about 11% of the total. So our 100% cost recovery is 89% SDCs and 11% from urban renewal and grants. So now let's look at some numbers. And I'm going to show you four slides with SDC rates on them. I'm going to show you one slide for the central city for residential, then one for non-central city for residential, then we'll do two slides for commercial, one for central city and one for non-central city.
 And we're going to be trying comparing what we're doing now to where we're going. But remember, we're changing the methodology. So it's going to be a little odd. So here's the central city, residential. And the blue rows are the way we do it now. Flat rate for every single family, a different flat rate for every multifamily.
 The reason we can't line up the rows down below in green is because now we're recommending basing it on size. And so you — we're no longer interested in the type, we're interested in the size, because that's a better, more accurate measure of the number of persons. Still, we understand people will compare the numbers up above to the numbers down below. Some of them increase, some of them decrease. We're interested in being more accurate, and that's where we think we're landing with this. Let me show you an identical format, but these are the numbers for the non-central city, and they're a bit higher.
 And sometimes we go intuitively, yeah, but isn't parkland more expensive downtown? Yes. But remember, one of our key drivers is the average number of persons per household. And we have more persons per household in the non-central city. That's where the bigger houses are. And so the rates are going to be higher in the non-central city as a result. Now let me show you the two rate comparisons first for central city and then non-central city for the commercial development.
 These we can put right next to each other because we're not changing the underlying method. We have a fee now for office. We'll have a fee in the future for office. This is the cost per square foot. So if you build one square foot of new office, right now we charge you $1.09. The new rates we would charge you $2.37.
 From $1.09 to $2.37 is a big percentage, and you may be hearing people talking about, oh, my goodness, that's a 200% or 300% increase. In a minute, we're going to talk about the fact, yeah, but it's still only a $2 increase. Here's the same set of numbers for the non-central city. Again, increases in the vicinity of $1 or so for each of the types. They're a little bit lower in the non-central city because, in this case, the number of employees in the businesses is a smaller ratio than in the central city, which holds those rates down.
 I think the last thing I want to do about the rates before I talk about community concerns is to put in perspective what these new rates look like in the metropolitan area because we're not alone in charging SDCs. This chart lists Portland's new rates highlighted in green background and blue background, mostly at the bottom half of the chart. And then all the entries that were just white type on black background are 15 other rates charged for park SDCs in the metro area.
 These are listed in order of the numbers in the right-hand column from top to bottom. It's the total SDCs because the builder is less interested in the park portion versus the transportation portion. They want to know what size check they're going to write. And if they're going to build a residential unit, they're going to write the check in the right-hand column. As you can see from this chart, the Portland new rates, six of the eight rates, are below that yellow bar, which is the average of all of the 15 other jurisdictions.
 So we think that being consistent with your past practice of not being the highest and trying to be economic development strategy-wise, trying to be competitive, we've met that goal of being in the middle of the chart or, in some cases, practically at the bottom of the chart by using our new improved size-based methodology.
 So those, we think, position you well with the new rates. I want to close my conversation, take about three or four more minutes, and deal with some concerns that Portland Parks has heard as it has been out in the community, talking to people, receiving letters, the commissioners receive letters. We are not going to attempt here to answer everything that we've heard. We want you to hear from the public and various organizations about what their concerns are. But four of them struck us as things that we needed to provide a little additional information to enrich the community's understanding and yours. So I want to speak directly.
 briefly to these four things exemptions plans for spending what's the deal about the commercial rates and what's this business about SDC is based on size of housing exemptions the question is are we changing exemptions and we are making no changes to the existing exemption for park SDC's for affordable housing we're making no changes to the exemption for tenant improvements and folks this is one to remember the significance of that little phrase if you're planning on overhauling and moving into new business space
 Some jurisdictions will charge you a new SDC for that change in use, basically a tenant improvement. Your code has said for years, and we continue, we're going to leave it in place, that for park SDCs, we're not going to try and come after you and capture some small amount of money or big amount of money because you're changing use. So tenant improvements will not be charged. There is a new policy that we've included in the code for the first time. I want to talk for a minute about campus housing.
 When you started your SDCs in 1968, you only charged residences. College campuses are not residences. They are businesses or institutions. In 2008, when you started charging businesses and institutions, that brought the college campuses into the Park SDC arena. But...
 We had in mind that if a campus builds a new office building, it would pay the office building rate. What none of us thought about, they didn't think about it, we didn't think about it, is, ooh, if they build campus housing, dormitories, what do we do about that? There was no authority for us to exempt them. And so we didn't. We've been charging park SDCs for dorms.
 The campuses came to us and said, do you know that you, the city, have another policy that we must comply with? It's a policy that says we have to have a master plan for our campus. And as we grow and have more students, we have to provide housing for them on campus because you, the city, are protecting your residential neighborhood. You don't want the student housing to overwhelm and co-opt the residential housing. Well, it's true you have that policy. It's true the college campuses comply with it.
 And yet, they point out, we actually penalize them for complying with it because we charge them a park SDC when, irony of all ironies, they are the one commercial land use that brings with it its own athletic fields, its own recreational space, substantial investment in park opportunities for its students. Taken as a whole, the recommendation from staff, consultant, and the task force has been, we need to create an affirmative exemption for campus housing.
 The universities understand that does not change their treatment of new office buildings or college classrooms. They will still pay SDCs for those, so there's no question about that. We're just clarifying this important question of dorm space.
 Second thing we've heard about is, so where's the money going? Aren't you supposed to have a CIP? So for the listeners and those in the audience not familiar with our government jargon, CIP is Capital Improvement Plan or Capital Improvement Program. And it's a list of where you're going to spend your capital dollars. It's a list of specific projects that you're going to use and spend the money on. And the question that has arisen is, so where is that CIP? How do we know where you're going to spend these park dollars? And the answer is that...
 Portland Parks has a bunch of CIPs that I'm going to talk about in a minute, but the first thing I want to remind everybody is if we were having a conversation about the transportation SDC, and it's been my privilege to serve this city since 1997, I was your consultant for the 1997 transportation SDC and for 2007 in the two sub-areas. So I know how those work, and with those SDCs, you start with the CIP because you know what you need to fix,
 and then you divide those costs by the amount of growth, and that's your SDC. Parks has never been that way. It isn't that way for most other cities. It isn't that way in Portland, and it has never been that way. Instead, for parks, we start with a benchmark like acres per thousand, or now dollars per person, and we say, ah, that tells us the magnitude of what we need to build,
 Parks professionals, do you have projects that equal or exceed that? If you don't, we can't charge that much of an SDC. But if you do, please prepare us a CIP that demonstrates that. And what you'll find on the record is that Portland Parks, since the beginning of your 1998 SDC, and even predating that, has always been planning for CIPs and maintains a number of them, a short and an intermediate and a long-term one.
 And so we're able to demonstrate where the money would go, but we didn't use the where the money we're going to go to back into the SDC. Instead, we used the investment per person to get there. Last thing I want to reassure everybody is...
 and this has been a concern raised by some of the community concerns we held, really, can you do it that way legally? Don't you have to have a CIP and then back into the SDCs? A careful reading of ORS 223.309, it never says that's how you do it. It says you have to have a CIP, and we do, but that's not the way you calculate park SDCs. That question that I mentioned earlier about those commercial rates going from $1 to $3 and it's a 300% increase,
 It is a 300% increase, but what does that really mean in the market? If you're going to go out and rent office space, you're not going to get a 300% increase in your rent. What is going to happen? Here's a table we've compiled. The first row shows very recent data of what an average lease for office space is in the city of Portland. As of this last February, it was $19.61 a square foot. A lot of places cost more than that. A lot of places cost less than that. That is the average.
 That number includes, for any new office space, the existing park SDC. So our only concern is, are we increasing that SDC? Yes, we're proposing to do that. The second row acknowledges that if we take that increase, let's say it's $1.30, and we amortize it over 10 years for the life of the lease, it's $0.13 a year per square foot. So add the $0.13 to the $19.61, and we've gone all the way up to $19.74.
 That's not even a 1% increase. It's two-thirds of a percent. And meanwhile, that two-thirds of a percent, if it happened or it didn't happen, is overwhelmed by the number below it. The market forces, with or without any changes in SDC, raised the rents on office space in the last 12 months 6.9%. So we don't think we're the cause of concern. We don't think we're going to stop office development in the city by this modest increase. And by the way, we did this same analysis for retail and industrial leases, and the results were the same.
 My last discussion point from community concerns is about this business of using the size of dwelling units as the basis for charging for SDCs. We've had some community members and professional groups express some real concerns, and the question was asked in a particularly thoughtful way. Doesn't it change the SDC into a tax? Because under state law, if we've...
 charge something based on the value of property, that is a tax. And we run into measure five and all the other limits that we face. So it's important for us not to have our SDC tied exactly to the value of the property. But changing...
 residential properties into a size base doesn't automatically turn this into a tax. And the first reason why it's now on the screen in front of you is we've been charging SDCs for commercial space based on size forever. We do it with transportation fees. We do it with park fees. That has never run afoul of calling this a tax. So we think it's unlikely to somehow magically turn it into a tax just because we're doing it for park SDCs.
 And the census data provides us the objective protection that we would need to fend off any challenge or litigation. The data that those tables we looked at earlier with the 1.03 people per household and the 2.57, those numbers are from the census. Those numbers are official government data. The raw data has been provided to us by the Portland State University demographers. We have confidence in the accuracy and the expertise behind those numbers, and we think that it's something that you can rely on.
 Now I'd like to turn things back over to Mike to just summarize where we've been and talk a little bit about some of the program's successes.
 Thanks, Randy. You know, Parks SDCs are the city's primary source of funding to address the need for expanded park facilities. And as Randy mentioned, we've acquired a lot and built a lot of parks through our SDC program. As a matter of fact, we've funded the acquisition of about 976 acres using Parks SDCs over the years. That's about 9% of our total acreage has been funded through SDCs.
 That's allowed us to build new parks and new trails and be strategic in acquiring property. We have also been able to leverage another 165 acres in joint funding with other bureaus and other agencies to acquire land. So this idea of being able to leverage the public investment has been a key part through these joint funding strategies.
 And we've been able to construct 18 new park facilities from turning empty facilities or empty fields into new fields and play areas. And in addition to brand new things, we've been able to make improvements in about 31 parks. So converting turf fields to synthetic or expanding trails and expanding play areas, for example.
 So here's a few recent highlights of projects that would not have been possible without SDCs. So the South Waterfront Central District Greenway provides us critical north-south link along the river on the west side. It also created a model for ecological restoration and function along the river. Parks SDCs were a primary funding source, along with major contributions from the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area, TriMet, and the Bureau of Environmental Services.
 This project, just nearing completion, will be open to the public in late May with a dedication ceremony on June 27th.
 Connemox Park in the Cully neighborhood was entirely funded with Parks SDCs, including both the acquisition of the property in 2009 and the design and the construction complete this year. Cully is a transitional neighborhood that's seen considerable growth in the form of infill housing, and this park creates not just a place to recreate but a focus of pride and community gathering. The grand opening for Connemox Park will be May 16th of this year.
 I think you're well familiar with the recently completed Westmoreland Park Adventure Play Area in southeast Portland. Received a lot of national attentions for its innovative way of creating creative play and nature exploration. SDC funding provided a huge portion of the construction dollars with contributions from both Metro and the city's general fund.
 And then finally, on the other end of the spectrum, acquiring property. This is the view from Eagle Point along the Terwilliger Parkway. That was a vision set forth in the original Terwilliger Parkway Master Plan in 1913. And the opportunity to purchase that property was brought to our attention by the friends of Terwilliger, who noticed a temporary for sale sign on the property. And fortunately, Parks SDC funds were available to purchase that property.
 to quickly purchase the property and realize the vision set forth over 100 years ago. So these are just a few of the examples of the many strategic investments that have helped forge the success of our Park System Development Charge Program.
 So I urge you to take the next step to preserve this success and see it into the future. We ask for your consideration and approval of this updated Parks SDC methodology. We believe, as Commissioner Fritz said, that this will provide no more but no less than what is needed to ensure that our beloved park system continues to keep pace with our growing community. So thank you, and I'd like to turn it back over to Commissioner Fritz at this time.
 Thank you very much. And before we do questions, there's a couple of amendments that I'd like to introduce, which I've passed out to my colleagues. One is when looking at the...
 sizing issue. Wanted to make sure that very small units, including accessory dwelling units in small apartments, pay even less because as our methodology showed, the number of people per dwelling unit is even less in those very small units. So we're proposing to amend Table 3.2 to start the cutoff at 800 square feet instead of 1,000 square feet and then proportionately.
 And then that also amends the numbers in terms of the cost of that. Commissioner, if you wish, I have those numbers on a slide. Yes, that would be great. Thank you. So this slide is the revised...
 okay there we go these are the revisions that the commissioner is including in her amendment and they would be revised in the technical documents and in the appropriate sections of the code these would be the new persons per dwelling unit that would replace those earlier tables and then the next table replaces the earlier version that i showed you of the central city rates instead of four sizes down below there would be five and the smallest unit would be under 700 square feet and last but not least
 the non-central city would also have the new five categories with the smallest category being under 700 square feet. I want to hasten to add that we were very careful in our working with the Portland State demographers that we didn't just pick a number and say can we get 300 square feet units or 500 square feet units. This is the smallest size that they can rationally defend as having enough data in it to be statistically valid.
 to go lower than that would put us all at risk of being not statistically significant. I have a question off this table. The category of less than 700 square foot, which I'm actually pleased you're adding, so that brings back some conversations we've had over the last few years where people,
 developers have said that by by charging by the door we were working at cross purposes with our green building policies we wanted to encourage smaller footprint but we were charging the 500 square foot residential unit the same sdc as the 2500 square foot penthouse right so the theory here i guess is that if you
 If we have a category less than 700 square foot, we're talking about that smaller unit, which under this table would come in lower than the current multifamily rate. So there would, in fact, be an incentive for that kind of housing. Do I read it correctly? That is correct. And I misspoke before. It was 700, not 800. So I move that as an amendment. Second. We move the amendments. Thank you. Further discussion on accepting the amendments? Roll call.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? And because we had published and had the comment period for 30 days with the previous number, we left it in for the presentation. This is a result of public testimony and my own consideration. Thank you. Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Question I have, this isn't new to
 this change in methodology, but I guess I want to make sure that it's captured in the methodology. And that is, so you mentioned that there's roughly 7% of the land in the city that's vacant. Correct. When it's developed, that's when it pays this SDC, right? Yes. But part of how we've funded parks in the past is,
 and in the present is general obligation bond measures that are ad valorem property taxes on all property, including vacant land. Correct. So is the methodology already discounted for the fact that that property has paid multiple times on levies or bond measures but not received any actual service from the park system? No.
 Anyone who has already paid their SDC has paid an SDC that did take into account whatever the policy was intended to be for future bond issues. Let me put it this way. Say that again. I'm sorry. In 2008, the study was adopted, and it anticipated that between 2008 and now, you were going to have multiple bond issues for the purpose of expanding parks for new development.
 And therefore, which you didn't do, you did the 2014 bond issue to take care of the current parks. So the answer to your question is, in this new SDC calculation, are we anticipating more bond issues? And if so, have we reduced the SDC because of future tax payments? Yes.
 And we don't see another bond issue for adding capacity to the park system for new development. So we have not calculated that tax credit that for commercial development was 50% in the non-central city in the 2008 rate. That's one of the reasons the commercial rates have gone up. You gave a large discount for bond issues you didn't then approve.
 Does that make sense, Mr. Merritt? Because this is a forward-looking SDC. If we adopt this and you then two years from now decide to put out a bond issue and it's approved and it is parks for new growth, then at that point you could call a timeout and redo those numbers. But anybody who pays between now and when you change that policy needs to be basing their payment on current policy. Yeah, I guess I'll need to process that a little longer. We have a mixture of forward-looking and backward-looking SDCs when you look at all of ours, water, sewer.
 transportation parks. But I live in a house that was built in 1930 before there was an SDC. There's a vacant lot down the street from me. My property and that property both paid taxes to support the bond measure, but only one of those properties received actual service from the park system during the time
 before the time that that vacant lot has a house on it. Right. Correct. It did pay a lower tax because a large portion of the tax is on the house. Sure. But your point is still, they paid some tax. Yes. That's correct. So does our methodology account for that sunk investment? No. No, because it's forward-looking. Correct. Right. Okay. But once it's developed –
 Yeah. Then it's going to, yeah, obviously. Okay. I get it. Because there's nobody creating demand on that vacant lot. When the house goes in, now there's demand for parks that aligns. Yeah, because it's per person. So now there are people there. I get it. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner Novick?
 What is the median size of new dwelling units in Portland now? I mean, I look at these categories, and I don't know if each category represents 20% of what's going up now or if it's wildly different than that. I do not have the answer to that question, so I'll ask staff or others to get us that answer very quickly. But I do want to point out we didn't base these size categories on median and above median and below median. We based it on what the census data told us we could defensively create five categories around.
 Okay. I just want to note that according to the census, the average size of a new single-family home as of 2010 is over 2,000 square feet. So if that's true in Portland, obviously we'd have to adjust for multifamily housing, but it's not as if houses over 1,700 square feet are big in today's world.
 Well, Commissioner, I would say that you mentioned multifamily, and there's been a large uptick in the number of multifamily units, whether it's apartments or condos, and those have tended to be on the smaller side. So we'll find the median of all housing, both single-family and multifamily, and provide that. Other questions? No.
 So back to the point about a capital improvement schedule or program. So this is the most details I've seen. I mean, the placeholder was very big. And I'm noticing almost all the investments, the vast majority of investments are occurring after 2020 and in the 2025-2035 period. So it's all kind of – it's not front-loaded. It's back-loaded.
 it's actually relatively smooth it isn't exactly equal in each of those first five years the document lays out each year for the first five and then a column for the next six and then the last ten okay so that last ten looks like a big number but it's covering our 10-year period yeah so i guess to me that begs the question i i accept your point there that i was looking at year by year plus five-year aggregates but it does beg the point we've heard
 I've heard people suggest that this be staggered in, the new SDC. So I guess what is your response to that? Could this be staggered or staged? Phased in, Commissioner. I'm not choosing my words well today. Phased in. Yeah, yeah.
 I'd say it could be. It's a little bit challenging just because of the change in methodology and the way that it's now being calculated in investment per person as opposed to – but I think, Commissioner Fritz, you've given this some consideration. I haven't. Thank you, Commissioner Salzman. You reminded me of my Second Amendment. Sure.
 But if you turn to the third page of what I handed out, that is to have the effective date be January 1st of 2016. So using Commissioner Fish's experience with the previous committee,
 increases in system development charges. Phasing it in didn't necessarily help folks. What developers need to know is certainty. So we figured that by putting the start date of January 1st of next year, that would be time enough for projects that are currently being designed and figured out to factor in the $1,000 to $2,000 or whatever the increased cost is.
 So that's instead of doing a little bit of an increase and then another increase, we decided to just do it once but set out the start date. So I'm moving that amendment to have the – I guess I'd prefer before I vote on that, I'd prefer to hear some testimony on it. Well, just to put it on the table. I'll second it for purpose of putting it on the table. Okay. Further discussion? Yeah, we can accept these and then act on them again if you'd like to. Roll call. Okay.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? I guess I want to hear testimony. No. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Any other amendments that we've got to get in front of us? If I can just ask my last set of questions here. So we were given a memo from NAOP.
 from a Daniel Heffernan company, and I don't know if he's planning to testify. Have you seen this? Have you had a chance to respond to it? It was given to us last night, but I have read it in detail. I have responses for all the questions there. I will present them in whatever format you choose. Why don't you follow up with us in writing if you can, just because I want to make sure we hear people today. Okay. Other questions for our team? So first of all, I want to say that as a student of PowerPoints,
 I think there should be an award for someone that fits so much complex information in such a brief and understandable PowerPoint. And my basic rule of thumb is if I can understand it, that's progress. So congratulations. Very kind. Thank you. Extra credit for typeface size. Yeah. So I really appreciate the clarity with your PowerPoint. I have a hunch you've done these before. It's not my first rodeo.
 I'm also pleased that you've not only reaffirmed the exclusion for affordable housing, but you put the campus housing issue on the table, and I think you've made a very compelling rationale for that. So I'm pleased that that's in your proposal. Two questions. One is under the investment per person model where you use current value of assets, does that have the effect of inflating the value of any of the assets in our portfolio?
 From the viewpoint of insuring it, would we have to raise the insurance to protect it at that value? The argument that I read somewhere was Forest Park as an example. Does it have the effect of in any way inflating the value of Forest Park for purposes of the denominator of the formula you're using? No, because we evaluated the different parcels.
 very carefully in terms of what the source of the pricing mechanism was. Is it being valued today at more than what donations were made and acquisition prices were then? At least on the basis, yeah. Clearly. But we're stuck with the dilemma I mentioned earlier. We can't buy the next new park, whether it's as big as Forest Park or one bazillionth of that. We can't buy any new park acres at those prices. So we have to charge today's prices. That's why we're using the replacement cost. This is, by the way, a methodology I've been using since the late 80s, and we use replacement costs in all these cases because we have to pay new prices.
 Okay, thank you. And the only other number that we haven't put out for the public to consider that might be useful is we're in the middle of sort of a bull market for housing and for commercial development, very healthy amount of SDC receipts. Do you have a sense, let's say, under calendar year 20,
 2014, what the difference would have been in terms of what we collected in STCs under the old system, and then if you had applied this new system
 what the increase would have been? Or do you have any year-to-year projection? We could give us just a relative sense of how this sweetens the pot. Commissioner, I don't think we do. The challenge is we're introducing a new methodology that's based on size, and we'd have to go back to every permit in 2014-2014
 collect information on every unit, its size, and run that calculation. So we don't have that. Is there any question that would be fair to ask? I mean, assuming this is adopted and there isn't a fundamental change in market fundamentals today,
 Do you anticipate a X percent increase in SDC revenue for parks? No, I don't. And I think as the table showed, there's many situations where the SDC is actually going to decrease rather than increase. And SDCs, in terms of its total revenue, is really not so much a factor of the methodology as it is about how much growth happens. And that's why, you know, three years ago we had virtually nothing in SDC revenue that came in. So that's what's very difficult to predict. Okay.
 Okay. Well, thank you very much. I've got a couple of additional questions.
 In the, you touched on this, in the asset, the status of the city assets report, parks assets are listed at $1.3 billion. You explained that that's buildings and such, it doesn't include the value of land. So the value of land must be another $2.2 billion. Approximately. But you've said that there's not enough land in the city for us to continue to buy the same amount of land per person. It just seems to me off the top of my head that by factoring in the value of land as part of the base you start from,
 You're kind of ignoring the fact that we physically can't buy that much more land. Good point. But it's also true that if we want new people who join us in Portland to have the same asset value working for them on their behalf, we would need to make a higher investment in non-land, in improvements, in order to provide them that equal value. So we're earning it because our previous investment was land. We're going to spend it in our future investment on improvements. Right.
 Which are much more expensive, really, on a per-acre basis than the land cost itself. All right. It does sound like you're talking about doing totally different things in the future than you've done in the past, but assuming that we spend the same amount of money per person. And I'm not sure that's intuitively obvious. But let me move on to another question, which is,
 It seems that you're kind of assuming that there's no additional capacity in our existing parks, that if one more person moves to the city, then they can't go and spend time in an existing park without driving up the cost of that park. Now, you're also assuming, as you said before, there's no deficiencies in the existing system, which is obviously untrue. But I think that, again, it's not going to be intuitive for people that there's no room for any additional person to take advantage of our existing park.
 Commissioner, what this will allow us to do is any improvements that we make in an existing park that expands that park's capacity. So an easy one is let's say we triple the size of the play area.
 that would be eligible for SDC investment because it's increasing the capacity, adding a pump track into an existing park, building tennis courts in an existing park that doesn't have them. All of those improvements in existing parks that expand capacity would be eligible for SDC investments.
 Another question is, I see that you're discounting metros growth projections, and you say that that doesn't have any impact in cost per person. Right. Again, some people might think, I can sort of see what the counter might be, but some people might think, well, if you're talking about the cost of growth and then dividing that by people, if you've got, if you're going to have more people, then you can spread the cost of growth over a larger number of people, so why wouldn't adopting metros more?
 uh... larger growth estimates result in a reduction in cost per person but the the key to the answer is the way you frame the question you began with if we have the cost for growth and then divided what is that cost for growth if the assumption is that there's this magical cip document that somehow knows what the future needs regardless of the amount of growth and we're gonna divide that by a different number of people that completely uh...
 is out of compliance with our state law on how we're supposed to think about charging a proportionate share to new development. What we're saying is whether we are buying acres per thousand or dollars per person, either way we have to set a benchmark to achieve and then we need to list the projects that will accomplish that. We're not, that's always going to be a number per person and if you have twice as many people it's going to be twice the cost.
 Understood. My last question is actually for the commissioner in charge, which is this. I asked PBOT to calculate if we adopted Parks' methodology, given that PBOT's assets or replacement value is about $9.6 billion.
 then the SDCs for transportation should go up from the current $2,800 per house to $14,000 per person. So I'm going to ask the commissioner in charge if she would support that increase in PBOT's SDCs. She does not have to answer that question. What's your cost recovery number? If hers is 89%, what's yours net of all the other sources? Alex, I'm going to interrupt this. I think we need to let some folks testify. Yes, sir.
 A good conversation. Thank you very much.
 Thank you for interrupting. The mayor has announced that he definitely wants to get to the other testimony today, so I'd like to invite our invited testifiers up, and then we'll open it to public testimony. And just so that everybody knows, if there's significant concerns or if my colleagues want more time to discuss or get more information, especially from our wonderful Randy Young and his consulting team, we're going to be available between now and whenever we vote on it. So, thank you.
 Plenty of time for discussion. Okay, who do you have for invited testimony? Good afternoon.
 Kathy Fong-Stevens, the chair of the Parks Board, and my partner here, Jim Owens. And I will give a very brief overview of what our role is as the Parks Board. Very brief, because I think you know that. But also what our process was for considering this item, especially considering that there was a task force that was dedicated to it. And also our thinking about the recommendations. Okay.
 So our role as Parks Board is to advise on citywide and long-term perspective issues and policy issues. And so obviously a key funding mechanism is the SDCs, and so that was a high priority for us to address this year. And, yeah.
 Imagine our dismay when we find out that SDCs and looking at the issue is far more complicated than just a percentage of how much more money do you want to raise through SDCs. It's quite complex. And so our process for looking at this was we had Jim Owens as one of our parks board members as liaison to the task force.
 and he spent hours and hours looking into this with that task force. And this was discussed at three of our parks board meetings.
 and turned it upside down and inside out and really tried to get a grasp on this complex issue. The bottom line of our thinking on our recommendations, which we sent to you earlier, was that if presented basically with these two scenarios of what's included in the methodology,
 what's included for the calculations what are we trying to pay for how much should scdc's pay for what's the fair proportion of what they pay for for new growth and new improvements if you looked at our current system and we didn't know which was which
 And then we looked at what was presented today very thoroughly and accurately. What our board really decided was what made sense and what was more appropriate and the reasonable approach was the methodology that's being presented today.
 And so I think that's one way of looking at it. It's not just what are the changes or what are the ultimate charges, which was something that we couldn't crunch the numbers and go into all the weeds of that, but what made more sense as far as methodology, what was included, and that's why we came up with our recommendation, which Jim will go further into.
 Good afternoon. For the record, I'm Jim Owens. As Kathy indicated, I'm a Parks Board member and I served on the task force. And it's nice to be here on a different topic. I'm going to speak very quickly to three things, methodology, exemptions, and implementation. On the methodology, the Parks Board voted unanimously to support this new methodology. On the basis that it's a reasonable, more accurate, and I want to emphasize necessary methodology,
 approach to ensuring that we have adequate level apart and recreation improvements for future residents in the city so as a parts board we think this methodology is rational uh... very defendable we have a variety reasons for it and three i want to cite our as randy indicated we simply cannot meet future parks and recreation needs with our current methodology we're not we're just not going to get there two is
 SDC should not be just about meeting the demand for park land, but also about meeting the demand for recreational facilities. And this new methodology would enable SDCs to fund recreation facilities such as pools and community centers that cannot be funded under the current methodology. And third, as Randy indicated, we're not breaking new ground here. There are a number of jurisdictions around the country of comparable size using a similar methodology.
 Regarding exemptions, we strongly support a continuation of the existing exemption for affordable housing so that we can ensure that the neediest Portlanders have a place to live. Secondly, we're recommending that the exemption for accessory dwelling units, ADUs, granny flats, be allowed to sunset in 2016.
 And this is based upon our perception that an increasing number of ADUs are being converted to Airbnbs and VRBOs, and those are commercial uses. Third, we support the exemption for on-campus university housing. As Randy indicated, it is city policy to concentrate that housing on campus, and we think that's entirely supportable. And finally, on implementation.
 I believe the Parks Board would support the Commissioner's proposal to delay implementation for six months. We did have some concerns about immediate implementation and associated sticker shocks, so this would help that. We support moving from an SDC model that provides about 75% of the cost of providing services to something closer to 100% of the cost.
 And our understanding is this proposed change would increase the recovery rate from about 75% to 88% or 89%, and we would make up that differential with other funding sources. And then finally, as the Parks Board, we would like to get an annual report on implementation so we can see how this new methodology is doing and early on recommend adjustments as needed.
 This update to our SDC program is really important for the livability of this great city. We urge you to just do it. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Kuffner. Mr. Mayor, members of the council, my name is Jim Kuffner from the University of Portland, which was a member of the College Coalition. One of our other members, Denny Stockland, Vice President for Financial Affairs at Concordia University, sat on the task force that reviewed the changes to the Parks SDC program.
 I am here to testify on only one element of the SDC update as it relates to college campuses. On-campus housing has historically been exempt from the Parks SDC. In the 2008 update, this exemption was eliminated without discussion. Instead, by later interpretation, on-campus housing was simply lumped into SRO housing and therefore subject to the SDC where it had not been subject to the SDC before 2008.
 We very much appreciate the Park Bureau and the Task Force engaging in a productive and thorough conversation over the last two years about why on-campus housing should again be excluded from the park's SDC, and we appreciate the Task Force and park's recommendation for such an exclusion that is now reflected in the update that is before you.
 Colleges are unique. We are approved through a discretionary review process that requires, in the case of a conditional use master plan, that we include all of our uses within our boundary. The approval process also requires that we demonstrate that we are not lessening the overall character of the area by introducing college uses into a nearby single-family and multi-family neighborhood. The same is true for an institutional master plan process.
 These criteria heavily encourage, if not really require, that we build student housing on campus. There is a significant policy issue at stake. The City wants to encourage on-campus housing in order to protect the livability of nearby neighborhoods. This on-campus housing keeps students on campus, reducing noise, vehicle trips, and other potential conflicts in the neighborhood.
 The students who live on campus have very easy access to recreational facilities and park-like settings on these campuses. Take, for example, the University of Portland. We have play fields, open space, indoor and outdoor sports venues, trails, and the like. Our students play on campus, choosing easy and fast access to their own campus park over a trip to a city park.
 A Parks SDC for on-campus housing would discourage the very on-campus housing that the City is trying to encourage through its own conditional use process. And the colleges, unlike other uses, provide ample open space for these on-campus student residents, as well as open space for community members to enjoy, whether it is walking a trail through our campus, throwing a frisbee, or walking their dog.
 In fact, almost every night of the week, community soccer clubs use our fields instead of the fields at local parks. For all of these reasons, the task force recommended excluding campus housing from the parks SDC. And we urge you to adopt the ordinance language before you that carries that exclusion.
 As one important clarification, you will note that this exclusion applies only to on-campus housing. If a college builds off-campus alone or in a joint venture with a private party, then that off-campus housing would pay its own parks SDC. Thank you very much for this opportunity to appear before you. Thank you for your participation. Any questions for this panel? Thank you. Our final invited speaker is Debbie Iona from the League of Women Voters. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks. I'm Debbie Iona representing the League of Women Voters. As a member of the Parks SDC Task Force and League Action Chair, I appreciate the opportunity to comment on behalf of the League on the SDC Methodology Update Report. We support the new methodology and rates.
 With the able assistance of the project's expert consultant, Mr. Randy Young, and Parks Bureau SDC manager, Riley Whitcomb, the task force carefully considered several complex issues, including quantifying the level of service, occupancy rates in single-family and multifamily housing units, and SDC fees for college dorms.
 The League's involvement in this issue dates back to 2000 when we challenged a city decision to grant a Parks SDC credit to a Pearl District developer.
 League representatives have served on all three task forces since the park's SDC program was created. Our organization supports quality infrastructure and public facilities designed to meet the needs of residents and businesses, as well as a fair distribution of tax burdens and government investment.
 The process the task force used for this update helped develop a more realistic way to assure that the parks will serve the needs of future residents while equitably distributing the SDC burden on new development.
 Early in this update process, task force members questioned whether the current level of service methodology, based on acres of parkland per thousand residents, was still useful given the growing scarcity of undeveloped land in Portland. Mr. Young explored other approaches to quantifying the level of service and presented the task force with the methodology now under consideration. Thank you.
 places a dollar value per capita on existing parks in order to project what the cost will be to maintain that level of service as development occurs and the population grows. Task force members agreed that this is a more suitable approach.
 The task force also discussed whether the current practice of using one rate for each type of housing, single or multi-family, accurately reflects occupancy rates and thus the capacity needed to serve city's residents. Mr. Young consulted with the PSU Population Research Center and provided the task force with the information.
 With census data and analysis on the occupancy rates of various types of housing units, the task force discussed the disadvantages of using the number of bedrooms as a yardstick. Unit size based on square footage, regardless of whether the unit is single-family or in a multi-family development, is supported by the available data and better reflects occupancy rates.
 Although the recommended methodology will no longer be based on acreage, we urge the Parks Bureau to continue to acquire new park land. As densities increase over time, it is essential that we preserve vital natural areas and provide the open spaces Portland residents need to experience nature, play, and exercise.
 The task force discussed at great length SDCs for college dorms. Although we did not resolve the issue, the league recommends including the topic in the next scheduled update. The city should take into account the park's capacity needed for the students living in campus dorms and establish an appropriate rate.
 And I just want to thank you again for the opportunity to participate in the task force and to comment. We support the new methodology and the rate structure and also agree with the amendments that Commissioner Fritz has presented. Thanks a lot. Thank you very much. Debbie, can I ask you a question? And I'm asking you this because the League has a real commitment to fairness, and there's a fairness issue I wanted to throw at you.
 which is we are not maintaining our existing parks. There's a maintenance deficit, which means basically that we are not asking the current residents of Portland to pay to maintain the parks we already have in the amount that would be necessary.
 Do you think that somebody moving to Portland into a new house, buying a new house, a 1,700-square-foot house, which would have increased rates under this proposal, would you think they would have a fairness argument that, wait a minute, you're not asking the existing residents to pay the full cost of maintaining the parks they already have. Why is it fair to ask me to pay the full cost of what I'm allegedly adding to the system?
 I understand the dilemma. It's interesting when I submitted this issue to our board for consideration, that's exactly the response I got from one of our board members was, she hates the idea of adding more parks when we can't take care of what we have. And I'm understanding your fairness issue too. We just passed the parks bond to help maintain our parks. Clearly not enough.
 But, you know, I think we, you know, I always have this hope that someday, you know, we will have this revelation that we need to pay for what we have. And by now saying we're not going to plan for keeping the capacity to meet the growth, we won't have the capacity, you know, the added parks to take care of. And, you know, that's good.
 Portlanders like to pay for things, maybe we'll get to the point where we can really pay to take care of our parks adequately. So that's the best I can do. Sorry. I appreciate that. And also the fairness issue is that some Portlanders currently have parks and others don't. And if we don't continue to invest in new parks, then that will continue to be unfair. Thank you, Debbie. Commissioner Novick and I are hoping that consciousness dawns on the need to maintain infrastructure on a number of fronts. I agree. 100%. Thank you.
 So I think we have a sign-up sheet. We are going to probably have to break at 4 o'clock to take our next item, so I want to ask people to be succinct. So let's start down the list. How many do we have, Carl? We have 25. So we'll try to get some of you. Again, the briefer you can be, the more people we can hear from. So let's try to hold comments to two minutes, please. Thank you.
 First three, please come on up, are Jim Labby, Lynn Harmon Walker, and Joyce Lay. And they'll be followed by Stephanie Haas, Terry Parker, and Bob Sollinger. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, City Council. My name is Jim Labby with Audubon Society Portland, and I'm here representing our 15,000 members in the Portland metropolitan area. I'm wearing these little stickers, 100% for parks. Some of our supporters are in the audience wearing them.
 Because we're here to support 100% adoption of this proposed SDC package. We realize that's not 100% a cost recovery, but we want to see it. We're asking you to adopt it without any reduction. I'll say briefly, as you know, access to parks and nature is a public good. It's also an essential urban infrastructure. And in Portland, good access is essential.
 is a widely shared community value. The people who've always come here and have experienced and lived here
 They've come here because of good access to nature. And when the Portland voters passed their first bond measure in 1907, they did it because they cared for that. And that shaped future generations in terms of this value, this core value. It's certainly a core value of Audubon Society of Portland's mission, equitable access within current generations and to future generations as well. Thank you.
 I worked on the regional equity atlas in 2006, and one thing we found that was very clear from that analysis is the deficiencies in equities we have today in our park system are a result of our failing to pay for parks as we grew. So that's why this is really an essential point that gets the issue that Commissioner Fritz raised. It's about really dealing with equity in the future. Okay.
 The program, I served on the committee, the task force, in 2008, and it's amazing what has been achieved under this program. I really urge you to adopt it in full. There's a lot of specific projects out there to achieve, and I staff our office out in East Portland at Leach Botanical Garden, and I see on the ground what the great work that's being done, funded by SDCs, to really make park access equitable within this city. Thank you. Thanks.
 thank you very much thanks afternoon hello uh so today i am here on behalf of the coalition for a livable future whose board unanimously unanimously supports the 2015 parks sdc proposal the coalition as you all know represents more than 60 diverse institutional members serving many many thousands of portlanders
 The mission to protect, restore, and maintain healthy, equitable, and sustainable communities, both human and natural, for the benefit of present and future residents of our greater metropolitan area and, of course, of Portland. This cannot be done without adequate provision of park and green space lands in all parts of our city. CLF has supported the development of parks SDCs for more than 10 years now, and we commend Commissioner Fritz.
 and her hard work in ensuring strategic investment in long-neglected areas of East Portland. The coalition's Regional Equity Atlas provides a lot of detail. It's in its second edition and has identified many areas of Portland that are deficient in parks and community spaces, as well as other indicators of quality of life. So now that historic inequities are finally starting to be identified and remedied, we'll be able to see this happening. Thank you.
 our Atlas so we all know that safe and secure parks make a huge difference in the community's collective physical and mental health our sense of community and The viability of our ecosystem which provides many different ecosystem services that may or may not be valued But are essential in the future future generations of Portlanders who will have to do more with less and live in a live in a more populated city and
 will still be able to play and meet their neighbors if we act now to preserve the lands for parks. So we are thinking ahead to how we can create a sustainable, equitable, and healthy city. This is one step in that direction. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much for CLS advocacy. Welcome. Thank you.
 I'm Joyce Lay, and I'm with Wilkes Community Group, which is a neighborhood association in East Portland, but it's the northern part of East Portland. My backyard is Gresham.
 I love parks and natural areas, and for that, those two, I have such a passion. So I drafted a letter, and it's kind of a summary maybe of what Oliver Twist might say in the two words, more please.
 Build it and they will come. There are many citizens in our city who want to be involved in developing a local park. Their visions of future experiences that they might anticipate with their families and friends in a new park can fuel energy and enthusiasm. Unfortunately, this eagerness is too often thwarted when there is no master plan in place for this designated property.
 We have learned that there must be a master plan for it establishes what community members desire in and from their parks and more. Without the master plan in place, any progress toward a property becoming a park is minimal at best.
 The Portland Parks and Recreation System development charges made at the time of development contribute funds for park improvements and master planning of properties designated to be parks. Purchasing land for the explicit intent of establishing a future park demonstrates foresight. However, when such land lacks access for public use, the public is not being served.
 This is like building ships to be safe while they're in harbor, but we all know that is not why ships are built.
 My request to the City Council is that your decision will be to continue using system development charges with no reductions. And I like the presentation. I think that really gets at an equity and a fairness issue. The investment of these SDCs into city parks can offer, in return, a healthier and happier citizenry, a result that we could say is actually priceless.
 We must not forget that children should have experiences in nature when they are young. If not, we can only expect them to grow into adults who will hold little value for preserving our natural and wild places for everyone to enjoy and utilize."
 Our Portland Parks and Recreation System recently won a national award recognizing outstanding qualities throughout the park's system. The City of Portland should be unwilling to commit to anything less.
 Please continue the SDCs with no reduction. This action can ensure improvement in the city's parks and properties designated to become parks. Thank you for consideration of this request. Jim, you raised an issue in paragraph 5 of your letter. I had a chance to read it. I agree with everything in your letter. Paragraph 5 talks about a Lewis and Clark rebate.
 Your characterization is so at variance with the facts. I don't think we have to debate it now, but I think if Audubon is interested in that, we should give you a briefing. Because, in fact, under the arguments Lewis and Clark made under the then-applicable code, they weren't covered. So the city made a decision that rather than spend a lot of money litigating applicability,
 abstract questions, they would put it on ice waiting for this report to be done. That's entirely different than just saying we're going to apply retroactively or your analogy about a tax rebate. I understand why you'd be concerned. I think a little more information that we shared with you, I think, would allay that concern. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Next three are Stephanie Haas, Terry Parker, and Bob Sollinger, and they'll be followed by Nancy Spanovich, Eli Spivak, and Kevin Cavanaugh.
 Welcome. You can go first. Okay. Good afternoon. My name is Stephanie Haas and I am here on behalf of my nonprofit organization, Portland After School Tennis and Education, which offers at-risk youth from low-income families access to free educational activities and tennis lessons in St. John's. We support public parks and community centers because we know that children and families we serve have restricted access to private tennis clubs and exercise facilities.
 Our organization benefits from St. John's Park and Community Center every day for fitness activities, and we also run a soccer league at that park on the weekends. Currently, there are no usable tennis courts within three miles of St. John's, so it is a challenge for our families who are learning to play tennis to find usable outdoor facilities to enjoy tennis together as a family.
 We hope that Parks SDC will support an upgrade to indoor, excuse me, to outdoor tennis facilities in North Portland in particular. Without these parks and recreation resources within walking distance of St. John's, the youth and families we serve would be at a greater risk of health concerns caused by sedentary behavior because they would not have a free, safe space to exercise. Thank you.
 We believe the proposed methodology is more sustainable and fits better with the expected future growth in North Portland and the limits of our city's boundaries. Growth in the city, especially North Portland, results in park and open spaces becoming more valuable, as we all know. Citizens of St. John's and members of the Portland Afterschool Tennis and Education Program continue to hope for better park facilities and services, and this update will allow parks.
 to be used to improve community centers, tennis courts, and other park facilities, which cannot be done under the current methodology as we see it, at least not as effectively. We believe that new development should pay for its share of costs, and this will hopefully benefit our families through improved park facilities, particularly in St. John's. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Terry Parker. I'm a fourth-generation resident of Portland. I'm speaking for myself.
 The concept of calculating the amount of system development fees being related to the square footage of a new house is on the right track. However, it should be taken a couple of steps beyond what is being proposed. When a single-family home is torn down and replaced by a new larger house, a one-for-one replacement, system development charges need to be assessed on the additional square footage of the new house.
 As I have previously testified before this council, when my neighborhood, Rose City Park, was platted over 100 years ago, the developers clearly envisioned a residential village in a park geared to the working class. New houses that replace older homes all too frequently are almost two and a half times the size and price of the home being replaced, and they extend to the edges of the lot lines, eliminating the unsurpassed backyard part for parents that want to keep cabs on a small child.
 This out-of-scale development places the basic fabric of older single-family neighborhoods at risk. Due in part to rapid demolition of older homes, the working class, often called the 99%, is systematically being priced out of the housing market. System development charges that will be utilized to help...
 Pay for Parks is a fitting venue to add incentives for promoting affordability and maintaining the park-like ribbons of green that backyards and front yards provide. The percentage of property or lot not taken up by the footprint of the new house needs to be calculated as part of the system development charges being assessed. Bonus reductions can be given for a proportionally greater amount of open space, including larger all-around setbacks in yards.
 penalties need to be assessed for lot line to lot line development and footprints that proportionally cover a larger amount of the square footage of the property this needs to apply to any size house including new skinny houses that are wedged in on small lots
 In addition to the cooling effect on the atmosphere, without the green park light amenities and ambience that surround our living quarters, the living environment is compromised and housing for everybody becomes less affordable. We need to keep neighborhoods like mine working class affordable while still maintaining the longstanding values of the intended vision of a residential village in a park. Homes with yards create less of a demand for parks.
 Establishing system development charges that have a dual role can not only help pay for parks, but also help protect the quality and character life of single-family home neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members of the Portland City Council. My name is Bob Salinger. I'm the Conservation Director for Audubon. Jim Labby already spoke to our general support for this. We do encourage you to adopt it. I want to speak specifically and very briefly to one aspect of it, and that is the per capita investment calculation. We do support the idea that we shift and allow
 improvement of parks as well as acquisition of parks. But we want to capture this moment because it's important. This is the first time the city is formally recognizing that it's running out of land, that we can't just focus on getting new acres to meet our needs. Thank you.
 And that's really a watershed moment for us. We are a landlocked city. We don't have an endless land supply. So allowing park improvements as well as focus on acreage makes sense. We do want to make sure, though, that we don't lose that acreage focus. It is important that we continue to add to our park system. It's about quality and quantity. And just improving parks isn't sufficient in and of itself. So we want to make sure that we continue to look for acres where possible.
 Secondly, we think it's really important that we apply this across all land uses. It's not just about parks. Regardless of whether we're talking about commercial, residential, parks, and open space or industrial, we are a landlocked city. We don't have endless supply. We continue to maintain a rigid acreage-based approach to industrial land. And, in fact, it's ironic because right now,
 we are converting open space to find new industrial land. Colwood Golf Course being a case in point, the new comprehensive plan also anticipates conversion of open space to find new industrial land. So at a time when we're recognizing that we don't have an endless supply of acreage to add to new parkland, we think it's very important that council also begin to apply that same paradigm shift to other land uses. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks, all three. Next three are Nancy Spinovich, Eli Spivak, and Kevin Cavanaugh, and they will be followed by Arlene Kimura, DJ Hefferman, and Bill Phelan. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. You're on first. I'm Mayor. Commissioners? Yes.
 My name is Nancy Olmsted Spanovich. I currently reside in Tualatin and have worked in Portland for 20 years. As a scientist, my company, Olmsted Legacy, continues the work of a relative, Frederick Law Olmsted, who as creator of the Central Park in New York, saw parks as a social justice instrument.
 Homestead's lasting legacy is because he knew how to design, search for funds and land, and guide the construction of what has become some of the key parks in our United States today. He understood the importance of parks to the human psyche. Our firm works to promote Homestead's design principles within urban park planning, and by way of full disclosure, we currently have no PSAs or contracts with the City of Portland.
 From 2001 to 2010, I was appointed to Clark County's Washington Clean Water Commission. And in that regard, I understand the complexities of trying to establish STCs and the importance of this to not be an impulsive or political decision. In my role as director of the Holistic Peace Institute, I've developed a heart for social justice issues
 promoting universal human rights and equitable solutions for public areas and services within civil society. Parks provide services that support the community's direct social and psychological needs and allow for mixing of classes of society which would not otherwise mix.
 Through these life experiences, I've observed the repetitive peaks and troughs of the revenue stream, and we support this SDC update and amendments to enlighten and bring to bear the essential services of the parks for urban landscapes.
 I've taken numerous runs at trying to turn weedy patches into healthy riparian habitat or turn them into interpretive centers for all manner of things, groundwater management, geothermal energy, sustainable design, sensitive species, carbon and water quality, credit training, and ecosystem services production. And essentially the parks can be an extension of our built environment and enhance our...
 our understanding of the universe. Nancy, could you give us the rest of your testimony in writing? Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. My name is Elias Pivack. Thank you, Commissioner and Mayor. I've been working for years, as have others, to try and get some scaled SDCs, and it's refreshing to see parks put that on the table. So thanks very much for that. I wanted to cast out support for that. I put out a letter a few days ago and have over 40 people signing on, many of them who are builders and designers impacted by this fee, who also like the scaling of impact fees. And thank you.
 it's the most equitable way to go, and I think that Randy Leung did a great job of describing it earlier. But I want to underline that
 Houses don't use parks, people use parks. And home size is the best proxy we have in terms of reliable data for the number of people. So it's a totally appropriate metric, much more defensible than the current system we have now. And even though with the proposed set of fees, a 2,500 square foot house would still pay the same as a 5,000 square foot house, I have a little bit of policy issue with that, but that's what the data showed, is that once you get over about 2,500 square feet, you don't have more people living in the houses.
 I think that I've heard say that maybe someone with a large house might have a big yard to go with and might not use the park system so much. Well, it also may be true that someone with a large house has a vehicle to jump into to go run across town to Forest Park or a community center and go to parks with a more regional draw. Both of those are kind of hand-wavy arguments, frankly. And so I think it's appropriate to go to the hard data on this and just say we know how many people on average live in a house. Let's use that as our benchmark. Okay.
 Lastly, I want to say actually two more things. One is that there's going to be devil in the details on this. I mean, I think it's appropriate to say what happens if someone tears down or mostly remodels an 800 square foot house into a 2,000 square foot house? What happens if someone takes a large house and carves out a chunk of it to make an accessory dwelling unit so they pay the small house size but that large house became smaller? I've been kind of asking how this is going to get dealt with. It totally can be handled, but I hope that it gets handled consistent with the parks methodology so implementation goes smooth.
 And lastly, I want to say that this is parks. Other people have other bureaus. In terms of water, sewer, I hope people will be thinking about, does it make more sense to scale those fees based on how many people are peeing and pooping and washing their dishes and clothing and doing clothes and all that? Or does it make sense to base it on how many home shelves are created? Transportation, walking, crawling, biking, transportation, related to people probably more than the number of hose shelves created. It's a logic that really needs to
 Really good to go through all the bureaus. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Very clear. Mr. Cavanaugh. Hello. I'm Kevin Cavanaugh. I, too, am in support of the new math versus the old math. Very quickly and simply, the old math promoted McMansions and dissuaded developers from doing what would be called livable, highly livable, and supporting walkable neighborhoods. The new math takes care of that error. So it's a pretty straightforward reason for me to support it.
 Okay, since you're here, Kevin, and just quickly, I either take the bus or drive by your new thing on Burnside. What is it and when are you opening it? Am I allowed to answer that right now? I guess I have to. It's the fair-haired dumbbell, you mean, on the Burnside bridgehead? No, what is it, the rocket or something? Oh, the zipper. Zipper. On 28th and Sandy. Okay.
 that'll be micro restaurants and there's six pieces of public art on that so you've got to take your time and walk or ride your bike around it that's what got my son's attention because it changes my goal is to have small fender benders happen because people are staring at it wondering what the hell's going on but no injuries that's my genuine honest goal your insurance company hopes that too thank you oh is it on the record nice job thank you very much
 The next three are Arlene Kimura, D.J. Heffernan, and Bill Failing, and they'll be followed by Alan Hippolito, Mike Houck, and Mo Farhoun. Welcome. Good afternoon. Arlene, would you like to be first? Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilman. My name is Arlene Kimura, and I am here as a representative of the East Portland Action Plan. We have written a letter in support of the methodology change and the increase in the SDCs.
 In East Portland, we are the recipients of two parks that are being developed with SDC fees. And I cannot tell you the number of acres that we have that are still undeveloped, and we may be waiting another 15 years or 20 years. And in the meantime, our population is slated for an increase in 91,000 people. So I urge the council to support this. The devil is in the details, and I hope that it is done sensitively. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm in the Monty Python era of things, and now for something completely different, since I'm the first one that's going to speak in opposition of the proposed methodology. I'm in an unfamiliar position today. Just give us your name again. I'm sorry. Oh, it's Daniel Heffernan. I reside at 2525 Northeast Halsey in Portland, and I'm speaking today on behalf of NEAP, the Commercial Association of Brokers, and Portland Building Owners and Managers Association.
 for whom I've prepared a memo that I've given to the clerk and that some of you may have. I usually work as a consultant in the role that Randy is in, helping them develop methodologies for their park systems. So while my comments today are critical, they're not critical of staff or the city's intentions. Thank you.
 But I believe the methodology is flawed and that if challenged, it could be overturned. And I'm just going to talk about two things. The first is that this is a new SDC fee and methodology. This isn't an update. This is brand new because of how different this is. So we're essentially at the start of compliance with the SDC statutes and the
 ORS 2233091 specifically says, prior to establishing a system development charge, a local government shall prepare a capital improvement plan, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
 that outlines all of the projects that it intends to fund with the improvement fee. And then there's specific requirements for what goes into that. And as Randy said, your water system, your transportation system, sewer system, et cetera, all are based on master plans. I just fundamentally disagree that jurisdictions around the state that have park systems don't use master plans. They do.
 And the approach essentially capitalizes the balance sheet for the park system as a basis for the fee, and the statute does not permit that. It has to be project-based on a CIP. Secondly, the methodology states that there is no existing unused capacity, nor is there an existing deficiency within the park system.
 I just find that hard to believe. Forest Park at 5,000 acres certainly has some capacity to handle some additional residents.
 And golf courses, golf course participation rates have been falling. They shouldn't be included in at least the portion of those assets that have capacity to serve additional residents. That value should be captured through a reimbursement fee, not an improvement fee. I also have some quibbles with how costs are being allocated between residential users and non-residential users. The city has data for who's using its parks.
 why this fuzzy math approach to allocating costs over actually sampling and looking at who your users are, and then base the allocation between land uses on that data as opposed to this hypothetical proxy that's in the methodology. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you very much for providing and writing, and we'll be sure to get your written response. Thank you. Thanks very much. I just have a question for you, Mr. Heffernan. This appears to be a roadmap in part for a potential legal challenge if we were to adopt this. When would someone have standing to challenge an SDC? Is it upon adoption, effective date, or upon payment?
 It's the methodology can be challenged within 60 days of adoption. And then after that, no challenges can come forward, and whatever decision is rendered on those, they are in place. And if the methodology is uphold, you can't challenge the methodology any longer. So you have jurisdictions out there whose methodologies weren't challenged. And is there a particular court you have to go to?
 I don't believe it. It's certainly not a land use issue. That's very clear on the statute. You go straight to it. Exactly. Correct. Can that be appealed? Judicial review can be appealed up, yes. Thanks very much. We're looking forward to reviewing this. Mr. Fahling. I am Bill Fahling, Commissioner Hales, commissioners. I am here to talk a little bit about the positive effects of
 that an SDC can have. And in this particular case, the Connemost Park is a project that I've been involved in. My role at the Oregon Historical Society, I was asked to participate with a naming committee. And I said I'd be happy to. I didn't know much about the neighborhood. So I said, tell me about the neighborhood.
 Well, according to the 2010 census, it's 20% Latino, 16% African American, 32% of the households have members under 18, 17% of the households are over 65, 56 are owner-occupied housing. So I got a little bit of a sense of the community, which was basically –
 my perspective on how to come up with the right name. A lot of names floated out of the sky that weren't particularly, I thought, relevant to the area. But one thing found out, being a history nut and there for history reasons, is that this particular plot of land was actually a Native American meeting ground at one time. And I thought, aha, that sort of transcends a lot of things. It goes back to the origins.
 So we kicked this around, a terrific committee, kicked this idea around, and we came up with Tillicum Park. Somebody stole your name. I knew that the new bridge had a naming committee and that they weren't divulging what the name was, so I gave Chet Orloff a call. I said, Chet, do you have any problem with Tillicum Park?
 Bill, I do. Don't. So we came up with another name that still addresses... By the way, Tilikum basically means it means for people. And it's common people, not chiefs. And so we liked that. But what we came up with was... And pronouncing it's a bit of a challenge, but if you practice, you can get it. But Conomosc Park...
 Basically, it's a Chinook word for together. And we thought that was a very appropriate reason for a park, name for a park. Bill, I want to get you to wrap up because we're running out of time. Wrapping up, I do want to just read quickly, read what one of the residents of the area had because I really wanted to see the positive effects this had. I hung around after the naming because I wanted to see how the community accepted this, what the impact was.
 This is quoting Noel Studer Spivak. As a Cully resident with small children, I can say that this park is going to make a big difference for the families of this neighborhood. There has never been a place to gather outdoors with neighbors for cultural activities, meet for play dates, or push children on swings. At the naming ceremony last summer, I was struck by how many familiar faces I saw together in one place. This has never happened before."
 The last sentence that I have is for someone who I asked if the SDC really made a difference. He said, Bill, without the Parks SDC program, this would never have been built. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot. Thanks, all three. Next three are Alan Hippolito, Mike Houck, and we'll go with Kelly Ross, and they'll be followed by Mo Farhoud, Peter Fry, and Justin Wood. Hi, Lito. How are you? Great.
 Okay, Mr. Hippolyta is not here. Mr. Ross is coming on deck. Go ahead. I'm having nostalgic moments. I'm sorry you weren't here. Sorry. Yeah, this is definitely deja vu here. Alan, you are yourself. Please proceed. For better or for worse. My name is Alan Hippolyta. I work for a northeast Portland-based nonprofit named Verde.
 I appreciate the previous gentleman giving all the statistics for Cully, so I don't have to do that now. I'm here to speak in support of the change in the methodology in the proposal, and I'll be very brief. I know there's a lot of folks. I just think we're discovering together all the great things that parks can do that can help.
 They can create jobs. They can educate children. They can improve community. They can build community together. And we're also learning how to leverage those SDC investments with lots of other dollars to both design and build parks. In Cully Park, I think that right now we're at about three non-SDC dollars for every SDC dollar invested in the development of that park. So we're going to be able to leverage these resources for a great benefit for the community. Thank you. Thank you. Mike?
 Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Mike Houck. I'm here today on behalf of the Urban Green Spaces Institute to support the methodology. I served on two rounds of SDCs while I was on the park board for two terms, about eight years ago.
 And I think what I heard, I will echo Commissioner Fish's comment that that presentation was much clearer than the ones I remember from four and eight years ago. And I think basically the methodology is unassailable. You may disagree on some philosophical grounds or other grounds, but basically,
 Based on what I heard and what I understand with regard to the work that's been done, it's unassailable. And I'm pleased that the amount of recovery will go up to 88%.
 While I understand the rationale for establishing a per capita approach to address the fact that it may not be possible to acquire as much acreage as would be needed to meet the city's needs, I agree very strongly with Bob Salinger and Audubon Society of Portland's comment that we are, in fact, running out of land for a number of things, and that approach should not apply only to parks. Okay.
 And it is incredibly ironic that we're rezoning open space golf courses to create more capacity for industrial development. At the same time, we're talking about acquiring less land for parks because we know there just isn't enough land out there. This illustrates the urgency with which the city's bureaus need to double down on their efforts to seek multiple benefits by combining efforts on stormwater management using city-owned properties, green streets, and eco-roof programs.
 Additional acreage might be made available through creative interbureau and intergovernmental agreements. And I think a good example is the Riverview Natural Area where Metro, BES, and Parks joined together to come up with that 146 acres. So I think there are ways that we can stretch the dollars and still acquire land. And just as BES and PBOT have entered into a compact to work more closely to integrate their missions, so too should Portland Parks,
 the Water Bureau, all four bureaus get together and figure out how they can meld their missions to actually create situations where you have parkland as well as addressing some of the issues related to stormwater and so forth. All of that said, the city should continue to aggressively acquire as much additional acreage needed to serve our citizens and protect our natural landscapes, and we strongly support the exemption for affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Ross, welcome. Mr. Mayor Hales and commissioners, my name is Kelly Ross, and I proudly serve as lobbyist for NAOP Oregon and the Commercial Association of Brokers, and I've also been authorized to speak today for the Building Owners and Managers Association of Oregon, but am not retained by them.
 I was deeply involved in both the 1998 and 2004 methodology updates and to a lesser extent with the 2008 update. And the thing I want to emphasize to you today is that I cannot express strongly enough how this methodology update departs
 from the previous ones in its approach, assumptions, and level of detail for future improvements to the city's park system. I actually want to support the move from an acreage-based level of service. I have long argued for that in the discussions that we've had on the park SDCs and long argued that before Metro and their planning for parks in the region.
 It just doesn't make sense in the land-constrained environment we are in. And I would submit to you that it was because of that constraint that past city councils did choose a lower recovery rate for the SDC because I think everyone recognized that there was –
 It wasn't going to be possible to acquire the level of acreage that would be needed or implied by the formula.
 So I do agree with a change in the methodology. Not sure about the investment approach. I certainly believe that a more sophisticated approach needs to be taken to that. And would go back to a question raised by Commissioner Novick that 63% of the value in that approach is real estate assets.
 And if the council is talking about taking an entirely new approach for the park system from here on out in terms of land supply, there has to be a little more sophistication in how you view that revenue and perhaps additional discounts in the recovery rate to reflect that high percentage of land value. Kelly, we have your thoughtful written testimony. A quick question, though. Commissioner Fritz has proposed an amendment to move the effective date to January 1st.
 Does that address the concern you raised in your letter? Mayor Hales, Commissioner Fish. We're not the legislature. Okay. You don't have to do that. Force of habit. Very force of habit. We don't require you to do that. And you don't have to give your address either. Okay. I was pleased to see that amendment. It certainly helps. And that additional time would allow a developer to decide whether to go to permits before or after the new effective date, because there may be instances actually where there is a lower cost.
 as well as an instance of a higher cost. Correct, correct. But I would also suggest to you that a phased-in approach could be done in a predictable way, and that that would also be valid. Thank you. Thanks very much. Very helpful, again, from you and others here. Provided some very detailed testimony. Thank you. Okay, next three, please. Are Mo Farhund, Peter Fry, and Justin Wood. And they'll be followed by Dave Nilsen, Mike Alexander, and Marion Haynes.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Go ahead. My name is Mo Farhoud. I own Stark Forest Management and Second Chance Landlord. We own 1,000 units, and we provide housing for people with eviction, conviction. We work with parole officers. We buy abandoned buildings or old buildings that need rehab.
 and we try to fix them up, and we take two bedroom or three bedroom with two bathroom and split them half to provide more housing to people. And we try to, by doing this, kind of like create more housing for low income because it become micro unit
 And basically we're here because we did on our mythology for five years and we did not impact more traffic. If you have two units with two bedrooms or three bedrooms with two bathrooms, split them in half, create more traffic and more loss of stuff.
 Bottom line, I like to get the SDC wave when we do kind of this project for low income, and this is what we've been doing for 30 years. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. It doesn't apply to conversions, only to new construction. Thank you very much. Yeah, okay. So it's Peter Finley-Fry, and the problem is that the methodology uses a word called dwelling unit, and a dwelling unit is defined by a kitchen unit.
 And so when we did all their apartments, we created 30 new kitchens, even though we did not create a single new bedroom. So we ended up having to pay almost $100,000 in STCs for parks because of the kitchens, not because of the intensity or of no intensity increase.
 So you're right, it does apply to kitchens. And when we cut a building up and, say, create 35 new kitchens, we're looking at $350,000 in a new SDC. So...
 That the SDCs are based on the impact on a system. So theoretically, the methodology is flawed. I would say more than theoretically, actually, because it's not actually based on our increase of intensity. It's based on our cutting the units up and adding new kitchens. So I'll get some clarification from that from staff. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you. Wood?
 Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Justin Wood and I'm here representing my construction company, Fish Construction Northwest. We are an infill builder in Portland. I was also a member of the Parks SDC Task Force and worked on this project. I want to say I'm a little disappointed in the net result of what came out of the task force. I
 I, like Kelly Ross said earlier, I was actually supportive of the idea of changing the methodology. I think going away from the land-based system makes sense, given the constraints we have in our land system. However, it wasn't until the end of our project that we really started to see the numbers and what the true cost of the parks and the assets were going to be, and that's where I kind of didn't like the end result of it. But I'm going to speak mostly to the scalability based on the square footage of the houses. Okay.
 It's real clear that SDCs are supposed to be based on impact. I know that people have made some comments regarding bigger houses should pay more or whatnot, but it's whether or not you can truly make the case that a bigger house has a bigger impact on a park system is truly the only question we're supposed to ask. My belief is it isn't, and for one, the common sense question that I ask is,
 If you build based solely off of the number of people in a house, then a small 700-square-foot condo that has absolutely no yard and no green space –
 regardless of the fact how many people live there, they have to go use a park for their dog to walk, for their kids to play. They have no other option. If I live in a larger house with a yard, then, and I realize we can't always make assumptions about when people are going to use a park, but I have the ability to use my backyard. I have the ability to not rely on the parks. So there is, so that just goes to how do you really calculate the demand that a house has on a park?
 Also, the ordinance says that if you're remodeling and you go from one square foot to, if you're just under and you go to the next square footage up, that the remodel house would be subject to that increased SDC.
 I'm not here to advocate that we should be charging SDCs on remodeling. However, if you are making the case that more square footage on a house means more demand on a park, then I don't know how you can't say that remodeled houses shouldn't have to pay a larger SDC. You could very easily get to an example where you have a house that you increase, that you bump out to the kitchen and go up 20 square feet in the house. You've changed no demand on the house, but you've now decreased,
 the ordinance as written now says that that person would be responsible for paying the difference in the SDC. So what basis do you think we should use? This is a tricky one because most of the houses we build are smaller. And so on one hand, every other cost on construction, and I realize I'm not speaking for the Home Builders Association here, every other cost of construction is scaled to the size of a house. So on one hand, I have always thought that having a scaled SDC to the size of it somehow makes more sense.
 I don't think this is the answer. I don't know what the right one is. I would say that we've talked about comparing to other cities and other jurisdictions. No other cities in Oregon currently base residential SDCs off of square footage of houses.
 So in part because it's not very defensible so far that we've seen. We talked on the task force as to how do you best address this question, and this was what came out of it. So the only other thing I want to add real quick is that
 There's been some comments that this lowers the SDCs in some categories. If you look at the chart again and compare it to what it is now, only the lowest categories actually see theirs go down. Everybody else is going to see theirs go up. We build starter homes, 1,200 to 1,300 square feet, and our SDCs are going to go up 20%. Other than the smallest multifamily units, everything else downtown will be going up as well. So this is an increase on most new development other than the absolute smallest units.
 Thank you. No, obviously follow up with more if you can after today's hearing. Thank you. Actually, if I may ask, Justin, do you have the answer to my earlier question, which is what's the median size of a new unit in the city? Exactly, no, but I want to say the last time I saw it, it was about 2,200 square feet. But that's just single-family residential. That's not considered. So you'd have different numbers if you're considering multifamily.
 Thank you very much. So we're going to have to break in a few minutes to take our other time certain item, but let's take three more people that are signed up now, and then we'll continue. Okay. That would be Dave Nielsen, Mike Alexander, and Marion Haynes. Okay. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. Mayor Hales, commissioners. My name is Dave Nielsen. I'm the CEO for the Home Builders Association of Metro Portland.
 Our industry membership are active in building infill and redevelopment housing in the city. We care about the quality and affordability of the city's housing, neighborhoods, communities, and park systems. And we've built, remodeled, and improved hundreds of beds of capacity of several transitional homeless shelter providers in Portland and throughout the region. With those credentials, I ask for your careful attention and consideration. You've heard many people speak eloquently about the value in a park system, and we willingly and enthusiastically submit to all of that. This is not about...
 the park systems per se as fairness and equity in terms of how we charge development for that and compliance with statute. And that's what I'm here to speak to. I've read this and I honestly have found numerous faults and fallacies and illegalities in terms of how this process is being done, something I've never seen before my 13 years of reviewing this. It isn't fair and equitable. It adds hundreds of millions of dollars in vague park improvement fees on the backs of new homeowners. It contradicts itself as well as the park's 2020 plan.
 It creates a park slush fund with no actual plan in place for how it will add capacity. And it's already been pointed out, so I won't duplicate testimony. I do believe also that it violates SDC statutes in a couple different places regarding the requirement for a capital improvement plan. In fact, so much so that what hasn't been discussed so far is that you will also be asked to change your city code and strike language that shows that you previously did comply.
 You are taking out the specifics of requiring a capital improvement plan that has specific assets and striking that from your city code. And that hasn't been mentioned yet. It gets worse. There are only two ways for calculating an SDC. I think those have been explained, so I won't go into detail on those either. It's a reimbursement fee or an improvement fee. This does not take door number one or door number two. It makes a new door number three.
 It creates a new methodology that assigns a hypothetical value to existing assets. Not only is this new methodology not allowed by statute, it makes no sense. It inflates existing values to astronomical imaginary limits by including assets that were largely acquired at very little cost to the city or current residents that are typically funded through non-SDC sources or by grossly inflating land values. We've already talked about forest parking capacity issues. The question was asked, isn't there existing capacity in the park system?
 The parks methodology before you, this is one of the errors, says, quote, there is no existing deficiency in the current parks and rec system and suggests an even higher share of all new costs be borne by developers translate new homeowners, families, and renters as their fair share. And yet you've already heard from other people saying there are deficiencies in the current park system. And in fact, the Parks 2020 plan identifies that there are current deficiencies in the park system. So which is it?
 We've heard about how it changes the fees for remodeling, and it can increase that by a small bump up in the fees. It would charge up to 50% more, $3,000 to $5,000, in higher rates to new homes in underdeveloped neighborhoods in the east and the southeast. This would add $10,000 to $15,000 in debt onto a high percentage of new homeowners.
 And it's supposed nod to affordability. Now, I did not have the benefit of hearing Commissioner Fritch's change to that, where there might be more that would be helped by this. But at the time of what we saw, it would give a token $74 savings on a $5,500 fee to a small percentage of very small apartments, probably the folks who need a good park system the most.
 Just like housing has to be built more efficiently given our region's limited land supply, parks need to be done keeping affordability and reality in mind. The Parks 2020 plan had a goal to develop 100 new ball fields in the city. The Parks Department realized that wasn't feasible or practical. So it got creative and instead partnered with schools to use underutilized ball fields. This was at a fraction of the cost of trying to buy land and develop new ball fields.
 It was efficient, kept costs down, and opened up great park assets for the public. It's what you're telling the industry to do, but it's not what you're now being asked to practice. Honestly, the entire method needs to be scrapped. I do agree that I think there is a different basis for it in terms of the calculation per capita.
 But it has no basis in reality and unfairly charges astronomical fees to future homeowners and renters. It doesn't identify an actual capital improvement plan as required by statute. It ignores existing capacity and unfairly calculates costs under new homes, remodels and businesses. All it does do is create a very large illegal slush fund and a very large illegal blank check. The one comment I also want to finish with is I want to thank Commissioner Fritz for understanding the certainty that is needed in the development process and for making that recommendation.
 I think there's more that can be done, but I really appreciate the understanding of that. When you change things in midstream, that has a huge effect. That's aside from just the overall picture of the amount of the fees that are being charged. Thank you. I hope you'll submit that testimony. It has been submitted, yes. Okay, good. Thank you. Ms. Haynes, welcome.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. My name is Marion Haines. I'm with the Portland Business Alliance. I will try to be brief because a lot has been said already, but the Alliance very much supports the park system. We recognize the value that it has to the community's overall health and livability and economic well-being. So any criticism that we may have of this proposal at this stage is not a reflection on our view of the value of the park system.
 We did participate, my predecessor, on the Parks SDC Task Force, and I think there was a little bit of frustration in that process because we didn't actually get the rate impacts and the numbers until the process was pretty much over. And it's one thing to discuss methodology at a conceptual level. It's another thing once you see what that means on the ground.
 And then that caused us some concern once we saw those numbers. The impacts are significant, particularly on commercial development when you're looking at 300% things in that area. It's a large impact.
 We agree with others that moving away from a level of service makes sense, given the environment that we're in. Although we do think that the replacement value, including all of the land costs and some of the things that we've already heard, has inflated that numerator, and then that flows through into all the rates and the large increases that we're seeing in the rate schedule.
 I think Commissioner Novick raised a bunch of questions that I think we share in just wanting to understand if we don't have enough land in the city to continue on level of service, but we're essentially...
 Using that full land base in the cost for what the rates will be going forward have we kind of backed ourselves into the same problem that we that we found ourselves in before so In closing SDC rates are in parks in particular one of the the highest SDC rates they can make a project go upside down and
 especially when you look at the cumulative impacts of all of them together. So we would really hope that we could take some more time, understand some of the issues, and do some refinement on the proposal that's before you, and maybe take that opportunity as well to look at the cumulative impact of all of the –
 SDCs and fees and what that means on development and affordability and the City's ability to provide for the expected economic and residential growth that we have forecast. Thank you. Marion, thank you for your testimony. We did have a chart in the presentation on where the cumulative impact fees rank in the region, and we're sort of in the middle of the pack. If there are additional comparators you think we should be looking at, peer cities or other comparisons you think are valid, would you submit those?
 Sure. And some things are going to be not exactly related to SDCs in and of themselves. That's why looking at the impact, land values are going to be higher in the city. So that changes the development performance. So looking at it really in context, I think, is important to understand what the real impact on the ground is going to be. Yeah, I think just encourage, because you have a perspective, and if it's in writing, it's just going to be easier for us to track. Absolutely. Thanks. Thanks very much. You have the last word on the subject for this afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and members.
 Council my name is Michael Alexander I'm here today as a member of the Portland Parks Board I've moved to Portland in 2005 to work for a local insurer based here in the downtown area and for the first two years I lived within walking distance of the office to give myself time to decide where I wanted to live within the city I chose the Selwood neighborhood and part of my decision was the impact that Selwood Park has on the quality of life in that community I
 In much the same way that the park influenced my decision to choose Selwood, there were other areas of the city that were less inviting because they lacked easily accessible parks, programs, and natural areas. And although we are all citizens of Portland, there are clearly greater and lesser of equals as it relates to the ability to have access and enjoyment to the gifts and the assets of our park system. In 2010, I joined the Parks Board
 because I welcome the chance to be part of a group that would advise the Bureau and its commissioners on how best to strengthen the financial stability of Portland Parks and Rec, and to also deliberately and intentionally make the benefits of our park system and its gifts more equitably accessible to all Portlanders. The manner in which the system development charge revenues are generated and allocated plays a critical role in achieving that goal.
 As a resident of the city and a member of the Parks Board, I'm fully supportive of making the riches of our parks area and its programs more accessible to all, regardless of race, culture, economic status, or geography.
 I believe that the proposed change for residential fees to factor in the size of dwellings will result in more consistent and accurate calculation and assignment of SDC charges and help control for the variance in square footage for single and multifamily residences. As a result, the new methodology will focus on intensifying the maintenance of existing parks while allowing for acquisition and development of new parks in our rapidly changing demographics here in the city.
 So I ask that council approve the proposal before you. Thank you. Michael, I know you said you're here as a Parks Board member. Is today the last day you'll appear before us as an Urban League CEO? I have another month, Commissioner. All right, so we'll have a chance to fuss over you. Don't rush it.
 Thank you. Thank you all very much. I believe we only have four more people. Is that right? Yes. There are only four more signed up? Is that right? Correct. I'm sorry. Let's go ahead. I thought we had many more after that. Let's take those four, and then we'll – thanks, everyone, for your patience, and then we'll switch to the second item. Well, then we – yeah. The next three are Julie Vigeland, Jess Larson, and David Sweet. Sweet's still here. I think Ms. Vigeland's still here. Veronica Bernier.
 She left. Okay. So we have two more. Thank you. Okay. I told Michael Alexander he got the last word. I was wrong. One of you will. Who would like to be first? Please. Mayor Hales and commissioners, I'm Julie Viglin. I'm a member of the Parks Board. As a Parks Board member, I've become familiar with and more knowledgeable about SDCs than I ever thought I would and realized the critical role that they play in ensuring that our parks keep up with our growth.
 At the core of the discussions we have at parks meetings is equity. All recommendations to you, our city council, are based on equity for all our citizens. As a parks board member, I've been involved with over six years of discussions regarding investments in parks projects. How is it that we can accommodate our population growth? How can we meet the demands of that growth? Through SDCs, we've accomplished many incredible projects.
 A few examples from the years I was chair would be the acquisition of property for the fields, Buckman Field, the Wad Bluff Trail, the renovation of Dawson Park. These are all important to our community. Two issues that are of high priority to the Bureau and personal passions of mine are community centers and the poor condition of our maintenance facilities.
 We need more community centers for our growing population. They are key to the health and well-being of communities all around the city. And the maintenance facilities at Tabor Yard, they are not only a physical shambles, but they actually hamper the work of our employees. The first time I visited, I truly could not believe my eyes.
 With the updated methodology for SDC implementation, there will now be the allowance for funding of these two absolutely vital components of our park system. Additionally, antiquated aquatic facilities can be updated so our citizens have access to pools instead of arriving to find clothes on the doors.
 We need to make this change in SDCs and see it as the investment that it is. It is an investment that can provide economic benefits. Open space conservation actually attracts investment. Parks help to keep cities vital. Parks boost tourism and unquestionably safeguard the environment.
 For our people and their communities, for the health of the city, and for equity among our citizenry, and as a longtime Portland resident and ardent member of the Portland Parks community, I support the updated SDC system and would urge your approval and passage. Thank you. Thank you. David? Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is David Sweet. I'm Land Use Chair of the Cully Association of Neighbors. And last night, the CAN Board voted unanimously to support the Parks SDC methodology update.
 The Cully neighborhood has benefited greatly from Parks SDC funding, which has paid for improvements to Sacagawea Park, Thomas Cully Park, our new Cunnamox Park opening next month, and the acquisition of Colwood Golf Course, a future nature park. It is well known that our neighborhood has been parks deficient, and we're grateful that these funds have been available to provide recreational opportunities for our community.
 Cully was annexed to the city in the 1980s along with much of East Portland. And we share with East Portland neighborhoods a lack of essential infrastructure. East Portland is being asked to house a growing share of our low income and immigrant families. It is critical that we establish funding to correct these historic inequities. We believe that the proposed parks SDC methodology update is a step in the right direction.
 We are particularly pleased to see that the proposal will scale SDCs by house size. This was a policy change that the Cully neighborhood requested in our comments on the proposed comprehensive plan. It will encourage the construction of smaller, more affordable housing, and we hope to see this policy emulated in SDCs levied for transportation, sewer, and water.
 I would be remiss if I failed to thank Commissioners Fish and Fritz for their advocacy for Parks and Cully. Please approve the methodology update so that this work can continue. Thank you. Oh, hi. We're on, huh? Good. Veronica here, Veronica Bernier from Portland State University School of Community Health Education and Education.
 Most recently a graduate alumni of 2005 working in the field of park and recreation. That's why I'm here. Good afternoon.
 Mayor Charles Hales, it's good to see you. You always look well and rested. I don't know what your secret is, but whatever you're doing, keep doing it. Veronica, Veronica, you used to say that about his predecessor, too, so I'm a little suspicious. I think you're right. You're right. I've been following this city hall for about 10 years now. I was introduced through Terry Anderson, through Gretchen Miller-Cofforey's office, and, of course, former Mayor Vera Katz, who we all love and know and remember.
 Commissioner Nick Fisher, looking well. I'm pleased to see you. I like your leadership in the movement. And Commissioner Manderfris, of course, it's always good to have another nurse on board because we can take them over at any time. For good things.
 You know, nurses can use their powers for good things or for other things, just depending on their mood. But I don't know, that's a joke, you can laugh later. So anyway, Park and Rec, here we go. Park and Rec, I'm a veteran of Park and Rec since I was 12. I was in Edward R. Burton Park learning tennis and playing tennis with everybody. I love Park and Rec. I'm studying it at PSU because I believe it's important. Your issues are very important. I noticed that
 Right now, many parks need your support, 2,000 percent, because sometimes the infrastructure is failing, particularly the bathrooms, the restrooms, the water fountains. Everything needs to be fixed up in certain areas. I would like to see more concessions, more food and concessions, but also I'd like to see concessions given to people who have dogs.
 Off-leash dog walking areas are very important. Commissioner Dan Saltzman has run that one all around, and the people in the Savier neighborhood love that dog walking area. The only problem we have with the doggies now is the birds and bees. I'm not going to go into that. Everybody knows, but we have to have them restraining themselves just a little bit and a little shorter on the lead. When the doggies approach another dog, they have to have a formal introduction. Did you wrap up, Veronica?
 Anyway, I'm almost done. I had to wrap that up because we did get some feedback on that one. Well, we already have enough puppies. So anyway, so I'm glad you're here, and also we support what you're doing and keep coming back, really. I like dogs, friendly dogs with green coats on them, the helping dogs. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 Okay. Mayor, I know you're anxious to get to your next piece. If you could close the public hearing. That's what I'm going to do. And then our consultant is just fluent, especially for the occasion. So we could ask him to come back up. Further questions for the consulting team or the lead consultant? Time is dear, Mayor. We have some very specific questions.
 issues raised in an unusually thick and thoughtful set of documents, I think I would simply make a request that if there is an issue raised in any of the written testimony that we haven't had a chance to discuss, if you had some follow-up, because it
 at the beginning of the hearing you did address some of the concerns you had heard from the community. If there's a new issue, and I don't think we need a lot of attention on the legal issue per se, if we can always ask the city attorney for advice on that, but if there's a policy question, and I did find that discussion about whether SDC should apply
 to demolitions, interesting, because there's a house on my street that's going from a one-bedroom to, I think, a five-bedroom. And I don't know whether there is an equitable argument for applying or not. I understand the other side of the argument. I'd like something further on that, just to have your thoughts. Could you just tell us that right now? Because I'm concerned I may have misspoken earlier. I
 Does it apply to demolitions and internal conversions? So your SDC current code, and as we have amended, it still applies to building permits. So if you need a building permit for something, we would have to at least consider whether it applies. We specifically said in the old rules that if you build a new dwelling unit,
 then you would pay an additional fee. But if you were, let's say you were tearing down a unit with, a building with four units and you were going to build five, you'd only pay for the one additional one. Now we're adding square feet to the equation. And the way the code is written is it would change with the square footage. So if you went from 10,000 and 50 square feet to 1,245 square feet, it would kick into the next category.
 but it would also work in reverse if somebody tears down a big house and builds a smaller one. We haven't written the administrative rules on this, so there's room for interpretation. The scenario I'm more familiar with in my neighborhood is the smaller house, like the bungalow being torn down and replaced by a very large house, two or three stories with...
 triple the square footage. So that you're saying that under the proposal there would be an additional SDC for that, associated with that demolition? They would pay for the amount that would be due for the three-story large place, but it would be reduced by the amount that they would have paid, whether they ever paid it or not, but what the fee would have been for the smaller place. Your code has always had that difference in it. And what about the situation that Mr. Fahood mentioned where it's the same square footage, but we're dividing one apartment into two?
 I think we need to look at that in terms of what is the actual building permit, and we can get a response back. I also heard him say something about affordable housing, and I wasn't sure if he was qualified under that exemption. I would appreciate something in writing on this issue we've just discussed, because there's some other policy proposals which are kicking around around demolitions. I'd just like to better understand how this works.
 under the current code and under the proposal. And just if I might also mention, another topic that was brought up was our capital improvement plan. I think you have copies of that, and it is also posted on our website. Okay.
 Do you agree with the characterization that this is a slush fund for the parks? I do not, Commissioner. If you have a chance to respond to that. Just for the record, thank you. I wish it were a lot bigger because part of the reason that the capital improvements isn't more defined is that the costs of building new parks, as we're finding with the parks bond, varies greatly as do the system development charges coming in on a month-by-month basis. So it's not like we can count on them like property taxes. What we did to our consultant, we did hear some testimony that the CIP
 may not be extensive enough or detailed enough. You addressed that in your remarks at the front. Anything else you want to add on that? Well, I encourage you to talk to your attorney about a careful reading of the statute because that's what they are expert at. I believe that you have been seriously misdirected by some of the testimony this afternoon alleging that this new approach is in contradiction to the state statute about CIPs.
 You're hearing from speakers who are used to starting with a CIP and then ending with an SDC. I gave you a slide that said you can do it that way, but you can do it the other way. They're asserting that the statute requires you to do it only one way. That is not true. Talk to your attorney. It does not require a particular sequence. We have a CIP. It is produced before you adopt. We're allowed to do that.
 And if I had a longer period of time, I could get into a little tutorial about why it works that way for parks and not for streets. But suffice it to say, your attorney, I believe, will assure you that this is not an item on which ‑‑ I mean, anybody can challenge you on anything, but it's not an item I see you losing on. It's an important follow‑up item, I think, yeah. I just have one question for you. We have a proposal. We've put amendments before on the table. We've ‑‑
 put amendments before the public for testimony. We've closed the record. What is your will proceeding? I'd like to set it over for the second reading, not next week. Am I required to say how many weeks' time? We can continue it and then set a date.
 So that sounds like certainly there's a need for some time for analysis given the depth of testimony that we received. So I want to give you and the Bureau a chance to go through that in depth and then return to council discussion so we can continue it and not set a date certain at this point. That sounds good. Mr. Mayor, can I close with perhaps a layperson's explanation about why this is not a reimbursement fee? I know it's fundamentally a legal question. But if we can just get practical here.
 So I'm going to go out to dinner. I walk into the restaurant. I walk by another customer. They're eating a meal that looks really enticing. So I go and sit down at my table and I'll say to my server, I'll have what she's having. Now what happens? Did they bring me her plate? If they do, then I have to pay for part of her dinner. That's a reimbursement fee. But if I say I'll have the same dish that she's having,
 then she pays for her dinner. The server goes into the kitchen, gets me an identical dinner. That's not reimbursing the existing dinner that was on the table. I've got a whole new dinner that's just like her. And that's what our investment for capita method is about. We want the new customers coming to town to our restaurant to buy a meal like the meal that we've been having, and we want them to pay for it, but we're not asking them to pay for our meal. I just want to throw one little twist at you. What if you order the exact same dinner, but by the time it gets into the kitchen, the price of beef is double? No.
 And if it's an all-you-can-eat buffet and they run out of roast beef, yeah. Torture a perfectly good metaphor. Thank you. Randy Young, excellent job as our consultant. Commissioner Fish, I commend you for hiring this firm. And Riley Whitcomb and the rest of our team, Mike Abassi, great job. We really appreciate it. Thank you, everybody who came to testify today. To be continued. Thank you. Excellent hearing. And, yeah, we'll continue this and reschedule when we're ready.
 Okay, let's move to item 387. Require annual energy performance reporting for commercial buildings to promote reduction in local carbon emissions. Well, thank you, and thanks for folks that were waiting to speak on this item. Let me just take a couple minutes and introduce it. This is a resolution that will require commercial buildings over 20,000 square feet to track their energy use and report that to the community on an annual basis.
 Around this time last year, I actually got the chance, as I think some of us have, to present these kinds of awards. I presented some awards today.
 to owners and managers for their work and success in what we call the kilowatt crackdown program. And that's a friendly competition among building owners that tracks their energy use and worked with technical advisors to make operational changes. And it was very successful. It worked. The buildings that tracked their energy and made low to no-cost improvements saw some significant reductions in their energy use, meaning that they saved money and they lowered carbon emissions.
 And we were happy about the results, but only 51 buildings participated. So there's obviously a lot of potential for more people to obtain these benefits. Commercial buildings alone create about a quarter of our local carbon pollution. So this is an important area for us to make policy in. The proposal that we'll hear today is similar to the one that's been working in 11 other cities and two other states.
 Just like the miles per gallon sticker on cars, information about energy performance gives owners, managers, tenants and buyers useful information for making decisions. It also, as obviously was the case with the kilowatt crackdown, gives people motivation to make improvements and save energy. We know that a lot of people already are tracking and managing energy in their buildings, and we know that some people have some discomfort about sharing their performance information.
 In response, this proposal has been revised, and you'll hear about that from the Planning Sustainability Bureau staff who are here to talk about that, to try to make this more responsive and more workable for people. I just want to say, before we get going, that I really appreciate the
 the very careful effort that the Planning and Sustainability Bureau has made to reach out and work with the community, work with the commercial building community in developing this proposal. Although, you know, in any new thing we rarely reach perfect consensus and we haven't reached
 perfect consensus in this case. We certainly have brought a lot of people along in this discussion and reached a lot of agreement with the commercial building community and I really appreciate the extra effort, Susan, that you and your staff made to get that far in mutual understanding about a mutual program that will have a lot of community benefit. So thank you and with that I'll turn it over to you, Director Anderson.
 Thank you, Mayor. Commissioners, I'm Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And with me is my team who worked on this project, Michael Armstrong and Elisa Kane, and also Vin Mason, who is...
 Right there. All right. So the ordinance in front of you is a result of some great collaboration among many of the different bureaus and among community members, including very dedicated building owners, managers, and industry professionals, as you all know, in 1993 we adopted the
 the first climate action plan in the United States for local government. Since that time, the rest of the U.S. has continued to increase carbon emissions by 7% on average, while Portland has cut total emissions by 14% and less.
 cut per person emissions by 35%. So we're clearly going in a different direction. And we did all this while we were creating jobs and also obviously by growing the city's population to more than 600,000 people. We continue to be a leader nationally and internationally, and we've set a goal to cut emissions by 80% by 2050. Thank you.
 But to reach that goal, all of us have to do our part. So that's government, that's residents, and businesses. And as the mayor indicated, reducing energy use in buildings is a critical part of that picture. In Portland, commercial buildings alone contribute 25% of local carbon emissions, and powering those buildings costs more than $330 million a year.
 We know that reducing energy saves money, but we also know that it creates local construction jobs and jobs in our clean tech industry. So thousands of these jobs are now a part of our local clean tech economy.
 So the proposed ordinance that you have in front of you, you're considering that that will make Portland the 12th city in the United States to adopt an energy benchmarking policy. You usually wouldn't catch me coming up here and saying we're number 12. I try to usually get the number down to one or two, but this time we're number 12, and we're number 12 by choice.
 Because a few years ago we chose to step back and see how this would work on the ground. We actually started this effort when I worked for Commissioner Saltzman, when it was the Office of Sustainable Development. We decided very clearly to go a voluntary route first.
 to see how it worked. And we did a very collaborative pilot project with BOMA, with the Energy Trust of Oregon, with many other partners, in what we called the kilowatt crackdown. Several dozen buildings were a part of that project. We learned a lot about the tracking software. We learned a lot about opportunities for energy savings.
 And during the pilot, we also researched and compared all of the different ordinances from other cities. And sometimes the value of being number 12 is you learn a lot from everybody else's mistakes. So I think we've really got this one right. Thank you.
 With all the study, I feel like we're on the right track and we will have real savings as a result. We've also found that it's not just something that's true for cities. We found that tracking energy use and investing in energy efficiency in our own city facilities have had a great payoff.
 We've been tracking energy use for city facilities for more than 25 years and making investments. We've saved more than $55 million over those 25 years, and last year alone saved more than $6 million on our energy bills.
 So to wrap up, you know my job as Planning and Sustainability Director, I often try to bring you something new, innovative, you know, sort of on the edge. And this time I'm bringing you something very tried and true. We know this works and we know that it will be a smart move for the city. So I'm going to turn it over to Michael to walk through just what it is we're proposing. And it's probably just a four or five minute presentation. Okay. Thank you. Michael, Elisa, please.
 So, Mayor Hales, Commissioners, I'm Michael Armstrong. I manage sustainability programs for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I'll describe the key elements of the proposal and then as you noted, Mayor, there are several modifications that have emerged as a result of the process and so I'll highlight those. The central feature to this is to improve the transparency around building energy performance. You referenced the miles per gallon sticker. We all see this and we get a sense of it. We've got the energy guide labels on appliances of all sorts.
 We have a tool like this for buildings, but we don't yet use it widely. And so this proposal would bring that into wide adoption among larger commercial buildings.
 Many building owners already do this. An even larger number do not. And so the proposed ordinance would affect about 1,000 buildings, and those buildings account for 80% of the square footage of the building types that this would address. It does not affect about 4,000 buildings that are smaller. And so we're trying to focus this effort on the buildings where we do get the largest square footage, and we don't want to create undue burden for the smaller buildings for which this might be more of a stretch.
 The ordinance requires building owners to do two things. If we could bring up the slide here. I have just a couple of these. So as I noted, this would affect commercial buildings larger than 20,000 square feet.
 And it would require them to do two things. First, they would benchmark their energy use using the Energy Star Portfolio Manager tool. This is a free tool made available by the U.S. EPA and Department of Energy. It's very well established, widely used in the industry. And so it's a good benchmark that many of our building owners are already familiar with.
 And the second thing that the ordinance would require is that those buildings on an annual basis would provide the city with three things that are produced out of this portfolio manager tool. An Energy Star score, the energy use intensity, so the amount of energy per square foot in the building, and then the carbon emissions.
 The ordinance also requires tenants to provide their energy use information to the building owner if they have it separately metered, so the building owner can get a whole building picture of that energy use. It also requires utilities to provide building owners access to their data, and they already routinely do this, and so we're formalizing that relationship so that building owners have the easiest opportunity possible to get that.
 And data access is actually a good example of the kind of issue we've been working through for a number of months now. We need to make sure that tenants are supplying it to the owners, that utilities where it's practical can roll that up for building owners so that this all becomes a lot easier and more streamlined. Right.
 We're not to full automation yet. I think you'll hear from a couple of the utilities about where they are in moving toward that, and we'll keep working through this. As Susan noted, this is in place in a dozen other or 11 other communities. They also have worked through these issues, so we're confident it can be done here as well, and we already have buildings that are doing it.
 The ordinance is proposed to cover five different building types, so the ones on the left-hand side in this slide, offices, retail, grocery stores, health care and higher ed, and hotels. It's not proposed to cover any sort of residential facility, including nursing homes, places of worship, parking structures, educational facilities, and warehouse and industrial facilities.
 And the reason we don't have schools in here is because they already are benchmarked through a state program. And so that already happens. So there's no need for an additional local requirement for that. The other key feature here is that this
 policy would phase in over two years and so we would start first with the larger buildings fifty thousand square feet and up they would report a year from now on the 2015 calendar year performance and then the smaller still twenty thousand square foot up buildings would report starting the following year and then in each case had moved forward on an annual cycle during the policy development and public comment process we heard a number of concerns mayor you identified several of those one of them is simply discomfort with sharing these scores publicly
 We also heard some concerns about uncertainty about the ability to get access to the actual energy use data. And so that led to some of the provisions that I described around tenants and utilities being obliged to provide that to building owners.
 We also heard concerns from institutions like a big campus, and again, you'll hear from at least one of those, where they may have several buildings, all of which are fed by a single utility meter. And so to disaggregate that by building just isn't practical. They don't have the data. And so to address this last concern, we've included a provision that lets campuses aggregate their buildings and report on an entire campus basis, so energy use per square foot and carbon emissions per square foot.
 rather than on a building-by-building basis. And for the most part, we know they do a very good job tracking their energy use. So we think that's a really important accommodation.
 The one other thing we did was to add a year to the timeline by which the scores would become public to give building owners a year to improve their performance and hopefully get a better score if they feel like they would like to have one before the scores are made readily available to the public. And so I think as you acknowledged, that's probably not going to satisfy everyone's concerns, but we think it adds to the phase of the policy and gives building owners a chance both to
 make sure they're benchmarking correctly, and gives them a chance to improve their score as well before it's readily available to the public. One final recommendation that we heard during the public comment process was to include more building types, so perhaps multifamily apartment buildings, perhaps warehouse and industrial, and that's the kind of thing I think, as part either of this conversation or next week, we'd welcome your guidance on in terms of if there's a next phase to this. We certainly are willing to work on that.
 We see the reporting requirement as an essential component to accomplishing energy efficiency in commercial buildings. We also know that to really see these benefits, we need to work with the building community to provide technical assistance, to help connect them to incentives, and to access all kinds of financial and technical resources from our partners like the Energy Trust of Oregon, Northwest Energy Efficiency Alliance, and others.
 And so we've stayed in close contact with those organizations throughout this process. They're very interested in this. I think they're looking at how their programs may be able to work with building owners who are following through on this. So I think this creates a lot of opportunities for further partnerships. One other piece to this is that we have also stayed in close touch with Multnomah County. And Commissioner Bailey is here this afternoon. The county is working on some new financing tools that may be a good opportunity for commercial buildings to –
 their energy efficiency improvements. And so all of this, I think, supports the broader community effort to make it easy, provide motivation, but also the resources to improve energy efficiency in buildings. So as Susan noted, we're working
 In line here to be number 12, this gives you a sense of the geographic distribution of the other cities that have already done this. We have learned a lot from them. We certainly look forward to continuing to follow up with them on how it's going, what seems to be key to their success, and certainly sharing our own stories as well.
 So with that, I know we have a number of people lined up for testimony. I think Elisa, Susan, and I are happy to answer questions if you have them at this time. I just have a couple questions. The first one is how much of a variance will we see in commercial buildings based on the kinds of tenants that occupy and use the building? So what's the range from a high-energy consumer to a low-energy consumer that we might see?
 Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Elisa Kane, Green Building Manager with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So to answer Commissioner Fish's question, in an office building, you'll see a number, the score is between 1 and 100. And so a low performer would score less than 50 or be less than average. A high performer would be in the 80s or 90s. To point out, for example, this building is in the high 80s in terms of its Energy Star score because we've spent a lot of time looking at energy efficiency here.
 But in terms of its tenancy, the beauty of the program itself is that it allows you to identify high-energy users, such as a data center or if you have a dry cleaner or a restaurant in there. It makes note of that and doesn't try to compare you to then an office building. It will help to blend those numbers and create a score that doesn't penalize you for having high-energy users in your building.
 That's helpful. Thank you. Good. Other questions for the team? Might be more later, but thank you very much. Thank you. And let me next call Commissioner Bailey, who's here. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you very much. Thank you for the opportunity.
 For the record, I'm Jules Bailey, Multnomah County Commissioner for District 1, and I have some history with energy efficiency as well. And it's a pleasure to be in front of you today. I want to start out by commending the work of your staff. You have a group of rock stars at BPS. There's just no other way to say it. And we really enjoy working with them on this and on the climate action plan, which we're very proud of and obviously is in development as we speak.
 And speaking of rock stars, there's a whole room full of great minds on this behind me, so I'll keep my comments short so we can get through the testimony. As was mentioned before, Multnomah County is excited to partner with the city. I look forward to working with you on this effort through the ages of the Climate Action Plan that really calls out energy use as a key strategy towards achieving our climate goals.
 And in doing so, as you may know, we are also working with the city as in development of a commercial property assessed clean energy program where hopefully when the program is up and running, we will have the opportunity to be able to provide low-cost financing options and resources to commercial building owners to be able to upgrade their buildings for energy efficiency. It's a very exciting program, and I think that there's a partnership here on it.
 I also have to say that as we have this discussion about energy efficiency, I am reminded of the principle that you get what you measure. And what is really the case here is that when we measure energy efficiency, when we measure energy use, we get an investment in it. And I have a little bit of a bone to pick with Jimmy Carter. Jimmy Carter, I think, is famous for saying that conservation is about turning down the heat and putting on a sweater or something to that effect.
 That is, I think, set back the conversation on energy efficiency to this day. That is not what we're talking about. What we're talking about here is investments in an asset. And we know that energy efficiency is the cheapest way to meet our climate goals. It's one of the most cost-effective ways to invest in an energy asset. And it's one of the best ways that we know to work on our job creation goals and put people back to work.
 We've got a huge competitive advantage in Multnomah County, in the city of Portland, and in the region around building professionals, energy efficiency, old school firms and new school firms that are partnered on this, from architectures to data management to the folks that actually are the boots on the ground doing the work. We've got a cluster, and we've got an opportunity to build on it.
 I do also want to say that I would encourage you as this goes forward to continue in the vein that has been pursued by the staff at BPS in making sure that this is a program that is workable for building owners. That is a process that is easy to use, that is a smooth pathway, and that respects the challenges that they face in this. Because at the end of the day, we're going to win when they are interested in partnership and in improving those buildings, and it has to be a team effort.
 Thank you for the work that you're doing today. Excited to be part of it and happy to take any questions. Thank you.
 Commissioner Bailey, I have great respect for all the work you've done on this issue and many other issues, but I have to say that as Transportation Commissioner, I'm kind of a big fan of Jimmy Carter because Jimmy Carter established the 55-mile-per-hour speed limit, which saved both lives and energy. So if you've got a problem with Carter, you've got a problem with me. Touche, Commissioner. Thank you very much, Commissioner. I appreciate you being here and your cooperation in this and the rigor that you bring to it from professional experience as well. So thank you. Thank you.
 Thanks very much. Let me call a panel, please, of John Russell, Renee Loveland, and David Gingrich. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mr. Mayor and council members. I'm John Russell. I have some credibility to testify in this matter because one of my buildings, the 200 Market Building, is the first lead building in America in the biggest category of all, which is existing multi-tenanted buildings.
 And I'd like to say that Commissioner Bailey enabled my testimony to be even shorter because one of the two points I was going to make is that you get what you measure, and building owners are motivated to care about this. But the other point is that there's just so much low-hanging fruit in energy efficiency. It's really remarkable. And we did achieve this remarkable thing with LEED, but we didn't do it with anything that was very sophisticated.
 It wasn't rocket science. As just one example, the Twitter Market building has a four-acre underground garage. The lights were on for 30 years. You couldn't turn them off safely until we figured out with dimming ballasts and sophisticated occupancy sensors, at Sunday midnight, the garage is dark unless there's somebody there. So that's the sort of thing that if people cared, and I think if you measure it, they will.
 There's tremendous energy efficiency without a rocket science. Wow, what a great example. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon. For the record, my name is David Genrich. I'm a general manager here in town with Jones Lang LaSalle, and I'm also the Oregon chapter president for the Institute of Real Estate Management. So on both behalves, I want to speak in favor of the proposed ordinance. In my industry, a few years ago, if we were tracking energy, if we were putting in green initiatives, it really was considered a good business practice.
 Today, it's absolutely a must. My clients expect it. My tenant customers expect it. My staff expects it. It's no longer really an option for what I do here in Portland. It's really a requirement of my job. Energy Star really is the gold standard for measuring this. Nationally, there are over 400,000 buildings that participate in the Energy Star program. Of the 11 current municipalities who are in the program today, there are over 49,000 buildings that are currently reporting.
 Of those buildings reporting, only Austin and Seattle are in a non-reporting jurisdiction from a public standpoint, but 92% of the buildings today, of those 49,000, are in jurisdictions where that information is being reported.
 The same information, inspect what you expect. Your MPG analogy, very accurate and very online with that. It's not a difficult process. It's not a difficult program. I worked with it for several years. It comes at no cost from a fee standpoint. It does take some time to do it, but it's a great metric.
 Does Energy Star in itself save money? Absolutely not. But nationally, the buildings that are in Energy Star versus those that are not typically see about a 3% savings, and that's a huge number. Any other comments? I'd love to answer on this, but I very much am in favor of this. I have one question. Yes. Almost every debate we've had as a council in the last month, someone has come forward and said that some aspect of compliance violated a privacy right or proprietary information.
 Is there any information that we're requesting in connection with this ordinance that you view that in your assessment could qualify as either covered under a right of privacy or proprietary information? Not being an attorney, but from my practitioner standpoint, I mean, it's really owners coming to the market want to know this information. Tenants want to know this information. People track that. Ninety-two percent of the 49,000 buildings across the country are reporting currently.
 Chicago and New York are the two biggest markets. They make up about 60%. They are in full compliance, full reporting markets. So I don't see an issue with this. I've heard the comment myself that it penalizes older buildings, and that's not the case. I have the 2014 report with me from New York and Chicago. They very specifically address that issue and very clearly and statistically state that's not the fact.
 I worked on an older building in downtown Portland, 1979 construction, one of the recipients of an award in the Kilowatt Crackdown Program, and that building has a 93 Energy Star score, meaning it outperforms 93% of the buildings in the country. Portland's not being modeled against Portland. We're being modeled against like buildings around the country. And as they mentioned, there are parameters for data centers, retail, that truly stabilize this and truly make this a level playing field.
 And an inexpensive one at the same time. Good point. Sitting here in an 1895 building, it's nice to know it's possible. And very admirable in the high 80s are your score currently. It's a huge accomplishment. Got that done with remodeling. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Welcome. Welcome. Bear hails, Commissioners. For the record, Renee Loveland with Girding-Eidland. I'm the sustainability manager there, so I've worked across a lot of our portfolio on this side of energy efficiency and lately have been using Energy Star across our investment management portfolio in many different markets.
 Portland continues to be a national leader in green building. We know that, and we're very proud of it. But not all green buildings perform to their full potential, as we've been learning in recent years. And there's a tremendous amount of opportunity in the existing building stock.
 This is where the potential for a real impact on decreasing carbon emissions and reducing energy use lies. In order to accomplish this better awareness and greater action is needed. The first step to taking action is basically just having information.
 And as my fellow panelists have indicated, a lot of this information is being tracked already. Energy Star scores are useful in comparing a building's performance against a national accepted baseline for similar buildings. So that's an important part of what we're looking at with this program.
 Building owners and operators who track and pay attention to their performance metrics can then use this information to make more informed capital improvement decisions and determine within their portfolios which assets need that attention more than others.
 The fact that the policy requires the use of Energy Star Portfolio Manager in reporting makes a lot of sense. It's widely used. It's well recognized. It has a lot of credibility. And the EPA actually makes a lot of training available for people to get familiar with the program.
 We've been using it, as I said, over the past several years. All of the other markets in which we're doing business currently have this mandatory reporting in place, and we have seen it work well for our properties. We haven't yet...
 had to report on our multifamily, but for commercial buildings, certainly, and then actually just recently this past year in Boston for one of our multifamily properties. But the statement of energy performance that's generated by Portfolio Manager basically becomes the reference point. And so it's all very streamlined and easy to manage and deal with.
 Many energy efficiency improvements have added benefits. I think it's important to look at how indoor air quality is improved and thermal comfort can be improved by taking on energy efficiency improvements. And so there's additional value that's created for building owners in that context. There are also incentives that are available, and I am very glad that the kilowatt crackdown
 And other steps that the city has taken is emphasizing the linkage there and making those resources well-known and available to building owners and managers. And as we heard from Commissioner Bailey, there are some alternative financing options.
 proposals that are coming about and I think are really going to change the landscape and give building owners and managers additional resources to act upon this information that is so vital. So this is about promoting Portland's leadership and best practices to advance energy efficiency, and we commend the work that the Bureau has done to date and are here to support that.
 Thank you. I had a technical question that you're in a good position to answer that I didn't get a chance to ask the staff, and that is you have in the brewery blocks a central chilling plant that serves multiple buildings. Does either the campus...
 exception or the campus approach or just the way you measure energy still make it feasible to do this on a on a building by building basis even though you have a common centralized district energy system there that is a very good question and that is a more technical question than I am prepared to answer we have not um you know we don't own the brewery blocks any longer so my my
 connection there isn't what it used to be. I'm curious about how that's going to work because we're trying to encourage more district energy. They actually or your company actually did it in the case of the development of that project. I assume that there's metering involved in terms of how much each building is using. So maybe that's Michael's looking like he might know the answer to that question. Maybe it still comes out building by building.
 even though there's a central source for the energy. I would suspect that that's true. The 12 West building, which we currently do still have an ownership interest in and manage, is attached to the Chiller plant and is served by the Chiller plant as well. It's the one building outside of the brewery blocks that is also served. And we definitely have our exact usage information that comes to us, and we're billed on that. Okay.
 Good. Thank you. I think a short answer to that would be submetering. Submetering, yeah. Very feasible and easy to do. Okay. So you can figure it out through that, yeah. And for the record, I'm also an admirer of Jimmy Carter. The debate continues. Thanks very much. Okay, let's next call Susan Stewart, Jeanette Shaw, and Alan Scott, please. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. I'm Susan Stewart, Mayor, Council for BOMA Oregon. And first of all, BOMA started these contests similar to the kilowatt crackdown. Actually, they're all kilowatt crackdowns. We just call them different names just to keep things confusing. And since 2007, my members have reduced their energy usage by almost 29 million kilowatt hours. So benchmarking works. Everything the previous panel said is correct.
 When the city came to us a couple years ago and said, hey, we like what you're doing. Let's partner. We went, okay. A little hesitant, but thought, okay. And I have to tell you, it turned out to be a great experience. We met a lot. We, I don't even know if I could ever count the number of hours, but we met a lot. Yeah.
 We argued a lot. We worked hard. We did good work. And I think the biggest benefit that BOMA got out of it is we – I really feel like we have a really strong public-private partnership now. You know, we work with a lot of bureaus, but I think we work well together, and we're looking forward to going forward, you know, helping with this program. Having said that, because of our experience with benchmarking all these years, we have a few concerns about what's planned –
 I'm understanding that the city is not planning on adding staff to BPS for this program. And as I look at, and I've played with portfolio manager myself, benchmarking 1,000 buildings is a big undertaking and there are going to be questions and you're going to need more resources to make this happen. Are you speaking for BOMA or is a registered lobbyist for the other Susan? Sure, both.
 Okay. So I'm concerned that you need more staff because I co-chair the Tree Code project right now, and they're getting 60 calls a day on trees. You have 1,000 buildings that are going to have to do something. You're going to need more staff. I didn't pair either. I'm overwhelmed. I'm sorry. Can I do anything for you? You're on the roll. Keep going. It's definitely nice about Jimmy Carter, I think, with the go long, go long way. Yeah.
 Other states that have the mandates, the utilities are able to upload the data from the utility to Portfolio Manager. There's some magic button in the sky. I don't know how it works. But right now, our utilities are not there. So the burden of setting up the accounts, tracking the data, inputting the data is going to fall solely on the building owners until the utilities get up to speed. Okay.
 And speaking of buildings, for my landlord, John Russell, he has a building. They do great things. I love my building. Don't kick me out. But for some of my members that have 50, 60, 70 buildings...
 This is going to be a huge burden. You're talking about a separate account for every building, separate utility bills. It's going to be expensive, and it's going to be time-consuming. So I was pleased to hear Commissioner Bailey talk about the PACE program, and I hope the City of Portland can work with Multnomah County to help us finance this, because it's the only way it's going to happen.
 The city and the county, by the way, thanks for bringing that up. I mean, we're working very well together in everything from coordinating what we do and how we budget to trying to make tax policy make sense. So I have a high level of expectation that if it's possible that through governmental coordination we can help, that we will because we really do have an effective working relationship with the county now. That should bear fruit for this problem. So thanks. Thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioners.
 My name is Jeanette Shaw and I'm authorized to represent McKinstry and its energy division here today. We, as you may know, we're a full-service design-build contractor and we specialize in many things, but in particular integrated mechanical and electrical plumbing energy. And we have offices in 19 states and proud to say we've been here in Oregon for over 46 years. And I'm here to share not only McKinstry thoughts but also our support for the City of Portland's proposed energy performance reporting for commercial buildings.
 We commend the work that's done by the City of Portland's Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, as well as the Commercial Energy Performance Reporting Policy Advisory Group. They put a lot of time and effort in. We're very appreciative of their efforts and for providing us the opportunity to provide the public dialogue.
 with regards to the performance reporting. As a company, we do believe deeply in energy efficiency and our performance-based outcomes, and we work directly with our clients to track their energy use, and sometimes near and very real-time. And this also helps us uncover opportunities to improve efficiency and save money, which, of course, we all enjoy doing.
 Active energy management, as you've heard, does provide 3 to 5 percent of reduction for energy retrofit projects, as well as energy retrofit can go as high as 5 to 30 percent in energy bill savings. And the good news is when building managers make energy efficiency improvements, they can turn to local businesses such as McKinstry and hire those local businesses. Thank you.
 Specifically, we have clients that have reported their work tracking energy and performance that it provides a savings. And in particular, one of our clients actually reported that the annual Energy Star benchmarking helps them manage costs as well as seek out new opportunities annually across their portfolio to produce savings. Additionally,
 The good Energy Star scores assist them in marketing their properties to potential tenants, which, of course, is what we always want to do, and as the tenants improve and increase here in Oregon, and gain better pricing structure. The client actually has reported to us that its direct use of Portfolio Manager improves their score at little or no cost to them.
 So in closing, energy benchmarking to our clients does not require a lot of effort. It assists in the part of billing owners to fulfill their tenants. And also for owners and managers, just knowing how much energy their building consumes is the first step towards reducing it and saving money. Thank you again for your time, and I look forward to hearing further dialogue from my colleagues. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. And Mayor Hales and commissioners, I'm pleased to be here today to speak in favor of the Portland's commercial building energy performance reporting. For the record, I'm Alan Scott. I'm a director with YR&G Consulting. I'm also here as a board member of the American Institute of Architects Portland chapter, so representing the architectural community.
 Just a little context on my perspective that I'm bringing here today. Well, I'm a proud 28-year resident of Portland and working in the sustainability field here. I'm also starting a new office for YR&G, which is currently based in New York, Chicago, and Denver. So I'm bringing some perspectives from my colleagues from other cities, two of which have adopted similar measures.
 First, I just wanted to state for context, and as a Portland resident, I've been very pleased with our leadership in areas of green transportation, infrastructure, carbon emission, and climate action at the city level. And so there's been tremendous effort there, as well as leadership in city buildings going green. So the next untapped potential is us supporting the private sector in
 in energy efficiency and in raising the bar because there's tremendous untapped potential in existing buildings' energy performance. Just the reason why I'm so excited about this is because it is a big win for both building owners, tenants, and the environment to touch on this by reducing operating costs, making buildings more competitive,
 and then reducing carbon emissions and energy use in buildings. So I'm stating the obvious, but it's a very important element to why I care about this. Just to kind of cap and compliment other people's comments on this, a recent study by the EPA demonstrates this principle of when you measure something, then you can manage it.
 That study looked at 30,000 buildings within Portfolio Manager and found that just by simply tracking energy performance in Portfolio Manager, on average, buildings reduced energy usage by 7% over three years and increased their Energy Star score by six points.
 So that awareness of energy, just a simple awareness, drives efficiency without going into all the investments in energy retrofits and other things. So that gets people started and moving down that road. So I wanted to kind of address, based on our experience working with clients who are commercial building owners,
 Is this type of reporting a burden on them? And I would say hardly because it is the best management practice of building owners to pay attention to their energy in their buildings, and it's an opportunity for us to encourage others along the way.
 So to kind of close this out and bring that perspective from other cities, I wanted to share some lessons learned from my colleagues who have been working with building owners in Chicago and New York. And what have they found? And we've been working both with individual building owners as well as large portfolio owners in those cities.
 One of the things we see is in Chicago compliance level, initial compliance was 90% on buildings that had fell into the program. So very high compliance. In New York it was 70%. So it was already something that people were doing and they jumped into it readily without a lot of resistance.
 The other piece anecdotally, I guess from feedback we've received from building owners, is that there are many of them that it was like no big deal. We're already doing this, so we'll just report it as we have to for the requirements. Others, maybe they were lagging a little bit, but it was a little nudge they needed to start doing more of that work.
 And, of course, there were some that were maybe initially resistant, but once they jumped into it, they found that it wasn't as hard as they expected. So it worked.
 Closing the last kind of lesson learned I wanted to share about that is that the participation of utilities was really critical to the success in those two cities. Building owners appreciated the utilities, making it easier for them to report, providing tools and other support. So having utilities on board is part of the success model for energy reporting initiative.
 So in closing, I'm just really excited about Energy Performance Reporting. It is a best management practice for buildings. It increases competitiveness, saves owners and tenants money, reduces carbon emissions, and it's a leadership position to drive the market for further sustainability, which is an area we need to focus.
 Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, you know that observational effect you mentioned. I occasionally get to drive a Prius, and, of course, it has that function where you can display the consumption of either electric power or when the engine kicks in to charge the batteries, and you become dangerously interested in that display while you're driving the vehicle because those competitive instincts kick in and you want to see if you can get the usage of the battery.
 electric power even higher and the engine lower and that just the power of observation changes your behavior in the car so obviously you make the point it also does once you start looking at your energy use in a building thank you thank you all appreciate all your work on this we know Susan that we occasionally need you to come to a meeting here we appreciate the fact that you did so for this thanks three more people please if they're here at least glancy carry gear and Michael Harrison
 Good afternoon, Lise. You can start. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Lise Glancy from the Port of Portland. The Port supports the adoption of the proposed City of Portland's energy reporting policy for commercial buildings and the City's goal to reduce total energy use of all commercial buildings by 25 percent by 2030.
 This policy makes sense. It targets an area of greatest gain in addressing climate impacts. As you've heard, commercial building energy use accounts for 25% of the city's greenhouse gas emissions and is the second largest source of carbon emissions in the region.
 Energy tracking and management is part of the port's commitment to sustainable practices. In 2008, the port became a founding reporter to the climate registry and has reported our carbon emissions each year since. While the majority of port-owned facilities would not be subject to reporting under this policy as the predominant use,
 is not commercial in nature. The port has committed to join with other public partners, Multnomah County, the City of Portland, and Metro, in voluntarily reporting our energy use at all port-controlled buildings and support port tenants' tenant-owned commercial buildings on our property in reporting. We believe that reporting by public agencies will lead the way for others to voluntarily track their energy use and help model conservation.
 Transparency of building energy information will help us track our progress toward meeting our greenhouse gas goals. I want to thank the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff for their work on this. It's been very helpful, the workshops and other information they provided, and I appreciate the opportunity to testify today. Thank you. Ms. Greer, welcome. Thank you. My name is Carrie Greer, and I'm with Pacific Power, and I'm here to provide you some utility perspective today on how this proposal will work for us.
 So I just want to underscore that Pacific Power is very interested in helping commercial customers achieve more energy efficiency, and we think that benchmarking can be one of those tools that helps them move forward. So our current experience with Energy Star Portfolio Manager is different than the other Portland utilities. We've been working with having this data available for several years, and there are some factors here I'll get into here in just a moment.
 Currently, customers can log into their secure account. They can press a button and it will provide 24 months of Pacific Power electric energy information that's available in a portfolio manager compliant spreadsheet. So the customer can take the spreadsheet and they can manually update it into portfolio manager today. The customer then enters in their own other data, so square footage, employees and whatnot, and they can produce their own Energy Star score.
 So some external factors that have really driven us to perform this data or create this data for customers is that we have
 areas outside of Oregon that have really influenced this. So California and Washington both have state policies that require customers, commercial customers to participate with energy benchmarking. As well as Georgetown University Energy Prize, we have quite a few communities that are participating in this competition currently that require public buildings to track their performance over the next several years.
 Because of all of this interest in other states, in Portland now as well, we have entered into an RFP process to automate benchmarking data. So currently it's manual. We believe by the end of the year we will have this, customers can go in, select the meters that they're interested in automatically putting data into Portfolio Manager and off they go and we will supply that data on a regular basis.
 So along with this RFP process, we're midway through it now. We think it will be fully functional end of the year. But we're also analyzing the costs and staffing requirements to go along with that. So it will cost us to perform the IT work. We believe that there will be some utility staffing time as well to manage customer inquiries.
 So some prior experience with portfolio manager tool. During the cool schools days here in Oregon, Pacific Power wanted to help our schools and public buildings utilize portfolio managers. So we did a series of workshops around the state doing some classroom training on what is Energy Star portfolio manager, how do you generate a score. So we did classroom and then we did computer labs so they can get their hands on this thing and put data into it so they know how it worked.
 So we had about 230 participants come to the class. It was a half-day session. Most people got it. It was not so bad. Some are more computer savvy than others. And so that will be universal here as well. I think that some of our participants were surprised how much data they needed to provide to get a score at the end. So it wasn't just the energy information from utilities, but it's,
 They've got to figure out their square footage, how many employees, how many computers, how many cash registers, how many other things need to go into Portfolio Manager to create an accurate score on the backside. That was for more the simple buildings. I think that we had some people realizing that the more complicated their buildings got or the more business types that were in their building, I've got to go figure out what's the deal with the pool. We've got a data center. There are other things that they're going to have to go get.
 So they were able to do it, but there were some other data requirements that they were just going to have to think through on how to obtain that.
 So, I just wanted to wrap up quickly with a couple notes here. Our utility is different than Portland General and Northwest Natural, and I believe that they'll probably provide some comments here today. Because of the external factors, we've been doing this thing for customers for several years. So, we've had several years to fine tune it, and we started this RFP inquiry last year. So, we've been in this process for a while.
 The benchmarking that's being proposed requires dedicated focus from building owners. I mean, they really will have to participate to get data in and accurate to create a good score on the end.
 So we are making a recommendation to the city to spend a lot of time looking at training opportunities for these building owners. It can be a complicated system, so we really encourage training, training, training. So not only training during the startup phase, but training ongoing. Building owners will change. Designees will change. It's just great to keep people refreshed. And since we did the Cool Schools training, the version of Portfolio Manager today has changed as well. So thank you.
 we need to update our own training as well.
 And then lastly, about public disclosure. Because of our experience with training and watching customers enter data and some of the strange results that they got, we would recommend delaying public disclosure for two years just to get through the hiccups of, did I do this data right? Did I transpose a number? Did I add too much information or did I not add enough? We really would like to see accurate scores or as accurate as possible scores before they go out to the public.
 And that's it from Pacific Power. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Mr. Harrison. Good afternoon. Michael Harrison, Oregon Health and Science University. OHSU is committed to sustainable buildings as evidenced by the lead platinum status of our two newest buildings, which is the Center for Health and Healing and the Collaborative Life Science Building. But what you sort of don't see, which is less obvious, is the millions we spend every year on upgrading our energy systems up on Markham Hill,
 Some of you know we have buildings that are 100 years old and very old systems, and so it doesn't take our energy manager too much thought to be able to look around and find plenty of opportunities to improve the energy performance of the hill.
 However, by having a number, he derives a number monthly showing the energy usage of our entire campus, enables him to have a conversation with folks that make the financial decisions within OHSU to stress how they are.
 the savings affect the entire bottom line and that the money we save on savings ultimately drives down the cost of providing health care, drives down the cost of doing research, and drives down the cost of providing health education. And if we didn't measure the number and didn't continually report the number, it would be a little harder to have that conversation internally.
 Mostly, I just wanted to show up to thank staff. Obviously, thank you, Council, for giving me the opportunity to testify. But thank staff for working with universities and working with hospitals, we're both, to find a way to report energy in a way that is meaningful. I believe, Mr. Mayor, it sounded like you had a question a little bit earlier about the brewery blocks. I'm no expert in the brewery blocks, but I do know the challenges we faced.
 We wanted to make sure that the numbers that we produced and provided and made public were accurate numbers. And given that we have some buildings that maybe 75 percent of this meter is on this building and then 25 percent of the energy goes to this other building, that's sort of one challenge of reporting meaningful numbers. Another is if you have a central plant and it serves 20 buildings, right,
 It takes a lot more energy to serve the building that's farthest away from the plant. And who do you, which building do you apportion those extra costs to? So we pretty quickly ran into the fact that if we wanted to take our energy manager and give him totally over and dedicate him to coming up with a more meaningful building-by-building scenario,
 it would take them away from some very near-term investments like the $10 million upgrade to our main chiller plant that's going to save HVAC costs by 80%. So we have really low-hanging fruit given we have such an old system. So it may be that newer buildings –
 or newer campuses, as it were, that have centralized systems, have a more accurate system. And then when it was built, the submeters were put in and folks focused on one submeter per building. And they may not face the complications that we would face. And so, again...
 It's important to track. We're happy to make the information available on a campus level, and we appreciate staff working with us so we can spend most of our time and invest most of our money on getting the biggest returns in retrofitting our system. Does that help? Again, without me knowing really anything about the brewery box, other than knowing it's a lot newer than OHSU. It's just bigger scale, actually. Questions for this panel?
 Thank you all very much. And I think to close our invited testimony, we have a video from Mayor Mike Nutter in Philadelphia, former president of the U.S. Conference of Mayors and somebody who's innovated a time or two. So it would be nice to hear from him. Hi, I'm Mike Nutter, mayor of the city of Philadelphia. I want to briefly share our experience in developing and implementing a building, benchmarking, and disclosure law.
 In Philadelphia, more than 60% of citywide greenhouse gas emissions stem from building energy use. We came to understand very quickly that in order to make meaningful reductions, we would have to address our building energy usage issues. We had little information about building energy performance and few programs in place in which to engage with private building owners on energy-related matters.
 In 2012, my administration worked with our Philadelphia City Council to pass a law requiring commercial buildings over 50,000 square feet to report and disclose energy usage using the free Energy Star portfolio manager tool. Three years into our program, I have some exciting news to report. First, building owners are actually willing and able to report this data.
 More than 1,900 buildings reported last year, a 90% compliance rate. Just last month, Philadelphia City Council passed another law to expand energy benchmarking to large apartments and condos, which will add another 800 buildings to our program. Second, based on the data we've now collected, we now know that there are opportunities for energy savings in buildings of all types and ages.
 In fact, we've learned that some of our older facilities often outperform similar, newer buildings. And finally, we're very proud to have made this information available about building performance in an easy-to-use visualization tool. Having this data readily available helps us to recognize the highest performing buildings and to reach out to those who might want to learn more about energy efficiency.
 Educating building owners and improving building performance will help Philadelphia to reach our carbon emissions reduction goals. We are building out a next generation of programs using what we have learned. I encourage Portland to join Philadelphia and the ten other cities with similar policies in place to take this important first step.
 I want to thank the city of Portland for your leadership in the urban sustainability movement. I've had the pleasure of working with Mayor Hales through a variety of forums, and we often look to your work to guide what we do right here in Philadelphia. I'm glad to have had this opportunity to share back. If you want to learn more about our program, visit phillybuildingbenchmarking.com or just come visit us in Philadelphia. That's great.
 He's an active participant in the C40 process on behalf of Philadelphia and been a real leader there. So it's nice to hear from him. Okay. I really appreciated that because based on what I read about him over the years, he's one of my favorite mayors, but I had no idea what he looked or sounded like. So that was a real treat. He's great. He's a great colleague.
 So we have some folks signed up in addition to the folks that we've already heard from. Let's take those, please. Okay. We have a total of 16 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Marshall Runkle, Marlon Crump, and Stan Price. Okay. Some of them are still here. Marshall was here. But come on up, please. Let's go with Jenna Garman and Anna Huttel.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Stan Price. I'm the Executive Director of the Northwest Energy Efficiency Council. We're a nonprofit business association that represents companies that provide efficiency products and services. Many of my members are in the room today. I'll keep my comments very brief. I won't reiterate the value propositions that you've already heard. I will just make a underscore a couple of points.
 There's a value proposition I think for you all as elected leaders in the city of Portland. The information in aggregate provides an opportunity for you all to track the performance of your building stock over time. So that you can measure progress towards important energy and climate goals. So the information is important to the individual building owner.
 but also important to you all as the elected officials for the city of Portland. My last point is I just want to commend the Bureau for the work that they've done on this particular proposal. My organization has been involved.
 nationally on a number of these benchmarking ordinance at the state and local levels. And these folks really did take a lot of lessons learned from those experiences and have applied it to the material you'll see in front of you. So we're very hopeful and encouraged that the city of Portland will move forward with this. Thank you. Thank you, thanks very much. Welcome. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Jenna Garman and I'm here representing Climate Solutions.
 We are a Northwest-based clean energy nonprofit, and our mission is to accelerate practical and profitable solutions to climate change. So I'm here to voice our strong support for this policy and to also commend BPS staff for their excellent work on the policy. This policy is really about transparency and empowerment, and it presents a huge opportunity to save money, reduce emissions, and create jobs.
 As you well know, buildings are the largest source of carbon emissions in Portland, yet data on how buildings use energy is not widely available for tenants, owners, and others who can take action to improve energy use. By making building energy use visible and actionable in the marketplace, this policy will drive the market toward energy efficiency,
 and reduce the carbon footprint of Portland's buildings. In doing so, we'll also achieve a number of other key benefits. It will reduce energy costs by helping owners and tenants identify opportunities to cut energy waste. It will inform real estate transactions and help businesses make more informed decisions that take energy costs into account when buying or leasing property. It will enhance real estate value
 Recent studies have found that higher performing buildings also have lower vacancy rates and increased rental and resale prices. And finally, it will support local job creation. By increasing demand for energy efficiency services, the policy will support the growth of the clean energy sector in Portland. In addition to our strong support for this policy, we also offer the following recommendations to maximize its benefits. First, we think it's crucial that the city maintain the requirement to publicly disclose benefits.
 the energy use data and we think public disclosure is the cornerstone of the policy and it is key to driving the market toward energy efficiency and Secondly, we also recommend that the policy be expanded in a future phase to include other building types And in summary we urge the city to join me two states and eleven cities that have already Adopted these policies and are realizing the benefits and we thank you very much afternoon
 Good afternoon. Hello and thank you for this opportunity to voice my full support and enthusiasm for the commercial building energy performance reporting policy. My name is Anna Huddle and my background is in architecture. Prior to moving to Portland last June to join the nonprofit Salmon Safe, I lived in Chicago where I served as group leader for a sustainability planning studio and was entrenched in the green building community there. As part of that community, I assisted the city of Chicago in rolling out its energy benchmarking ordinance.
 From the fall of 2013 through spring of 2014, I served as part of Chicago's volunteer energy benchmarking working group.
 a group of roughly 10 industry professionals that led trainings on the ordinance for building owners. When I learned of Portland's interest in implementing a similar ordinance, I was very excited and wanted to lend my support and experience from Chicago, which is what brings me here today. I attended an information session in mid-January and reviewed the draft ordinance currently being considered by the council. I think the policy is a tremendous tool through which the city can help protect our environment as Portland's landscape becomes increasingly dense.
 as well as achieve the goals set forth in the draft 2015 Climate Action Plan. I'd like to share three concerns that, key concerns that I heard raised during the January session since they were identical to those that I had heard previously in Chicago and have also been raised partially today. First, there's fear about how the data will be used and shared publicly. Second, there's anxiety over the reporting process and potentially added workload. And third, there's doubt about the potential effectiveness of the policy.
 In my opinion and past experience, all of these concerns are easily resolved and largely already addressed by the draft policy. The public disclosure piece has been well addressed in the draft and is consistent with New York City's approach to their ordinance. Through conversation that I've had with industry leaders from New York City, I learned that their local property owners have become completely accustomed to the public disclosure of building-by-building energy data.
 And one tactic that the city of Chicago used was to put building owners at ease was to only disclose the first year's worth of data on a citywide summary basis, which Portland's policy also does. With regards to anxiety about the reporting process, I'd note that the city has wonderful resources at its fingertips to aid building owners.
 Through established networks that have been referenced by others, the city can establish a volunteer working group like the one that I was part of in Chicago to lead trainings for building owners and managers and facilitate the first year of reporting. In Chicago, as was previously noted, utility providers were also immensely helpful to their customers in creating tools to allow easy collection of aggregated data.
 And lastly, with regards to the potential effectiveness of the policy, I was going to reference the same 2012 EPA study about the annual savings of energy, but I won't duplicate that statement. But the study clearly demonstrates that by consistently tracking energy use of a building alone, even without capital expenditures on any energy savings projects, an average building can receive some savings.
 So in summary, the city of Portland has much to gain by joining its sister city, Seattle, and others like Chicago to become the next city in the U.S. to adopt an energy reporting policy. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate you being a resource for this conversation here now. My pleasure. Thanks very much. Thank you all. Next three are Casey Radcliffe, John Morris, and Ralph Dinda. Webley Bowles. Welcome. Good afternoon. I'd like to be first. Go ahead.
 Hello, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Casey Ratcliffe, and I am an energy analyst for the Oregon Department of Energy. The Oregon Department of Energy helps implement the state's energy goals and policies, administers programs such as energy incentives and loans, and ensures reliable energy for Oregon's future. I'm here today to share some information about our existing programs that focus on energy use reporting as a mechanism for improving building performance.
 One of our programs at the Oregon Department of Energy is the Energy Efficiency Schools Program, which works with K-12 public schools throughout the state to track energy use and energy use intensity, opportunities for improvements, and provide technical assistance.
 A core component of the program requires our participants, comprised of 112 school districts, to collect and report energy use data. We found that many schools did not have a centralized place to collect and analyze this information, so we have used the reporting database to serve as a historical archive and analytical tool.
 While setting up reporting can initially take some time, our staff work with participants to establish an effective and repeatable process that is simple to maintain. By measuring performance, we are also able to provide targeted technical and financial assistance that allows us to work more effectively with our local partners to provide incentives, rebates, and loans.
 Oregon's state agencies also participate in energy use reporting through the State Building Innovation Lab, which requires annual energy use reporting and incorporation of energy efficiency measures into new state agency buildings. These agencies have reported energy use to our agency since 2001 and have successfully met the goal set by the Oregon Legislature to reduce overall energy use by 20% by 2015.
 This aligns with national findings that buildings that complete benchmarking are shown to reduce energy consumption by an average of 7% over a three-year time span. We have also transitioned our state agency reporting into EPA's Energy Star Portfolio Manager. We find this is more user-friendly, provides better analytical tools, and allows users to more quickly report simple energy information.
 We will continue to work with our state agencies, including those located in Portland, such as the Portland State Office Building and Commission for the Blind. Reporting through Portfolio Manager allows us to be consistent with similar regional and national programs and ensures compliance with Oregon's existing statewide scoring program developed in 2011. Thank you.
 For more than a decade, our program participants have completed energy reporting and used benchmarking as tools to understand their building performance. These core elements have been successfully implemented in our programs in alliance with the city's proposed policy. Reporting is a critical first step to understanding our built environment. We support the city's proposed efforts to provide better information to building tenants so they can make more informed decisions.
 towards greater efficiency and savings. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks for coming. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi. Good afternoon. Thank you for allowing me to speak today. My name is Webley Bowles. I am an architect in Oregon, and I'm a member of the American Institute of Architects Portland Chapter Committee on the Environment. It's also known as AIA-CAP.
 Portland COAT. That's our initials, so I might say that again. And I'm also an energy efficiency advocate in Portland, and I work for Empower Oregon, and we work on energy efficiency and water efficiency measures for affordable housing in Oregon. So I'm very interested in this, and I want to
 show my support for it. As you guys know, Energy Star Portfolio Manager is an industry standard, and it is recognized by LEED for existing buildings by recognizing the Energy Star score and the Architecture 2030 Challenge by using energy use intensity to determine the progress towards a net zero energy goals, which has also been adopted by AIA.
 So AIA Portland COAT supports the proposed ordinance. The Building Energy Performance Reporting Policy aligns directly with one of AIA Oregon's
 Position statements, which is ensuring that the effort, investment, and high-performance buildings demonstrates improved environmental quality and reduced energy consumption. A, Oregon supports the principle of publicly disclosing energy consumption for commercial and institutional properties in Oregon, whether publicly or privately held. So transparency in building energy use.
 enables architects to understand how building design compares to the actual use, which is essential for us, getting that feedback. It allows us to continue to design high-performance building and empowers building owners, which is essential for them to operate better facilities. And in the end, it all reduces energy use and saves costs, as you are aware of by a lot of the testimony here today.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, and thank you, commissioners, for allowing me to speak today. My name is Ralph DiNola. I'm CEO of New Buildings Institute. NBI is a nonprofit think tank that works nationally, and we're dedicated to advancing commercial building energy efficiency efforts.
 And we're happy to announce that we're going to be moving our offices to Portland in June. I want to just make a couple of points. We applaud the city for adopting this policy. Many of the municipalities and states across the U.S. have adopted a similar policy, as we've heard. And as a leader in sustainability and green building, the city needs to be included in this growing cohort across the country.
 A benchmarking policy is a key strategy in lowering carbon emissions and the impact of Portland's buildings. Understanding that performance of the building stock is an essential first step, but it's necessary to provide that data and analysis to create a foundation for achieving the building sector goals that you've set out in the city and county climate action plan.
 Benchmarking is immediately adoptable, as we understand from the other cities that are doing it, and a component of a long-term building policy program that is part of the Climate Action Plan. Progress in moving towards low-energy buildings and zero-net energy buildings in the commercial building sector in Portland is called for in local, state, and regional policies, including the Pacific Coast Collaborative.
 And this effort will definitely boost your action through the ordinance. So I thank you and appreciate the opportunity to testify. Thank you. I appreciate having you engaged in this here. Thank you. Thanks very much. Some more? Lauren Lusfeldt, Paul Schlesinger, Jenna Gesseldem, Shanna Brownstein. That was Shanna. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 I'll get started. Mayor Hales, commissioners, thank you for having me this evening. I'm happy to represent a number of organizations, and I'll run through a quick list. First of all, I'm a registered architect. I work for a local firm, Hedderberry Eddy Architects in town. And put your name in there.
 Lauren Loosfeld. Thank you. We serve a variety of clients from government to private projects, higher ed, et cetera. I'm also the chair of American Institute of Architects Portland Chapter COAT, Committee on the Environment, as my colleague Webley had brought up earlier. I'm a board member of AIA Oregon. And as a board member, I sit on the Legislative Affairs Committee representing Oregon's registered architects.
 Legislative Affairs Committee is responsible for reacting to health, safety, and welfare legislative issues that come before the state of Oregon and supporting claims.
 that affect our communities. Webley had mentioned with position statements, and I'd just like to add to that. Last year, the AIA Oregon took it upon themselves to survey the 1,400 registered architects in Oregon. And 58% of those who responded were in strong support of that position statement to disclose energy performance for public and private buildings.
 Twenty-five percent were also in support with some minor language changes, which we're now listening to and informing BPS with that information. You've heard a number of different facts stated, so I won't repeat those, but I will say that as an architect, we represent our clients, and so we must be critical of these kind of ideas and policies that are positioned in front of us.
 And so just even as of yesterday, I've been talking with BPS and Vin Mason about this measure, and I'd like to just share a few facts that we've found and also state my strong support as a response of how they've reported back to us.
 First of all, Energy Star Portfolio Manager is a very current, very fair and effective model and tool for benchmarking. Benchmarking is critically important as though it lets us know where we stand today and how we move forward tomorrow. Without benchmarking, we can't make progress, and we won't know what progress looks like.
 The second question in our mind was balance and fairness. Is Energy Star Portfolio Manager a fair and effective way? We are reassured, and we understand, we've heard today, that there are a number of different categories in which the Energy Star Portfolio Manager normalizes buildings over a variety of buildings, whether they be dense office spaces or even very energy-intensive buildings.
 and
 otherwise on the spectrum. We're assured that the program is rigorous and fair. We've asked about the amount of time required, and we've been told that in the first year it would be 4 to 40 hours required for a building owner, and after that subsequently 2 to 20. So we're very happy with this information. We look forward to understanding more how training and education will move forward with this program, and we look for the oversight of both architects and professional engineers to help implement.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Appreciate the AIA being a resource for this. I know it's late, but can I just ask one question? On the work you're doing, one of the many hats you're wearing that involves environment and affordable housing, did I hear that? No, not necessarily. The environment? The environment, right. Okay. Welcome. Thank you.
 Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Jana Gastelum. I'm with the Oregon Environmental Council, and we appreciate you taking on this policy and applaud these efforts. In particular, we appreciate that there's follow-up on the recommendations from the first climate action plan, and we're glad to see it carry through and follow through. We think this is a really excellent type of policy. It's been implemented well in other jurisdictions.
 We would actually even love to see it on a statewide basis. And though Portland might not be one of the first ten cities to adopt, we can certainly show statewide leadership in Portland by adopting this policy. There are three main reasons why we think we should move forward with this. One for the environment, two for health, and three for economic gain. I'll just touch on each quickly since I think a lot of people have made great points.
 Energy efficiency and energy disclosure are effective ways to really reduce energy use, and that's an important tool for addressing climate change. We know that climate change will impact the health of Portlanders and Oregon citizens, so anything we do to address climate change also has health benefits, especially those who are most disproportionately impacted by climate change. So we applaud you on those two fronts of tackling both climate change and health together.
 We're also really impressed by the many comments that said, you know, if we just measure and if we're aware of data, we can make a lot of improvements. And since energy is also tied up in water use and waste management and other things, we think that there could be great spillover effect in really monitoring energy use and getting gains on other city goals around water and waste reduction in other areas.
 Point out that the transparency I think is a key part of this policy and I
 I appreciated, Mayor, your point about the Prius giving you a display and not giving you instant feedback. I was thinking about other places where we do public disclosure in the city. I live in northeast Portland, and I come down Sandy Boulevard. There's a big hill right before a major pedestrian area, and there's a public reader board that lets you know what your speed limit is. Although there's a posted speed limit, but then it measures and tracks individual car speeds individually.
 And it's incredibly effective to have public disclosure of what actual car speeds are. It improves safety and it improves the effectiveness. So we think there's been a nice balance struck to have maybe a delay in that one year of public disclosure, but we think that that's a really key part of making this an effective policy. Thanks very much. Thank you. I love your idea about efficiency.
 similar models of tracking other kinds of energy use like water and sewer. The one irony, of course, is that while we believe in conservation around water, the more successful we are, the more likely we are to drive up everyone's cost in a fixed cost system. So there's an inherent dilemma that we face because we have such an abundance of water. We put about 300 million gallons a day into the streams we can't use.
 that as people conserve, it actually has the perverse effect of raising people's rates. And saving it for the people who are moving here. We're schizophrenic on this question, but we like the idea of better monitoring. All the more reason to then save more on energy. I really appreciate your observation about the speed reader boards because I have the same reaction. And when I mentioned it to a transportation engineer, they said, oh, the studies show that that doesn't work. I wonder if there's a gender difference.
 I'm here to tell you there's not in every case. It works on me, too. All I know is that you have to hit the brakes because there's a lot of brake lights in front of you when you hit that sign. Yeah, it works. Thank you. Yeah.
 Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Shawna Brownstein. I'm here representing Northwest Natural. I want to thank you, Mayor Hales and Commissioner, for having us today. I also really appreciate that you had Mayor Nutter. I'm from Philadelphia, so I always like hearing the Mayor of Philly talk. Anyway, I'm here to represent the utility piece of this. We've been talking a lot about energy reporting and the needs of
 the building owners there are going to be requirements on the utility though and so I just want to Make sure that we're available to you to answer any questions We support this policy. We think the city is moving in the right direction We have worked with BPS
 along the way. We still have a couple of concerns that I do want to voice. They've been brought up a little bit, but we want to flesh them out. I also want to thank my colleague from Pacific Corps, Kerry, for really discussing how Pacific Corps is unique and they are further along this continuum than Northwest Natural. I'm not sure if PG is going to speak, but speaking for Northwest Natural,
 The way buildings, the way commercial buildings are metered right now, it makes aggregating data by building very difficult. I was really surprised to learn this. In government affairs, I always say that I'm a mile wide and an inch deep on any particular topic. I really dug into this one. I was like, what is the problem? And it's because there are subtenants and there are master meters and it gets really complicated. For our system, from a technology standpoint, there's a lot of coding that has to be, you
 you know, done to generate the report, and then interfacing with the building owners to manually input all of their information by building. It's not currently put together in our system that way. So there's a lot of work on the front end to do that. And then there's the ongoing maintenance to make sure that we're...
 Working with the building owners, we're going to get a lot of questions on this, has been stated. Finally, there are some legal issues. Data privacy came up. We are regulated by the PUC state and federal law regarding our data. So there was some work with BPS that the building owners would get tenant permissions.
 Right now, we're working through, like, well, do we just need an affidavit from the building owner that says they got the permissions? Or do we actually need to have the permissions? And if we have the permissions, do we have to validate that we got the permissions from that particular meter? If it's the latter, it's going to be an enormous administrative burden. So we're really working through this right now. We want to make this work.
 It is a challenge. There will be an expense. It will take time. And for a utility as lean as Northwest Natural, it's going to be difficult. So I'm happy to answer any questions from a utility perspective. Thank you. I appreciate that. Obviously, having a little more time is helpful. Thank you. I appreciate your willingness to keep working on those issues with us. Absolutely. Thank you all. Thank you. The last three I show are Ben Gates, Chris Lowen, and Kelly Ross. Come on up.
 Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to voice support for the policy today. My name is Ben Gates. I'm a real estate developer working both with private and nonprofit owners. And I wanted to share just a couple examples of projects that kind of illustrate the benefits of energy reporting, how easy it can be.
 and also the benefits of public disclosure. So the first project that I want to illustrate is a project that I worked on a couple years ago, the Northrop Center on Northrop,
 and 23rd Avenue. And it's a medical dental building. It would fall under this requirement to report on energy. We made the decision upon acquiring the building to not do the reporting in-house, but rather have our service provider report for us. So I know McKinstry was up here. I believe they offered this service. In this case we used Alliance.
 They took on the reporting as part of their mechanical service contract, which made it very easy for the building owner to kind of roll into services that were already reported. Had we not reported, we would have been going off of...
 acquiring the building on day one and kind of benchmarking all future use against our operating budget in year one. When we went through the trouble of reporting, we found that when we took the utility bills prior to our acquisition, we actually found that our utility costs were twice as high as when the previous owner had the building.
 And what we found with kind of alliance sleuthing and some work subsequent to go through the building and figure out what the problem was, it was a simple mechanical control issue which had the mechanical device kind of running 24-7 and not going back into setback mode.
 So by making that simple switch, once we found out the issue, we saved 50% in energy costs, which was substantial. So there's not just the 3% to 7% average savings, but there's some really big substantial wins there when we know the energy usage of the building. The second...
 project that I wanted to share was the Loyalty in Hamilton building. So this is one we completed a couple years ago, and it's on 3rd and Alder, two historic buildings, renovated. We used Portfolio Manager to track...
 energy use across both buildings. We did the standard things many people have mentioned here, replacing mechanical equipment, putting in occupancy sensors, and today it's Portland's top energy star score among historic buildings. And
 And what that allows us to do is really kind of tell the story and showcase what the building is about. So it's not just about kind of finding those energy wins. It's also about telling the story. And I think, you know, those illustrate the importance of access to information, using the simple tool and some of the benefits that can be accrued as a result of that. Great. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Mayor Hales, commissioners, thanks for the time to testify today. My name is Chris Lohan. I'm a registered professional engineer at Glumac, a local sustainable engineering firm. And I just wanted to say that building benchmarking as an energy analyst with Glumac is the first thing we do with any existing building project. So it's a very powerful tool with respect to looking into energy efficiency. Secondly, I just wanted to talk a little bit about our personal experiences with building benchmarking.
 About three years ago, we went and looked at 10 buildings that we'd designed. The industry has put a lot of pressure on sustainable buildings actually hitting their performance goals. Those 10 buildings we went back and took a look at, we learnt a lot from. We thought we knew how much energy they would use. Sometimes we were close, sometimes we were not.
 What it allowed us to do was learn as to why buildings might not be hitting these targets, and it effectively put a feedback loop in the system. So every design that we do from this date forward, we have that feedback loop and we're constantly learning. I think the city has the opportunity to do the same thing through this benchmarking mechanism.
 Secondly, I just wanted to talk a little bit about the savings beyond energy. And I think if we can make this work from the energy picture, there's a whole bigger picture out there that goes beyond just energy. Typical building costs maybe $2 a square foot to operate. We've heard a lot of metrics. Here's some new ones. The staff within that building are probably within the vicinity of $30 a square foot from their value.
 Buildings that perform energy measures and improve indoor air quality, thermal comfort, these sort of things, those people become more productive. So if you improve their productivity by 5% to 10%, not only have we saved energy through possibly something like this, but we're seeing huge, huge economic benefits from other factors also. Okay.
 That's about all I've got. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good point. Mayor, since Kelly was here for SDCs and he's now for green buildings, I think we should extend him the courtesy of speaking on any subject he wants so that we spare him another trip within the next week. No, let's just wrap it up. This is fine.
 Mayor and Commissioners, Kelly Ross again representing NAOP Oregon and the Commercial Association of Brokers. I just briefly wanted to reiterate several of the points that Susan Stewart made and also to express appreciation to her for her taking the lead on behalf of the industry on this. Thank you.
 I also want to reiterate the need to be adequately staffed up on this. We reached out to NAOP members in Seattle, and the clear message we got from them was that the biggest problem in the first year of their program was understaffing by the city and the bottleneck that that caused.
 created, so I would urge you to look at that very carefully. The second thing in our discussions internally, the highest priority for our members is ease of use on this, because we genuinely do want to see this succeed and a high compliance rate achieved.
 And the best way to do that is to get strong cooperation from the utilities because they are really in the best position to get overall building utility data that there are.
 in many cases separately metered tenants. There's no obligation by tenants to provide the landlord with utility information. There's no obligation to provide the landlord with number of employees or number of computers or any other specialized electronic equipment. So it's really crucial to get the buy-in from the utilities. And I'm not sure that
 sure about the authority of the city to place mandates on utilities. But if you need any help in terms of working with the PUC or the legislature, we would like to collaborate with you on that. Thank you. Thanks very much. Anybody else that signed up or wants to speak? I see Mr. Funk from PGE here, so I was hoping we'd hear from you as well. Thank you all. Adding cleanup for the utilities? Yeah, went back, clean up.
 Good evening. Dean Funk, Manager of Government Affairs for PG. I know probably there's a few people in here who haven't finished their taxes and probably need to get home. I just wanted to say in the impact statement that came with the agenda item,
 The PG was listed on there as cautiously supportive, and I think I'd bifurcate that a little bit and say we're enthusiastically supportive of the idea, but we are a little cautious about some of the things that you heard hints of from Carrie Greer there. In fact, data is very complicated. It's much more complicated than you might think. I'm going to look at Commissioner Fish, and I know that there are many residents who have said, why can't you have a monthly water sewer bill?
 And I think probably without being sure that's analogous because data is complicated. You heard from Susan that there's a lot of time on their side in gathering that data, and I think we've heard a little bit of depth about it. It's a lot more difficult than you might think to actually get the information and upload it. One of the things to the credit of BPS is that they realized that the time, they actually expanded the time in the policy to be able to, from 15 to 45 days, as I recall,
 to upload the data or to get the data to be uploaded. And part of it is on the utility side, and, again, I'm not a data analyst either, but having talked to some of our people, and, again, to Pacific Corps is considerably further ahead than we are, that one of the data analysts said that, yes, it's a manual process, and each one of those will be done by a person, and it will take not a lot of time, like days on each one, but it will take –
 20 to 25 minutes on each one, as I understand it from him. So add that up, you've got quite a situation. For us, I would also note just quickly that it isn't actually cheap. In the impact statement from the City of Portland, the statement goes there will be very minimal cost for Portland. But I think you've heard that there is actually more cost behind that than you might think.
 on staffing i know that uh... puget sound energy they found that their costs were considerably higher than then maybe were first understood so there is cost i think it's a very smart thing for people to do were very supportive of it as it happens are uh... uh... smart customer information systems in them throws a being changed out one of the reasons that we actually wanted it to uh... to be extant a little bit further because renna systems we'll be able to do that in the future and
 It's not as equipped to do that now, but we'll do it. We have to do it. It just won't be as efficient and as effective if we could wait a little bit longer. And I think there's some concern, like with any data, that it gets a little squirrely, and you want to make sure it's accurate. And who knows? It would be better if it was a little more accurate if we get a little more time. But generally, it's something that we want to do. I think it's a great idea. All of the dashboard stuff, I drive up Barber Boulevard, that sign,
 on there makes me just back way off the gas because I want to see if I can hit 35 exactly when I'm on that thing. A little context. So, yes, we're very supportive, but I'm glad to hear, and I really appreciate what Carrie Greer from Pacific Core had to say, that there's more to it than you might think. But let's do it.
 The recent video that Steve shared with me had you doing closer to 40. But we think there's always hope. I don't know. It might need big data. Thank you very much. Anyone else like to speak? And any council questions for staff at this point?
 I just want to comment. I'm very proud of the staff at BPS, and I think we've heard a lot of reasons why, the amazing collaborative process that you've carried out so far. And I just want to iterate a commitment I know they have, which is to continue this collaborative approach with not only the building owners but also with the utilities to get these issues figured out. But I'm really proud of this bureau, and I'm also really proud of the private sector and the nonprofit sector
 sector and the design sector and how people have come together about this, that we've gotten to this really high level of accord that we should do this, that we should do it right, that we should make sure that we have the staff resources, both at the utilities and here, to make sure that this works well for the customers and for all the folks that are going to work so hard to make this a success. So I picked up on those notes. I know others did here on the council. Thank you.
 So we've obviously got some more follow-up to do as a city to make sure that this is a success in implementation like it has been in policy development. But certainly from a policy development standpoint, this is really a great success, and I just want to thank you all for your work. We'll be scheduling this for council action later, but I wanted to have a chance to say that while some of you were here, and I know other council members may have comments as well. Mayor, I don't have my binder, but is –
 It will come back for second reading next week unless there's any reason to take longer. And I think given the level of agreement we have and the common understanding about the follow-up issues we have, I don't see any reason to take any longer than that. Other comments? Yeah. Also, I'm very proud of the Bureau, very proud of the city, very proud of everybody who spoke in support today. And I think just for our limited Channel 30 audience, I just want to sort of go back to first principles and note that,
 Reducing energy use in addition to saving money is important because although we get a chunk of our electricity here from hydropower, which does not involve much carbon emissions, we also get a chunk from coal and natural gas, which are fossil fuels. And if we reduce energy use, then we reduce the amount of carbon emissions that we're emitting and increase the percentage of our fuel, of our energy that comes from hydropower.
 And that's important because the use of fossil fuels is destroying the world and is gradually going to render large parts of the planet uninhabitable, reduce the amount of food that we can produce, increase the number of severe weather events that will, among other things, drain government budgets. So this is not a controversial item, thankfully, but it's as important as anything that we do. And I just want to say again that the fact that there's not –
 thousand people here and there's not a lot of media coverage does not mean that this isn't as important as anything we do and thank You very much to the bureau and all the partners for making it happen Any other comments if not then thank you all very much We will schedule this for a second reading next week and we're adjourned Did a great job