canceled due to some threats that were made and some concerns that the organizers had about their ability to maintain the peace. I'm talking, of course, about the 82nd Avenue of Rose's Parade, which was scheduled for this Saturday. The gist of the dispute was some anonymous threats made by some groups that were self-styled, quote, anti-fascist groups,
 targeted to some of the folks who had signed up to march in the parade and particularly focused on a contingent from the Multnomah County Republican Party. The conflict escalated, and ultimately the organizers determined that they were unlikely to be able to run the parade safely. And so, with great regret, they canceled the parade.
 Well, I had a chance to talk to the mayor yesterday afternoon, and as you might imagine, he was deeply disappointed with that news and personally outraged. And I think the thing that struck the mayor the most was that this is a celebration of East Portland. This is a parade that East Portland families and kids look forward to every year, and it just seems basically wrong that they would be casualties in what is a political fight between adults that need to grow up.
 So the mayor is exploring options for putting the parade back on track. He's not prepared to make any announcement, and we don't want to give anyone false hope. But, Mayor, I want to applaud the fact that you stepped into the breach to see whether the parade could be run this Saturday as scheduled and could be conducted safely.
 I will tell you, though, that since this parade is affiliated with both Venture Portland, which represents our neighborhood business districts, and the Rose Festival, Jeff Curtis, the executive director of the Rose Festival, contacted me this morning, Mayor. They have extended an invitation to the parade organizers to march in the Starlight Parade. They asked them to march with their banner and with the city contingents. So they will be honored in the Starlight Parade if, in fact, there is no way to put the parade back on track.
 And let me just make a personal comment. I understand that people have strong views now politically, and I understand there's a lot of issues swirling in our community. We have got to find a way to have those conversations in a respectful and loving way.
 context, and we cannot continue to tolerate this kind of nonsense. I extend my deepest apologies to the families and kids in East Portland who have been robbed of a parade. Mayor, thank you for your efforts to try to put it back on track. But I think there's a larger lesson here about how we conduct ourselves during these challenging times, and I hope this becomes the exception and not the rule. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Good morning, everybody. We are now gaveling into session. This is the regular meeting of the Portland City Council, Wednesday, April 26th, a.m. session. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udailey. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And Commissioner Udailey is excused. She may try and call in later if that's a possibility.
 For those of you who may be waiting for the spring bump, the supplemental budget, that has actually been moved to this afternoon. So if you're here for that, we have moved that to 2 p.m. this afternoon, same place. The statement on conduct, the purpose of council meetings is to do the city's business, including hearing from the community on issues of concern.
 In order for us to hear from everyone and to give due consideration on matters before the Council, we must all endeavor to preserve the order and decorum of these meetings. To make sure that the process is clear for everyone, I want to review some of the basic guidelines, which I hope will help everybody feel comfortable, welcome, and respected, and also ensure that meeting decorum is maintained.
 There are two opportunities for public participation. First, we have an opportunity for people to sign up for communications to speak briefly about any subject they wish to address. These items are scheduled in advance with the clerk's office. Second, people may sign up for public testimony on first readings of reports, resolutions, and ordinances. If you sign up, your testimony must address the matter being considered before the council at that time.
 Please state your name for the record. We do not need your address. If you're a lobbyist, please disclose that. And if you're here representing an organization, please identify the organization. Individuals have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. And just a brief warning, we have a very long agenda today, so it is very likely that testimony will be shortened at some point so that we can get it done.
 When you have 30 seconds left, the yellow light is going to light up, and when your time is done, the red light comes on. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting or interrupting other people's testimony or interrupting during council deliberations, is not allowed. People who disrupt the meeting face ejection from the meeting. If there's a disruption, I'll issue a warning that if any further disruption occurs, anyone who's disrupting the meeting will be subject to ejection for the remainder of the meeting.
 Anyone who fails to leave the meeting after being ejected is subject to arrest for trespass. If you'd like to show your support for something that's being said, please do a thumbs up. If you'd like to say you don't like it, thumbs down is sufficient. Thank you. Let's get started with council communications. Carla, the first item, please. Item 392, request of Lightning Super Watchdog PDX to address council regarding administrative exclusions.
 Good morning. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. Again, on that exclusion policy, it was my understanding after 30 days you would have a validation hearing and come back and, in my opinion, remove the clauses you had in there to exclude up to 30 days, 60 days, even up to a year, because it has been determined that it is unconstitutional by a very reputable judge, Judge Michael Simon.
 based upon his analysis of numerous cases in a statement that he made that if he was to go in the direction that you're proposing, he'd be the first judge in the nation to ever do so without any cases that would substantiate that. Again, if you proceed forward with that, it will be considered unconstitutional. You were sworn in as a mayor to uphold the Constitution and at that point, as you know, that is
 will definitely create some problems. Issue number two, we're talking on those autonomous vehicles again. One of the things that I find interesting about Elon Musk is that he looks at these situations but also projects out even farther, where he's talking about multi-planets, solar, just about space, everything else you can look at, but he's also talking the autonomous vehicles, and he's projecting out also having an understanding that you also have to look at
 how many jobs, mass unemployment you will create by going in that direction. So there has to be a solution created before you actually implement the autonomous vehicles. He has suggested with the mass unemployment that there should be a universal income created for the people that will be employed by that time.
 These corporations have to take that in consideration, that you cannot create enough jobs when you create mass employment at the degree that autonomous vehicles will create through the world. You have to create an income for them when they lose their employment, and that's number one.
 Number two, he's looking at, as you know from AI research, creating robots to replace you. He also understands that he needs to protect human species, meaning that they need to adapt to the robots and be just as smart so they're not replaced too. Because in my opinion, you all could be replaced, and that may seem like a moonshot idea in the words of Google Earth,
 Tesla, and where they're going. But let me tell you something. Crazy might sound, autonomous vehicles, smartphones in your hand, Internet. Well, that's what they were calling them many years before. So think about it. If you get replaced, you're going to save us a lot of money. That's about $130,000 each there.
 AI is coming, and let's hope you don't get replaced, but we'll set you up on a universal income plan also. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. And just for the record, I agree with you on the constitutional issue, and for that reason we are not enforcing it until the constitutionality is clarified. We have not used it, and we will not use it until Judge Simon has an opportunity to take a look at that. And if I might just respond real fast. Sure. Okay.
 As you know, Judge Simon has already done a ruling. So if he comes back on your side and takes your position, he will lose all credit worthiness as a legitimate judge that analyzed this very close and looked at all the cases and would side with you at this time. As far as I'm concerned, his reputation will be damaged and tarnished. He will never do that. He will never do that as a legitimate judge.
 who knows what he's doing. So again, going out 30 days is a waste of time. It should have never went out that far. You have the right to do the 24-hour disruption exclusion.
 That's all you're going to get. Right. And if that's all we get, that's fine, and that's what we've got. And just to be very clear, his ruling also had some other admonishments in it about the lack of specificity in current city code, which we think we've addressed through that ordinance. But it may very well be the case that he'll come back and say, no, it still doesn't meet the constitutional threshold, in which case we will not use it. Yes.
 Your city code will not override the Constitution, and Federal Judge Michael Simon has already done a ruling on that. No, we cannot override the Constitution. If he made a change right now, he's not a legitimate judge. He will not make that change. I can assure you. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Next item, please.
 Item 393, request of Ronald and Swearen to address council regarding I-5 bridge replacement proposal from Washington legislature. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor and council members.
 Yeah, I have one comment on the Washington legislature's bill to examine replacing the I-5 bridge. I think what they're doing is they're just trying to keep the CRC alive, possibly to avoid the repayment that the states would be required. But I hope they will examine other alternatives, other interstate crossings.
 One thing I'd like to say is if that bridge was replaced and we had no additional crossings, I think that would severely impact North Portland because traffic is growing around here. And there's a solution that I'll bring up later for what could really help North Portland. My appreciation to Mayor Weaver for supporting electric power. I've been following that quite a bit. I used to write some articles for Chris Smith's blog on Portland Transport.
 I had articles on double-decker buses, but as far as electric propulsion, there's a very good development from Montreal. It's from the Hydro Authority, and their subsidiary is TM4, and they've developed an electric motor that they refit onto trucks and buses. And so far, they're selling them to two countries for city buses. So electric power is very promising. Great.
 redesigned their motor with added torque. Very, very clever what they're doing. They're looking at other electrical generation. And Ford is developing new battery technology, and Hyundai saying it's solid-state batteries. I'm not really up on exactly what solid-state batteries are, but there's a lot of technology. Green Car Congress has lots of articles. But basically...
 I believe we need additional interstate crossings in our area. And I handed out this executive summary from the Washington County Transportation Futures Study. On the second page, on the right-hand column, they refer to a northern connector, which is not a big expressway, but it would be from US 26 west.
 generally along Cornelius Pass, and then connecting eventually into Columbia Boulevard. Now, in the study, they also say that that could be a high-capacity transit corridor. So I think there could be a lot of benefit to that. And what I'd say now is we have a severe commuting problem between Vancouver and Silicon Forest.
 route would be much shorter and it would save a lot of people time. I think it would be well used. I think it would be safe because there would probably be some stoplights on it. So I don't think the speeds would necessarily be excessive.
 I included in there some photos of network-tied arch bridges, if we ever have additional bridges over the Columbia. These are very cost-effective. They can span long distances. I think they could have electrical power generation in them because on the Columbia we could get power. Now, as far as North Portland...
 I think there will be ways of covering I-5. The construction materials are advancing very quickly. We'll have very lightweight and easy-to-work-with materials, and so in the future, maybe 10 years, maybe less, that will be a very good possibility to restore some of those neighborhoods. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next item, please. Item 394, request of injured to address council regarding Polish logic part two. Good morning. Sorry. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name's injured and pissed off. I had my name changed to that legally, and the subject is reverse Polish logic. Willamette Week in August 9th of 2006 wrote a full-page article in their newspaper starting with the title, Uninvited Guest. Then it went derogatory from there.
 to say the least. And that was after I moved into the housing authority of Portland, building Hamilton West at 1212 Southwest Clay, apartment 217 that I live at still. And that was in December 3rd of 2004.
 By they wrote the article, never mentioned that my service animal had been attacked four times at that time. And if you remember, Ted Wheeler, you wrote an article after informing you of the state laws that there was five dog attacks at that time of my service animal. And after the sixth time, I went to county court and I had a valid restraining order
 And the district attorney's office dismissed the case that morning and said that she really didn't mean it. And after seven dog attacks, that I broke my left hip and fractured two of my vertebraes in my spinal cord. And that's the reason why I'm using the walker. I'm barely able to walk. But justice is spelt with one eye. And so far it's been just myself battling justice.
 City Hall, as you've heard the old saying, you can't fight City Hall. Well, City Hall actually owns HAP. It's been changed to Home Forward. And they allowed this, and the court did too. And I've been trying to get legal representation because even the Catholic Church, with what they got away with for 40 to 60 years with their civil conspiracy...
 They were able to go across the whole nation, evade all the rules of pedophilia, but they only had to pay like $2 billion for that. With owning 6,000 hospitals worldwide, you can imagine the costs or the money that they get per day. $2 billion wouldn't be anything. I got attacked seven times.
 An injured in the city of Portland has been able to get away with this, and it's a shame. And I've talked to other people with service animals and guide dogs, and they get attacked, but none of them seven times by the same dog. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item, please. Item 395, request of Brian Hance to address council regarding bike theft task force efforts. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 My name is Brian Hance. I'm here to talk about bike theft. I will be brief. I'm the co-founder of BikeIndex.org. We are a non-profit bike registration and recovery service. We let people index and list their bikes in our service for free as a general theft prevention measure and to prove provenance and ownership. Here in Portland, we work with over 20 bike shops, the Portland Police Bureau's Bike Theft Task Force, BikePortland.org, and others. We also work with similar entities in Washington, California, and across the nation.
 Last year we held many public events in conjunction with the task force and I'm here to share just a little quick notes on our efforts around that. In short, the lowest hanging fruit when it comes to fighting bike theft in Portland is having a really simple free resource that bike shops and citizens and law enforcement can use to quickly determine a bike's rightful owner. And that's what the bike index is.
 It's a pretty big economic impact. It's one of those niche things that once you look at it, in 2014, Oregon Live reported that over 2,000 bikes had been stolen in Portland. Their best estimate was roughly $1 million. In 2016, we, the bike index, clocked just over 1,200 bikes and we've recovered just under 200 of those. So it's definitely an uphill battle. And honestly, it's not about the dollar amounts.
 Bike thefts are typically always tied to burglaries, property crimes, drugs, and a whole litany of other incidents here in Portland. And statistics show that bike thefts is just one of those big reasons that people stop biking. After the third or fourth bike gets stolen, people just, you know, they get sick of it and they get right back in their cars. And that's what we're trying to avoid here in Portland especially. Thank you.
 The black market for stolen bikes also does real economic damage to our local shops. It's impossible for bike shops to compete with thieves who can make 100% profit on the stolen bikes that they can fence online and anonymously. It's direct competition with our local retailers, and the estimates are also sort of wildly enormous.
 We know that there are direct positive results when we get people here in Portland to register their bikes with the task force. The more you register, the more you recover. It's one of those no-brainer things. Indexing your bike is like vaccinating it against theft. Once it's done, it's harder to sell. It's harder to fence. It's easier to identify. And it takes 60 seconds.
 But much like vaccinations, it only works if we get a critical threshold of bikes actually listed in the system. So we hustle pretty hard to get people to participate here in Portland.
 So this year, again, we'll be doing the same thing. We'll be right back out there at Sunday Parkway signing people up. And I would ask everyone here, please come by and say hello. Even better, you can do this right here tomorrow. If any of you ride or your staff ride, the Portland Bike Theft Task Officers will be outside from 10 to 2 registering bikes in the courtyard. It takes 60 seconds. It's free. We would love it if you could spread the word and come by and list your bikes. Again, it's the easiest thing you can do to protect that asset here in Portland. Thank you.
 Please take five minutes. It would be great. We would love to protect more bikes here in Portland, and if you'd like to know just a little bit more about our efforts, swing by, and we'd love to talk to you. Mr. Hans, I have a quick question. A couple years ago, I had my bike stolen. I recall, yes. And the police indicated to me that there was a chance it would be in a chop shop and the parts would be sold off.
 Does registration still work when a thief is – Yes, because what often will happen is the person who then purchased it takes it home, and the first thing they find out is that it has been reported stolen. This happens constantly with eBay and all these local sales apps and Craigslist transactions. It's almost – it's a daily occurrence with us. And the second question, sir, is what I learned after my bike was stolen when I went to a bike shop is they said I need to upgrade my lock.
 And so that's, I think, it's a two-prong approach. It is a constant refrain, yes. So what advice do you have for consumers about the level of lock? The Thefts Task Force actually had a great lock giveaway program last year where if you came by with a substandard subpar lock, they would give you a free hardened U-lock. I'm waiting to see if that's going to happen this year. But the general advice is, you know, by the biggest –
 Biggest, baddest, most expensive, strongest lock that you can find. I like to use the term weapons grade. Buy a lock that looks scary. And that usually does the trick. Having said that, closest distance between two points is a thief and a desire. And we've seen some pretty amazing ways that those locks are defeated. So I say buy two. As silly as it sounds, buy two. Yes?
 When you register cats, they get a microchip inserted. Yes. So what kind of process is there for the registration? Uh.
 Right now, it's basically we only rely on the serial number that's stamped in the steel. There's a number of technological reasons that, unfortunately, we can't ship bikes like we ship cats yet. Right. So they have a serial number like a car has a VIN number. They do, yes. And it's located. It's pretty easy. One of the main things that the task force people do is educate riders on real quickly. You flip your bike upside down, how to find it, how to locate it. And every bike has one. Correct. Okay.
 And that's actually what they do at these sign-up events. They'll do the work for you and just show it. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you very much. Thank you, Brian. We appreciate that. So that was bikeindex.org. Correct. Thank you, sir. Next item, please. Item 396, request of Bill Dant to address council regarding funding year-round park host and park rangers in Holiday Park. Hi, Bill. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 Fish Saltzman and Mayor Wheeler. My name is Bill Dant. I've been a member of the volunteer group Connected for the last five years. Connected was formed six years ago this month following the shooting death of an innocent bystander in Holiday Park. His name was Shiloh Hampton. He was 14 years old, and he attended Madison High School. Members of Connected meet every Friday afternoon to walk Holiday Park for a few hours.
 In the first two years of connected existence and persistence, violent crimes and police calls to the park dropped significantly. Families actually began to bring their kids back to the park and have picnics. Previous to that, drug dealing, gang activity, and human trafficking was blatant and rampant. Which brings us to two weeks ago when 17-year-old Sean Scott Jr. was shot and killed in Holiday Park in an apparent botched robbery attempt. Charged with the crime is an 18-year-old male.
 Despite all the progress made in Holiday Park, it is a real punch in the gut for those of us who have been involved in making it a safe and welcoming place. The gains made over the past six years are very fragile. Progress truly does come in like a tortoise and leave like a hare. Street-level gang outreach workers still cite the park as a routine trouble spot. In Connected, we cannot be there every day. Not in a nutshell is why I'm addressing you. During the past two summers, the Parks and Recreation Bureau has provided a park host and park rangers in the park.
 I'm asking you as a member of Connected and also as a lifelong member of the city to find the courage and means necessary to make the Park Host and Park Rangers year-round. They offer games and positive activities for kids. They give the park more sets of eyes and ears. And people just behave better when they're there. I've seen this myself firsthand.
 According to Commander Robert King of the Police Bureau's North Precinct, the owners of the adjacent Lloyd Center Mall are already partnering with the city to improve security not just the mall but the park as well. Considering the parks as their front door to the Lloyd Center, the mall owners are the perfect example of a public-private partnership which is ripe to be nurtured and cultivated.
 As tired and clichéd as the term stakeholders has become, there are other neighbors of note who can and should be called in to help with some of the heavy lifting here. For example, Senator Ron Ryden and U.S. Representative Earl Blumenauer both have offices kitty-cornered from Holiday Park in the federal building, and the Bonneville Power Administration is in the building next door to them. To borrow another cliché, many hands make light work. Far too much has been gained at Holiday Park to let it slip back to drugs, violence, human trafficking, and murder.
 Everyone has a right to feel free to use our parks without fear. It's a quality of life issue for the hundreds of thousands of people who travel through and or use the park every year. It's been said Holiday Park is in many ways the Eastside equivalent of Pioneer Square. I ask you to please help make that a reality.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Am I correct in remembering that you don't actually live around the park? What's that? I'm sorry. Do you live close to the park? No, I live in West Portland Park up near PCC Sylvania. I just want to say thank you for caring about something that's not in your backyard, but is all of our backyard, so thank you. Portland belongs to all of us. Excellent suggestions, and thank you for your volunteerism. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 So just to reiterate for those who didn't hear the initial message, the spring bump has been moved to 2 p.m. this afternoon. So if anybody's here for the supplemental budget, that has actually been moved. Do we have any items that have been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes, we have 398 and 399, 410 and 412. Okay.
 401 through 407 and 413. My, okay. It's really the ones that are not bulls. That might have been easier. We've got 400, 408, and 409, and 411 are remaining on consent. Thank you. That's very helpful. Please call the roll on the consent, the remaining consent.
 What little there is. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The consent agenda is adopted. Let's go back to time certain 10, and then we'll start working our way through the pulled consent items after that. Item 397, accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Jen Clodius, a Senior Management Analyst with the Office of Management and Finance and staff support for the Technology Oversight Committee. With me today are Jeff Baer, Director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and Diana Garcia, Commissioner Fritz's representative on the TOC. As you know, TOC is made up of five community members, each appointed by a City Council member.
 The other TOC members are Ken Neubauer for Commissioner Fish, Dr. Wilf Pinfold, who was appointed by former Mayor Hales, Joshua Mitchell, appointed by former Commissioner Novick, and Mike Lynch for Commissioner Saltzman. We are here to present information from the Technology Oversight Committee's quarterly report for January through March 2017.
 That quarter, TOC followed three projects, Portland's Online Permitting System, or POPS, the Data Center Move Project, and the SAP Enterprise Asset Management Project. TOC is also tracking the telephone switch migration, but not as an active project. We're going to project dashboards for the three projects they are following. The dashboards contain information from the project management staff, from our quality assurance contractors, and from the TOC itself.
 I remind you, this report goes through March. Jeff is going to provide updates on where the projects are as of last week. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of the council. Jeff Baer, as Jen introduced myself. I just want to do a couple of quick updates on the Portland online permitting system, POPS.
 It is progressing on schedule. We have completed both the project charter and the governance document. At last week's TOC meeting, there was a request to review some of the business requirements, the project assessment and design architecture. So we're getting into the technical details of that. And it remains on track for having a decision point coming up very soon, which will likely be back in front of city council with what direction we will be going for next.
 And sort of parallel to POPs is the current Amanda Tracks permitting system. Currently, right now, it's on an unsupported version 4. We are pursuing and in progress of doing an upgrade to a version 6, which would be supported by the vendor. We're anticipating that would be completed by the end of this calendar year. And Diana, if you want to add any comments to that as well.
 Yeah, so just to add to what Jeff has been saying, the TOC has been very pleased with the progress the POPs team has been making. Given our past reports and some of the challenges we saw, the team has really dug in and done some amazing work in the time that the Discovery Project has kicked off. And we want to recognize that and the work they have done because they've really stepped up and taken the bull by the horns and are doing some really great, very hard work. And we just want to make sure that's acknowledged.
 Thank you. Thank you, Diana. I'll also focus on the data center relocation project. This, again, is one that's on schedule. It's within budget. All the major procurements have been completed at this time. We are going forward, which is known as a cage design, which is really –
 physically a cage out at the Via West location. That will be completed, and much of the work is going to begin building out that network system in early May. So we're on track with that, and I'll turn it over to Diane as well. I don't have much to say about this one either because it's been actually running pretty smoothly for a data center move.
 And, again, we've been tracking it pretty closely because they can go sideways very easily, but the team has been on top of it and doing a great job in keeping everyone informed, which is great. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you. And I would just add that we are facing probably the biggest lift coming up right now, which is the migration portion of that. We've got hundreds of different applications on the network today, and all of those have to be physically moved out into a new location, stood up in a whole new network, and all the testing that goes with it is a very large lift for everybody involved in it. Yeah.
 It's dependent on getting it out of the Portland building by December, which constructions begin sometime mid to late December. So we're on schedule to have that completed.
 The last one you'll note here is the EAM, or the Enterprise Asset Management. This one we put on hold because of the data center move, because we needed to find out when the migration schedule was actually going to take place so it didn't inhibit the implementation work for the Enterprise Asset Management system. So I don't have much update other than we're going to start this back up in earnest probably in June.
 And the only thing on that is we fully supported placing this project on hold from the TOC perspective because we know the data center move, again, is very critical to supporting it. So we were in full alignment with placing this project on hold.
 I think as a final comment, I just want to express my gratitude to Diana and the TOC. We've had some very robust conversations at our monthly meeting, very candid discussions about everything from the very technical details to the management of different projects. So thank you very much and appreciate the council's support to actually put this in place because to me it's a model that should be replicated and it is actually working really well. Great. Commissioner Saltzman. Question about the...
 Is that on now? Okay. The budget for the Portland online permitting system? It's like $1.6 million. I always thought it was more like $11 million. That was the ITAP total project funds. We're using what was left over from that, and we've carved that out for the POPs project. So that's part of the original item. I'm sorry, the discovery. Okay. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. Thank you very much for serving on my behalf. I really appreciate your time.
 with the committee and also taking the time to come today. What's happening with the technology upgrade in development services? I know it was put on hold. Has the Technology Oversight Committee been involved in giving advice since you tracked it for a very long time and saw where some of the problems were? Are you involved in what's next steps? Oh, we are absolutely involved. That's one of the big changes we have seen is we have a lot of transparency with the team that's working on this, so it feels like we are...
 We are providing valuable feedback, and we're getting enough information so we can give
 and true insight from our perspective. So it feels a lot more like a partnership at this point with the TOC members. I know myself, we've had a lot of conversation not just about the technology but about how we get to the technology and the people involved in that because my forte is actually process management and improvement. So seeing that play out not just with the technology but also how we get there has been
 great and really appreciate the transparency we have been receiving so we can truly provide valuable feedback.
 And my understanding, Mayor, is that although Commissioner Udaly is assigned to development services, you as the commissioner in charge of the Office of Management and Finance are overseeing that process now, is that right? That's correct. Thank you very much. Jeff, I have a question. Since you came back and got back in the saddle on this, we've seen some positive changes.
 Historically, there's been quite a bit of red in our reports, and one of the reasons we do this exercise is to flag the challenges and to be able to ask you about it. The trend line, though, is very encouraging. To what do you attribute that?
 I think a couple things. Mostly with the ITAP project, it had been languishing in red status for quite a number of different reports. I think if you look back at the QA reports that were issued and the TOC reports as well, there were many, many months of red indicators.
 in going back and doing the assessment that we hired an outside consultant to come in and really read baseline and take a look at what did we need to do foundationally to change the approach to that. And we capped it off and really, along with Commissioner Saltzman's support and Matt Grum, especially from his office, was really instrumental in really kind of asking those really probing, difficult questions about what are we doing, how are we doing it,
 As you know, we switched out to project managers for the project. We capped off the ITAP, and it's really put it on the shelf. It's no longer what we call it today. We brought in a new project management team to look at it, and we really kind of reflected about going through the discovery process
 to look at what do we need to do and what are those big decision points. And I think, too, I'd also add with the TOC's insight and advice was really critical about going forward with a big bang approach so that you start off today and 24 or 36 months down the road, that's when you actually stand up this huge, very large, complex system.
 What the TOC recommended and I would support as well is we have to be more agile and have more deployments along that pathway so you actually see a progressive success point to get to that point before you just start, click something up, and up and running three years down the road. So that was a big change. Any further questions for the panel? No.
 Great. Thank you. Is there public testimony on this item? Yes. We have three people signed up. Very good. Please come on up. Cameron Stark, Star Stauffer, and Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. Good morning. All right. My name is Cameron Stark, and I'm a taxpayer here in Portland. I think you're spending your money on bullshit. I think that you need to defund Fleet Week. I think that you need to not spend your money on –
 Whatever the hell this is because we still got people dying in the street Then you're bringing in warships that are killing families and what you call a sanctuary see, okay? I'm sorry This is related to this parade them around in front of them. What the hell is that that is just not acceptable She is a sanctuary city This is a violation of council rules, and if you do not stop I'll ask you to leave Thank you Good morning. Well
 I am star Stauffer. I really don't know why you're laughing inappropriate really Mostly I I agree with Cameron. I think that you guys spend money Irresponsibly and it really has nothing to do with the citizens of Portland and their well-being But it has everything to do with making your perfect little town even wider and even prettier for white people and it's shameful and
 It's shameful that I have to go to the county to get help with the houseless issue because you guys, I can't keep you awake there. I'm sorry, is this germane to the contract? Are we talking about a budget or are we not talking about a budget here? It's not a budget. No, it's not. And also, I mean, shame on you for bringing that up and making it personal earlier. Nobody in this room has anything to do with that. We all read it in the paper. Way to beat a dead horse. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioners. Oh, no, what?
 There we are. You got it. Thank you. For the record, my name is Charles Bridgecrain Johnson, and it's unfortunate, I think, that we didn't talk about the scoping for the TOC. To have a technology oversight committee that is not engaged in oversight of any of the police department, police bureau's automation suggests that we're not really... If there's a book on best practices, we also have a
 A banned books week here because we're not using it. From the time of Mayor Sam Adams, when we first had the Albina Ministerial Alliance working with him to get the Department of Justice in here to look at what we found was a pattern and practice of abuse, we have not come up with anything.
 a reliable, open, transparent system for letting people know what our police are doing and how they're doing it. So we haven't had a catastrophe like the ITAP that we know of inside the Police Bureau, but I encourage you to look at this. I also want to, on more minor procedural things, the bios are a little weak. If you go to the technology oversight page for OMF, I think citizens would like to know
 more and it's really disappointing that he's not at Intel anymore you can't say extreme scale but that's secondary to the issue of the I know that I'm not I didn't take a chance to review it but the procedure is based I think on a resolution I maybe you could just address kind of the public about how the technology oversight committee is it is there a dollar line threshold for projects that go before technology oversight or is it another criteria thank you
 Thank you. And that's actually a good question. Could we have somebody come back up from the committee to address some of those issues? Hello again. Let's see if I can hit them all. Is the light on? Yes. Great. Thank you.
 In terms of the backgrounds for the individuals, I think we've got a website. If you go to PortlandOregon.gov, search on Technology Oversight Committee, you can find the resolution that enacted the committee in the first place. You can find information about each of your council representatives. I would encourage folks to visit that and do that search for that.
 In terms of how projects are presented to the TOC, we go through a very elaborate review process, looking at the cost, the risk to internal versus public. I'm glad to provide that as well. It's probably a, I think it's about a six-page document that we go through this analysis, both from the intaking bureau who presents it to us. I do a review, and then I present that to the TOC to consider whether or not they want to take that on underneath their portfolio. Okay.
 Is there an exclusion for the police bureau that was raised? So we could bring technology projects from the police bureau to the TOC for consideration. And I think there was a resolution or a request some time ago that if the Portland Police Bureau were to pursue a body-worn camera implementation, that it would automatically go to the TOC. Absolutely. Good. Further questions? May I move the report? We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, second from Commissioner Saltzman. Please call the roll.
 Thank you, Jeff Baer, and thank you to the committee members for your excellent work and your service. This was a significant reform brought by Dan Saltzman many years ago to provide some additional sunshine and oversight over technology programs. And these technology projects are the bane of all levels of government, and it requires, I think, extra vigilance to make sure we're on track.
 Yes, thank you, Technology Oversight Committee members, for your hard work, and thank you, OMF, for the great staff support you're providing. Hi. Britt. Well, in every single quarterly report, I remember there was Commissioner Saltzman, who's spearheaded setting this up, and I think the model of each of the council members appointing someone who's their direct liaison is a good one, and I've certainly appreciated Diana and others who've served as my representatives. So thank you very much, and thanks to staff. Hi.
 Wheeler. Historically, there have been few items that attract as much public attention as flawed public sector technology projects. So I'm very supportive of having this committee together.
 And my inclination personally would be to lean on them as heavily as we can, understanding that the pay scale is not very good for those serving on this committee. But we really appreciate that we have volunteers with such high levels of technical experience willing to serve and willing to help guide us in some of these important technology implementations. So I'm all for it. I, the report, is gratefully accepted.
 With regard to the consent agenda, here's what I'd propose. I'd like to hold 401 through 407 and do those right before 14, because the staffs that would be addressing 401 to 407 would be the same as those presenting 414.
 We can read those together, take testimony, and then vote on those individually. So why don't we start with 398 on the consent agenda, assuming staff has had time to show up to do their explanations. Item 398, pay claim of espresso machine experts in the sum of $82,864 involving the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Okay.
 And do we have somebody here who can explain that one yet? It does not appear so. May my staff do a right on this? Oh, very good. Okay, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. Good. So this claim arises out of a backup of sewage and stormwater into the basement of the claimant's business. Much of the company's inventory was stored in the basement, was not salvageable after coming into contact with the sewage. PBOT was at fault, or we've reached this settlement, because of the lack of information.
 for opening the manhole to drain a flooded street, which caused the backup to the building. And this dollar amount covers lost inventory as well as cleanup costs and is, as I say, a negotiated settlement. Staff is here. Oh, very good. Yeah, come on down. Sorry for the last-minute call. No. Thank you. So Commissioner Fritz saved us. I think you heard her introduction. I don't know if you have more to add to that. I did not hear Commissioner Fritz's question.
 But if you say we're done. No, please. If you could just give us a couple of words on this is the espresso machine experts issue. Okay. I would thank you because your staff gave my staff this explanation, so thank you. Okay, perfect. So by way of introduction, my name is Randy Stenquist. I'm the Liability Claims Manager in Risk Management. This is our newest senior claims analyst who has taken over the position for a recently retired analyst in my office, Jessica Kincaid.
 Jessica inherited a number of files, including these two from her predecessor. So Espresso Machine is a property damage claim related to a sewer backup at their business location in southeast Portland. There was a...
 rainy day in December of 2015, and there was a lake forming out front of the business, and Maintenance Bureau was dispatched to the scene, and the Maintenance Bureau worker popped a manhole in the street, not knowing that that manhole was a sanitary-only sewer line, and it effectively drained the lake, as he was expecting it to do. But what he didn't know is that it was going to overpass.
 to overwhelm the 8-inch line serving that property, and that water came rushing in and overwhelmed the basement space of this business. So any other questions? Jessica has got more familiarity with the claim. So why don't we do this? This item was pulled by a – I just wonder how sewage got to be cut by the –
 Okay. Sounds like the question has been addressed. Thank you very much. We sure appreciate it. Please, Commissioner Fish, sir, please call the roll. Did anybody else want to testify on this particular colorful item? Seeing none, please call the roll, Carla. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ritz? Well, thank you again for giving my staff the information about this and my Chief of Staff, Tim Crail. You're very welcome. Ritz, step for me. Aye. Ritz?
 Wheeler. Aye. The claim is approved. Thank you very much and welcome. Thank you. And we'll stick around if we... Good idea. Okay. Three... Yes, you may be needed right now. $399, I believe, was the next poll item. Pay claim of Jeff Wong in the sum of $21,790 involving the Portland Police Bureau.
 And is this one that you also cover? This is ours. Very good. If you could give us an explanation of this as well. I'll defer to Jessica on this one. All right. This involves a fleet accident. Portland police officer acknowledged that they proceeded on a red-white, resulting in a collision with Mr. Wong's wife.
 Mr. Wong's wife was driving a 2016 Mercedes, and the repair costs totaled $12,789.85. In Oregon, they're also entitled to a diminished value claim for newer vehicles. This Mercedes had less than 1,000 miles on it, and so they're entitled to a claim for loss of market value.
 We were able to negotiate with the Wongs and reduce this from their claim of $10,910 to $9,000. And the total settlement that we recommended was $21,789.85. And we have public testimony on this item? This was pulled. This was pulled. Okay.
 So maybe if you could just hang out for a few minutes while we take public testimony and perhaps somebody will raise other questions. Shall we relocate? Yeah. I don't think the questions will fall right under there, Jermaine, because I didn't have any details of this. But I think we've come to the rather illuminating fact of what happens to a police officer when they admit fault in a moving vehicle accident. Many of us would have to worry about our insurance system.
 Perhaps our ability to continue our job. Also, I'm Charles Bridgegrant Johnson. Thank you. Sorry. So I think that rather than having risk management talk, I don't know if the – you've got a full plate, Mr. Police Commissioner, but I don't know if you're off the top of your head and can extravagantly say if there's language in the police contract that particularly covers that or if –
 That issue has come across your plate so far as police commissioner. Not specific to this case, but I can tell you that separate from the insurance claim, there would also be a disciplinary process, an investigation in a disciplinary process that is separate from the insurance claim. But I'm not familiar with this particular case, to be very clear. And do we know that...
 If the Wongs felt this was improper in addition to the tort, they could have pursued the independent police review process. Do you know if IPR would cover a situation like that? I do not know. I do not know. Thank you very much. I'll just add to that, Mayor. The Police Bureau has a collision review board, which is charged with doing sort of after-accident analysis of police motor vehicle accidents. And this, as all of them do, was under the scrutiny of the collision review board, I believe. Thank you.
 The investigating officer at the scene found that the officer who had moved through the intersection was at fault for causing the accident, and I believe the determination of the Collision Review Board was that it was preventable. Very good. And presumably then the officer is sent to...
 defensive driving training or something like that? There are ongoing training aspects within the police bureau. We don't have a whole lot of control over that. We are monitoring driving behavior of all city employees who drive for the city as part of their work. So there is a process by which their licenses are reviewed with regularity to make sure that they still have valid driving privileges.
 And colleagues, just so you know, I've had the situation where different bureaus have had collisions like this, and that's something that I, as the commissioner in charge, want to know about. Yes, the settlement is presumably fair because everybody's agreed to it, but how do we reduce the chance it's going to happen again?
 And interestingly, we just did a brief study for the police bureau about vehicle collisions, and we looked at a three-year calendar history from 2014, 15, and 16. And the trend line is certainly moving in a downward direction. It's been consistently going down. The cost of repairing vehicles from those collisions, both city vehicles as well as private vehicles who may have been affected, is going up, unfortunately. So the costs are rising. The numbers of incidents are actually on the downswing.
 Very good. Just to flesh out that issue, especially for the last time, perhaps the commissioners would be interested in knowing if that was particularly attended to the police bureau or if there was a fleet-wide, including police and other vehicles, and how does that compare, the police fleet size versus the rest of the city? Good question. Thank you. Mr. Walsh, and then you also wanted to testify. Is that correct? Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. We had some of the same questions as Britt Cran Johnson had, and you seemed to answer those. The additional questions were, was the police officer drug tested? We would like to know that. If you're in an accident and a police officer will do drug testing on you.
 if it's apparent that you caused the accident. And apparently, he caused the accident. The other question we had is, where was he going? What was he on? Was he on a call? Or was he just going through the red light because he could? Who are you going to call? Cops. Cops do that all the time. They go through red lights because they answer to no one. So we would like to know that.
 The reason that we object to these consent agendas on these items is this is a good discussion. Commissioner Fritz had good questions. Rich King Johnson had good questions. The citizens of this city have a right to know what happened. It's their money. You keep spending it and you want to do it underneath the table. So we get really upset with that. So now we know that...
 The cop was not caught, apparently, and admitted to that. We don't know where he was going, whether he was on a call, whether it was a bank robbery and he was getting to the bank to hit the bad guys. Maybe he was justified. I don't think so. Doesn't sound like it. But we still don't know. That's called transparency, folks.
 You know, I know you don't like transparency, and I don't speak to you really. I speak to the people that are watching this and saying we need transparency. We need this discussion. We need this information. And we have a right to it. We pay for it. It doesn't come out of your pocket. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Can anybody answer me that question? Was the police officer drug tested on site? No.
 He was not. Of course he was not. Why would we do that? I would add that he is treated like any other driver in absence of some probable cause that he was impaired in some manner. Next time you get stopped and a cop says, walk that line, that's drug testing. That's the beginning of drug testing. And then you say to him, we don't do that. Okay, thank you. And I believe we have one more person signed up, correct? Come on up. Go ahead, Mr. H.
 good morning that's fine come on up and just state your name for the record this is my first city college oh great welcome chose this over school it's more interesting and if you could just slide the mic a little closer to you and then just state your name for the record thank you i'm cheyenne um i actually uh live in the city of vancouver i frequent portland because i'm a student here and i also used to live in oregon in general um
 I actually, I know we already passed the subject, but I wanted to reconnect back to the technology conversation. You know what? It has to do with this as well. Okay, great. They connect, that's why. Good, please do. No, it's not, yeah. Thanks. Well, I was thinking, you guys were talking about them observing the driving habits, right? Yeah.
 I believe I mentioned that there was a post-accident collision review board that goes over crashes such as this.
 They're happy because they get to see that they are driving safe and being held accountable for their driving. And the city of Portland also has a means to otherwise protect their officers as well. And on a further note, I know that personally I've been in car accidents before and not always are police officers called in general. It's generally dealt with by the drivers themselves.
 And it's only really in accidents that have caused injury or fatality that they are called to the scene. And so the fact that there was no other officer on the scene has nothing to do with that. He was a police officer that crashed into this person. But rather it was more of, I think, perhaps we all sometimes, I think, run red lights on accident. And I know we're all supposed to be paying attention, but it's not always possible. So it's an inevitability, honestly. Yeah.
 for an officer to go his whole career without running one red light. And that's what I wanted to say. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your testimony. So we have one more person. If I may, just for the record, there was a traffic investigating officer from the police bureau who responded to the crash and spoke with both of the parties that were involved. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. Star Stauffer. My son is a teenager, and he walks home from school drunk
 where Portland police officers drive, so this is a great concern of mine. I want to start off by saying that police are not like every other driver. They're police. They are driving city vehicles.
 Therefore, they should be held to a higher standard of driving. So they should not be treated like every other driver because they're police. I don't know many drivers that drive down the street with lights on top of their car, the authority to run red lights, make people pull over for absolutely no reason, carry a gun and detain folks. Do you? I can't do that as a driver. So again, they are not like every other driver.
 And I'm concerned that this officer wasn't drug tested. I'm concerned that I don't know anything about his driving history. I don't know anything about his capacity to make good decisions. He's a cop, so therefore I already doubt his capacity to make good decisions. And he's driving around. Is he still driving where my son could be hit by him? I mean, this was a Mercedes, so I know it's a much bigger deal than a child being hit, but especially in this city of money and whiteness and money.
 But I'm concerned about my child, so I want to know why this officer wasn't drug tested. When they're driving that vehicle, speeding through red lights the way they do, they could hit anybody. Why are they not being drug tested? What the hell is wrong with you people? At any point, do you want to hold the police accountable? I mean, they might as well just go out and start spraying everybody with bullets. God knows they'll get away with it. Maybe I should become a cop so I can just start running people down and get away with it. Speed through the city, shoot anybody I want.
 I'm kind of wondering what the heck to do to be held accountable. Exactly what has to happen? How much money do they need to ask for? How much do they have to cost the city? How many lives need to be lost? How much damage needs to be done? How much more hatred from the community and how much more of a laughing stock from the rest of the nation do you have to let your police force get before you're embarrassed by them? I don't even know how you look at yourselves in the mirror. I mean, you just disgust me. Yuck. Ugh. Vomit.
 Thank you. Call the roll, please. Sorry. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ritz. Thank you for your explanation. Aye. Wheeler. I appreciate your explanation, particularly the part where you answered the question about why wasn't he drug tested.
 Correct me if I'm wrong, but is it still the case that in the United States you cannot be drug tested unless there is probable cause that you were impaired while you were driving? Is that true or false? That is the understanding that we are operating from, Mayor. Aye. I approve the settlement. The settlement's adopted. Item 410. Item 410.
 410, amend contract with eBuilder, Inc. to extend the term and increase the value of the contract by $988,233 for a not-to-exceed total of $1,724,162 for project management software. I'm asking this be returned to my office. Correct. This was clerical error putting it on. 410 is returned to my office. Okay.
 Return to the office at the request of Commissioner Saltzman. That leaves us with 412, correct? Correct.
 412, authorize a competitive solicitation for security services for the Smart Park garages and the Portland Streetcar Facility at an estimated amount of $4 million for five years. I'm also asking this be returned to my office. 412 is also returned to Commissioner Saltzman's office. So what I'd like to do now, since I believe we are...
 We're at 414 on the regular, is that correct? Right. Now, we still have 401 through 407 pulled from the consent agenda. What I'd like to do is read all of those together, since they're all related to the same issue, the multi-tax exemption program. So let's go ahead and read 401 to 407, and I believe that clears the consent agenda. Is that correct? 413 still. Okay.
 Pulled from the consent. Let's do 413 first then. I'm sorry. 413. I missed that one. Thank you. Sure. 413, authorized grant agreement of $50,000 with the Kenton Action Plan, doing business as North Portland Community Works to provide liability insurance coverage for neighborhood association and community activities in North Portland. Okay.
 And is there somebody from staff to speak to that issue? Who was it that pulled it? Oh, here comes somebody right now. What was it pulled? Who pulled it? 413. Mr. Walsh. Mr. Walsh pulled 413. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Michelle Rodriguez, and I work for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and I am the management analyst. This grant, as was stated, covers insurance for neighborhood associations and small nonprofits.
 to cover programs and events. It's done with all of the coalition offices, not just North Portland, which I know was a question that was asked. Some examples of nonprofits that receive this insurance for their events or programs are
 are Viva La Free, which creates art healing projects and public art to energize, enchant, and heal. Viva La Free recruits and develops artists from vulnerable, marginalized populations. Paid artist interns use art action to activate change in the community. North Portland Tool Library also is a recipient of the insurance where they host free events like the Repair Cafe where volunteers fix small appliances.
 garments and bikes, as well as sharpening tools, knives, and fixing small engines. Portland Abbey Arts, which is a non-religious, non-profits arts and community development initiative fostering human creativity and the development of diverse, vital, compassionate, rooted, and resilient community in North Portland via arts education. It's hosted at St. Andrew's Episcopal Church.
 Those are just some examples of the organizations that receive this insurance through North Portland. Very good. You may take a seat, and then we'll take public testimony. Mr. Walsh, good morning. Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice for the record. This morning on the way here on the bus, because we were delayed so much, I decided to reread some of the supporting documentation on this item,
 and some of the other items that we pulled. And they are now traveling on TriMet somewhere in the city. So I don't have my notes in front of me. I lost them. That's too bad. But off the top of my head, I remember when we discussed this, we were confused about whether it was $10,000 or $50,000. The supporting documentation uses $10,000 a number of times. But this says $50,000.
 We have no objection to the main part. We would ask, though, that you consider doing an amendment or ask them to put into their action plan a proposal that when we have severe weather, that they open up their center. It seems to us that we're working with county. We are working with you on some level. I'm not sure what level. We are working with the county.
 And we're concerned about when we get notification from the Weather Bureau that we are going to have a severe weather, we get usually three to five days' notice. So in the preparations, and that's what we're demanding, that you start preparations then, and we get everybody in place, not wait for the event. That includes opening up the centers for warming places.
 So we would like, if you're giving them $50,000 and we're giving them money, it seems to me we could say to them, you know what? When we get into a critical emergency situation and we're all running around crazy, we want you to open up your center. You know, we would take that as a message that you're with us. And maybe next time around we'll give you $100,000. Don't say that. But you can imply that.
 You know, if you are nice to me, I'm more than likely to be nice to you. So that's what we came up with. We realized we probably won't get it this time around, but eventually we will. And what we want is very simple.
 When you get noticed that we are in an emergency, whether it's high temperature, low temperature, you have to take the human position and say, we're going to lose some people on the street if we don't get them off now. Not wait, because if you wait until it hits, nobody moves. We can't move. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Oh, good. So good morning. Charles Bridgecrank Johnson. And...
 I just want to speak heartily on this because I believe it's the Kenton area that is kind of leading the way in opening our community to tiny homes and creating a place for women who have had some very unfortunate circumstances to try a new tiny home way of life. I know this funding is separate. I think to Mr. Walsh's question of $10,000 versus $50,000, it's because you're talking about it as an aggregate appropriation for five years now.
 but actually I would only apply $10,000 to each annual budget cycle. So I encourage this. It's interesting that I'm seeing a Kenton action plan this item, and it's probably just lapse of memory, but in all the time that there's been an East Portland action plan,
 I'd love to know. We can look later to see if they've gotten traction for similar funding. Thanks very much. Thank you. Commissioner Fish. We don't need to bring Ms. Rodriguez back up, but can we just confirm for the record that it's $10,000 for the next fiscal year and the contract is for not to exceed five years, so it could not to exceed $50,000. Is that correct? Yes.
 And that answers Mr. Walsh's question because the impact statement says the impact for the next fiscal year is $10,000, but the contract is for a period of up to five years. Legal counsel has a comment. Is that around the ordinance? Just one moment. Legal counsel. Mayor, I was going to just recommend that in Section 3A of the contract that's attached to the ordinance –
 that the points made by Commissioner Fish regarding that the contract is for an annual amount of $10,000 up to a total of $50,000 for the contract term of five years, that language to that effect be added to Section 3A. So moved. Just to clarify. We have a motion. Second. Commissioner Fish moves. Commissioner Fritz seconds. The recommendation of legal counsel called the roll on the amendment. Second.
 I view this as a clarifying amendment and I appreciate the testimony. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Grants? It does state very clearly in the ordinance that that's what's happening. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. So the amendment is adopted. Any further questions or discussion on the main motion, please call the roll. Fish? Aye.
 Saltzman. Hi. Great. So there is a coalition in North Portland called North Portland Cares, and they, particularly many of the faith communities in North Portland, whether there's an urgent weather emergency or not, are very dedicated to helping people get inside during inclement weather. Roosevelt High School is...
 serving students who live outside and they open their doors very early to allow people to come in, take showers and stay later into the evening. So I don't know whether the Kenton firehouse was used for emergency uses in the past winter. I do know that the North Portland Caring Community...
 is right on it and agrees that everybody should be inside. Aye. Wheeler. I agree with the testimony around better collaborative preparation when we know that we're going to have a severe weather event. And as some of you will recall, I began my term with a series of weather events that had been unprecedented, at least in my lifetime,
 And the fact of the matter is we were not as well prepared as we could have been in terms of working with other government agencies, in terms of working with nonprofits and community organizations. And we had to do an awful lot of that work on the fly. The good news is I think we learned a lesson or two from that experience in terms of preparation and collaboration. And the Joint Office of Homelessness Services has really stepped up in a big way. And I feel like we are now better prepared.
 for those kinds of situations. And I also agree with just the philosophy that to the degree that we are providing support services for community organizations, there should be clarification that we are partners. And partner doesn't mean that the city provides money separately.
 and it's gone, it means there are certain services that are provided. And, yes, in a community emergency, we should all pull together. And I can only speak to a couple of these organizations on this list. I know they would meet that call, but I think it's actually a good conversation to have going forward. So, aye, the grant agreement is approved.
 Let's do this. Let's read 401 through 407 together. We have to vote on them individually, but they're all very much related to the same type of program. So we'll read them all, we'll take testimony on it, and then we'll vote on them individually, 401 to 407, if you could read those items.
 please. 4-0-1, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for block 290 KOTI apartments located at 1417 Northwest 20th Avenue. 4-0-2, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Pettigrove apartments located at 2216 Northwest Pettigrove Street.
 403, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Southwest Stark plus Columbia Apartments located at Southwest Park Avenue and Southwest Columbia Street. 404, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for 3rd and Ash located at 1087.
 Southwest 3rd Avenue, 405, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Atomic Orchard Lofts located at 2510 Northeast Sandy Boulevard.
 406, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Block 33, located at 125 Northwest 4th Avenue. And 407, approve application under the multiple unit limited tax exemption program for Woody Guthrie Place Apartments, located at 5728 Northeast 91st Avenue. Good morning.
 Good morning. Morning. So if you could just give us a brief overview of this tax exemption program, what the qualifications are, why they have been awarded to these particular projects, that will probably answer a lot of the questions that people may have. Then we'll take some public testimony. You may have different questions than those, in which case we can bring you back to answer them. But if you want to take a stab at some of that.
 Excellent. My name is Dori VanBakkel. I'm with the Housing Bureau and the coordinator for the MULTI program. The Multiple Unit Limited Tax Exemption Program is a 10-year exemption that is provided on development projects within the city of Portland in exchange for additional public benefits that wouldn't necessarily be included in the projects, and primarily that is affordability. So all of these projects have additional or additional
 have affordability at either 20% of the project limited at 60% of area median income over that 10-year period or 80% of area median income and it depends upon the Market rents for that type of the type of units being provided in the building. So based on the area the size and
 the amenities, et cetera. So you give a 10-year tax exemption, and then how long does the affordability last? With these projects, it's the same 10 years of the period of the exemption that the affordability lasts. Thank you. Great. So why don't we take public testimony. You can go ahead and have a seat, and if there's further questions, we might have you come up again. Mr. Walsh.
 Please don't stop the time yet. Just for clarification, I'm requesting that we do each individual one instead of the group or...
 you can agree to whatever objections that I raise in 401 will go to all of them and that would be on the record. That is correct. So we're taking testimony on 401 . . . That's right. I don't want to waste your time because a lot of it is going to be repetitious. However, they are individuals. We do have a right to three minutes on each one. So we're willing to give that up. The record shows that whatever objections we raise on 401
 will also be incorporated into the rest of them. Do they agree? Yes, agreed. Okay. Thank you. Again, it's a little complicated because I don't have my notes. So what I remember is that the first one, 401, and correct me if I'm wrong, is 80%. They're taking a percentage and lowering some of the apartments.
 So you have studios, you have one bedrooms, you have two bedrooms, and a lot of these developments or extensions, some of them are extensions, some of them are new, some of them are 80%, some of them are 60%. So when we were looking at it, we said, you know, the income for Portland is now rated at $73,000. I don't make $73,000. Really don't. I'm retired. Don't make it.
 So if you take 80% of that, you're still in the high 60s. I'm doing my math correctly. So what does that have to do with low income? Nothing. These all have nothing to do with low income. Somebody like me who makes on retirement $35,000, somewhere around there, I can't qualify for these places. So what does that have to do with our problem? We have a problem with people on the street. We have a problem with people hanging by their fingernails.
 Asking for help. And you know that. Because we help them with their rent. We give them money so they don't get thrown out on the street. And we help them on the street. And we build shelters. Emergency shelters that last for 40 years. Did you ever know that emergency shelters would last 40 years? Salvation Army's emergency shelter. How old is that? About 40 years.
 And they say, we've been doing this for 40 years. And gentlemen, lady and gentlemen, you are giving millions of dollars in tax breaks to these guys. Over a 10-year period, it's about $5, $6 million. But people that can afford $60,000 get $60,000 as a base? Why are we doing that?
 And what money are we using? Are we using the House's money for that? Are we using federal money for that? What kind of money are we using? Or are we just writing it off? And you know when you write it off, ten years down the line, you say, oh, I told you ten years down the line, man. Just write it off. No. It comes from someplace. It comes from somebody's pocket. So, those are our objections, and we demand, not 80%,
 We demand 40%. That would bring you still into $30,000, $38,000, somewhere around there. That's reasonable. That's reasonable. You're not being reasonable with the taxpayers' money, and you're giving tax breaks to your buddies and the millions, millions. Can you hear me, people? Thank you. Millions. Thank you, sir. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog.
 One of the things I want to have maybe a more clear understanding on these type of projects is that when these projects are rolled out to the public with these type of tax benefits, I also want to see how many jobs are going to be created per each project. I want to have an understanding of that. I want to start hearing that on every project we talk about. How many people are going to be employed? How much are we going to end up paying all those people? Okay.
 I want to start hearing that more and more. I want to start seeing the actual square footage of the units, which is, I think, very important to establish what the market rent would be on looking at other locations. Again, I want to have an understanding on the materials that are going to be bought on these projects, what the dollar amount will be, different type of materials purchased. I want to have a clear understanding all the benefits that will happen throughout this city,
 Because of these projects, we don't normally emphasize that on the jobs created, who's going to be employed working there, who's going to be employed working thereafter, the benefits of the people renting in these projects. I want to have a clear understanding of the jobs created. It's a very important issue when you're talking public benefits and subsidies that are going toward these projects that we don't emphasize on when people say, I don't like this, I want to know how many people are going to be working there.
 Are you talking about the construction jobs? Absolutely. And there's a precedent for that. When we got the stimulus money back in 2009 or something, and we had shovel-ready projects, remember, that we put the Obama stimulus money to? Right. We had to track the economic impact. Okay. And that was a precedent. Okay, and that's why I think that's very important to do that. Issue number two on these, when the people do not follow through with the program,
 I assume they have to pay back that money. If they, for instance, do a sale in five years, I assume that program ends or can it be extended to the new buyer? That's just a question I'm throwing out there. And again, just my understanding on the, just from hearing from some developers in the marketplace, there has to be more incentives to create more inventory, plain and simple, if you want lower rents.
 Now people are looking at the rent control, they're looking at the inclusionary zoning, which again, if the developers are saying they're backing away from certain projects, we have to readjust to continue to have rapid development of new properties out there, which will begin to drop the prices in the overall market. If you do not do that and you limit the inventory, the rents will continue to go up,
 People will not be able to live within the urban areas, and it has to be adjusted to where they want to keep building these type of units, which does add employment throughout the community. So I approve all of this. I'm just at more inventory will reduce prices. So that's my position. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Good morning. My name is Mary Seid. It's nice to see you again. Thank you.
 I want to hit on a little bit of the population that this program addresses. Every time we hear conversations about affordable housing, there's a huge segment of the population that doesn't get addressed, and that is people like myself who are over 65.
 people like myself who are can be deemed disabled who are living in this type of housing just to give some clarification 60% of FMI the building that I live in a single person
 cannot make more than 50% or 60% of the MFI, which means for a person like myself, the maximum amount of money that I can make in order to continue to live in the housing that I live in is about $24,000.
 My Social Security is about $19,000. So just because that's the ceiling, it doesn't even mean that people make that much. The building I live in, there are over 200 income-restricted units. The majority of the people that live there are like myself, people who perhaps during the recession like myself, due to corporate reorganization, lost their job, lost their home.
 lost their car, lost their dignity, and without this, we would have no place to go. We will be the next people sleeping on the sidewalk. We need to support as many of these programs as we can. I'm so sorry. Sorry. As you can tell, this is a very serious problem, and we're overlooking a huge segment of the population that's
 That is going to be on the street. And so every program that you can put together to increase the number of affordable units in our city is critical. Thank you. I appreciate it. Yeah, we appreciate it. Thank you, Mark. I'm just going to telegraph to the staff. You've previously testified what if people then –
 start getting back to a higher income, and do those folks have to move out of the affordable unit? So I'll ask that to staff after we've heard all the testimony. Thank you. Right. Thank you ever so much. I appreciate it. Yeah, thank you. And thank you for clarifying, because there's a lot of confusion. Unfortunately, I've come to find out that affordable housing has its own language, and it is not helpful. So these
 it depends how many people in your household, and it's a threshold income. So, for example, you mentioned that in your situation...
 It's $24,000. I don't have the 2016 data in my head, but I remember the 2015 data for a household of one, it was about $30,000. Right. So that's the maximum threshold. Exactly. It doesn't mean the people living there make an income of $30,000. And so while I'm on a tear, there was a really good question asked, well, what is the source of funding? It's not taxable.
 tax dollars coming out of current tax proceeds, it's foregone tax dollars that those projects would generate. In other words, if the projects aren't built, there wouldn't be any tax dollars anyway. So we're foregoing 10 years of some percentage of tax collection, an exemption,
 in exchange for making that project work as a non-market rate building. Because right now, if you're developing a project, you want to develop market rate housing and go for the top end. So we're actually buying down the affordability in those buildings by providing the tax exemption.
 The question was asked, what if somebody sells the project five years in? That's actually a very common scenario. The tax exemption and the affordability stay in place regardless of who the owner is. So that's done in stone. But thank you, Mary, for your testimony. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning, Commissioner. Charles Bridgecrane Johnson. And indeed, the whole MFI household size thing is problematic, and it's not really resolved when we go to the individual breakouts for these items
 i know it's a little bit you know frustrating to hammer on this because we've passed inclusionary zoning and the agenda item coming up is going to talk about changing the procedure for this to five year uh rolling cap but i think that public sentiment also needs to be there are there any developers who go beyond a floor of 20 units you know even though they don't get additional tax
 And, you know, I can understand why there isn't, but I hope that when we move on from this into the other item, we'll talk about incentivizing and, you know, just positive reinforcement for developers that, you know, are settling for the last good dollar instead of squeezing every last, you know, red cent out and making sure that these, well, we designed these smaller studio apartments that, oh, look at that.
 they don't have washer-dryer connections, but the studio departments on the other floor have washer-dryer connections and 10% more square feet or something like that. So I don't know if we really get into that. The most critical issue, though, is when we look at two of the specific properties, one is at 3rd and Ash, and I can't believe you're going to approve it without calling it the Voodoo Donuts palatial estates. And the other is that
 The proper name for all these places got pushed out to 91st, deep south, 5728-91st. All these places would have better marketability if they were all the Woody Guthrie estates across every quadrant of Portland. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. And just to answer your question, when it comes to private sector development, as a practical matter, you can get down to about 30 percent MFI through various interventions.
 incentives, tax abatements, and all that. Below 30% MFI, you're really talking about government housing, and we do that too. And so the bond that the public just supported creates $260 million for all manner of housing. Below 30% is really nonprofits like Proud Ground that you've heard in here, Habitat for Humanity that you've heard in here, some of the neighborhood businesses.
 The recent Hacienda also tried to do that. Exactly, exactly. And then the kinds of things Commissioner Fish was talking about.
 with Bud Clark Commons and some of the other permanent supportive housing options. Those are typically government nonprofit place. Was there any language in the bond to addressing particular, like everybody under 60 MFI, or is that still something that's hammered out through the process? 50% of the apartments are for people at 0 to 30. Thanks very much. Deeply, deeply affordable. Yeah.
 Thank you. Good conversation. What item are we on? We are on 401-2407, so we're taking testimony on all of them together, but we have to vote on them. So we'll make our comments on the first one, Mayor? Yeah, that's probably the way to go. So, Commissioner Fritz? Could I have staff answer that question, please? Yes.
 which Mary Seip had said in an earlier hearing, that there are people in her building who continue to stay at the low-income housing, but they have done well, got jobs and purchased homes elsewhere, which they're then renting out. So what happens for people who start out qualifying and then leave,
 are taking up space that somebody who is at lower income could move into.
 If they have the means to move out. Yeah, specifically within the multi-program, there is a provision that allows someone to have their income rise in place up to 20% over the maximum limit. So if it's at 60%, a very immediate income, they could earn up to 80% of very immediate income. And it would still be, the rent would still be lower and they would be considered an eligible.
 eligible unit within the building. Thereafter, they would need to either resume paying market rent for that unit and the owner would need to provide another unit in the building as affordable or the tenant could choose to move on to something else or another opportunity
 With that being said, there are other funding sources that have different requirements, such as the Low Income Housing Tax Credit Program. And so if those are also sources involved in the building, they may have other ways of treating that situation.
 And are the tenants required to give in their annual income tax statements or some way of verifying?
 Each year, both the tenant's income and the current rent, including the utility allowance, is reported to the Housing Bureau to monitor. Thank you. And then if there's something that seems out of compliance with that, is there a system whereby other tenants or somebody could anonymously complain and ask for an investigation? Yes, of course. Absolutely. And there is a...
 There's guidelines as to how we would deal with any project that's out of compliance, allowing them to cure it with the goal of ultimately maintaining the affordable units and bringing it into compliance.
 But if a project weren't able to meet the requirements any further, then there is also a penalty, and the full taxes would be resumed as well. And I remember we've seen those come to council. So presumably somebody could call information and referral 823-4000. They could also be connected with that system. Great. Thank you. Great. Please, here's what we'll do. Why don't we call the roll, please, on 4-0. Excuse me. Commissioner Fish, did you have a question? No.
 Could you please call the roll on item 401? So, Mayor, I'm going to give my comments for all of them just on this one so we don't repeat ourselves. I appreciate the conversation. And the question that I heard, a recurring theme, was are we investing, thank you very much, are we investing enough money in the kind of subsidized housing which is most urgently needed in our community? And so, and I'll just put that in context.
 An independent study was released recently saying we're short just under 2,000 units of what's called permanent supportive housing. Permanent supportive housing is what you need to take someone who is in mental health crisis on the street, who's been chronically homeless, and give them a fighting chance of being a successful tenant. In other words, you have to give them a home and intensive services. And without them, without the services, often it's not a successful tenancy.
 It tends to be a little more expensive because it has enriched services that attach. And the best example of where we've had success, and I think Commissioner Saltzman deserves a bow on this, is when we made a commitment as a city and a county to greatly reduce the amount of veterans who are homeless. And we had a very friendly tool then. We had something called a VASH voucher, and that was a federal voucher that provided a subsidy for the home and services. And that's why we were quite successful.
 It is, after all, a program we don't want to see the federal government retreat on. And interestingly, the only agency of the federal government that is not subject to sequestration is the Veterans Administration. So we have some hope that those programs won't be cut, even if they're across-the-board cuts. So to the point that was raised, though, about are we investing limited tax dollars directly or indirectly in the right kind of housing, my answer is no. The people who live on our streets
 are not eligible for the kind of housing we're funding today. People living on our streets, the poorest of the poor, people struggling with addiction, mental health crisis, they are people that if we don't increase the supply of housing of 0% to 30% of median family income, and heavy on the zero because many people have no income, we're not going to be able to house them. So that's not what this housing is targeting. We have...
 over a dozen funding sources, and we could spend all day describing the patchwork quilt, and no one is here defending this Byzantine system. But since people asked, I think it's important to say that each program meets a different need in the community. So the Section 8 voucher, which is the largest housing program in the state of Oregon, goes to very low-income people. And typically in our community, they are older people.
 more likely to be a person of color, and more likely to have a disability. So when you hear that the Section 8 program may be cut under this administration, those are people, to the point of previous testimony, who literally don't have a better option. Those are the people impacted if you scale back the Section 8 program, the largest housing program in the state of Oregon, funded by the federal government. We also have money we spend out of urban renewal dollars, and we've had lots of hearings on where TIF dollars go. By council rule...
 They can only be spent on people earning 0 to 60% of median family income. So that's, from my mind, that's a better slice. We have direct and indirect programs. Today we're talking about, as the mayor said, foregone revenue. We don't put a property, we don't collect property taxes on the building. Is this the most efficient way of getting housing? No, in two respects. One is the subsidy is quite rich.
 the foregone revenue. And number two, this is workforce housing. This is not low-income housing. This is housing for people that are entry-level workers downtown. This is housing for my daughter, entry-level workers. And it's important that there be housing for folks in workforce, but we are always going to be asking the question, where should the last tax dollar go, and where's the most compelling need?
 My own view is we're still out of whack, and we don't invest enough money where the crushing need is. And you say, well, okay, you either agree or disagree with that, but here's the consequence. If we don't house the poorest of the poor, we'll spend much more money dealing with all the consequences of that policy choice. Because the poorest of the poor are dying on our streets.
 are getting primary health care through emergency room services, are having interactions with fire bureau personnel and police in ways that were never contemplated. And the whole system is not designed to meet their needs. So we can make these choices, but let's be clear, we'll end up paying a lot more in the long term. And so that's why I believe we should be spending more of our money with the county addressing people who are in poverty areas.
 because it's going to cost us a lot more if we don't, and I think it's morally the right thing to do. The reason I will support the applications before us today is that it turns out this housing crisis is impacting people across the income ladder. And if we don't have workforce housing or housing for working-class people, then shame on us. They're also being negatively impacted.
 And one thing about this program that I think is very positive is these are generally buildings that are going up in areas that are desirable. And we call it opportunity, but they're desirable. And I think there's something important about 20% of the units in a nice building in a desirable area set aside for people that are being priced out of our city. Thank you.
 So that's why I will support it, even though it doesn't address where I think is the crushing need, and it's not the most efficient way to get there. But it is part of a solution. Thank you for the presentation. Hi. Saltzman. Well, I'm very supportive of these multi-applications before us today, and I think it's noteworthy to look at this from sort of the 30,000-foot level. I think we have more multi-applications before us today than we had in the entire last year, perhaps, or close to. Okay.
 So it shows that affordable housing, you know, we lack 25,000 units of affordable housing, and we need to have all cylinders working. And the multi is an important cylinder. It's not the very low-income people. But I think, Mary Seip, I appreciate your testimony today. I'm sorry Joe Walsh wasn't here to see you, because you're not the rich fat cat that Joe Walsh makes out somebody to be who makes less than 60% income. It is working people. It is poor people. And we have an obligation as a city.
 to work, as I said, with all cylinders working. That means direct subsidy where appropriate for very low incomes, but for 60%, 80% median income, we need to be working with the private sector to marshal their forces to build, as Commissioner Fish said, in good opportunity areas, desirable neighborhoods where everybody should have the right to have access to jobs, parks, good transit. And that's what these multis are about.
 So I really am pleased that we're here at this point, and I know we're going to make some changes to this program in just a few minutes that even make it better. We need everything. We need inclusionary zoning. We need direct subsidies. We need the multi-program if we're going to really be serious about meeting our goals of affordable housing for the residents of our city. So this is great, and thank you for the good work. Hi. Great. Thanks.
 Thank you very much for your good work and thank you for the testimony on this. So as Commissioner Fish said, this is workforce housing at 80% of median family income. There's the one project which is 45 units with nine below 60%, which is families working on minimum wage. And that's in one of the nicest areas. It's at 22nd and Petty Grove. So I agree that it's good when all kinds of people can live in some of the nicest areas in our city.
 And it is, what we're approving here is 770 total units with 167 workforce affordable or really affordable. And thank you to Gordon Salazar who wrote this up for me and figured all that. Last night I was at a fundraiser in Southwest for the ASIST program, it's run by Melanie Kelvin who is a long time collaborator and she helps people with disabilities get on social security and disability. And I can't quite remember the numbers from,
 from memory, but it was something like 30% of people who apply directly to the Social Security Disability Programme
 only 30% of them get through after six months. And sometimes it can take up to three years with multiple applications. The ASIST program, which is a non-profit, specializes in doing this. And they've got over 400 people onto SSI with like a 74% success rate after six months, which is phenomenal. And I was just happy to know that this program that...
 helps the government to get people the benefits they deserve. Because it is benefits that they deserve, and that's why they are called benefits. And I appreciate that programme. It's the assist programme, if anybody wants to look into it more. Thank you very much, Mayor, for your dedication to this issue. These 770 units is certainly going to add some capacity in our housing system, and I hope that helps. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Thank you.
 I yield to Commissioner Fish. I want to just acknowledge something that I neglected to mention and thank the Mayor and the Housing Bureau, and it flows from something Lightning and Charles Johnson have both raised in the past. Thank you. In the record before us in each of these items, there's an Exhibit A, and I know, Charles, you saw it. Lightning, I believe you saw it. This is the first time we've had a comprehensive impact statement attached to these applications. Okay.
 The impact statement not only sets forth the unit types, but it also has detailed descriptions of public benefit. And, Lightning, you had testified earlier about what's the benefit and what's the public getting for this.
 there may be things we want to add to this, but this impact statement is a long time in the works. And, Mayor, I think this is a giant step forward in transparency, and I thank you for adding this to each of these projects. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. I appreciate it. And I just want to go back to what Mr. Walsh and Ms. Seip said earlier. You know, we talk in this language about housing.
 But we're really trying at all levels of affordability to ensure that we have the proper amount of housing that fits different situations for different people. And while we typically refer to this income level, 30 to 60 or 60 to 80 is workforce housing, we can't forget the fact that Portland is actually aging.
 as a community. We hear a lot about hip young people moving to Portland, but the truth is we are aging. And a lot of our
 Honored elders are people who are on fixed incomes, and they have spent their lives working hard in this community, and they deserve to live out their years in this community with safety and dignity and to be able to afford it. So that is another consequence of this kind of a program. I vote aye, obviously, and the application is approved. If you could call Item 402 of the roll, please. Fish?
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The application is approved. Next item, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The application is approved. 404, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Sounds almost musical, doesn't it? Aye. The application is approved.
 4.05, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. I just wanted to note that although we're speeding through these votes, each one of them represents a lot of work at the staff level to check out the project and put it before us. So thank you again for that. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The application is approved. 4.06, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Aye, the application is approved. And 407, please. Fish. Matthew, I want to echo what Commissioner Fritz just said. A lot of work has gone into this. And, again, these impact statements are terrific. And thank you. I know it's a lot of work. Also, colleagues, just a reminder, we're one of three bodies that has to approve these for them to actually have the force of law. Okay.
 The county has to approve a multi-program, and ultimately the county assessor, who is an independent actor, has to agree to take these projects off the tax rolls. So there's three levels of accountability in order for any of these projects to go forward. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Wheeler. I love the comment about the marketing on this particular project. Woody Guthrie place aye. The application is approved.
 And I believe that takes us then to the regular agenda item 414. Is that correct? Yes. Please read the item. 414, replace the multiple unit limited tax exemption program foregone revenue annual cap with a rolling five-year cap. I'm going to defer to Commissioner Saltzman. I'm currently the housing commissioner and obviously support this effort, but it really started under Commissioner Saltzman, so I'd like to defer to him for the introduction. Okay.
 Well, thank you, Mayor. And this really relates to what we just heard, this very successful and increasingly successful program to build affordable housing. And one of the problems is we ran up against the agreed-upon cap between the city and the county and the school district about how much revenue to forego each year in this cycle to make these multi-programs work.
 And what we're seeing now is an increasing number of multi-applications, and it makes sense to move towards a, rather than setting the cap each year at $1.5 million, I believe it was set at, of lost revenue, to come up with a rolling average over five years not to exceed $15 million. So it increases the annual amount, but it also makes sure that it stays fixed in any given year so the impact to the county or the city is known and predictable.
 And this proposal before us that the mayor is bringing forward is really a central piece of the inclusionary zoning program, which will ensure that affordable units are built in new developments throughout our city. The state, when they enabled the city of Portland to adopt inclusionary zoning, required us to offer particular incentives in exchange for the units. And the tax exemption we're talking about and we just talked about is one of the state law requirements.
 So during the inclusionary development policy development, inclusionary zoning policy development, the panel of experts that we impaneled to give us advice on shaping this policy, many of the development community members were concerned that this very effective tool was going to somehow go away or not be available to them because of the one-year delay.
 capital cap and not being able to predict in the future what the future availability of foregone revenues might be. So this is really a very smart move to move to a rolling average, and it doesn't, as I said, not increase in foregone revenue to any taxing entity. So I'm very strongly supportive, and thank you, Mayor, for bringing this home, and thank you to the Housing Bureau staff for your good work on this, and also to County Chair Deborah Kifori. Thank you.
 So I think Commissioner Saltzman covered a lot of what we were going to bring up as key points, so we'll just be here for questions if there are questions. I think the one additional piece that I'll note really quickly was that the incorporation of the multi-program into mandatory inclusionary housing has extended the term of affordability from 10 years to 99 years. Good point. Thank you.
 Is there any further questions or comments? Just want to say this is a very common sense thing. And, in fact, in many of our programs, we evaluate their success over a five-year period, like with tax increment financing dollars and meeting the goals within urban renewal districts. So I appreciate the fact that this gives us more flexibility and is another tool that Dan has brought forward to make this program more effective and work better.
 Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item? We have two people signed up. Very good. You can have a seat. We may or may not need you again. Thank you. Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson and Star Stauffer. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. Charles Bridgecrane-Johnson. And, of course, there's a lot of overlap between this new accounting method and the products that were passed before. I think one thing that you are, especially in light of your recent comments, Mr. Wheeler, about aging population is that –
 You're probably going – well, not you. Perhaps Governor Wheeler, who looks down upon whoever's mayor at the time and whoever's serving as commissioner, is going to wish that y'all had planned a funding source so that one of these 10-year affordable units is given to somebody from Northwest Pilot Project, maybe connects that way because they're 55 years old. So when they're 65, they have to move.
 Now, we're talking about turning the 99, going to a 99-year cycle, but I just think that I'm not sure that that's been comprehensively addressed, the idea that people get in, especially people who are not, you know, going to transition from one income level, move up, but will be, you know, have a home of one, two, ten years, and then in their later years be in a situation where it's like, let's go on market rate. So, you know, it's complicated because we're talking about people, you know, development companies, private property. Right.
 But I hope that you all engage and probably already have in some conversations about how to, you know, spare those people the trauma of displacement. Charles, two things in direct response to your comment. Number one is the Housing Bureau has the authority to extend the tax abatement for an additional 10 years through a negotiation. So that would create 20 years, which I think we should –
 In many cases, it directly addresses the thing you mentioned. And number two, we're going to end up buying some properties with the housing bond money, and that's why we've had this discussion about grandfathering some folks in because we don't want to be buying properties and then displacing people. We want to make sure that people have a stable home. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super Watchdog. One of the things I didn't –
 that wasn't addressed is that if somebody wanted to have more than just 20% of the units at, say, 60% or 80%, if they could do that. Say they wanted to say, well, I'll do 30%. What will be my benefits? I don't know if that can be negotiated or not. Issue number two, it's my understanding on this 10-year plan that these rents are set. There's no adjustments for inflation. So what we might also understand is that
 If you project out for five years, if the rents really go up, then what you're seeing at 60% now might look at a lower MFI in the future, if I'm correct. Because these rents are locked in. So if they're locked into today's rents and there is no adjustment for inflation...
 then in five to seven years, these rents could actually look very affordable. Now, that's just my opinion, and somebody might be able to address that. Now, again, it was my understanding on this multi-unit limited tax exemption, the actual amount was for $3 million. Now, what you're proposing is to cap this out over five years at $15 million. Does that mean we can run up in one year, say, $7 million, and then just...
 adjusted out for the total cap on five. Again, I was a little unclear on that. Again, my position, and when I heard it, unfortunately, I'm not really an inclusionary zoning advocate. I think we're seeing a lot of resistance from developers on making the numbers work overall. And whenever I hear somebody throw out a 99-year term, I'm like, nobody in this room is going to be around for that. And the reality is that
 It's not going to incentivize more units to be built. In fact, to me, it will deter from building more units. So I'm very, I'd like that inclusionary zoning to be looked at again because it was my understanding that was being proposed to look at it, see how it works, get the response, and then come back. I'm hearing a lot of negative feedback on that. I would rather see more multi-unit exemptions put into place at higher dollar amounts
 and not have that number of 10 plus years extended out because I think that if it creates people from not building more units, that's a bad situation. Because we can always, like you say, add another 10 years on top of that to people that want it. But if they don't, that's a real deterrent on developers stepping up to the plate and getting more units built.
 Whereas this multi-unit limited tax exemption is an incentive. It incentivizes them to do that. So that's just my opinion. Thank you. Very good. Thank you for your testimony. Did we want to bring staff up to answer some of those questions? Why don't you come up and answer the question about, first of all, the rent not moving with CPI? Sure.
 So the regulated rents for the entire portfolio of the Bureau, including the multi-program, are based on the...
 the median family income or the area median income set by HUD. And so they do publish those numbers annually. HUD has published the new numbers, although the Bureau is still – they publish a single number, which is for a household of four, and the Bureau imputes then what that is for various household types at different AMI levels.
 And so while there's not an index to CPI or inflation, we do see that with growth in incomes, we do see, or decline in incomes, we see the regulated rents rise or fall. And if you look at a 10-year average, it's about 2% to 3% increase in rents in our regulated portfolio. So there is some growth, but it is limited and it is limited.
 limited based on income growth in the metro area. Very good. That's a great explanation. And there was a question about the flexibility component of this, the three versus the 15. And the question, does that mean in any given year you could increase it with the expectation that in out years you then have to decrease it to keep it over the total five-year rolling average, or the five-year rolling cap, sorry. Correct. And that is one thing that we had heard from the district,
 many of the developers on the panel of experts for the inclusionary housing process was that the cap was static year to year while development comes in cycles. And there was concern that should the city, even though within the code, if the city runs out of tax exemption, it would be a tax exemption.
 the inclusionary requirement would go away until the next calendar year when the city has new tax exemption authority. Commissioner Saltzman and Chair Krafoury committed to establishing a rolling cap that would, in theory, allow the city to authorize the tax exemption in alignment with development cycles. Very good. Any further conversation on this? Commissioner Saltzman.
 I wanted to just thank, again, the Housing Bureau team. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler, County Chair Debra Kifori. But I forgot to always thank somebody who needs thanking, and that's Shannon Callahan and my own staff. I always forget my own staff for her great work on this effort as well.
 Very good. And I'd like to thank you and I'd like to thank staff. And that I always put in the blanket, I'll thank anybody else who I forgot because there were a lot of people that worked very, very hard on this. And I'm certainly appreciative. This is a non-emergency first reading, so it moves to second reading. Thank you for being here. Next item, please.
 Item 415, accept and appropriate an additional $30,000 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division Fiscal Year 2017 Speed Enforcement Grant Program for sworn personnel overtime reimbursement. Very good. Is there anybody from the Bureau here? So this is, oh, very good. Sorry. I was too fast there. Come on up. Good morning.
 Sergeant Ty Engstrom, Portland Police Bureau Traffic Division. Mainly here if you have any questions or anything or if you need some basics on the grant. So could you basically explain the reimbursement? It's my understanding this is an overtime reimbursement. Can you explain how that works? Sure. This is a grant that we've had each year for a number of years, and
 And it's used to add enforcement on officers' days off. You know, normal work days, they come in, they do whatever we need them to do responding to the city's needs for traffic-related investigations. But then if they choose on their day off, we have certain shifts that we can put out there to increase speed enforcement and distracted driver enforcement and things of that nature along what we've described as high-crash corridors. So working with PBOT and ODOT, we...
 have listed out a number of streets that have a lot of crashes, fatalities, and different things like that, and we try and focus our efforts in those areas. So instead of the city having to pay for the bill of bringing those officers in on overtime to staff those areas and increase visibility and education and enforcement,
 ODOT has given us money to allow us to pay those officers and sergeants overtime to be able to do that on their own time. So originally they gave $15,000. ODOT decided that they had some more money that they could appropriate, and so they have offered us another $30,000 to increase the patrol efforts in those high crash corridors. Very good. Commissioner Fish? I have just a question that's tangentially related to this. So I have a big concern about people who are speeding. Okay.
 And I think there are some streets in our city that are getting less safe, not more safe. And I think we have to be tougher with enforcement.
 But I'm also concerned about other types of behavior on our roads. And I just want to ask you, are the police actively enforcing the laws against garbage trucks that are parking against traffic, blocking lanes, doing U-turns at intersections and other things? Is that fault within the scope of your authority to enforce the code? I haven't heard of that specific complaint yet.
 in recent times. I'm actually in charge of the track it program. Who at the police would handle that? That is me. And if you have a traffic related complaint of any kind, then I'm the one who... Well, I live in a neighborhood that becomes an occupied zone in the morning with garbage trucks and they think nothing of going against the traffic, U-turns and intersections, backing up, blocking single lanes rather than pulling to the curb, engaging in what seems like pretty
 a questionable behavior. I don't, I'm currently not clear whose job it is to enforce that, the law. The traffic division would be the ones to go to. We deal with all things traffic related and we could
 send an officer to those areas that are having constant problems, and we can also communicate with the garbage companies to work out what better scenarios we can have to resolve the conflicts. As you might recall, a few years ago, probably two, three years ago, we had a pretty bad crash right here in downtown, just up the block where someone was very, very severely injured by a garbage truck that made an illegal turn. But we had that incident. We've had some cyclists that, fatalities with garbage trucks, and I
 I'm not sure this is on our radar. You are, and I'll follow up with you offline. I'd like to get the data. I'd like to better understand what the law is. But it was not my understanding that our code gave garbage truck operators an exemption from the rules of the road. And in my neighborhood, they do not follow the rules of the road. And I think it's partly because they're stressed out and they have to do a lot of pickups.
 But as a result, they create a lot of safety hazards in the – and I live in Goose Hollow, so it's a pretty – it's already a pretty dense and congested area. And it seems to me this is a safety issue that we haven't given enough attention to. Sure. I'd be happy to work with you on that. Thank you. If I could just add to that, Commissioner Fish, this sounds both –
 like an enforcement issue, but also a contractual issue. If there is a contract in place with the garbage haulers and they're not doing it the way it needs to be done, then that's a conversation we need to have with them globally as well. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. I've raised this issue before, and that's the concern about the amount of overtime that officers are doing. We know that with the shortage of police, we've been hearing that people have been pulled from specialty units to just patrol the districts. Yes.
 How do you, as the person in charge of this unit, decide, first of all, should the officer be on overtime on our dime so that we can just cover the basic services rather than this extra? And secondly, how do you monitor that an officer isn't working 80 hours a week, 100 hours a week, however many it might be, to the extent that they're then exhausted for the next regular shift? Sure. Great questions. We have...
 relatively small groups of officers that the sergeants are in charge of. It's called their detail, and it's up to that sergeant to keep an eye on their detail and make sure that they're getting adequate rest between their shifts and that they're not –
 overworking themselves. And we all help each other as well and keep tabs on how people are doing as far as that's concerned. It is absolutely true that with lower staffing numbers, we've lost several people from the traffic division. And on top of that, all of our officers within the traffic division now work one day a week. That's 25% of their time
 as East Precinct Backfill, where they are not out doing normal traffic-related patrol. They may come across some traffic-related things, but their main primary responsibility is then doing 911 response and going to regular police calls. So you're right. Staffing is short.
 with this grant they require a certain number of match time hours on straight time which is a benefit to the city because even though we're paying them those straight time hours they're out there working in the high crash corridors so the city is helping in a way to provide the match time for this grant and patrol on our dime during the regular business hours
 As far as the overtime, they're not required to do it. No one is required to it. There are some officers that like to do it and want to come in and do the extra overtime and some that they want to have their full weekend or maybe they do a couple hours at the end of their shift instead of a bigger chunk to take up another day.
 So it's up to them if they want to work it or not. My job is to look at the areas of patrol where we're having these crashes, make sure that we're giving adequate patrol time to the different locations, and then to select the times of day and make sure that that's all approved when they want to work those spots. So I put out patrols.
 for specific locations, specific times and days that they can sign up for. But then also if they say, well, this area's got some issues and I'd like to work that area, then I judge those based on whether or not we need the help in that area at that time. So you and the chief don't mandate anybody to work overtime to fill the shifts? No.
 No, no, no. That's different. Not these particular shifts for this grant. That's what I'm referring to. No, I'm looking at the big picture overall. Big picture overall, there are some things that people get mandated to work. For example, the traffic division, we had our days off canceled on Saturday, April 22nd, for the large march that we had downtown here for the science march.
 So everyone that would have normally had a scheduled day off, they were ordered to come in and work. Same thing will happen again on Monday for May 1st. So there are some of those events that take place, and we recognize that –
 that's going to put a burden upon the officers, and so we don't push them to work these other overtime things as much or anything like that. And we keep an eye on whether they're working too much or if they're doing it appropriately. And Matt, I assume as the new police commissioner,
 Still a bit new police commissioner that you would be looking at. I'm aging rapidly, Commissioner. I know. A hard job. When it's published who the top earning city employees are, often somebody other than the police bureau staff
 the chief, is making a very large amount of money for doing a very large amount of overtime. And so that's been a concern of mine for the time that I've been here, is our particular office is really pushing the limits and there should be some kind of constraints. The other question I have for you, though, is we get these grants often, these kinds of grants. If we were fully staffed, would we still need overtime to cover these kinds of patrolling?
 I think if you look at the crash data and the amount of traffic fatalities that we have each year and the city's emphasis that's been placed on Vision Zero, which I help oversee,
 we have a desire to reduce the number of traffic fatalities down to zero. That's what Vision Zero is all about. We do that through enforcement, education, and infrastructure, and design of the roadways. And so there's lots of different parts to that. And even if we had more staffing, I think that there honestly could never be enough of us getting out there, interacting with the public. We don't mandate the officers have to write a ticket. We want them to get out there and work regularly.
 They have to work on these grants, and they need to go out there and make stops and contact people that are doing inappropriate behavior on the roadways. But we don't mandate that they have to write a ticket. They can write a ticket and be done with it, or they can write a ticket and send someone to a class, or they can write a warning, a written warning if they choose. It's up to the officer's discretion what's best in that particular scenario. In the grant, is there a quota, a number of pullovers they're required to do? There's not a quota. They want us to be contacting regular people, our –
 Thank you.
 And they want us to, you know, try and get two or three, as close to three of those as possible an hour. But that could be any variation. That could be a written warning which doesn't go on your record and is just a contact to say that's inappropriate behavior and this is why and shouldn't do that. And is there any kind of demographic information about the people pulled over that you monitor to make sure that we're not targeting particular individuals?
 races or backgrounds? Sure. The Portland Police Bureau stops data collection on a regular basis. Every time you make a traffic stop, the officer is required to go through and fill out a form, a mask form on the computer that collects the reason you stopped them and the demographics that you observed prior to the stop, whether it was male, female, what race and age and all that. And then at the stop,
 what those same demographics were. So I can't speak for every officer, but when the traffic division out there, and, for example, if we're working speed enforcement on Highway 30 at, you know, the St. John's Bridge or something –
 We're working speed enforcement, and you can't tell from 900 feet away who's driving the vehicle, and we're just looking for the people that are speeding. Now, when you're up closer and you're on a busy street where you're looking for someone talking on the cell phone or not wearing their seat belt or something like that, sometimes you will see the demographics of whoever's driving the car prior to the stop, but for the most part –
 We don't know that a lot of the times before the stop. So the Bureau does keep track of that on a regular basis. Captain Mike Krebs is over the Traffic Division. He gets reports about stop static collection, and he analyzes that, and he and I have conversations about it frequently. So that's definitely something we're keeping an eye on. Now, specifically to this grant and when those hour officers are working on this grant, I suppose that we could probably –
 take that apart, it gets a little more difficult, and that would be up to our strategic services division. Well, besides which, I really would like you to be careful, no matter whose dollars are paying for it. That's a very good answer to my question. Thank you very much. Okay, okay. Very good. Any further questions before we take public testimony? Okay.
 Great. If you could have a seat, we'll bring up some public testimony. How many people do we have signed up? We have four people signed up. Very good. The first three, please, come on up, are Mimi Gurman, Charles Bridgecrane Johnson, and Star Stauffer. Not yet. Good morning. Hi. Good morning. My name is Mimi Gurman, and I created testimony today in two parts. One is through a poem for today for this issue, and the rest of it will be in non-poetic form.
 The poem is called Sacred Is. Hidden in the mystery of this empty glass. Sacred is hidden in the mystery of this empty glass, or is it sipping memories beneath spring rains? The unfolding of a fern, or the call beyond the clouds of an osprey circling? When I cup my hands together, I hold everything sacred between them, even in this gardened hell. Sacred is the slow unraveling of a poem.
 or living in a tent under a bridge, dodging the rain, and the hand that gives to the hand that needs. Sacred is consciousness, woven into the mat of earth upon which we are born, and it is a blue heaven conveying a dream to a child. My appeal to your heart, Council, is that you comprehend and act for the sacred, to live the sacred into being.
 Divert your gaze from the gas attacks in Syria, from the terror of Israeli apartheid, from the abhorrent starvation in Yemen, in South Sudan, in Somalia, in Nigeria, from elections in France or the Paris attacks, from the escalation of ISIS in Turkey or was it Tunisia or Kuala Lumpur, Morocco or Tangiers, from the
 I'm the mother of all in Afghanistan. To genocide in Rwanda, Russian tampering, or Vietnam and Iraq, look beyond D.C. Yes, look here, look here. These guards posted at the doors of this sandbox, these sentries, these sentinels protecting private rules of engagement where nothing is sacred except the sand I toss into the air.
 Sacrilege is the golden egg. Look here. Look here into the eyes that hold fear so close and into the hearts of those who held on and hear the whizzing of bullets that soar in their dreams, plucking out children like feathers or fleas, and bathe in the tears of the mothers left broken and fallen by cops who walk brazen and free, and see how the sacred has left this city, a wasteland of what could have been sacred forever.
 My testimony for today in the conversational is about overtime as the golden egg of
 We have, we know that we have, first of all, Commissioner Fritz, I really respected your questions and I think that before I run out of time, I would like to ask that instead of voting for this today, that you collect the information on were or are these stops in these different areas of enforcement, especially overtime enforcement, were they racist-based? Yes.
 Maybe they were. Maybe they weren't. But surely, as that officer was saying, they have the records on that, and I think that that needs to be looked at before any kind of vote can happen, and I'll leave it there. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning, Commissioner. Charles Bridge, Grant Johnson. And I'm glad that we had this public safety segment brought to us by the best of Engstrom and Engstrom and Engstrom. I think there's three Engstroms in the police department now.
 You know, it's been a while since I testified on a police grant. Obviously, take all ODOT's money. Although, whenever ODOT comes up, we have the question of how about the city and the Oregon Department of Transportation are interfacing on not disturbing people who are trying to stay alive in their tents. Some have even moved back to the boulders under the 205 overpass. On this particular issue, it was interesting that the Vision Zero...
 came out from Officer or Sergeant Engstrom's mouth before we got to it. So I think that there's still room for a fusion improvement of how what's available from ODOT affects our plans for the lethality we're seeing in traffic on Outer Division and Southeast and stuff like that. But, you know, the other – and then the overtime question –
 And the fact that some people are, as patrol people, are earning more than the chief of police is really problematic for a lot of citizens, not just people who are highly focused on the police like myself. But we have situations where some officers, the only stress they have is the Apple store for their overtime. And then we have others that are doing actual public safety work. So I hope that...
 As you age rapidly in this police commissioner job, you'll find a way to look at that. I don't know even for sure if the Portland Police Association managing the other overtime that's not traffic, if that is included in the salary numbers we see for these $200,000 police officers. Is it because Apple pays to the Portland Patrol Association, which manages to then get the money into a city cut paycheck? No.
 So this particular agenda item, yes, take the ODOT money, get these people where people are dying in traffic accidents. And, you know, let's also talk about the quality of the officers, these people.
 Officers generally have never pulled their gun, but we have Officer Andrew Hurst, who has killed two people during his career. That's an anomaly that this city needs to build the tools to address so that killer cops aren't a part of the Portland Police Inventory and they know about de-escalation. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Good morning, Star Stauffer. So I have a few concerns about giving the police any more money, but in specifics to this –
 Going back to the accident that happened that we were discussing earlier in regards to that officer, was he working overtime? How many hours a week had he put in that week for overtime? Just out of curiosity. And officers that are working traffic divisions specifically...
 There are many ways that an accident can happen. It's driver negligence, weather, being tired, being impaired because of drug use or alcohol use, distractions via cell phone. I see cops driving with their cell phones all the time. I see cops texting while they're driving. I know that officers are tired while they're behind the wheel. I'm not really sure with the way that the police department has...
 shown itself to operate right now that they need more money to be enforcing anything on anyone. And this whole thing where people are speeding, we can't see their race. Oh, come on. We weren't born yesterday. Police profile based on race all the time. Now we're going to have more people out there. And what areas are these officers going to be put in? Where? Which areas? Are they going to be in Northeast? Are they going to be in Southeast? Are they going to be in Northwest? Because depending on the area and
 and the majority race of that neighborhood, I'm curious, where do you plan to station these officers? I mean, are they really going to be used for traffic and keeping the roadways safe? Or is this really more of a direct policing thing that they're going to be doing with community members? Are they going to be pulling over kids? Are they going to be looking at jaywalkers? What exactly are they going to be doing with this money? Because if they're just going to be sitting in their cars watching traffic, then one thing that I'd like
 if that's really just the case, I want them drug tested. I want to know how many hours they're sleeping. Who are they to be out there patrolling anything if they're exhausted drivers, if they're under the influence of drugs? I mean, how do we know? I mean, we know because that officer got in that accident, he wasn't drug tested. Most people, when they have an accident on the job, are drug tested. So...
 Who are we to be putting these officers out there to enforce traffic when I see them breaking traffic laws all the time? Who's watching them? Some of that money needs to be allocated to be watching them. I want to see logs. I want to see hours of overtime. I want to know what the health issues are in regards to this. Because I'm out there on the road. I don't want a cop pulling me over because he's made impaired decisions. I mean, people get shot in traffic stops. Look at Philando Castile.
 And you're putting more cops out there. Yuck. I mean, yuck. Ugh. Thank you. Commissioner and official, if you would like to get together to talk about the Rose Festival and what went down, none of us had anything to do with it, but I'm happy to talk with you about our defunding fleet week if you want to do that. And the last person. Hello. Chris Ramsey. Hi. Hi, I'm Chris Ramsey. I'm still a nervous news speaker. No worries. Thank you very much. Yeah, thanks for being here.
 Just a few things. I was listening and I found it pretty repugnant that we're sitting here pretending that the goal is to save you guys $30,000 by funneling this to the ODOT grant when last month we asked for $2 million for live bullets. So I just wanted to acknowledge that it might not be as just benevolent as it seems. They didn't have any problem coming up here and asking you guys for millions of dollars for bullets, but let ODOT do this.
 And like you said, Commissioner Fritz, I was really concerned about where are the enforcement patrols? Are they documenting and logging those things, different neighborhoods that have high increased risk for traffic? And how are those things tracked to where if there is a pattern of racial discrimination, it can be established and then addressed? And I can just think of a million things that ODOT could do with $30,000 besides police overtime and sweeping homeless people.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Was there any further public testimony on this item? That's all who signed up. Very good. Commissioners, any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman.
 Well, I want to thank Sergeant Engstrom and the Traffic Division for the good work they're doing. And high-crash corridors really know no boundaries in this city. They are pretty much everywhere in this city. And I particularly appreciate the attention Traffic Division has been paying to Outer Southeast Division lately. And I appreciate the Traffic Division working very closely with the Bureau of Transportation on implementing making Vision Zero, zero traffic fatalities or serious crashes a reality. So thank you. Aye. Briggs. Aye.
 Obviously I'm very committed to Vision Zero and getting extra money for extra enforcement is very important to me. I believe, I haven't read the latest assessment from the compliance officer on the Department of Justice settlement, but I believe...
 previous one there was concern about the tracking system that the police bureau is implementing and how that's going for individual officers. So that, I think, is underway. I find it interesting that many of the testifiers consistently referred to officers as he. When I was reading through the item that was pulled, there was no reference to what the
 We don't have as many female officers as men, but we do have some absolutely fantastic female officers. And so I just wanted to point that out, that there's all kinds of people that we're trying to recruit and attract to our police bureau to help the bureau reflect more about the people, the community that they serve. Point of privilege. Could I have the gentleman come back up?
 I just wanted to clarify on a couple things that may have answered some of your questions, concerns that were brought up briefly. They were asking about what areas that we were patrolling. It's not based on crime statistics, but it's based on crash data. And so streets such as Division and Powell and Gleason and Stark and Burnside, as well as all the major forestry,
 freeways within the city limits, I-5, 205, I-84, all those, as well as Lombard and Barber and Bertha. So it goes around, not Bertha, but BHH, it goes around the whole city, and it's just a major crash corridor. So hopefully that clarified that. And are they all state highways, or does any of this money go to patrol streets that are not a state highway? Let me think on which ones are actually...
 I don't think Stark. Yeah, and Gleason, they're not. And Gleason and Burnside. So you are allowed to use it where the need is. Yeah, it's based on crash data. So some of them are dual purpose. I mean, they're city streets, but they're also a public highway. But not all of them are. Thank you. That's good clarification. So some are, some aren't. And then as far as sleep deprivation, I know Captain Krebs has already begun some conversations with other agencies on what they do. And so we're working on that as well to try and make sure our officers are being taken care of.
 as far as not working too much and to the point of exhaustion and things like that. And then what we're looking for on the grant, obviously this is a speed grant, but the stats that I'm tracking personally for the DAT sheets that they have to turn in are speed, cell phone use, no seat belt, failed yield, right away, some things like that that are dangerous behaviors. And then we just have another category where if they wrote tickets for, you know,
 equipment violations or license violations, things like that, they fall into that category. And then you asked about quotas or anything like that. I just want to make sure we are clear that, you know, there wasn't a specific quota number of tickets, but we want them, we encourage them to try and contact at least three people per hour, and it's up to them whether they do tickets or warnings or whatever. Hopefully that will clarify. Yes, that's very helpful. Any further questions? Okay. Thank you. Thanks, Sergeant.
 Your vote, sir. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for coming in. Next item, please.
 Item 416, authorized chief of police to sign lease agreements of real property for police bureau criminal investigation needs. And as a reminder, this has been carried over. We took public testimony on this item last week. The final draft has been amended per the testimony we received. So as you will see, the police chief...
 requires the approval of the mayor in order to consummate any lease agreement. May I offer a friendly amendment to that amendment, and that is that it's the commissioner in charge of police, because there have been occasions where that has not been the mayor. That would be fine. That's implied. Does anybody have any objection? We'll scribbner out mayor and put commissioner in charge. That's fine. Good. Call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Ritz. Well, I appreciate it. I did get many of my questions answered. I want to continue to make sure that we do have transparency and accountability around policies related to undercover criminal investigations and undercover efforts, but that's not what's before us today. Wheeler.
 Aye, the item is adopted. Thank you. I've had a request from bureaus that we read 417 and 418 together, please. We'll vote on them separately, but we'll read on them together and take testimony together. They're very similar. Thank you.
 417, authorize a contract with North Harris Computer Corporation for maintenance services for support of the Bureau of Environmental Services, Portland Water Bureau, and Portland Bureau of Transportation customer information system for a five-year total not to exceed $1,800,000. And 418, authorize an...
 on-call contract with North Harris Computer Corporation for updates in reports and other customizations as required to the Bureau of Environmental Services, Portland Water Bureau, and Portland Bureau of Transportation Customer Information System for a five-year total not to exceed $700,000. Good morning. Good afternoon now. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Christine Moody, Procurement Services. Good afternoon.
 City bureaus use the Kayenta Customer Information Billing System. The city has had the Kayenta Billing System since 2006 and is used to provide automated billing and customer support for water, sewer, and leaf collection services.
 As allowed for in City Code 5.33, the City may directly enter into a contract for information technology hardware or software maintenance without a competitive solicitation where the maintenance is provided by the current provider in order to utilize the pre-existing knowledge of that vendor regarding the specifics of the City's hardware or software system.
 N. Harris Computer Corporation is the sole provider of maintenance services for the Kayenta system. Therefore, you have two procurement reports recommending the authorization of a five-year contract with N. Harris Computer Corporation for a not-to-exceed amount of $1,800,000 for maintenance services and a separate five-year contract in the amount of $700,000 for on-call services for any customization to the system that might be needed. Thank you.
 I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions. Becky Aniker is here to answer questions you might have about the contract or the billing system. The mayor asked me to handle the gavel. Are there any questions, colleagues? Well, I guess I just have one question. I thought when we got Kayenta, one of our goals was not to customize it because that's what got us into problems with our previous billing system. So are we doing a lot of customization to the Kayenta system?
 We continue with the monthly statements and then also – Is your mic on? Sorry. Maybe just move the mic a little closer. Becky Aniker. I lead the business solutions team within the revenue division. The customizations of the past, the monthly statements that we offer to our rate payers, and in addition to that, we have –
 upgrades that will fall underneath this professional, technical, and expert services agreement. While the upgrades and the software are available, we need additional technical expertise, business intelligence services for customized reporting, things of that nature, in addition to analytics and that development for implementing those upgrades that keep us compatible and current within systems that we currently support. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Is there any public testimony on these items? We have one person signed up, Star Stauffer. And since we're already past noon and we're only halfway through the agenda, we'll go down to two minutes, please. Is she here? Where's the mayor? She left. Oh, she left. We'll need to just wait a little bit because the mayor had to step out for a couple of seconds. So we could move to the vote on 419, the second reading, non-emergency.
 419, grant a franchise to McLeod USA Telecommunication Services LLC for telecommunication services and facilities within city streets for a period of 15 years. Call the roll, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Prince. Thank you. And then same on 420, which is the second reading.
 420, change the salary grade for the non-represented classification of neighborhood involvement and programs director. Now vote on that, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Passed, thanks. And then we, which ones did we skip? Please, Carla. The vote on 417. Let's do the votes on 417 and 418. Okay. 417, Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Aye.
 Sorry, I can't juggle all these things. Aye. That's that one. Pass. That's that one. So now we're on 418, vote only. Perfect. Great. And we wish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 So I think we're back to 420. Is that right, Carla, for the vote? 421. Actually, more often. You guys are efficient. 421. We did vote on 420. 420, pretty good. We're back to 421 then. And just on the record, I'd like to state for 420 that I gave my aye vote in deference to the Bureau of Human Resources decision honoring Anna Kamik for her work.
 Thank you. 421, accept the report on status of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant Lagoon Reconstruction Phase 3 and 4, Project Number E07146 from the Chief Engineer. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor, and we welcome Bill Ryan, our Chief Engineer, here for a presentation. This is marked for 15 minutes, but I'm quite confident Bill can bring it in well under 15 minutes. Okay.
 Council, you'll be asked to accept the report on the status of our lagoon reconstruction work.
 The Triangle Lagoon is part of the city's Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant and provides essential processing and storage of solids. The lagoon has been in service for over 40 years, providing flexibility, redundancy, and reducing operating costs to make the treatment plant one of the top operations of its type in the region. The Bureau has been reconstructing the lagoon in a phased approach since 2002. In keeping with our commitment to transparency...
 Bill Ryan is here to give us an update on the most recent phase of the project. William? Thank you, Commissioner. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, we're waiting for the little circle that goes around and around, but I can go ahead and start if you don't mind. The lagoon project, the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant sludge lagoon reconstruction is what I'm here to report on.
 The lagoon is located just to the east, or to the west, rather, of the Heron Lakes Golf Club. It is north of the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant. In fact, it is across the Columbia Slough from the treatment plant. It is a very important part of the treatment plant, and it is part of the process at the treatment plant.
 Digested solids from the treatment plant are pumped across the slough to the lagoon and they are stored there until they can be pumped back to be trucked to eastern Oregon where they're used as fertilizer on the dry grasslands of eastern Oregon. Do you have a printout of the PowerPoint, Bill? I do have an extra, yes. Did you bring one from my colleagues?
 Because if this, well, if, no, do you have one for all my colleagues? I'm sorry, I don't. And Carlo, we have a technological, tech, all right. Mayor, this, this, this requires a PowerPoint because it's an informational update. I would just suggest we set this over. That's fine. If we have a technology problem, Carlo, let's come back and do it. Can we do that, Bill? Yeah.
 i'm sorry i didn't hear do you we we can let's set this over and bring this back next week okay that's because i want to have a either a handout or a powerpoint because i you put a lot of work into it and if we're having a technology snafu let's put it over okay yeah that's good without objection here not at all i'd like to see the the presentation thank you bill okay good thank you next item please carla this one also had a powerpoint did you want to continue this well this one is um so who's here for 422.
 Is Caitlin here? Mayor, can we set this over until 2 o'clock? We can do that. We'll hold that until 2. Let me just quickly – we have a time certain at 2 and a time certain – I'm sorry. Yeah, time certain at 2, a time certain at 3. So, Mayor, I have an excused absence at 3.30. So if it doesn't fit, we'll just – we'll set it over. Okay.
 Okay. Why don't we just do that? Where our team is? All right. So we'll set this over, Mayor. Okay. Until 2 o'clock. Unless they come in the next few minutes, because we still have one more regular agenda item. So if they're here in the next few minutes, then we can go ahead and do it at the end of the meeting. You can move it to the end of our agenda. Yeah. Let's go ahead and just put it at the end of the agenda and see what happens. Next item, please. 423. Okay.
 Appeal of residents of the 937 condominiums against the noise variants granted to Bremick Construction to conduct six-day-long concrete pours with early morning setup for the hotel construction project located at 485 Northwest 9th Avenue. All right. Commissioner Saltzman. I'm going to excuse myself because I was not here for the hearing and I have not had a chance to review the record. So I'm going to excuse myself from this hearing. Very good. Thank you.
 and just to remind people we continued this item. We held this item over. We completed public testimony. There are some conditions that have been attached, and with all those caveats, there you go.
 And Paul Van Orden, City's Noise Control Officer. So you should have before you a memorandum I put together just to capture the four main points from our last hearing. And I don't know that Council has any other additions to those set of conditions, so we may be in a position to move forward with the four items that I had captured from our last hearing. Very good. So is there any further discussion before I move this to second reading? We're getting a one-minute...
 Oh, okay. Well, we have a little time, so go ahead. This is good stalling. Gives the team a chance to show off. Is Sam at the time that's important enough?
 If we make it tighter, we started to just put it forward. I don't think the bump is going to take an hour. The next time certainly not. Yeah, that's fine. So just to be clear, is that item 422 you're talking about? Yes. And we can also fix the computer glitch between now and then. Okay. So that's a 15-minute presentation. We'll make it less. Okay. So we're taking 421 and moving that to next week, 422.
 No, I was going to say move 421 to – excuse me, 421 next week, 422 to 2 o'clock. Okay. Did you copy that, Kirsten? 421 is going to move to next week, and we'll put 422 at the front of the agenda and be ready to go right at 2 o'clock. Yes. Carla, we'll work with you during the break on the PowerPoint. Good. Yeah, I think we're okay to move forward. Thank you.
 at this point and if we adopt those set of conditions then i will modify my approved variants to incorporate them and the variants will move forward with those conditions incorporated into the variants good any further council discussion i want to thank um
 Mr. Van Orden, for his work and for guiding us through this process. My sense coming out of the last hearing is that no one loved our solution, which may mean it was a kind of a workable compromise. So thank you for your work, and thanks to the members of the public that came and testified on this. I think this is better, and I will tell you, I am very concerned about expanding hours of operation on the weekends. It is the one time where I think people –
 either for reasons of faith or just to catch up on their sleep or whatever, deserve a little more peace and quiet. And my sense is that we ought to try to protect the boundaries on Saturday and Sunday while also helping construction companies that are getting hammered by all the rain days to get the work done. So hopefully this is a workable compromise. Bye.
 I support it. Just to be clear, we're moving this to second reading. We're not actually taking the vote. Oh, you're not actually taking the vote today? No, we're going to move it to second. We continued it. We took our testimony. We have incorporated now the conditions. We'll move it to second and we'll...
 We'll vote on it. This isn't an ordinance. Yeah, it's not an ordinance. I guess I'm thinking this is more akin to a land use where you could essentially have a motion that would say we adopt the noise variance as amended by the conditions proposed. I move the noise variance as amended. Second. With the conditions. All right. So we have a motion and a second to move the noise variance as amended. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you, Paul Van Orden. Fish.
 for your work. I appreciate the hearing and my sense is that no one loves this compromise, which maybe means that we hit the sort of middle ground. And I personally have concerns about extending hours for construction on the weekends because I think that's the one time when people deserve to catch up on their sleep.
 Fritz. Well, thank you, especially to Mary Sight, who's been following the noise issues, particularly power driving and other issues, for a long time, and I really appreciate your guidance. I do think that under Commissioner Fisher's leadership, we got to a good compromise. Aye. Wheeler. Everybody hates it. That's got to mean it's a good compromise. I support this. Thank you for your diligent work on this, particularly over the last week. I know you have been scrambling.
 The hearing is concluded. The ordinance is adopted. Just for clarification purposes, for those who would like to hear Item 422, the city's safe salmon certification, that has been moved until 2 p.m. this afternoon. Item 421 regarding the Columbia Wastewater Treatment Plant Lagoon Reconstruction Project, that has been moved to next week. With that, we are adjourned.
 These guys are so virtuous. Yeah. I love them. Yeah, I think so too. I think the calls are coming from the boss. Yeah, I agree. And how nice that we didn't have to take a recess today. I was sort of surprised by that. Yeah. I actually found the testimony really good. I thought it was interesting. We did! Thank you. You're a player, baby. Yes, can't you hear that? The mayor talking?
 Thank you. We have one item that was carried over from this morning. It'll just take us a moment. I'm going to ask the clerk to call the roll, and then I'm going to read a script in a moment regarding Commissioner Udaly, who's joining us on the phone. So there's some formal language. I'll say that in a minute. But first, if we could just call the roll. Can you wait just one moment? We're trying to get the... For you, Carla, anything. Thank you. Hi, Dan. Hi. You do not have to run. Thank you.
 Very good. Okay. Commissioner Udailey is home with a sick child. Her failure to participate in today's council session would jeopardize the public interest, health, safety, or welfare. Am I reading this correctly? Okay. Therefore, unless there is an objection by any member of the council, Commissioner Udailey will participate in today's hearing by teleconference. Okay.
 Is there any objection? There is no objection. Very good. We've completed that script. Please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And I'm sorry, Commissioner Udaly, I hope you're smiling from afar. Item number 422.
 Could you call the item, please? 422, authorize a contract with ICF Jones and Stokes Inc. in the amount of $240,000 to provide for the use of a proprietary habitat model for the city's salmon safe certification. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor, in honor of Earth Week, the Bureau of Environmental Services has brought forth two different items.
 One, recently when we sought the support of the council to turn methane gas into clean energy, a triple win for the city, our environment, our rate payers, and we're very proud of that. Today is the second installment of our Earth Day story, and it's about the city's salmon safe certification and our role in it. Portland is home to more endangered species than any other U.S. city.
 When Caitlin once said that to me, I had to repeat it a few times because I had to let it sink in. We are home to more endangered species than any other U.S. city. This includes 13 different species of salmon. When she said it to me the first thing, I thought, oh, shame on us. And then I realized, no, we're home to endangered species. There's something about our habitat that's welcoming.
 Last year, Portland was the first city in the world to receive a salmon safe certification. This was a multi-year, multi-bureau effort and required a lot of hard work from many teams across the city. The work that BES has done to achieve certification has received national and local acclaim. The Johnson Creek floodplain restoration projects, the Crystal Springs restoration, the Mason Flats wetland restorations, and Columbia Slough, to name a few.
 All of these projects help make our city safer for fish and for people. That's why I'm asking the Bureau of Environmental Services to build on our work and reconvene the multi-bureau team that collaborated during the salmon safe review process to explore a more formal citywide program to designate the best of the best rivers and streams as, quote, urban salmon sanctuaries, end quote, and to bring a full proposal back to council this fall.
 More immediately, the reason we're here today is to approve an ordinance that will improve the effectiveness of our ongoing restoration efforts across all the watersheds and implement some of the recommendations that came out of the extensive salmon safe review process.
 Here to join us today is Caitlin Lovell, Science Division Manager for BES, and her team, which she'll introduce, to walk us through this presentation. Welcome, ladies. Thank you, Commissioner. Good afternoon. Thank you for squeezing us in. Good afternoon. I've brought with me today Melissa Brown, my Senior Fish Biologist, who's in charge of coordinating the Bureau's implementation of the salmon safe conditions, and Rhonda Fast, who is here to highlight one of the Bureau's most visible salmon projects. Thank you.
 A little background. On June 5, 2013, Mayor Hales pledged that Portland would become the first certified salmon-safe city in the world. Salmon Safe is an independent nonprofit accreditation organization headquartered here in Portland that has become a leading eco-label dedicated to the protection and improvement of Native Pacific Northwest salmon habitat and watershed health. Portland Parks has been certified salmon-safe since 2004.
 The Mayor's Pledge called on BES, Water Bureau, PBOT, OMF, and FIRE to also become Salmon Safe certified. Over the next two years, the team from Salmon Safe and their independent scientists reviewed all of the Bureau's operations against their salmon-focused criteria. Salmon Safe officially presented their conditional certification to Council on October 26, 2016. The certification included many recommendations in the form of conditions in order for us to maintain the certification over the next five years.
 There are actually four cross-bureau conditions that apply to all of the bureaus, and each bureau has their own set of conditions. For BES specifically, we have eight conditions. We're well on our way to implementing and responding to all of them, but today we're here specifically to talk about BES condition five.
 The results of this review were really not surprising at all. BES is doing some great things for salmon, but there are some areas for improvement. Condition 5 directs BES to commission an independent evaluation of recently completed restoration projects by a team of outside experts in restoration ecology and related fields, and it goes on to further describe how we should actually do that. Condition 5 is the only condition that we need outside assistance to satisfy, and at this time, all other conditions are being addressed with internal staff and existing budgets.
 In selecting this methodology, we wanted something that was peer-reviewed, widely accepted, and durable. But we also didn't want it to just work for Salmon Safe. We needed to look at a number of different options that serve multiple Bureau needs. So the objectives included meeting multiple Bureau objectives and specifically leveraging the results with our stormwater systems planning and our watershed systems capital investments. We also looked for a program that was cost-effective and relatively within existing Bureau budgets. Thank you.
 We've landed on ecosystem diagnosis and treatment. It's a proprietary model owned by ICF, Jones & Stokes International. We've used DDT in the past, as has the Water Bureau. They're currently using it for their bull run habitat conservation plan. Because when we issued a prior RFP on this, it resulted in one response. Procurement directed us to issue this as a direct contract. So that's all sort of jargon and contract speak. And I wanted to really explain how this will make a difference on the ground for
 In the Salmon Safe Report, they commended BES for impressive progress in restoring floodplains and salmon habitat along Johnson Creek, Crystal Springs, and other city waterways, with many major projects completed in recent years.
 What we can do is we can look at all of those projects individually. What EDT will allow us to do is to provide the tools to really quantify the cumulative effect of all of those projects on the landscape itself and on the salmon. And what I'm going to turn over to Rhonda here in a second to show you is just how impressive all of this work has been. I think Crystal Springs really highlights the power of the work that we've been doing and the value that EDT will bring to our projects as we move forward.
 Okay. Like Caitlin said, one of the areas we'll be particularly interested in the results of the EDT analysis will be in Crystal Springs Creek, where since 2010, BES and numerous partners, too many to name here, made targeted investments in restoring nearly half of the entire length of Crystal Springs since 2010.
 But first, to orient you, Crystal Springs Creek is a tributary to Johnson Creek and southeast Portland's Selwood neighborhood, flowing from Springs in both Reed College and Eastmoreland Golf Course areas.
 The Crystal Springs has, there's no fish passage barriers between it and the Pacific Ocean. Salmon seek refuge here when the Willamette is too warm or during higher flows. But Crystal Springs faced three primary problems, which I'll talk about a little bit today and how we tackled those problems.
 And beginning in 2010, we began an effort with numerous partners to replace or, in one case, remove all nine undersized culverts that impeded fish passage, including one owned by Union Pacific Railroad. Eight culverts were publicly owned, but this one here that we celebrated in 2013 was the only one not in public control. It was the one that could have gotten away, but it didn't.
 And then at the Brennan property, this site looks very different today than it once did. It used to have a home, a triplex actually, and the property owners sold the property to us for the purposes of doing restoration. We removed a culvert on this site entirely and restored it to its current function today. Okay.
 The other challenge that Crystal Springs faced is water quality, especially in regard to temperature and stormwater-related pollution.
 Here in the upper part, Westmoreland Park, the old, large, shallow, open body of water here, the former duck pond, contributed nearly six degrees Fahrenheit, especially in the summer months, and elevated nutrient levels contributed to stream health and public health concerns here. And in some areas, the stormwater flowed directly into the creek, picking up pollutants with it.
 So anywhere we could, we worked to give the stream more room. And in those situations, we installed riparian buffers, green streets, and pervious pavement to manage stormwater more effectively. And lastly, Crystal Springs suffered from the lack of habitat. And in many locations, concrete curbing along the stream prevented the connection between the stream and its surrounding floodplain areas.
 And so improvements were made, targeted improvements were made over eight years in Crystal Springs along nearly half the length of the stream. And this is now, and salmon responded right away.
 During the salmon celebration at Westmoreland Park here, during 2014 salmon celebration, salmon were present in the park as we celebrated. So it's a testament to if you build it, they will come. And we're excited to see the results of evaluating the work and seeing what changes we would need to possibly make in designs for the future projects.
 The contract, the total contract is $240,000. It's phased over three fiscal years, and it's divided up into seven discrete tasks, which will get started immediately. At this point, we're confident that EDT will give us many good reasons to celebrate, and we're really excited about Commissioner Fish's charge to BES to reconvene the Salmon Safe Team to explore this idea of establishing an urban salmon sanctuary in the city.
 We look forward to returning in the fall with a full proposal for your consideration. At this point, we welcome your questions.
 I'll just say this. I think this is fantastic. Thank you. And I want to thank you, Commissioner Fish, for taking up the mantle of this. I want to thank my predecessor, Mayor Hales, who saw the value in this vision. And I think it's terrific. Mayor, one couple of observations. One is that some of the best work we've done here we did in partnership with Portland Parks and Rec.
 And when we did the dedication at Crystal Springs, we were there with the Army Corps of Engineers, with BES, with Parks, and others. And so it was an example of where partnership taken to a new level can result in something great. The second thing is I am spoiled in BES because of the quality of the people who work at the Bureau. And Dan knows this. We just have tremendous people. These are some of the best people who work at the Bureau.
 Caitlin has really pushed some of our work to the next level, which is why Mike Houck invites her and not me when they do tours of these places, which is a smart move. The other thing I just want to point out is –
 Sometimes people ask, you know, why the focus on salmon and how does that relate to our work? And I think she said it best. When salmon are healthy, it's a pretty good indicator of the health of people. And if we become a city that really puts the salmon front and center, and I know Spencer Beebe will be pleased to hear this, but if we fly that flag throughout our platforms, what we're really doing is building a city that,
 and restoring nature in the city so that it is a healthier place for people. And along the way, when we do this work, we also think it's a good value for our rate payers because we are a heavily regulated bureau that has lots of permits and lots of concerns.
 And, you know, now that salmon have come back to these places and can be seen spawning and healthy, it's remarkable. If I could be king for a day, though, I'd expand the bike infrastructure on the Orange Line so that once you hit McAdam, it doesn't become sort of a, you know, catch-as-catch-can to the neighborhood. And it would make this Crystal Springs more accessible to the rest of the city. And I hope at some point they do build out the bike infrastructure there.
 along the orange line because that's the missing piece to bring people. Commissioner Wright, I'm sorry, but please continue. I just want to say I'm incredibly proud of their work, and it has very little to do with my leadership and a lot to do with the leadership of the women who are joining us today.
 I did have a question. So obviously the spring flows through all kinds of properties, public and private. What sort of reaction are you getting from private sector property owners to some of the improvements you're making along the banks immediately adjacent to private property? And what kind of process do you go through to get their support?
 We work with private property owners up and down the stream. We've had to secure easements for projects, and so overall the measure of our success is whether or not they grant us permission to do the work on their property is one measure, and they've granted that permission to us willingly. We have relationships with most all of the property owners along Crystal Springs Creek. Much of the creek is publicly owned, but there are sections of it that are privately owned where it goes through people's backyards and front yards and backyards.
 And we work with them. We connect them to resources. If we can't provide those resources with the Watershed Council, with the Crystal Springs Partnership, and part of what we do is try to be a connector. And so if we can't provide resources directly, then we connect them to people who can. And we always try to form positive relationships with folks because they have a resource in their backyard that we hope they take care of for the good of all.
 What is the source of Crystal Springs? Obviously, it's a spring. Where is the source located? There's actually a number of different springs, Mayor. They start up at Reed College, who is actually one of the best, most sustainably oriented landowners, riparian landowners on the creek. And then the other is up at the Rhododendron Garden, which is owned by Portland Parks. And so those two –
 of the creek, if you will, come together in the golf course, the Eastmoreland golf course. So as a salmon habitat, I assume based on your presentation and the minimal amount that I know about springs, it's actually fairly cold water would be my guess, and consistently so. Is that one of the attractive features from the perspective of salmon habitat? That's the primary attractant at this point, and the springs come out of the ground at about 12 degrees Celsius.
 We'd like to keep them under, by the time it gets to Johnson Creek, we want to make sure that it's no higher than 18 degrees Celsius, so no more than 6 degrees through all of that. We're well on our way. There's still some heat sources that we need to take care of through the system. But doing these kinds of projects, taking out the ponds, right, paring plantings is really going a long way. We've reduced the stream temperature by over 3 degrees Celsius just through these projects alone. Awesome.
 By comparison, on some of the major creeks and major streams where utilities, for example, hydropower dams have to also worry about temperature, PGE estimates that they spend about a million dollars per degree just to reduce temperature. And we're able to do it and achieve all these other multiple benefits as well.
 It's also one of the primary activities that we've called out in the climate change work. So this is really helping us as building our climate resilience as a city. And final word, Mayor. Yes, sir. We're in the process of completing our next strategic plan and working with the community. You're going to hear three consistent themes going forward –
 One is this idea of urban salmon sanctuaries, and you'll get a major presentation in the fall, but it is an organizing principle which we think is going to change the way we do our work. Number two, you're going to hear about how we take waste and turn it into clean energy and produce value for ratepayers. And number three, why am I blanking on number three?
 I am blanking on number three. Those two are pretty good. Oh, I know. Number three is that Director Jordan thinks...
 that with your support, Mayor, and the council's support over the next 10 years, we can get to a point where the Bureau becomes the first fully sustainable infrastructure bureau of the city, which means we've caught up, all of our infrastructure is in good or better condition, and we're paying as we go, which of course is largely attributable to a dedicated revenue source, which PBOT does not have.
 but would, I think, set a standard for how we maintain our infrastructure. That's great. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. Thank you. I found it interesting that Parks got its certification only 10 years ago, and yet some of these projects are in Parks. Yes.
 And then you mentioned that Crystal Springs still has some hot spots to go. So am I correct in introducing that you get to the salmon safe level, but then there's still things that you could do to make it even better? Absolutely. Salmon safe just looked at our day-to-day operations as different bureaus. So for parks, it's really...
 how they plan their parks, how they take care of the riparian area, what kind of chemicals, irrigation, those kinds of operational things. Same with BES. It's how we manage stormwater on our sites, dealing with erosion, how we process restoration projects through our internal capitalization policies and prioritizations. And so...
 That gets us to a certain level, but there's always more that we can do, and there are always opportunities that when we bring together the right partners, we'll present themselves that we ourselves couldn't do just through our own day-to-day operations. I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz. I was just going to say I suspect there are not many cities in the nation who have golf courses which are Southern Safe.
 No, I believe New York was looking after that. And since this city has become salmon safe certified, we've gotten a number of surprising calls actually from around the country, from small cities in Washington, Ellensburg, Washington, to cities in California investigating how we were able to do it. So I think there's a lot of interest there.
 One of the big concerns I get from constituents on parks issues is the use of selected things like Roundup occasionally. And we do have an integrated pest management system that absolutely is the least possible toxic level to maintain. And so that's still in Salmon Safe purview.
 And then we're doing a pilot on the banning of neonicotinoids. So looking at are the roses still able to fight off rose midge? And so it's, I think, a helpful reminder that you can get to a certain level and you still keep trying. You still keep looking at how could we make things even better. So thank you for your work on this. Thank you. Commissioner Udaly, before we go to public testimony, did you have any comments? No.
 I'm good. Okay. Is there any public testimony on this item? Star had signed up earlier, but I believe she left.
 This goes to a second reading. Okay, very good. Any further conversation? If none, this is a non-emergency first reading. It moves to second reading. Oh, excuse me. Yeah. So, Mayor, there is some urgency in concluding this contract, and it does technically meet the definition of slapping an emergency clause on with my colleague's dispensation. I'd be happy to second that. So state for the record, what is the reason for adding the emergency? Kaitlin?
 The emergency is twofold. One is to be able to start this work during this fiscal year to be able to get a jump start, and the other is to be able to use some of these initial results to inform this urban salmon sanctuary proposal that we want to bring back in the fall. So in other words, saving the planet doesn't wait. Yeah. Thank you very much. All right, very good. We have a motion. We have a second. Any further discussion on the motion, please call the roll on the amendment. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Sir? You daily? Aye.
 Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Now to the main motion. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? I'm very proud to support this. I am extremely grateful for the high quality of the work of the leadership of my bureau and I think Caitlin consistently brings distinction to our bureau as to all of her colleagues and I thank you for your presentation, your good work and I'm pleased to vote aye.
 Well, thank you for your great work. Thanks, Commissioner Fish, for leading this effort, and it's very exciting where you're taking our city. So thank you on behalf of me and all the salmon. Hi. Hi. Well, I can quite see, Commissioner, why you wanted to wait until we could do the PowerPoint because the photographs really do say a lot about it. And I'm also glad that we added the emergency so that we can tell you right now that we very much appreciate the work that you're doing and please keep doing even more. Hi. Okay.
 Good ordinance. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you to the staff for your hard work on this. I am in aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Next item, please. Item 424, adopt the fiscal year 2016-17 spring supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes.
 Good afternoon. And while you're getting situated, I just want to call to the attention of my colleagues. You have the proposed amendment sheet in front of you that has everything from the Tuesday memo that you received based on conversations we had last week. Commissioner Fritz has an amendment she would also like to add. So before we get started, Commissioner, if you wanted to...
 Add what we'll call Fritz Amendment No. 2. No. 2 is a correction in the bump for PK-17 on page 238 of the packet. The $300,000 in previous year funding for these portals and master plans was incorrectly titled with three specific words.
 park plans. What we actually did was we were able to squeeze four park plans out of the three by combining two of them. So council is getting more value for the money that we expended and since there has been somewhat more work, we are asking to carry the remaining 40,000 over for continuing to plan the division and 150th Avenue site as well as Wilkes and Miller and Midland. I'll second the amendment.
 So we have a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Fish. So we now have, just to make sure we're all clear, we have the mayor amendments are one, two, three, four amendments, and I'll have CBO go through each of those in turn to briefly explain the purpose of those amendments. Commissioner Udaly has offered up one amendment. Okay.
 regarding the Portland United Against Hate. Commissioner Fritz had previously put in her Portland Parks and Recreation Fund 402 amendment. She's now put in her second amendment. So I believe that is the total of the amendments so far. Is that correct? And I don't think anybody has any more to put in today, but have I missed anything? Absolutely.
 I'd like to discuss it later. I just wanted to clarify this technical language on the amendment. Do you need me to read that into the record as my summary? Why don't you do that, please, just for the record. Okay, this is it. Reduce Bureau Program Expenses in Portland Parks and Recreation General Fund by $40,000 for master planning for an East Portland park. That's for this year. And set aside funds for program carryover and allocation in the financial year.
 2017-18 budget. Funding for several East Portland Parks Master Plans was originally allocated in the fall financial year 2014-15 supplemental budget and due to the efficient use of resources, the Bureau is able to complete planning for an additional park within the originally allocated resources and this updates Exhibits 1-5 as needed to reflect this change. Very good. And Director Scott, I'll turn this over to you but at some point during your presentation if you could also please uh
 and reference the four amendments that I've put forward on behalf of CBO. Thank you. I will do so. Thank you. Good afternoon. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director, and with me is Jessica Kennard, the City Supplemental Budget Coordinator.
 So we had a work session on the spring budget supplemental last Thursday, April 20th, where we went through some of the details in this bump. So I won't rehash a lot of those, but I will, just for folks today, recap at a high level what's before you today in the spring budget supplemental. The spring budget supplemental is when bureaus do carryovers, when they do some true-ups in their budget, when we allocate compensation set-aside to ensure bureaus have sufficient resources to get through the end of the year.
 Currently, in the general fund, there is discretionary contingency balance of about $4.7 million. That includes $3.1 million of compensation set aside and $1.1 million of unrestricted contingency.
 Supplemental budget before you today, prior to the amendments, includes the following changes to contingency. And these are also listed on the General Fund Reconciliation Report in your materials. It includes a $2.2 million draw on compensation set aside for the Office of Equity and Human Rights, the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, Portland Fire Bureau, Police Bureau, and the Mayor's Office.
 In addition, it includes a $154,452 net draw on unrestricted contingency. And this is for a few different requests. This includes funding related to the Portland Building Emergency Shelter. It's about $29,000. $12,000 in funding for the auditor's office to complete the political consultant online application. And $50,000 that was preallocated by council for the Metropolitan Public Defender's Office in a previous council action.
 This adjustment to contingency also includes retention of $200,000 that was budgeted to be returned to the general fund from Hydro Fund, but it will be kept in the Hydro Fund. And then that's mostly offset by a return from the Bureau of Emergency Communications for prior year underspending. Okay.
 And then finally, the supplemental budget includes $5.2 million deposited into contingency for program carryovers that will be rebudgeted in 2017-18. Again, all of these are pre-amendment totals in terms of what was filed.
 With those things, before the amendments, contingency balance after these items, there would still be unrestricted contingency of just over $900,000. There would be compensation set aside of about $950,000. And as I mentioned, that policy set aside for next year's program carryover is of $5.2 million. Okay.
 Outside of the general fund or just in general throughout bureaus, position changes. There's one new limited-term position and 29 regular positions being added in this supplemental budget. Twenty-four of those are in the Bureau of Development Services to deal with the workload up there and get moving as quickly as they can to process permits and other things. It does convert nine limited-term positions to regular, and it eliminates five positions in the Parks Bureau.
 And overall, I won't go through a lot of the non-general fund bureaus. There's a lot of just technical moves within this budget supplemental. But it is worth noting that permit planning and system development charge revenues continue to be strong in several bureaus, which, again, is allowing some of those new positions to be funded more.
 And then two other just technical issues of note that are in here. There are two technical additions in this supplemental budget. The authorization of the housing capital fund is being undertaken by Council today. That fund will be used to budget affordable housing capital project spending, largely related to the recently passed general obligation bond. And then finally, a formal authorization of vehicle acquisition in accordance with the 2001 policy. I think there were three vehicles purchased on behalf of TriMet. Is that correct? Yes.
 I believe so. Yeah, and that just didn't meet that 2001 policy, and so we're just correcting that as a technical issue today. So moving on to the amendments that are in front of you, I'll talk briefly about the amendments from the mayor's office. There are four of them. Two of these amendments relate to budgeted debt service funds in the current year that are not needed in the current year.
 And what these amendments do is they request the funds to be carried over and budgeted to fund one-time priorities in next year's budget, in the fiscal year 2017-18 budget. One of those is debt service related to fuel stations. You may recall Council authorized those new fuel stations a couple years ago. They just haven't issued the debt service yet, so those projects are moving forward on schedule, as far as I know, but they didn't need the funding this year. And so it can be used for next year's priorities. Okay.
 And then the second was related to the Portland building and some of the debt service related to that and in terms of the timing when that's going to be issued. So the full amount was not needed, so it can be returned and rebudgeted.
 And then we are capturing, as I mentioned, of those remaining totals, there would be about $950,000 of compensation set aside after the action is taken. The Third Amendment would transfer $587,000 of that compensation set aside funding to rebudget in 2017-18.
 And then the fourth amendment from the mayor reduces program expenses in the housing bureau for the East Portland rental rehabilitation program and carries them over for the same program for next year. This wasn't included in the, in the request from PHB, but it is a program carry over. They, they didn't move forward in terms of getting that money out the door this year. So carrying that funding over to, to do the rental rehabilitation program in next year's budget. The other amendments. Yes. I can talk through the others as well. Um,
 Um, in terms of commissioner, you daily, uh, has an amendment. This would, uh, increase, uh, program expenses and special appropriations by $40,000 to fund program design and startup for the Portland United against hate. Um,
 funding would draw on general fund, that $40,000 would come out of general fund unrestricted contingency. This is a budget request that's in next year's budget as well, but the Office of Neighborhood Involvement wanted to get moving as quickly as possible and would like $40,000 to get started on that in the current fiscal year. And then Commissioner Fritz, happy to go through your amendment as well that's on the list. Just explain. Sure. Yeah, this is
 What this amendment does is it increases expenses within parks and recreation by $300,000, which is also coming out of that unrestricted contingency, to address immediate facilities and equipment needs related to health, safety, and environmental issues. And this is to deal with some of the recently discovered environmental issues in some of parks' facilities. I'm happy to take any questions on the bump. And Commissioner Fritz, did you want to explain Fritz number two? No, I thought I did. Okay.
 How about this? Andrew, would you like to describe Fritz 2 as you understand it? Yes, and I think actually Commissioner Fritz did in terms of reading the language. It would currently – Parks is requesting 300 – am I getting the number right –
 It's the $40,000. Yeah, it would add... We already got $300,000. We haven't quite spent it all, and we want to carry the remaining $40,000. So this is just a carryover? Yeah. Oh, okay. Correct, yeah. $210,000 was the request. It currently is $170,000, and so this would amend it to increase that by $40,000 to the $210,000 request for the East Portland Parks Planning. Thank you.
 Andrew, is it fair to say, since you're the Independent Budget Office, that none of these requests raise any flags for you? These are simply policy questions that the council gets to decide? Yes. Can I ask some questions about the only carryover for the – Commissioner Dr. Saltzman's not here. I'll wait until he comes back because I'd like him to be part of this discussion. He may not be back for long. Okay. His chief pulled him. Okay. Well, we've got nothing to time because the next item is a time search. Three o'clock.
 So is this public testimony? Why don't we take public testimony and come back to questions? Good idea. How many people do we have signed up for public testimony? We have one person. All right, Carla, under the circumstance, we're going to have to cut this to one minute. Alan Warman. Come on up, Mr. Warman. Thank you. Mr. Warman is, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is the co-chair of the Portland Utility Board.
 I'm not sure how he retains his day job with all the time he volunteers, providing oversight to our public utilities, and we're very grateful for your service, sir. Because right now he's traveling on business and you just outed him. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioner. My name is Alan Worman, as you just introduced me. I'm the co-chair. In 2015, this body, the Portland Utility Board,
 It was created primarily because BES and the Water Bureau's long-term planning process, including the 25-year system plan, the five-year capital improvement plan, budgets, annual budgets, rate-setting processes, debt requirements, required an engaged, well-informed, and year-round oversight body. Okay.
 The Pub was charged with advising this council on the Bureau's budgets, and I'm here today in that capacity. The Pub Budget Subcommittee met two weeks ago to consider the spring bump. There are submissions from both bureaus and CBO's recommendations. Pub Board members were generally supportive of the request and had conversations specifically about two components –
 First, BES is requesting moving forward the authorization and funding of two new FTEs that were requested in the fiscal year 2017-2018 budget process. These specific FTEs are the pollution prevention and the spill protection FTEs.
 Pub was supportive of these two positions, and we believe moving the request to the bump allows the Bureau to get a jump start on the HR process here at the city. Both positions will need staff support for program areas, and the Bureaus that are experiencing increased customer involvement and demands for services. So we support that.
 In general, the pub has concerns about the Bureau adding full-time staff through the bump process because the pub feels these discussions are best had during the annual comprehensive budget considerations with public vetting. However, these two positions did go through the process, and the pub supports the authorization and funding of them. The second...
 The Water Bureau request includes a decrease in transfers to the general fund relating to hydropower. There is a lot of uncertainty as the Bureau works through the process of setting up new sales and a new operating and maintenance agreement this summer. Hub members encouraged the Water Bureau to proactively think about risks,
 Setting a policy for a new reserve fund, and the pub will actively monitor this process through the summer. That's the end. Thank you. Mr. Warman, just to be clear, a reserve fund in connection with the hydropower business? That's correct. That's correct. And I think that's a splendid idea, and the next chapter of our hydropower business is going to require a lot of consultation with the pub for us to figure it out.
 I appreciate that. Mr. Roman, I just want to again extend my thanks to you and to your colleagues for their volunteer service and their diligent evaluation both of the bump as well as the work that we've been doing together on the full 17-18 budget requests. So thank you for that. Commissioner Saltzman is going to be a few more minutes, they said. Thank you.
 Thank you for checking. Should we vote on the amendments that are not coming? Yeah, why don't we do that and hold off on the Udalli amendment. Oh, I'm fine with the Udalli amendment.
 Which one, I'm sorry, is the one you're... Well, the Udell Amendment is for the Portland United Against Hate, and I certainly support that. Oh, which is the one you had questions about? It's in the City Budget Office. Okay, very good. Let's do the ones that we agree to. Okay, so why don't we start with the amendments. Wheeler 1, 2, 3, 4? 1, 2, 3, and 4, we'll do them in order. Can I get a...
 I see the amendments are already on the table, so can you please call the roll on Wheeler 1? I'm sorry, which one? Wheeler 1, so it would be basically the first bullet point under the mayor's. And they're already read into the record. Yeah, I don't have anyone moving or seconding those. I have them on the Fritz Amendment moving and seconding.
 So we still have to move them all together on the memo. Okay, so I will quickly move Wheeler 1, 2, 3, and 4 per the memo. Do I need to read them all into the record? They're already part of the record, aren't they? Perfect, good. And then we already have, is Commissioner Udaile's in the record yet? Yes. Yeah, that was...
 I think they've all been read into the record. And I'll second that. Okay, good. So we now have motions and seconds for Wheeler 1, 2, 3, and 4. Please call the roll on Wheeler 1. I just want to note for the record the predicament that the mayor's amendments has put his colleagues. The mayor has proposed an amendment. Tomorrow he takes all the bureaus, and Monday he issues his proposed budget. So I've had to think long and hard about whether I vote no on this amendment, Mayor. But since it's so utterly straightforward, I will support it. Okay.
 Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Appreciate the attention to detail. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted. Wheeler 2, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Wheeler 3, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Wheeler, number four, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Udaly, amendment number one, please call the roll. Fish. Colleagues, I just want to say that I think this concept of Portland United Against Hate
 that was presented to us during the budget is very promising, and I'm pleased that we are voting to get a head start on implementing this worthy program. Aye. Ms. Udaly? Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your support. And I'm also anxious to get started because I'm sure, as all of you have heard, we've had another incident over the weekend, and we need to get this rolling. Aye. Ms. Udaly?
 Fritz. I'm very proud to have been in charge of officer-neighborhood involvements when this movement got going and to have been a partner in its formation. So, obviously, I support this and will support the other request in the budget. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment is adopted. Fritz, number one, please call the roll. I think that needs a second. I'm sorry, never got a second? Fritz, one? Yeah. Aye. A second. A second.
 So Commissioner Fish seconds and votes. Andrew, is there any reason why we should turn this down? No, not... The witness is shaking his head. This is on the... No, this is money to do some emergency work in public facilities where children are at risk of exposure to toxic things like asbestos. Very good. So it has now been moved and seconded. Please call the roll on Fritz number one. Fish. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Fritz number one is adopted. And Fritz number two, has that been seconded? I don't have that. Let's get a second. Second. Commissioner Fish seconds that, so it's been moved and seconded. Please call the roll on Fritz number two. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Fritz number two is adopted. So back to the main motion.
 It sounds like the only thing holding us up is a question that Commissioner Fritz has. And it's actually to address a concern that Commissioner Saltzman raised during last year's budget process, where we had a very narrow three to two vote that Commissioner Fish and Mayor Hales joined me in to allocate $350,000 to a project that had come out of the Office of Enabled Involvement Budget Committee to
 do outreach on housing and homeless services. And Commissioner Saltzman voted against it, saying that he was not confident that the money would go out to the community. I promised at the time that only a 0.25 FTE in the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement to administer grants, that was the only staff time within the city that it would happen.
 the Council directed the Office of Neighbourhood Involvement to return with a plan for Council approval last October after engaging the Housing Bureau and the Joint Office in the plan, and Council specifically approved that plan in October.
 The reasoning for the way it was planned and approved is allowing community groups to engage their own members is a very efficient and effective method of reaching members of the community, often in their own language. And so since the request is now changed into two internal positions,
 some of which seems primarily related to the work of the Joint Office of Homeless Services. I'm wondering what council, and as I say, I would have hoped that Commissioner Slotsman would have been part of this,
 What council is thinking on that? Particularly, Mayor, you're looking at the office, creating an office of landlord and tenant services, and also you obviously are representative to the joint office. How do these two proposed positions relate to all of that work? I will defer to Commissioner Udali. One moment, please.
 So obviously I wasn't there when all these decisions had been made, and I wasn't necessarily cognizant of the conversations that led up to this allocation. Coming into ONI, and in light of the auditor's report, the response to local media coverage on ONI,
 how this $350,000 would be used. And sorry, I'm trying to pull up some notes. I've got three different documents right now, three different devices right now. Slightly awkward not to be there. Thank you for bringing me in. So the money was originally allocated for Housing Emergency Community Engagement Projects.
 And as I said, in light of the audit, in light of public response that my office received from media attention, and after speaking to Mark Doran, county officials, neighborhood coalition directors, and others, after taking over ONI, you know, the recurring refrain I heard was, please don't duplicate efforts, please don't reinvent the wheel, and we just
 felt that this would be a better use of the funds. I'm going to defer to my colleagues I guess to decide if that's acceptable given the terms that were set at the outset when I was not there. We are turning $120,000 back to the general fund. We are trying to use these dollars to their absolute
 best potential. And I'm not convinced that doling out grants to a variety of community groups to engage members in discussion about our homelessness issues is going to be effective or move not just the conversation forward but actual progress on the issue. So I can go into more detail about
 the positions that would be created. There's certainly these positions would interact with the joint office, but they're not primarily there to serve the joint office. They're there to serve as a liaison between the city, the joint office, and the community, and to actually facilitate those conversations that we do want to see happen while providing some,
 and best practices across all of the conversations. I could also, if I can just chime in, Commissioner Udaly, to buttress your argument. One potential, and I will obviously not dictate how these positions are deployed. That's not my decision, but one potential strategy that I could see based on the description
 is given the work we're currently doing with neighborhoods that are not necessarily directly connected in with the overall plan on the joint office, and we can have a discussion about that.
 appropriate role of the joint office vis-a-vis the interests of the city of Portland. We have lots and lots of interactions with neighborhood associations, with community organizations, with people in the community around not only solutions to homelessness, but also some of the manifestations of homelessness. Okay.
 working with us to address abandoned campsites, working with us to address some of the issues around public health, public safety, environmental issues. And I can just speak for my office. We get tons and tons of calls.
 related to those issues, and I can see where perhaps these two liaison positions would be useful in working with the neighborhood associations and others to help address not only the communication but some of the real solutions on this front. Agreed. Thank you. And I'm assuming that it's been discussed with Mark Jolin? Yes.
 I have not had. Thank you. It sounds like Commissioner Eadaly has, correct. My honest thoughts, and I'm glad you were able to get back. I'm just going over because you were the person who was most concerned last year about the allocation, the $350,000 that was going to...
 outreach and we agreed at council it was only going to be .25 of an FTE within the city and the rest of it would go out to the community. That's now been changed in this bump process to two positions within the city and I just wanted to get your feedback on is that okay with you? Yeah, that sounds good. I listened a little bit to the discussion as I was out of the room. I was meeting with the city attorney. I apologize, but it sounds good to me. Okay, that answers my questions. Thank you.
 Okay, very good. Why is there like this big photograph of Commissioner Udaly that looks almost like it's the photograph she uses when she's being interviewed for being a leading lady in a movie, and all of us are like little stick figures by comparison? I object. I object to this grandstanding during a council meeting. Okay.
 Sorry, not sorry. Yeah, it does. It definitely has a Brady Bunch quality to it. Yeah.
 And by the way, I have a standing objection because the book that she just published about your local government has a picture of me, but it's actually Chris Warner. So that's two strikes. I have to clarify, I did not publish that, but we do intend to release a series of similar booklets, but some friends and acquaintances beat us to the punch on that one.
 Very good. So, Commissioner Saltzman, we have moved all of the amendments. They have all been seconded. They have all been approved into the record. So now this leaves us to the question of the main motion. If there is no further discussion or questions of the Budget Office, I'll go ahead and call the roll on the main motion. Very good.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, colleagues. This is the chance, the time in the debate where we get to thank the staff for their excellent work. You know, a lot of the work we do at City Hall is mysterious to people. And, you know, when I go home and tell my family that I'm working on the fall bump or the spring bump, they look at me like maybe an intervention is necessary. And we use these mystical terms that no one understands. Spring bump.
 What we're really doing is four times a year truing up our budget and making some technical adjustments, but we do it in this context. There's a lot more actually at stake here than the public sees, and a lot of this is done by staff and then done at the Bureau level. And then what you see when we come to Council is those areas where there is a need for further discussion at the Council level.
 So a lot of hard work brings us to this day. But one of the reasons that this city keeps getting awards for the way they do budgeting is the superb quality of the staff support we get in doing our budgeting. And the two people before us here today are going to take a bow on behalf of their team for the work they do. And it is not as easy as it looks, but you make it easy the way you guide us through these processes.
 Most often bring us to a point like this where there's broad consensus. So thank you for your fine work and I'm very pleased to support the bump. Thank you for your work.
 Well, Mayor, I particularly appreciate you moving this to the afternoon so we could have a robust discussion. We're sometimes accused of rubber stamping things or sweeping things under the carpet and I think this process is absolutely effortless and we don't. Also that we offer, we, 90% of what the office, the budget office recommends, we are happy to accept their resignation, not resignations. I have a strange turn.
 I think she's projecting. Not till after next week, Andrew. Sorry. We'll have to accept their recommendations. The amendments that were put forward by my colleagues all show great thoughtfulness, and particularly the two late-breaking ones. I appreciate the Budget Office supporting not only Portland United Against Hate, but also the emergency health, safety, and environment request coming in from Parks. So thank you for all your work. Wheeler.
 Well, I'll add my thanks. I really enjoyed the work session we had last week, and I appreciate the conversations we've had and your patience in going through this document line by line, and I've also appreciated working with this team on the proposed budget, which we will be releasing soon.
 A lot of work went into this. I want to thank my colleagues. I think these are all really thoughtful amendments, and so I'm appreciative of the work you and your teams have put into this. And I'm also just going to say I'm really happy that the bump is a bump in the right direction, but I'm mindful of the fact that it is not always thus. So thank you for your good advice as far as –
 what we should be looking at in this particular budget cycle with regard to the bump and what we should be moving over to as carry forwards into the next fiscal year. So with that, I vote aye, and the spring supplemental budget is adopted as amended. Thank you. And we are right on time for the next item, which is a time-certain.
 Item 425, accept the design overlay zone assessment final report dated April 2017. I will turn this over to Commissioner Udaly in a moment to see if she wants to make some introductory remarks. But this, of course, is the design overlay zone assessment report. Nobody at City Hall actually calls it that. We all call it the DOSA report.
 This is being co-sponsored today by Commissioner Udaly and myself. The work you're going to hear about today complements other work that is taking place that we're doing to streamline the city's development review process. And in particular, we've been looking at ways that we could accelerate the development of housing.
 And for those of you who are here this morning, we had a very good discussion about the entire spectrum of affordability in housing. And this is actually a really good conversation to have on the heels of the conversation we had this morning.
 So what Commissioner Udaly and I are asking is for all of us to hear the staff's presentation and the public testimony, and then hopefully at the end of that accept the report, which will be the basis for implementing changes going forward. And with that, Commissioner Udaly, I don't know if you have any introductory comments you'd like to make. Thank you.
 I do. Very good. Thank you. So, Council has been spending a lot of time this month on design review issues. We heard an appeal of a Type 3 design review earlier this month. Last week, we saw the value of design reviews through several examples shared by the Design Commission in their annual report. And now we're about to hear an assessment of the design review process and outcomes.
 I'm looking forward to hearing from the project team today and working with BDS on implementing some of the changes that have been recommended. I'm also looking forward to working with BDS on improving kind of public involvement and understanding of this process. In general, I do support design review over set standards because the process allows for
 creative adaptation instead of trying to fit, instead of a one-size-fits-all approach. And many of the developers we've heard from seem to prefer the design review process as well because they often choose review pathways over standard pathways when they have a choice.
 So I am going to take a leap of faith, given that I cannot see who's in the room, and I'd like to welcome Directors Susan Anderson and Rebecca Esaw to present this report. Very good. And they are sitting right here and ready to go. Fantastic. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thanks, Commissioner Udaly and Mayor and the rest of Council. Good afternoon. I'm Susan Anderson. I'm the Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and with me is Rebecca Esau, BDS Interim Director. We're really pleased to bring you this assessment of the design review system. It's been a great collaboration between the two bureaus, and we're excited to be able to share it with you.
 to begin to make improvements to the design review process. As you know, the city is growing rapidly. We will have 50,000 to 60,000 more people calling the central city home and living here in the central city in the next 20 years, and about another 150,000 people moving to the rest of our community. So design overlay zones help us to protect and to provide for a vibrant downtown, for great neighborhoods, and to promote better design.
 But for design overlays to work, they need to deliver on all those benefits and at the same time not have unnecessary burdens on the stakeholders in the neighborhood and on the developers. So in the next 15 to 20 minutes, we're going to share some really excellent ideas and some options for how to improve the design review system.
 Some of the short-term actions we've already, BDS and others have already jumped on, and others will take a little bit longer to implement. We look forward to working hand-in-hand, BDS and BPS, to ensure that our design goals are met and that the process really delivers. Thank you.
 And I'd like to thank Susan and her staff for managing this project. They've been doing a great job with this important work, and I'd like to thank my staff as well for all the time and energy they've put into it, as well as the commissioners. Our bureaus have a special relationship in that BPS develops policy and amends the zoning code, and then BDS administers that code along with the commissions, including the design commission. Working closely ensures that policies and codes are aligned and can be implemented as envisioned.
 As our team has been working on this project, we have also started implementing some of the recommendations you'll hear about today. For example, the staff have been meeting with architects to align the city's design review process with the architect's typical design process. This will streamline the process and make more sense for how private firms do their work. We've also been developing tools to help our volunteer commissioners better navigate the design guidelines and focus their conversations in the hearings on the more relevant guidelines.
 As you'll see with today's recommendations, we have a lot of work to do, and we look forward to moving ahead with the challenges and the changes that we plan to make in this next year. And with that, we'd like to invite up the project team to give today's presentation. Thank you. Thank you. And you all know the drill. Just make sure the green light's on and state your name for the record. Good afternoon. Hi. Hi.
 Good afternoon. I'm Sandra Wood. I'm a planning manager in the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. And I have part of the project team up here with me, but we're representing a larger group of people. Laura Lillard is the DOSA project manager and she's in the BPS urban design studio. Cara Ferravanti to my left here is the BDS design and historic review manager.
 And with us today is Mark Hinshaw, who is our consultant from Walker Macy that we've been working with for the past year. With this assessment and subsequent improvements to the design review system, we were hoping to do a refresh of what our collective practice is and get all the stakeholders on the same page, whether we're commissioners, staff, community members, and applicants.
 To do that, we thought it was really important to hire an independent consultant to look at the system from the outside and provide us with an impartial perspective. And I think that's what you'll hear today from Mark. We've been working closely with him throughout the project. He's shown us that he has not only a depth but a breadth of knowledge about design review in the Northwest and around the country.
 And rather than misrepresent what Mark's credentials are, I've asked him to go ahead and introduce himself and his consultant team so you know where they're coming from, and you too can appreciate the experience that they've been bringing forward to this work. Well, again, Mark Henshaw. You may know my brother, Roger. Indeed I do. You mentioned you over dinner last night. Uh-oh. And I think he knows some other commissioners.
 Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Okay. Well, I'm an architect and a city planner. I'm principal with Walker Macy Landscape Architects, based in Portland, but I'm actually in the Seattle office. But in past aspects of my career, I've been in Cara's position as a staff person in charge of a design review process. I've sat on and chair design commission positions,
 for another city. I've been involved in court cases involving design review. I've written design standards and design procedures and as an architect I've also presented in front of design commissions. So I've seen this process work over 35 years in many different communities of all different sizes all throughout the country
 and continue to advise a lot of those cities on how to make their processes better. So I was absolutely delighted when we were awarded this contract because I've followed this city as sort of a second city of my own for quite some time, and I'm glad to be assisting in making the process work better here. Great. We're grateful for your service here. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we, before we get into the findings and recommendations, which I'm sure is what you're anxious to begin learning about, we thought we'd provide a brief overview for not just yourselves, but for members of the public who may be listening, about the context of this assessment. So we have about 12 slides that we want to go through, and Cara and I will provide that overview real quick.
 As you know, design review is one of zoning's many tools. It nests within a larger structure of zoning. All sites in the city have a base zone. Some sites are subject to also an overlay zone or planned district regulations. Design review is one of those overlay zones, and overlay zones address specific topics, such as environmental review or scenic overlays. In this case, it's where extra design attention is needed. Okay.
 This next slide shows the paraphrases, the purpose of design overlay. It's evolved over time from being more preservation-oriented, as the first three bullets indicate, to being more growth-oriented, which is what the last bullet is about, which talks about its application to high-density development.
 this slide shows the milestone of of design review in portland we have a long history of it it's created in 1959 but didn't get widely used until 1972 with a downtown plan after that it's been shaping downtown and extended to the whole central city not just to the downtown portion of central city and other areas of the city this assessment though is the first time that we've looked at the tool in a comprehensive manner and certainly to this depth
 This is a map of the city of Portland, and I wanted to orient you a little bit to it because since we're talking about design review, it's nice to use that lens and what geographies it applies to. The areas that are colored in red, pink, and blue all have the design overlay. It encompasses about 7% of the city.
 Which is not surprising because a lot of our city is residentially zoned and for a single-family residential zone We don't apply the D overlay. So that's the lightest blue is Lua purpley ones are not that correct? No The red and of central city and the pink of gateway and the blue is where the design overlay currently applies all the gray is Where it does not
 i'm seeing color weather's you're saying it's gray but i think i got it okay the majority is where it's not 93 okay thank you that's helpful um so areas in red is the central city 75 of the central city is covered in the d overlay the rest of the 25 is about central east side industrial area where there is no d overlay um the area in pink is gateway plan district of course it's portland's only regional center and it's our highest density development outside of central city
 This red and the pink, Central City and Gateway, are subject to discretionary design review only. They cannot use the standards. And Kara is going to explain to you what the difference between the two is when she gets to her portion in a minute.
 Areas in blue also have the design overlay right now. Sometimes it was a means of preserving character and context of the areas, like Markham Hill or McAdam Plan District. Other times it was a means to recognize areas of potential of high growth, like Interstate and St. John's and Hollywood, some of our more recent long-range planning work.
 Then we also have another layer, which is with the new comprehensive plan and the mixed-use zones work that you all saw recently, the design overlays being expanded. These areas are shown in hatched on this map. I'll draw your attention to two town centers, West Portland Park in the western part of the city and Midway at 122nd and Division. Both of those will be new areas that are subject to design reform.
 review system. Several corridors, like Burnside in the inner ring, you can see those east-west corridors of Burnside, Belmont, Hawthorne, and Division. And further north, we have Alberta and Killingsworth and some of Lombard. So just looking at the mixed-use areas outside of Central City and Gateway, this expansion increases the amount of mixed-use land that's subject to designer view to 38%. Currently, it's about a quarter. So it's...
 It's an expansion that we were mindful of as we were doing our work. So I am going to briefly touch on design review as it relates to the city's development review process. This is a very simplified image of development review. And basically what it's showing is that most projects need a permit and an inspection, where you see those yeses. But some projects need a land use review prior to permit design review.
 is a type of land use review as you see here. Just to give you some context, I've listed some other examples of land use reviews. So design review happens prior to permit and it's dependent on the site zone use or geography. You may have heard of the city's two-track system in the design overlay zone. This is a side-by-side comparison of the two tracks.
 On the left, you see design review, which I just described as a land use review, which is required prior to permit. And as Sandra mentioned, that's required in Central City and Gateway. On the right, you see the clear and objective plan check, which is what we refer to as the standards track.
 And that's reviewed during the required permit. That track is allowed in design overlay outside of Central City and Gateway. And the reason why we call it two-track system is that when you're outside of Central City and Gateway, the applicant can choose whether or not they go through the clear and objective process.
 standards path or the discretionary design review could i ask a question on that that i've never fully understood so why in the central city and gateway do we have this different process that has more discretion as opposed to the rest of the city what what is the value behind that two-track system
 Well, I think it stems from state law, which allows jurisdictions to choose the requirement of discretionary review for jurisdiction.
 gateway in Central City for regional centers and the metropolitan area. I mean, I'm still trying to get to the why. Why, why, why, why? I sound like a five-year-old. At the end of the food chain, what's there? So there are densest areas where the development is supposed to be greatest, and so there's just a higher level of expectation that there be more purview over those projects. Okay.
 And isn't it also that it's allowed there, whereas in the rest of the city, we're not even allowed to put the guidelines on, is that correct? Yes. That's interesting. Okay, thank you. When you say we're allowed, is that by state law or by our own doing? We're allowed by state law. And my understanding is the state law says...
 Only in those two institutes can you do it. The rest of the city, you can't. That's correct. So I suppose we could choose not to in Central City and Gateway. And just to clarify, it's for needed housing is what the provision in the state law says. For needed housing. So it's...
 because we had a lack of housing in our 1980 comp plan, so we identified areas of the city where any housing development was needed. Therefore, we needed to allow them to go through the standards track. So just to point out some obvious differences between the two. Oops. Yeah, thanks. Okay.
 As you're probably familiar, design review is subjective. It requires judgment, and it allows flexibility. Whereas the standards track is objective. It does not require judgment, and it limits flexibility because you either meet the standards or you don't. And I'll get into that in a moment. With design review, there's more public outreach, and we invite public comment.
 neighbors and the public could write in, they could testify at a hearing, they could even appeal a project through the land use review. And then in the standards track, it's limited public involvement. Basically all projects prior to permit are required to request a meeting with the neighborhood association, and if there is a meeting the development team needs to follow up with a letter. And that's the limited public involvement there. And then finally the criteria are different, obviously.
 With design review, there's design guidelines, and those are created based on geography for certain areas. And then with the standards track, the criteria are the design standards in the zoning code. And I'll give you an example of the difference between a guideline and a standard. I picked these two because they both try to get at a project providing a vibrant, engaging ground level. On the left, you'll see design guideline A8, and it says contribute to a vibrant experience.
 If you read through it, it's pretty open-ended and flexible and allows creativity. There's endless possibilities on how a project can meet that guideline. Whereas if you look at the standard on the right, it's very prescriptive, and it's limiting because you either meet the standard or you don't. And if you don't meet the standard, then you need design review. And then finally— So there's no adjustment process for the standards? That's correct. So if you need anything even marginally different, you have to go the full-fledged other system. That's right. Thank you.
 And the final slide that I'll talk about today just gives you a sense of what we've been looking at over the last three years. So this is commercial permits issued in design overlay zones between 2013 and 2015. And I'll just, for reference, let you know that commercial permits are required for commercial projects and residential projects with more than three units. So it's pretty much everything we look at through design review.
 And this chart raises quite a few interesting points. So first, we've had 358 projects that underwent design review. A majority of those, 239, were located in the central city, and that's the first bar. Only 25 were in Gateway, that second bar. And then the remaining 94 that went through design review were located in the rest of the city. So that's those three bars under the discretionary design review heading.
 The right side, the right two bars, that compares projects outside of Central City and Gateway. And if you recall, those are the areas that are afforded the two-track system. And what those two bars show is that there's a 60-40 split between design review and standards. Forty percent of projects outside of Central City and Gateway chose the standards track. Okay.
 Obviously, the blues show alterations and additions, and clearly the majority of the work that we review in design review is an alteration or an addition. A couple things to note between that, the split between alterations and additions was more even outside of Central City and Gateway, while inside both Central City and Gateway, the alterations comprised the largest slice of the projects that we looked at. And then finally, another interesting point about new construction, which is in orange,
 Outside of Central City and Gateway, there was 35% of design reviews were new construction, which is more than the new construction in Central City and Gateway. Central City had 26% new construction, and Gateway had 28% new construction. Okay.
 So what is DOZA? You mentioned this is a design overlay zone assessment, and it is an assessment. So what we're doing is evaluating what's working and what's not in the design overlay. As I mentioned, to do this, we hired an independent consultant to not only conduct the assessment but also make recommendations on ways to improve the system and tools. During this process, we asked two key questions. How can design review evolve to better respond to the changing development environment?
 And, can't read because of the closed captioning. What improvements could be made to both the processes and tools to allow for the greatest benefit and the least burden to all stakeholders were kind of the questions that we were asking ourselves through the process. We have been at this for about a year, so the work that you're seeing here is a year in the making.
 During the first couple of phases is when the assessment was taking place. Mark and his team looked at peer cities, interviewed dozens of stakeholders, had a large questionnaire that was sent to applicants in the last five years and to community groups, did site evaluations over 70 projects. All of that work is compiled in our 300-page appendix, which is your second volume of the work that you've gotten.
 In this phase three, which is the phase right before this, the findings and preliminary recommendations were presented to the Design Commission and to the Planning and Sustainability Commission. We held an open house and an online open house. There was a joint session between the two.
 the subcommittee of the PSC and the Design Commission. So lots of vetting of this, the preliminary recommendations, a briefing at the Landmarks Commission and Urban Forestry Commission, which I believe you're hearing from the Landmarks Commission today. So that's been our process, and right here we are with the final recommendations from him. After that, we'll start implementing some of these recommendations or recommendations
 we'll be moving forward and this is the quick snapshot of our preliminary thinking of how we're moving forward with our work plan. As you'll hear, the recommendations are divided into process improvements and tool improvements. Some of the process improvements don't need zoning code amendments, so those can be started immediately and as Rebecca mentioned and Kara can answer questions about some of those improvements are already underway. The tool recommendations are
 will require a full legislative project with public outreach, as is normal through a legislative process, and hearings at both commissions before we come to city council. So that will take a while longer.
 Because of Mark's recommendations, we anticipate beginning with updating the review criteria outside of Central City first, so working outside, and then tackling Central City after that. And I think you'll understand why after I let him speak. So with that, I'll pass it on to Laura to share the findings, and then Mark can share the recommendations. Thank you.
 So I'm going to run through the nine key findings from the entirety of the assessment process that Sandra went over, and there are more detailed findings in the report itself, but I'll just touch the high points. These findings, as Sandra mentioned, form the basis for the recommendations. And you can see as I go through these why it was so important for us to work with a third-party independent observer. So I'm going to do my best to channel the consultant team as I move through these quickly.
 So the consultant team finds that there's a lot of support for design. Design review has accomplished good work in the city over a long period of time, as Sandra went through. And overall, people value design review and design in general. However, the good work and the good intent of the design overlay zone and design review points to a need for a refresh. And there are a number of opportunities that the assessment recommends.
 The D overlay from what the consultant found in the 70 plus site evaluations that they did doesn't necessarily guarantee good design. It doesn't stand in the way of it, but the results are sometimes mixed.
 The consultant team recognizes that there are actually a lot of factors that drive design, not just the regulations and the processes. It's also the finances, the talents of the designers, the motivations of the developers, cost of materials, all sorts of things bear on the outcomes. Design review and design overlay touches on pieces of that.
 But there is a notion that all you need is the design overlay and the problems with new development will go away. But that's not necessarily the case. The projects that the consultant team looked at have a variety of outcomes. They, in addition to looking at projects with the de-overlay, they also looked at,
 projects over the last five years without the design overlay, which were sort of served as a control set for the research. And there are some outstanding efforts out there that had no design review or special standards, but there are also projects that are barely contributing positively. So the consultant team is deliberately, through their recommendations, wanting to rectify that and sort of course correct
 Coming out of the questionnaire, which you can barely read some of these points on the slide, the consultant team asked people what do they think is an important quality in the built environment. And the biggest disparity in the responses between the two groups that we asked was, and those two groups are the residents and developers or architects,
 was in the architectural consistency with surrounding buildings, which confirmed some of the comments from the interviews. The design community, developers and applicants, architects, see design overlay, especially design review, as an opportunity for flexibility, innovation, creativity to sort of create these one-off design solutions there.
 whereas the community values projects that fit in and that don't necessarily stand out. So there's sort of a disconnect in the expectations for what the outcome should be.
 In the current system of design overlay, the review process isn't very well set up to recognize the vastly different scales of development. This was another finding from our consultant team. And they posit that there is a small end that seems to be put into the same sort of one size fits all requirements unnecessarily. And that sort of feeds into the recommendations which you'll see. They recognize that the small end probably gets a little bit too much attention, where there's a lot of time and effort spent
 But on the larger end, where there is really a lot of impact to the community, maybe there isn't enough attention paid. So the consultant team, and you'll hear from Mark in a minute, cites the need to shift that degree of emphasis more towards the larger end of the scale and lightening up on the smaller end.
 The consultant team believes that in the central city, it has benefited largely from this design overlay approach. It has obviously a longer history of using design review. It seems to have produced results that are generally very positive, not always 100% all the time, but generally better, and that those have raised the bar on design, and that they feel that this is less so elsewhere. So there's one area that is getting a lot of nurturing, and maybe other areas, not so much.
 To that point, the decision criteria that are in severe need of updating are generally outside of the central city. Many of the tools that we have outside of the central city, the review criteria, go back a long way in years, and it would really benefit for us to do a refresh in sort of the current thinking and recently adopted big plans. Most of our standards, for instance, come from one area and one historical context, and
 and they are largely applied everywhere, with a few exceptions, and it's just harder to do that everywhere. So we just most of all need to recognize that there are different contexts.
 There has been a rapid uptick in just the sheer amount and volume of projects. It's basically tripled in less than a decade. Design Commission, our volunteers meet regularly three times a month instead of two. And there's a similar uptick in staff time for their reviews. And this isn't very sustainable. They can't keep being overloaded, particularly as Sandra pointed out when we've expanded the design overlay.
 And this also could be, the consultant points out, discouraging potential commissioners from submitting their names in the pot. So this workload sort of chokes the system, but it also has compounding effects. It's taking longer amounts of times
 It possibly delays projects, causes frustration, increases carrying costs, affects housing. There's just a lot of projects coming through the system. So this is another area that needs to be course corrected.
 The consultant team has also observed over time that there's been a shift in terms of the bigger, broader issues of context to smaller details and materials and things that are sort of finer in level of grain. And the consultant team has suggested that design review maybe goes back and just sort of re-weighs the amount of time spent on materials and details to make sure that other aspects are done
 particularly in terms of the surrounding context and the treatment of the ground floor, are being given the same amount of time and discussion because this particular emphasis on details seems to take a little more time, perhaps at the expense of other subject matter. So they offer some recommendations that just try to refocus back to some of the bigger picture stuff.
 And finally, the consultant team has noted that this is not only an opportunity for sort of a refresh on the regulations in the system, but also in terms of just attitudes. Communities benefit, of course, from a collaborative sense of moving forward, of people feeling like we're all in the same boat and we're sharing in the sort of shaping of the city as it evolves.
 What the consultant has found is that people sometimes come to design review feeling like they're in different camps. There's sometimes resentment, feeling beaten up. It sometimes feels more adversarial than collaborative. And so I think they've heard a lot of raw feelings out there in some of the discussions that they've had that are just going on.
 I don't think the consultant team is pointing their finger at any one group. It just seems to be universal. And it was troubling enough and repeated enough that they raised it to the level of a key finding, which may take some time to rectify, but we just need to recognize it as a city and move forward. So this could be helped in just clarifying the expectations for this process and just the expectations on design overlay zone in general. Thank you.
 So I will stop there. It's a lot to soak in. Again, there are more detailed findings in your report, but these generally set the context for the recommendations. And I will turn it over to Mark to go over. Excellent. Thank you. Thanks, Laura. The next page, I'm not going to go in in detail because I'm going to hit on some of the high points of each of these, but we do have under the topic of process or procedures seven recommendations.
 And then under tools, we have a larger number that I'll hit on in a few minutes. But taking some of the more important ones one at a time, we had benefit of some great data that was collected by the city over a multi-year period. And in that review of the data, we realized that a lot of more modest projects, smaller projects,
 we're consuming a lot of the time involved in the various review procedures.
 And so we thought, well, what might be a way of making that situation better? Because it was sort of weighing everybody down in a horrendous kind of time-consuming effort to have all of these go through the various steps. And so one approach that we took on this was to look at the small end of the spectrum. And what we did was we looked at the small end of the spectrum.
 From my observation as an urban designer of Portland, one of its strengths, one of its national or international, if you will, even recognitions is about the fact that there are many, many small projects that are quirky, that are oddball, that are kind of just sort of not in the norm, that people appreciate that kind of handcrafted,
 kind of funky, just not always great, not always wonderful, but just have an individualized, idiosyncratic, if you will, personality that projects the merchant, projects the business, reinforces the street, adds this delightful, surprising character to your neighborhoods. And is there a way of sort of lightening up on that end? And so we've suggested that
 We've kind of targeted the small end of the spectrum of new development, additions, and alterations for maybe just taking that out of the review process altogether. They would certainly have to comply with building code standards and base zoning code standards, but to not send them through another process of review. Okay.
 And when we looked at that and kind of adjusted some of the threshold points, and there's not a perfection in the recommendation. I think it's still open to discussion. But we discovered that if we set them at a certain level, we could probably reduce the number going through by as much as 20%, which would itself open up more opportunities to spend time, more in-depth time with other projects. It's just humanly not possible to handle that kind of opportunity
 that kind of massive number that's in the hundreds. Let me just clarify that. Are you suggesting that they wouldn't even have to comply with the design standards? Just whatever is in the base zoning. Just whatever is in the base zoning. And the base zoning is now being supplemented with design-oriented standards. So that's a parallel effort that's going on which will enhance –
 the qualitative aspects of Baysoni? Well, I will say that's a concern I'm going to want to hear more testimony about because in the comprehensive plan and the mapping process, neighborhoods pretty much accepted greater density with the promise that it would come with design overlay. So if you're proposing to then say, well never mind, you don't have to do anything to do about design, that, I think that's difficult to reconcile with the decisions we made last year.
 I guess our view was that as we look through the various neighborhoods that have received a lot of development, it's the larger end of the spectrum that's causing a lot of the big severe shifts in scale and bulk and perception of intrusion. It's not so much the smaller end of the spectrum that's doing that. Sometimes it is, but...
 We're suggesting focusing on the projects that have the greatest impact for change and disconnect. And how are you defining large? There's a whole series of metrics that are in there. So for new development, it's based on lot size. That's the proposal. For additions, it's based on square feet.
 And for alterations, it's based on a dollar amount. So there is a chart that I think you have available to you that makes a finer cut of proposing these various threshold points. Could you give me a page number? Yes, that's page 42 and 43 of the recommendations. Thank you. And it is divided by new construction versus alterations and additions. Okay.
 So those are labeled concept. Yes. Does that mean there's still changes and alterations you'd like to make to these proposals? Well, this was put forth as a way of making a point about how you could have a different set of thresholds. Okay. Okay.
 they could all be argued that, well, maybe in some cases, if a smaller project is on a key sensitive site, maybe you'd still want to do that. So we didn't go that far into making those nuances, but it's certainly legitimate for having a discussion. Well, you went and you proposed several different strategies. You just mentioned height, but you've also looked at square footage and dollar value. Do you have a sense of –
 the relative strength of those proposals or those concepts? Well, the thing we actually did about a dozen different scenarios and had different numbers in each one. And in some cases it didn't make any appreciable difference in change, and, well, that didn't seem like worth it. And the other was like, it was like wiping out so much, there was only a handful left, and that didn't seem useful. So we were looking for a balance of a middle ground where there would be fewer coming through
 but not dramatically fewer, just enough, seeming to loosen up the system. So walk me through the logic chain as well. So we recently had a proposal that we all looked at, and it had gone through a process, and not all but a preponderance of the objections were just what you described, the lack of scale relative to what's already there in the neighborhood there.
 How would calling out projects with that kind of an issue be resolved differently than currently under this new strategy, or would they be? Well, I don't know that it would be necessarily by itself, just with that description, greatly different. But it would allow more time to be spent on the higher impact projects.
 So it's really more the ability to take some off of the list rather than really changing the dynamic. Right. So you might have more of a comprehensive review of those particular projects and take some of the other work off the table, acknowledging this is a volunteer group that does this work. Right. We don't pay them very well. But the most, actually the most significant problem is in staff.
 The staff version of review. That's correct. That's for most of that kind of effort because staff is overloaded too, frankly. I mean, it's not just, we're not just pointing the finger at design commissioners. Right, and Commissioner Udaly has brought forth some very good proposals to begin to address those issues as well.
 So, and there the staff is getting more organized, getting better, getting more professional. So there's improvements already taking place in that. It's just that there's the sheer volume is kind of fogging. You're proposing that more would just be allowed with staff review rather than commission. In some cases, that's correct. That's correct. Which may not actually, that wouldn't necessarily change much except for the hearings because the staff provides a recommendation anyway, right? Yes.
 Yes. So if I just may, this recommendation, this A1, this is the first one we're discussing today, is the one that we have talked most about and both of the commissions have actually talked a lot about. Some of those conversations have been centered around the goals on the top of page 42, like why would we change the thresholds and what are we trying to achieve? Is it to reduce workload for the commission? Is it to reduce workload for the staff, et cetera? So I think there's a lot more to say in this.
 You know, this was Mark's recommendation, and like you said, its concept recommendation we'll have a lot more to discuss in the coming year as we move forward. Well, one expectation I've had through this process, and I know you've worked hard to acknowledge it, is frankly speeding it up. And if you're taking some of the projects off the list of intensive review, at least for those proposals, it will clearly be sped up. And that to me is a good thing.
 And there's another variant on that, and that is that, as you know, Gateway has been treated in the same category as the central city of New York.
 And what we're seeing in Gateway, what you're all seeing in Gateway, is another kind of development. It's not going to high rises. It's not going to intense urban development. It may happen in the future. Don't know exactly when. Couldn't predict that. But it's now the type of development is now more in the category of alterations, additions, retrofits. And people are just trying to make good economic reuse of older building stock.
 into new stuff that serves the community. And they're being kind of discouraged in that endeavor by being suddenly thrown into a system that is the same as for the major urban development. And we heard some very touching stories from people that it's essentially their life savings. They do it once in their life. They're not a developer. They do it once in their life. And they're being confronted with this vast array of confusing and they're not prepared for that. And so it's sort of...
 It is tended to discourage that because, you know, we just can't take those risks. It's their own life, you know, their own lifeblood at stake, so to speak. So that would not, you know, that's generally what you want, and you want modest investment in an area that needs that kind of recharge. And so that was part of the thinking of, you know, shifting away from that, requiring everything in Gateway to go through.
 And it probably depends on area by area. So just clarify for me, Sandra, if we accept this report, we're not saying do it like this for this particular table. So if neighbors are concerned, there will be another process to decide should the standards be different in Montnomah Village than in Hawthorne. Absolutely. And you'll hear from the Design Commission and the Planning and Sustainability Commission today, and it's not their recommendations either. Today you're hearing...
 Mark's recommendations and some initial thoughts from those commissions. Oh, and they're going to be bringing reports to us, or that's just part of the process? Just part of the process, because they've been thinking about this a little bit, but they will be involved in the legislative process to change this, yeah. Terrific. Thank you. And then the second recommendation is dealing with the commission itself, and that has to do with creating a very clear charter for the commission,
 It's responsibilities are found in code and other aspects, but maybe it's time now, because there's just been a fairly long history of the Commission operating, to really tune that up and give it a very clear mission.
 and set of responsibilities. And that includes managing their meetings in a way that makes a smoother flow. And that means perhaps giving commissioners and the chair of the commission a clear authority
 to manage those meetings and to keep them moving ahead and to be the center, be the sort of rule keeper and the manager of that so that it just keeps moving along and maybe at some points people have to be you know have to be cut off uh... because it just in the interest of keeping everybody sort of on track that that may be necessary so it's just tuning up the approach it's not like it's it's it's a you know it's broken by any means i would not characterize it that way but
 Any decision-making body benefits from sort of a discipline and a clear charter, a clear mission, and that's what we believe is appropriate to happen now. So that's one of the recommendations. The third recommendation has to do with education.
 A couple of things. One is focusing deliberations so that there's a clear tie back to design guidelines that when subjects are being discussed that there's reference to what the city has as adopted guidelines. So keep it focused on those subjects and not introduce a lot of collateral kinds of issues to require DARs for
 or larger projects in the central city. That isn't a requirement right now. Some people opt for that. And just to clarify, DARs are design advice requests, and those are when applicants come to the design commission and discuss their project before they submit their formal application, correct? Yes.
 So that we believe that's a very useful first step is for the design commission in its collective wisdom to give good direction to an applicant right at the outset, very early on before a lot of decisions are made and the project is locked down. And we see the value in that. And for larger projects that have high impact that are affecting lots of different areas around them, that we think that first step is really, really key and important.
 And then sort of coupled with that is the notion of trying to realign the review process with the normal design process that architects and developers go through. And what seems to be happening now is that all information about a project is requested up front. Well, in the design process, all information about a project isn't known. You're not there yet for a lot of things. It goes through a natural process.
 sort of sorting of issues until you get down to detail. But yet the way the system is working now is everything is asked for up front. So there's this great rush.
 to design and get everything nailed down. And then that limits the amount of influence that the review process can have. Because if everything is decided, it's like pulling teeth to then make any course correction or shifts. So the notion would be to put the first point of contact way back at the conceptual level where there's flexibility
 and not require everything up front. And then as you go through the review, the design team is going through its refinements, and you track along in the same way, if that makes sense. The other thing is knowing that the de-overlay tool is a useful tool, an established tool, there probably are some ways of getting the word out better to people
 both the public and applicants, that some applicants are not familiar with Portland. They step into the arena and they're confused by your systems and your method. And we have a variety of tools that involve educating everybody involved to be better participants and more collaborative participants. And that's a necessary thing. People have to come to this table with the attitude that they are building a city, not just building a project.
 And so that means everybody needs to have that attitude that we're in it together and we're moving it forward and we're making this place great. And right now there's not quite that. It's almost, as was said earlier, an adversarial effect of,
 you know, are you throwing a hurdle in our way or we're not hearing you or we're ignoring you. There's all these disconnects that are just not productive in the end. So everybody engaged in this, whether they're coming from the neighborhood side, coming from the city side, coming from the development side, the design side, needs to engage in a way that has a collaborative, respectful, civil attitude. And you're listening as much as telling.
 And that's an important attitudinal shift to have. May I ask you a question about that? And as somebody obviously with a lot of experience, and you mentioned that you served in various capacities around design review in other communities. When I meet with people who are proposing projects, they often talk about their experience
 partners, their institutional investors, their need to hit certain ROI targets. In other words, there's strong economic incentive and agency incentive for them to focus on the project and does the project pencil out and can they get it to market in time to capture whatever market opportunity they see through the process. Okay.
 I would assume that in this current economic environment, there is a lot of that. To what degree are developers coming to the table with the attitude that you just described? And is there anything unique to Portland about trying to create that attitude? In other words, if I'm a developer in Chicago and I come to Portland with a multifamily proposal, am I perplexed by that attitude?
 community, building a community spirit and intentionality, or is that something that a developer would expect to see in any large community with a large-scale project of the kind that you're describing for this process? Well, I think the record is kind of mixed. There are certainly very thoughtful development teams that put together great projects and think it out and are sincere in their efforts, and there are others that are just looking at sort of simply getting a project in the ground.
 Other things are of less importance. And I think what sometimes they, from folks outside, they don't appreciate the passion with which people really care about this place. There are other communities where that is less so, frankly. In other areas that I've observed, there's just –
 You know, it's just a project. But aren't we competing with those other areas for a project? In other words, getting back to the discussion we had this morning about, you know, we need all kinds of affordability in the housing, and it particularly concerns me, and one of the reasons I was very motivated to participate in your process, at least at arm's length, is because I'm hearing stories from districts
 even those who offer a significant amount of affordability, saying this process is cumbersome, it's time-consuming, it's adding cost, it's creating havoc for our financing stack. How do you reconcile those things in this process?
 Well, you know, with the specific lens of affordability, I have to say that that was not part of our scope to look at that, but we did touch on it. But we, in fact, one of the team members that we had in this effort was Leland Consulting Group, who you may be familiar with, market economists, they have a long history of working with developers in cities all over the country. And if you look in the chart, you'll see that there's a lot of people who are working
 the big thick thing, the very first one is a memo from them. And they point out that really design review procedures and design review standards are while they're part of the whole mix, they're not the driver of it. There are so many other factors that are bearing down on the, you know, whether a project pencils, whether it makes sense in an area, the size of it and all of that, that while this is a factor, it isn't really the one that's necessarily causing problems.
 issues. It certainly can be better, and that's what we're recommending here. All of these recommendations are in that vein of making it operate more smoothly, more effectively, more efficiently.
 But we weren't asked to specifically look at the affordability issue. Okay. We knew it was a high concern to them. And that's right. It's inferred. And their analysis of your recommendations was that it could potentially speed up throughput, which I won't speak for developers because I'm not one, but I assume speeding up throughput is potentially reflected through lower costs.
 Or at least less market risk, I would argue that point. Well, I think one of the keys is what I said earlier of if you want to intervene in the design of a project, catch it early before everything is nailed down and priced out and approved by all of the various parties involved in the development sector. That's too late. So you need to grab it well before that time, and then you've got greater opportunity to influence the outcome.
 So it's a whole combination, a whole bundle of things that we're talking about here. And there's no one silver bullet that kind of addresses everything. Thank you. So we also thought it was fair that neighborhood folks get better information.
 notice of projects. Right now that does seem to be a weak point in the city's development review process where if you look around at other major metropolitan cities, they announce projects very boldly on sites. An impending proposal is right there in your face. You drive by it, walk by it, you see it
 And that's kind of low-hanging fruit. That's not a big deal. It's just putting up a sign with the appropriate information, the contact person in the city, what the proposal is. It's pretty standard practice. It just hasn't been done here other than a small little, I think it's this little thing on a stick. But really tell people what's going on. And also it's fair because in terms of notice, public notice, to give notice to renters first.
 You've got a much bigger renter population now than you've had in the past. And it was almost just sending it to property owners is almost that holdover from, you know,
 centuries ago when only property owners could vote. Well, you know, renters are now part of the equation and they need to know what's going on around them. And so it's not a big deal. Just post office puts occupant or resident or box holder on the thing. You don't have to name them. But at least they get an opportunity to do that. And the city is also looking at how to use web
 type products to get the word out in the more current technology of things. A lot of people use that. So you have to do multiple ways, and a lot of people just want to know what's going on. They're not necessarily going to oppose it. They just want to know what's going on around their life, and that's enough. They don't like seeing the fence go up. Like, what is that? Who approved that? What is that going to be?
 That makes people crazy. So just make life easier for the folks that are being affected by new development. Again, I think low-hanging fruit to do that. It doesn't require code change. It doesn't require zoning change. It's just an administrative process. So the last thing just to touch on on the process is that we've recommended a number of things that all kind of operate together. I wouldn't pull anyone out and say that's the solution. And to give it...
 a time to work and see how they make the system better, to evaluate it, to establish some metrics, to give it a development cycle at least, maybe two, and size it up. Did these make a difference? If they didn't, then you might go back to the last recommendation, which is maybe it's too much for one board to handle. Okay.
 I wouldn't leap to that right now because, first of all, that sets in motion a whole bunch of other infrastructure that would be complex to put in motion, not the least of which lining up all those people that would have to be filling those positions. But keep that in the back pocket that that might – I mean, it's certainly not uncommon for other cities to have multiple review bodies. That's not uncommon. So – but –
 Don't assume that that's the solution right now because I think there's some other organizational, procedural, and standard things that can be helping move the system along better. And so that's our thought on that because we know that's come up. Can't we just have a second commission? I think that's not probably the best direction to go in right off the bat. See how these other things work.
 And then you still have that option. It doesn't preclude you from going there. So give it some time, see how these are being affected, and then consider that. I just want to touch on the tools. There's a whole bunch of things, but there's some minutiae there that's probably not worth talking about here. But we did feel that we should highlight the fact that there are some standards that do need to be brought up to date. Some of them go back 30 years.
 do need to rewrite those. That's only fair. I mean, the world has changed. Portland has changed. Neighborhoods have changed. There's a different set of circumstances. People are familiar with higher density now. They weren't maybe 30 years ago.
 And there's some terms that aren't clear that are confusing to people. Just clean up the system. Bring it up to date. Simplify it. Consolidate it. There's a dozen or so different booklets out there that say sometimes the same thing, sometimes not the same thing. They're using different terminology. And it's frankly probably causing some people to be confused. I mean, what does the city really want? You know, there's all these things.
 all these things out there and they're not really working together as best they could. So just bring that up to date. Syncing the language and the standards and the guidelines so they have a parallel. You're trying to accomplish the same thing through those two tracks and that's not always clear. And so just get that to be tuned up. To focus on three what we call tenets of design, which...
 It provides a kind of an organizational discipline, buckets that subjects can be discussed in. And one is...
 recognizing that new development always goes into an existing context. What is that neighborhood? What is that district? What's going on there? And demand that the development team think about it. What's the neighbor next door? What's the neighbor behind? What's happening along the street frontage? What is the history of this district? How is it evolving? What are the positive things? What are the negative things?
 Ask for that thoughtful design. Actually, most good architects do that anyway. They just do it internally. They know they need to do it. They need to understand where they're putting that project. So it's leveling the playing field, expecting that from everyone to do a thoughtful overview of where their project is being placed. And I think that's really only fair and only appropriate to the neighborhood folks that have been there, you know, for many, many years, because,
 The second is to really focus on the public realm, and already that's happened. I mean, the commission has spent a lot of time on that subject, and staff has too, but put a finer point out. Really make sure that what I call the first 30 feet vertically –
 or the building that people can see and touch and react to, and the first 30 feet horizontally, the sidewalk, the public realm, the street trees, the lights, the seating. Make sure that room, if you will, that shared living room, really is the best it can be and the most varied and diverse and artfully done and expertly done, really thoughtfully done, really, really work that, and insist that people think about it.
 I mean, don't show the building where the ground floor is like this big. You can't even see what's going on. Blow it up.
 Take it, examine where the entrance is, what it looks like, what are the windows, what's the detailing, what's the overhang for weather protection, what's the sense of entering, and work it like you work your own living room. So I'm sorry to interrupt. Could you maybe try to summarize because I'm conscious we've got an hour and the people are waiting to testify. And then the last is just the third leg of the stool, so to speak, is bearing down on quality and permanence and what all that might mean.
 So there's a whole host of other recommendations for standards that are more sort of detailed, but I think that sort of captures the essence of it. Thank you very much for your work. Excellent. So we do have some testifiers signed up. Carla said about eight testifiers. But before they start, we'd like to invite the chairs of both the Design Commission and the Planning and Sustainability Commission to come and share some of the initial thoughts those commissions had. Great. Thank you. Thank you very much. Excellent presentation. Thank you for all your work.
 Hello and welcome, and good afternoon. Good afternoon. We didn't talk about who goes first. Are you okay with that? Let's go from left to right, I guess. I'll go after her. Sounds good. It doesn't matter. So good afternoon. I'm Catherine Schultz. I'm chair of the Planning and Sustainability Commission, also known as the PSC. Some of you may know or remember that I also serve on the Design Commission. Thank you.
 It seems like years ago, about over five years ago. And I am an architect, so I've also had the pleasure of being an applicant. Today, I'm here representing the PSC, and I'm joined by my fellow commissioner, Eli Spivak. Thank you. As stewards of the Comprehensive Plan and Climate Action Plan, the PSC is keenly interested in developing and maintaining the zoning code to carry out the goals and policies of those plans. Thank you.
 As our city grows, we're vested in ensuring high-quality development and an efficient design review process that aligns with those goals and policies. We therefore support the recommendations of the DOZA report. During the next phase of DOZA, we encourage additional focus and refinement in a number of areas as outlined in our letter. Today, I'll highlight just a few of the more critical points. One, the design review thresholds need to be right-sized based on impact.
 Removing regulatory barriers will allow innovation and testing of new systems, and it can give small developers and property owners a chance to succeed while furthering the equity goals in our comp plan. This is in alignment with Commissioner Fritz's comment that thresholds need to be refined in conjunction with updating the community design standards and the community design guidelines.
 That will ensure that projects of lesser impact, if they're not part of the full discretionary process, will meet a clear set of standards and maintain the unique character of our centers and corridors. The community involvement is a critical component of the comp plan. We strongly support improving public education and notification to ensure inclusivity.
 The purpose of the design overlay requires updating to reflect our goals and policies with particular attention to equity. Additionally, it needs to reconcile the tension between compatibility and change and clearly outline the objectives of discretionary review. We support removing FAR, height, and setbacks from design reviews per view in order to meet our comp plan density goals.
 Many of the report's recommendations are applicable to historic resource review. The Historic Landmarks Commission needs to be included in this process as well.
 The implementation and recommendations in this report is critical to supporting the increased intensity of development in our centers and corridors while ensuring that the public has the opportunity to engage in the process. We believe that further development and implementation of the Doza recommendations will ensure that we effectively support high-quality design during this period of rapid growth in our city. And now I'd like to turn it over to Eli to say a few words. Thank you. No, go ahead.
 We'll go out in this order. My name is Eli Spivak. I'm a developer and general contractor and serve on the planning commission for a little bit over the past year.
 So I'm going to add a few detailed points beyond what Kat mentioned. When people hear Central City, most people think of probably downtown and don't realize how expansive the Central City is. It includes the Lake District out to 16th, the east side out to 12th, Lower Albina, Goose Hollow, a lot of residential neighborhoods and commercial mixed-use zones. And one suggestion we had is to acknowledge that some of the parts of the Central City are residential
 really more similar to the mixed-use corridors than they are to downtown. And so one option going forward would be to say that although Portland is allowed to
 treat the highest level of mandatory discretionary review for all of Central City. We don't have to do the whole Central City. Portland could select sub-districts. There are 10 districts in the Central City and say that the highest level of design review applies to those. And other portions of the Central City would also have design review, but it would be more of the level of the mixed-use zones. So that would be one recommendation we came up with. We also had the chance through the DOSA process of having joint meeting with the
 design review, design commission, which was really informative for us and I think for them. And it's impossible for any volunteer to serve on both those bodies at once. But we recommend that the design commission, as they do their annual presentations to city council, that they also bring those annual presentations to the planning commission so we understand more of the issues that they're wrestling with and have at least that form of communication between the commissions. Thank you.
 On the three tenets, being context, elevating the public realm, and quality and sense of permanence, we thought those were a really helpful way of categorizing the lenses through which the Design Commission reviews projects. We also...
 had some debate over whether there should be prioritization. There was not consensus on the Planning Commission on that. But I'll speak for myself personally. I hope the Design Commission really focuses on the public realm element because in representing the public, that's the primary way we interact with our buildings, our landscape. And some commissions, like in Denver, the Design Commission doesn't even look beyond the first few floors of a building. They really focus in on having a fantastic ground floor environment.
 We rely on the design commission for that because if we're adding density to some areas, we want people to have positive experiences with that increased density. One other recommendation that we support from the report particularly is reducing the threshold for smaller projects for design review, specifically to encourage fine-grained development patterns, funkiness, only applicable to smaller buildings on smaller sites like 5,000 square feet or less.
 Because thinking back in time, some of the most treasured commercial and mixed-use zones we have were built exactly that way. Small buildings on small lots, 5,000 or less. And those are people who are saying we want to see more of. So we should make that easy to do. And lastly, to the roles that different commissions have, I'm going to go ahead and say that I'm not going to be talking about the different roles.
 You guys are experiencing right now the situation of when something gets appealed to city council. And through the planning commission process we go through to establish certain entitlements like FAR, height limit, and setbacks, we take enormous amounts of public input, set the rules for that, and developers, when they look at property, they expect reasonably that they can do what the zoning code says they can do.
 Currently, the planning commission, sorry, the design commission has in the code a series of factors through which they can review projects. And it includes things that are more design related, like colors, building materials, open areas, architectural style, placement. And it also includes in the list dimensions, height, bulk, lot coverage. So really, as currently authorized, the charter for the design commission spans approximately
 design related things and also things many people think of as entitlements. We think that this sets up a stage where the public and you and design commission get drawn into things that have already been litigated through the planning commission and through city council to establish those entitlements and concur with the recommendation of this report.
 to clarify the scope of these two different commissions. We on the planning commission rely on the design commission to ensure that these buildings have fantastic, enhance the public realm, are well designed, have a higher level of scrutiny than other projects in the city. And if they don't, then the design commission is going to take the heat. If there are situations where we zone higher density in certain areas, more intense development, because we've got massive public infrastructure there,
 then if people are unconcerned about that, either we went too high or too low, then we can and do take the heat. And I fear that if the commissions have overlapping purviews, then what will happen is you'll see many more projects being appealed to city council, in which case you will have to be the arbiters of these issues and take public testimony time, which won't serve developers well because they're,
 They'll go through a more involved process. It won't serve the public well because they'll have to spend more time. Whenever there's an opportunity to weigh in on something people care about, they're going to take that opportunity and it will use more of your time. So I hope that as part of this process we can clarify roles so that we can support one another in the elements we focus on. Thank you, sir. And so you don't need our permission for the Planning and Sustainability Commission to invite the Design Commission to have a joint meeting? No.
 Right? Correct. So I think that's a good idea, but I'm also concerned about a bait and switch that the whole of last year when we were discussing heights and appropriate zoning, there was the fail-safe that things would go through design review and that's the...
 Practice for many, many years has been that you may not be able to get to the entire height that you may be entitled to because you can't meet the design guidelines, and that has been a safeguard for neighborhoods. Can I weigh in on this for a second? Because this is an important point to make with all of this. I'm sorry if I interrupted. I apologize. Go ahead.
 I say we may not all be on the same page on that. I think that for some, the expectation is that entitlements are there and the design commission has a different purview. Well, we do need to have, I don't know whether it's part of this project or a separate project, but it is something that communities are extremely concerned about. And as I said, which I, in viewing what we put on the comprehensive plan last year on the maps,
 felt I could do some of them because I knew there'd be design review and that compatibility would be taken into it. Okay, well, I guess I'll say I think compatibility is definitely part of the design criteria. Maybe I'll let Kat speak first.
 No, I'd like to, I'm sorry, Eli, but just clarify one thing. I don't think, I think we're agreeing that the thresholds need to be looked at, and it could be, it's just what scale needs to go through design review, let's say, in all of the corridors. And perhaps there's a smaller scale that we can make some pretty clear guidelines that the neighborhoods are comfortable with. And you're absolutely right. The neighborhoods have to be a part of process of perhaps what we can put in the code that makes them comfortable. I heard that, but what I heard Commissioner Spivak say is that developers should be entitled to the maximum FAR height required
 bulk that they're allowed under the zoning code, and that is a change in practice that would need a lot of discussion. Very good. Good afternoon. All right. Good afternoon. David Ward, chair of the Design Commission. And I'd just like to, before I start my part, I'd like to just tell on what they've talked about. We actually looked at this and researched for the last four years.
 where commission has weighed in on height and FAR. And there is no case for base FAR where we've reduced it or height. We've increased height, actually, through modifications on base height and base FAR. Where we have reduced FAR, I think on two or three cases, was on bonus FAR. So there's a distinction there on what is –
 by right, the base FAR in height and what you earn through bonuses. So just to set the record straight. So this almost might be a solution looking for a problem. I'm not sure. But I just want to start out my section by saying on behalf of all the commissioners, we love Portland. Can I say that out loud? Is that all right? We love Portland. We commit so much of our time to making it a better city. And so why else would we do this other than we love Portland? Thank you.
 And we serve as a bridge between the vision and planning process of the future of Portland and the realities of building design and development and construction. And in this role, we see a very personal side of change, the challenges, successes, and impacts to neighborhoods, applicants, staff, and to commissioners. Over the past year, we've offered our perspective to DOSA,
 And for the most part, our perspective has been incorporated into the report, but we still have some differences. I'm not going to go over those in any detail, but there is much work to be done. As Mark stated at his last briefing to Design Commission, Portland has a reputation for moving the bar forward in terms of urban design and design excellence and urban excellence. And to retain the qualities of Portland that make it special, Design Review and Design Commission will continue to be an important part of that process.
 And to continue to move the bar forward, we feel there are three points that need to be incorporated in all discussions as we do move forward. One, to affirm the aspirations and qualitative goals of design review. Two, to craft a reasonable process that's fair, open, and evenly applied. And we could argue what reasonable means. But starting with that term seems to be middle ground. And three, update the set of tools to support numbers one and two.
 such as updating the design guidelines might be the first part of that. The Design Commission is in support of the Dozer report, and as we move forward, we are fully committed to the design review process and the product for the betterment of the city we all love. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it very much, and thank you all for your service. Thank you. Very good. So we have public testimony now.
 And when people come up, please just state your name for the record. If you're a lobbyist, please state so. If you're with an organization, it would be helpful if you state that as well. We'll have three minutes of testimony. Thirty seconds before your three minutes is up, you'll see a yellow light. And then when your time is up, there's a red light and the world's most obnoxious beeping noise. You can't miss it.
 Carla. The first three are John Spencer, Bob Boileau and Jean Gaelic. Come on up. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. How are you? So far so good. Well, my name is Bob Boileau. I'm an architect and planner in the city of Portland.
 I first want to take some time and reintroduce our group to the city council. For almost 20 years, the AIA Urban Design Panel has been actively involved in the Portland design process, even hosting for the last four years with Mayor Hales a state of the design discussion. And I believe I owe the mayor a phone call pretty soon to talk about the next four years. Very good. In the past, before DAR, Design Advice Request,
 was developed, the AIA Urban Design Committee acted as a resource for design projects first coming before the Design Commission. Five years ago, we joined forces with the American Planning Association, APA, the American Society of Landscape Architects, ASLA, to create the AIA, APA, ASLA Urban Design Panel. We're in search of a better name if you have it.
 But many of our members, panel members, either come before the Design Commission for presentations or projects, or in John's case, has served as a past chair of the Design Commission. Recently, in 2004, teaming up with the City Club of Portland, sponsoring design workshops at the Center of Architecture Building, on design review process in the city with our three professions, design commissioners, city staff, developers, and the public.
 We continued this process with Mark Henshaw through the Dozo process, hosting several workshops with our professional colleagues, long meetings with our executive committee that both John and I serve on to move the process forward. We strongly support this study and have expressed that in the support of our position paper that hopefully you've had a chance to read.
 I'm going to let John discuss a little bit more in detail our recommendations and how we hope to proceed and continue our involvement through the design review process of the report and how our group in the future can provide a conduit to our three professional organizations. Excellent. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Spencer. I'm an urban designer and planner in Portland and serve with Bob on the executive committee of the urban design panel.
 I'd like to maybe echo David's comment about our group because I think we're a group of professionals that also truly love Portland. And our professional lives are really kind of, our decisions about being here have a lot to do with the quality of this place.
 Portland is a model for the integration of the public realm with private development over time, and it's based on rigorous planning and solid process, and that's the design review process. Maintaining and improving design review is critical to enhancing Portland's international reputation as a livable city.
 We support Mark's recommendations to focus on the public realm and on context as really the two kind of key elements of design review and particularly related to maintaining this place as a quality place to live and a quality place to visit. We enthusiastically support the work done as part of the Dozer project and the recommendations that are in the final report.
 We urge the city, both the bureaus that would be involved in this council, to aggressively implement all of the priority recommendations contained in the report as soon as possible. A long or piecemeal approach to taking on these implementation recommendations we don't think will solve the problems that Mr. Henshaw has convincingly identified. We would like to be here in less than a year.
 and voicing our support for basically taking all the implementation recommendations, the priority implementations, going through the necessary process to vet those detailed recommendations and coming before the council and supporting those recommendations.
 We also think that some of the recommendations that really are geared around revising and re-looking at community design standards and design guidelines, right now the design guidelines are in 60, 70 pages of documentations. Let's make the hard decisions and get that number down to 10 or 15 pages.
 Finally, our group, and again they're made up of professionals that are involved in design review and development in the Portland region and elsewhere. We pledge to help and participate and...
 really contribute to this next step of implementation. We've been very active participants so far, and we would like to continue to do that. Great. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. I'm Jeannie Gaelic. I'm not with them. Can you pull the microphone just a little bit closer to you, please? My name is Jeannie Gaelic, and I'm a long-time World War I Greenway advocate. Thank you.
 And I've been in front of all of the commissions and council many times because of that. Through DOSA, we should not just streamline the processes, but ensure better planning solutions. And one important way is to add both a natural resource expert and a sustainability expert to the design commission. Yes, expand it.
 As climate and environmental issues become ever more critical, it is vital that they are considered as an integral element of any design. The current makeup of the Design Commission makes it inevitable that little weight or attention is given to these designs.
 these issues. This is a real opportunity for Portland to demonstrate its leadership by making sure that climate, sustainable practices, and natural resources are considered with each design, especially all these major designs. Secondly, the north and south reaches of the Greenway really need help. Their guidelines are flabby and they're outdated. Council can make this a planning priority.
 and development is happening now. Until that time, though, there are steps that council can take through the DOSA process to foster a healthier riverine environment. Current regulations call for a paltry 25-foot setback. We all recognize that that is too little. But until it is expanded, as it should be, DOSA could require new construction or remodels or retrofits
 along the Greenway to have step backs in height with low elevations and lush native landscaping facing the trail. This would enhance both wildlife habitat and the user experience. And it's very important that the Greenway, any development along the Greenway, have a type 3 review. And lastly, as a neighborhood activist, I would say it's very important to
 to somehow conflate the community standards with the key tenets of any district design overlay. We have spent years as citizens forming those design guidelines for a particular district. I happen to be in the McAdam-Planned District. And it's important that the elements that we fought so hard for are retained. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, all three of you.
 Next three, please. The next two will be Madeline Kovacs and Doug Klotz. And are these the last two? We have two more who want to come together. Two more. Very good. Thank you. Thank you for your patience. Thank you. All right. I'm Doug Klotz. I live in the Richmond neighborhood, and I have for 25 years. I'm going to add to my – oh, actually.
 I see a lack of explanation of the state mandate for clear and objective standards. I don't know if you've heard of other cities where design review and processes like that are used to keep housing out of neighborhoods. It's a tool that neighborhoods use to slow down and keep housing out of their neighborhoods. So the state law, apparently since the 80s, I didn't know when it started, requires that.
 for where needed housing is being built. And that's another thing to prime. But that clear and objective, there has to be an alternative path. You could have the option of design review, or there has to be a set of clear and objective standards that the developer or builder can come in, meet these standards, submit their permit, and get the permit. Okay.
 And that's Portland, and that was to keep housing from being held up by
 processes that are sometimes unclear, vague, discretionary. And it could be a design commission or council. Any body that has discretion over it is sometimes, in some political situations, used to slow things down or stop them. So that's why the state law was passed, in my understanding. The law allows Portland to have mandatory designer view in central city,
 and Gateway. At least that's how my understanding is how Portland and the State worked out a deal. And it will, that will be true in the expanded areas as well. And the design review in new areas will still be part of that, you know, part of that has to be that two-track process. Now some developers will choose to go use the design review because they don't want to meet the standards. The standards
 Some developers, an architect friend of mine says, well, it's pretty easy to meet the design standards. You do this, this, and this. We prefer to do that because they're doing a three-story apartment building. They don't want to go through the hassle and the uncertainty of what might happen if they go through design review and design staff or commissions. It gets something in their mind to do, and it turns out to be an expensive thing. So they prefer to avoid that.
 Anyway, so that's why we have those standards, and I would be in favor of keeping that arrangement. Actually, the recommendation of the report is to remove that mandatory designer view from Gateway because to help the small property owners who are trying to do these small projects. Okay. So anyway, what I haven't hit is I agree with what Commissioner Schultz said from keeping the –
 making it clear that when Type 3 or Type 2 design review is applied, these should not be reduced, the entitlements in the zoning code for height or FAR, or otherwise reduce the bulk of the building. And Commissioner Wark from the Design Commission seemed to say basically the same thing. They had not been doing that, so there shouldn't be an issue with putting that in a prescriptive code in there. I think that covers it. Thank you. Very good. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, my name is Madeline Kovacs, and I'm the coordinator for the Portland for Everyone Coalition. We urge the city to support the recommendation to clarify the scope of design review doesn't include changes to base entitlements given by long-range planning and zoning, potentially reducing the number of homes in designated high-capacity areas. Thank you.
 to better align development and design review process to lessen delays and costs, which can impact both availability and affordability.
 to allow the type of review to be appropriate for the size of the project with clear and objective standards, to consider where outside the central city the D overlay may not be appropriate, and weigh its application carefully with potential impact on affordability where that is an issue. In particular, consider allowing non-profit developers and or affordable housing projects to meet a different set of clearly defined standards.
 We also encourage the City to consider that any limitations on entitlements and therefore new housing will, by virtue of the recently adopted Inclusionary Housing Program, also result in potential loss of permanently affordable housing in our most well-connected, amenity-rich areas.
 There are two recommendations by the Planning and Sustainability Commission we also wanted to highlight, which is the great improvements to public process to increase inclusivity and our commitment to equity in the city, and differentiating between more intense central city and sub-districts and those less intense sub-districts to reflect the unique character of those neighborhoods. Lastly, we encourage the city to always consider the de-overlay criteria
 any project really, in light of its long, of its stated long-range planning goals, namely the Climate Action Plan and the Comprehensive Plan's equity and anti-displacement goals. And I can't resist because I have a minute left, and I come to urban planning and housing advocacy from actually a decade of youth climate organizing and advocacy at the UN and beyond. I want to end with a quote that I read today from one of my favorite current authors on the topic. Okay.
 The benefits of compact communities.
 are ubiquitous in the past three decades' research on cities. Indeed, the main lesson of that entire body of work is that transit-rich, walkable, mixed-use, mixed-income communities are critical ingredients to a sustainable future. Local officials shouldn't have to prove this any more than they have to prove that hydro- and wind-powered electricity is better for the planet than the coal power that many rust-belt cities rely on. And that's it.
 Thank you. Good quote. Thank you both. The last two are Kristen Miner and Julie Livingston. Last but not least. Last but not least. Very good. My name is Kristen Miner, and I'm the vice chair of the Historical Landmarks Commission. So...
 I want to first thank the Planning and Sustainability Commission for recognizing that landmarks should be involved. We did have a briefing on this and wrote you a letter. I also want to acknowledge Commissioner Udaly came to our retreat last week, and that was a really nice gesture. So I wanted to, you know, appreciate that in public. Thank you.
 There's a couple components of the proposal that I'd like to pull out of our letter. So I'm certainly not going to read everything, but just make a couple highlights here. And then I'd like to also address a couple of concepts that we heard here today. So first off, I will start with just the recommendation really for changing the thresholds of review.
 For the Landmarks Commission, of course, our processes align very closely with that of the Design Commission. In fact, pretty much identical. So many of these recommendations would apply directly to our commission. But then our goals and responsibilities shift a little bit.
 So I would say that in terms of the thresholds for determining a review, as it relates to the Landmarks Commission and Design Commission, I would say how much a project affects the public realm should not lose its importance in terms of where that threshold is. I mean, we've been talking a lot about cost and bulk of a project here,
 But there's also just the factor of changes at the street level having a much greater impact on the public realm than changes, you know, for instance, at the rooftop of a project. And that actually ties into the three tenets of design that this study calls out, one of being elevate the public realm.
 Another thing I want to talk about is just to strongly encourage and push the idea of public engagement even further.
 I think the study is asking for greater input from neighborhood associations. We strongly support that idea and, in fact, would encourage applicants to reach out even in the planning phase of a project and perhaps then have the neighborhood associations report back to BDS that they have heard from that applicant. So make them an important step in the process.
 Finally though, I would like to address the idea that height and FAR be taken out of design review and possibly historic review. So it's been suggested that these two kind of measures of the bulk of a project are entitlements.
 And for the Landmarks Commission in particular, but also for design review, this idea would remove the ability of the commission to take context into consideration, right?
 So the idea that we can get a project fully into an approvable context just by color or small scale design changes is incorrect. So I personally think the issue is that developers aren't perhaps fully understanding that there may not be a route to the full, quote unquote, entitlement on each and every site.
 I would say that in my experience, Landmarks Commission has never had to actually tell a developer, we can't get there. We have worked with developers through sometimes three, four hearings, if necessary, to try to help them reshape the bulk of their project. And we almost always can get to yes. Yes.
 But taking that tool away from either commission would be a problem, and I think especially in historic districts. So that's all I have today. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. So last but not least, we'll invite Sandra, Laura, Cara, and Mark back to the table to see if there's any questions.
 Further questions or concluding thoughts? We're obviously not going to take our vote today. This is a non-emergency first reading, so we're simply going to pass it on to the second reading. I think it's reports. I think we do, actually. You're correct. I'm incorrect. It is a report, so we'll entertain a motion and a second at the will of the City Council. So we have an inch-thick report here from our consultant. Okay.
 We heard the challenge laid down by the AIA to get this done in a year. Tell me we can do that. I mean, I think... I've done... I mean, sometimes processes overcome... You also, I think, heard... ...over take good intentions. I think you heard some tensions also from some of the testifiers and some differences of opinions. Yeah.
 I've probably done 25 projects in the city. You have? Recap, as you know, I've brought eight of those forward. Those are minor policy technical amendments where we all agree to what the problem statement is, and we all know what the parameters are, and those take a year. Principally because we try to do quite a bit of public outreach. When we work with community members, they like...
 Two months at a minimum for comment because community groups meet once a month, and if we lose their cycle, then we come forward. So our legislative process itself takes six months going through one commission. This is a little more complicated in that we have two commissions, if not three commissions.
 So I think that's one of the challenges and one of the things we're going to be working on in the next two months is this talking internally and speaking to our commissioners in charge about what the work plan is, what can be done quickly, maybe in a year's time. Certainly some of the process improvements that don't require code amendments that aren't legislation and law changes. And Kara's been working with her team, as has been mentioned, on already instituting some of those implementation changes. So some of the answers are...
 We're already there and some of them are. Yeah, I guess with all due respect, and I have a lot of respect for you, Sandra, and all of you, but at some point, if this turns into another comprehensive plan process, it really undercuts, I think, what we're trying to do here. No, it won't be. Definitely not that. You're telling me it's going to take more than a year. And if I put you, you'd probably say it's going to take a couple of years. I would say 18 months would be. That undermines the urgency of getting this done.
 18 months? Well, we can. 18 months is my guess right now. I haven't scoped the project yet, and I certainly don't have agreement amongst our commissioners in charge and our bureau directors on what the project looks like and if we are going into doing outreach to historic districts, for example, if that's included or not, et cetera. And what's the budget for this project? We have two FTE at BPS and at BDS. I'm not sure what it is because we haven't talked about it.
 We'd probably have probably two staff, maybe half-time working on it. Two half-time staff and two full-time at BPS? Did I hear that correct? Two full-time, yeah. Okay. I hate to be skeptical, but sometimes I think that we do these projects and we stretch them out because we want to keep people employed, we want to keep people busy, and I think we're really –
 I'll really be disappointed if this is dragging on 18 months, two years from now. We're still talking about ways to improve the design process. And I think we've had a lot. We have a great consultant's report here. Yep. Somebody who's sort of outside the market, spent a lot of time talking to all the commissions and boards you've already mentioned. Mm-hmm.
 And when I say 18 months, I mean 18 months to effective date, not 18 months to get to city council. So it's one year to get to city council. But again, as I said, we haven't begun scoping. We've been concentrating on what's in the report, having these discussions, and the next two months we'll be scoping and working with our commissioners in charge to move this forward. We're excited about a lot of the recommendations, as you've heard many people are. So we'll be in touch about that.
 that. Okay. And then I'm rather struck when the consultant said that affordable housing was really tangential to this whole effort. Again, from my perspective, affordable housing was really the genesis of this whole effort. So what am I missing here? So we did have a sub-consultant working on the affordable housing aspect piece of it. And really, we were trying to set the framework for all of design review. And as we've discussed, design review is a subset of
 of development review in total.
 Unfortunately, we didn't delve as deep into affordable housing as we would have liked to. We certainly have in the GATOR process that Mayor Wheeler and Commissioner Udailey have been discussing, and we've been delving deep into it in that respect. And like Mark mentioned, Leland Consulting Group has looked at the recommendations to see what the effect would be on affordable housing and has some findings in there.
 That wasn't the genesis of the project though, was it? The charge to the consultant was not see how does our review affect affordable housing. Right. So the – I guess, you know, it's probably not in your contract, but I think the genesis for these discussions we've been having over the past year or so have been related in part to affordable housing projects objecting, and maybe objecting is too strong a word, but having strong concerns about the time –
 and expense of design review, the expense added to projects by design review. So I think, you know, if memory serves me correctly, and I'm not always the best on timelines, but there was certainly an axis of connection there. If I could just add to it, I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner for the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and there's an axis of connection. What kicked this off?
 was in the comprehensive plan, you may have remembered, the desire to increase, try to simplify the ability to build in mixed-use centers was really most of it, where we're going to see a significant amount, what, 50 percent of the growth over the next 20 years. We need to build units. We need to build them in those places. We need to smooth that process. We need to meet community expectations. And one of the tools that was on the table, Commissioner, was building.
 But she used design review. And so we were saying we're going to expand design review at the same time, like from the testimony you heard, there's constituents out there who say,
 based on workload, which I think even the design commission would agree, and other factors didn't feel like that would work. So we needed to settle that issue. That was one of the motivations for it. And then since then also, we've gone through the Gator process and this whole idea of the cost that actually –
 Early on, you had hearings of this with the Housing Bureau here of what kind of role that permit processes play in the cost of affordable housing. So it had two tracks from Mayor Hale's office. I know we started with the one related to the comp plan, too.
 Yeah, so I'll jump into this fray because this is a good fray to jump into. From my perspective, my priority clearly is more housing supply sooner at a lower cost with less of a hassle factor while not creating garbage.
 that we're stuck with for 100 years. So I would actually say I'm very appreciative of all of the broad recommendations that take into account how to continue to, as Mark said, build community consistent with our values.
 But many of the recommendations that focus on streamlining, taking some projects that don't need to go through this intensive process out of the intensive process, and focusing on those projects that do need, therefore taking what limited resources we have. And let's not forget the people who do this are volunteers for the most part.
 They have lives, too, and they have to pay their own rent. So I want to be mindful of that limited resource as well and use that limited resource as effectively as possible. So I think in many regards we're achieving simultaneous goals here. But I want to cop to what Commissioner Saltzman is saying. I definitely am most interested in how to speed it up, streamline it, and reduce the cost and get more supply online.
 Just for the record. I would comment that I think I could tell you numerous occasions where more haste has been less speed, that if we don't give adequate notice, I mean, we've got the recommendation. Thank you, by the way, again, for your report and all the details that you went into. It's very helpful. One of them is a bigger public notice. Well, if all the notice is to tell the neighbours you can't really make a difference, then that's not right.
 actually going to help with our public process and public improvement in trust in our city. So we had lots of conversations during the comprehensive plan where neighbours somewhat gingerly accepted higher density with the promise that it would come with design guidelines, design overlays, and I think we need to stay true to that process. So this is a continuation of that and involving all of the communities which are
 not just the traditional ones, but those... I appreciate your comment about getting the notice to rent us, for example. There's a number of ways that we can increase our outreach, but it has to matter that people participate if we invite them to do so. Yeah, I love those recommendations as well. I agree with Commissioner Fritz.
 Before I got into the elective office thing, I was one of those people who'd walk by a site and I'd always wonder what's going on here. And sure, there was some process going on somewhere in some room, and it was probably even a very open, transparent public process there.
 but I just wasn't into it at that level at that time of my life. And I always did appreciate when I was in another city and they'd have a great, and we're seeing more of that here, by the way, where you have a great big billboard and often with a picture of what's being proposed there and just simple stuff like that. I mean, you called it out. It's low-hanging fruit. It's sort of no-brainer stuff that we should be doing, and we do have to acknowledge that we've got a 50-50 split in this city between homeownership and renters.
 And all that, that is low-threshold stuff that we should be doing just because it's common sense to do it, frankly. Commissioner Udaly, I hope we have not lost you. Are you still on the phone out there? I am still here. Fabulous. I know it's sometimes awkward to do it by phone, so I wanted to give you free reign here if you had a couple of thoughts or questions. It is a little awkward, but I'll do my best. Well, first of all, I just want to thank...
 everyone involved their hard work on this report. And I appreciated comments from a whole range of folks, even when there was tension or disagreement. I think these are really fascinating and vital issues that are coming up. And, of course, unsurprisingly, I'm also very concerned with how
 we are impacting development, specifically development of affordable housing. And it's certainly our intention to streamline and accelerate this process because while I don't – there isn't a consensus among developers as to the utility of design review, there's certainly a consensus that it's taking too long and that's costing them a lot.
 And so we are, you know, seriously looking at ways that we can improve that situation. But I'm just looking forward to reading this entire report again and participating more in the conversation as we move forward.
 Very good. Unless there's Commissioner Fritz. I do. I wanted to pick out a few of the themes that I heard. I'm confident the staff have heard them too. So certainly the thresholds for the type of review is going to be a major issue that people want to weigh in on. The entitlement issues is another issue.
 I appreciated Jeannie Gaelic's testimony about natural resources, and that hasn't typically been part of, except in the Greenway. And again, we need to look at the different plan districts to make sure that we don't.
 say one size fits all, because the Greenway is a really good example of it doesn't. I do think we should be looking at adding standards and guidelines that relate to both natural resources and sustainability, and then therefore potentially adding to the commission, which might help, if we do the same kind of thing that we did with the Citizens Review Committee, increase the membership but keep the...
 Quorum, sorry, getting late in the day. Keep the quorum the same but have more people there so that people have more ability to miss a few meetings. So I'd like to add that to the report. It's that element of, yes, design guidelines are more than what it should look like. It's how sustainable is it and is it protecting the natural resources? Yes.
 I do believe there's going to be a good discussion on the respect for the different contexts in the different areas, especially with regard to the historic districts. But probably in regards to each of the mixed-use areas and the corridors, some of them have a very different character than others, and that's going to be important to neighbourhoods to make sure that that is maintained. And then finally, the collaboration between the commissions, design, historic and planning sustainability. I agree.
 I appreciated everybody who took the time to be here from those commissions. And since you are the citizen experts, if those commissions can come to a consensus, or at least to lay out to us what are the areas where there's a policy choice that you want us to weigh into, that would be very helpful to me. So thank you very much. This is an exciting project.
 Very good. Could I get a motion? I would move to accept the report. Second. So Commissioner Saltzman moves. Commissioner Fritz second. Is there any further council discussion? Hearing none, call the roll. Saltzman. Well, I appreciate the work being done here. As I stated, I just hope it doesn't take so long to get to the final product. And I just think that that's...
 We spend entirely too much time working on things. And I know we love the Portland process, and we love Portland, but we've got to be able to tackle some good ideas from time to time and make those good ideas work. And that means working for the people who love the built environment, care very much about what the built environment looks like, and the people who live in that built environment. And we need to make sure that all sides are being listened to. But I think we can do that in less than a year, in my opinion.
 and that is more consistent, I think, with the urgency here. And I meant no disrespect for any of the commissions that are present today. My example about concerns over design commission and affordable housing projects are as related to me as my term as housing commissioner.
 I'm not casting judgment one way or the other whether those concerns are legitimate or not, but nevertheless, those are concerns that I've heard and have talked with the Design Commission about and numerous other people as well. I also wanted to echo, I do also appreciate Jeanne Gaelic's comments, and I think that's something we need to look at too in terms of broadening the membership of the Design Commission and perhaps the Planning and Sustainability Commission as well.
 So thank you all for your work and work to come. Bye. Thank you, Daly. Thank you, everyone, again, for your hard work on this. I do feel these are vital conversations to be having right now. Our boat's environment impacts our minds and our spirits, our health, our safety, our livability, and I think it would be a loss to give up this opportunity
 This input, I really appreciated the comments about engaging tennis. Thank you for that. And also the comment about, well, just kind of elaborating on that. I think more outreach is key as we see time and time again the kind of shocks that people are experiencing over this rapid pace of development.
 If they could have more of a sense of these decisions being something that they're participating in rather than things that are just happening to them, we might have a happier community.
 Thank you everybody for your report and for the conversation. As usual, land use discussions, I find them extremely valuable and important. In fact, after this I'm going over to Metro to have another two hours of it and I can't wait. The thing that I was...
 perhaps most intrigued by was the graphs at the beginning that showed that 60% of developments who can choose the standards or the guidelines, they choose to go the guideline route. And I'm wondering that needs evaluating as far as why is that? Standards are too rigid or they're not the right standards? In fact, is design review something that developers feel like is going to enhance their projects and that they could have some discussions with the experts from the commissions? Yes.
 and indeed the way we grow does matter. I think that's one of the reasons that people come to Portland is that we're not just saying slop anything up wherever you want to because we need more housing we're saying you can do both and that's as again what I've said last year throughout the process we were saying yes you may be taking more density and we're going to make sure that it fits in the context of the neighbourhood and that it's got
 appropriate design and affordable housing does not have to be ugly housing. And I know that Commissioner Fish would be saying that if he was here as well. So thank you very much, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Udaly. I'm very happy to accept the report. Aye.
 Well, I'd like to also thank Commissioner Udaly, and I'm sorry you weren't able to be here today, but I also appreciate the seriousness with which you take multitasking on important issues. It's been a pleasure to work with you on this, and I appreciate the partnership that you've forged between the bureaus.
 to help make this happen, and I know we'll have to continue to collaborate going forward to make it happen. And I'll just add as a footnote, I appreciate the work that our bureaus are doing through the Gator session on another piece of this related, but not part of the DOSA issue,
 around the permitting process as well. So thanks to you, Commissioner Udailey. I obviously want to thank the Bureau staffs. Mark, I want to thank you for your excellent consultancy. We heard a lot of great thoughts, ideas today, and they don't go onto the cutting room floor with...
 Thank you very much.
 And we are adjourned. I have one bit of just clarification for tomorrow. Tomorrow the city council meets at 2 p.m. There is one item on that I am pulling. So if you're coming tomorrow to hear item 428,
 which is the goals to transition to 100% renewable energy. We're going to pull that back to my office to better coordinate with Multnomah County and we'll bring it in the very, very near future. But that item will be pulled tomorrow, just FYI. We're adjourned. So no testimony? Correct. Okay. On the issue of the 87th Avenue parade. Yes. Nick said you were trying to do something. That's fine. I want to say something. I mean, it's... Go ahead. Go ahead. Is your post on the phone?