Council will please come. Saltzman? Here. Sorry. Novick? Here. Fritz? Hales? Fish? Here. Welcome, everybody. Mayor Hales is in Europe doing council business, and as the president of the council, I have the honor of chairing today's meeting, and we're going to begin by having me read a script. The purpose of council meetings is the orderly consideration of the public's business.
 Preservation of order and decorum is necessary for due consideration of matters before Council. We welcome the public to attend and fully participate in our meetings. During the meetings, there will be time-limited opportunities for public comments on various agenda items. Although citizens can sign up for communications, public testimony on a Council calendar item must address the matter being considered. Please state your name for the record, and we do not need your address.
 If you are a lobbyist, please disclose that information at the start of your testimony. If you are here representing an organization, I ask that you disclose that as well. Unless otherwise informed, each community member will have three minutes to speak in front of the council. At two minutes and 30 seconds, you'll start to hear an annoying beep.
 and a light will flash on the box before you. At three minutes, you'll hear four beeps, and the lights will continue to flash, and that will be notice to you that it's time to let the next person speak. I ask that all of you respect the time limits so that there is time to hear from everybody who signed up to address matters before us. If you have a handout today, please give it to Carla, our council clerk, and she will distribute it to the council members and make sure it goes into the record.
 And again, please limit your testimony to the matters at hand. Council rules of procedure seek to preserve the public order and to ensure that Council's deliberations proceed efficiently and that all who want to participate get to be heard. Conduct that disrupts the meeting, for example, shouting during other people's presentations or interrupting testimony, will not be allowed. We would ask you, if you want to show your support or displeasure, to use your hands by waving thumbs up, thumbs down.
 and the like. And this is officially a warning to anyone who is thinking of disrupting our proceedings, and you shall be escorted from the council and excluded from City Hall if these rules are not followed. Finally, if needed, council will be taking a lunch break at either 12 or 12.30, depending on the schedule. Obviously, our preference is to get through all of our work before breaking, and we have a full afternoon.
 But we'll announce later in the day what our schedule is if it looks like we're going to be tight. And with that, Carla, let's move to communications. And would you please read item number 377? Request of Shedrick J. Wilkins to address council regarding OMSI R2D2 move, solar cells, and low energy lifestyle. Mr. Wilkins, welcome. I'm trying to overcome my fear of public speaking, which I have over the last five years.
 You do great. Just state your name for the record and you have three minutes, sir. All right. Five years ago I was homeless and I tried to stay at, while working at my job, at Dignity Village. And Dignity Village at the time was having fights about energy and they were thinking about getting a grant for solar cells. And then I heard you're going to, which I like solar cells and I'd like to promote alternative energy.
 People who are homeless or live homeless use propane tanks for heat. They could use solar cells. Anyway, I got on HUD housing, and now I'm a veteran and stuff like that. It's 30% of my income. I'd still like to double back, and I heard you are going to move Right to Dream 2 to OMSI, although it's appealed. If you do, instead of looking down at homeless people like they're in a zoo,
 Why don't you try to get these homeless people to use solar cells so they can get online, try to make the camp off the grid? I actually walked by Thurton Harrison the other day. I like OMSI. And OMSI right now has an excellent exhibit put on by a company called Solar World in actually how they make solar cell panels. It's in the north side of the engine hall. Excellent. Okay.
 And then there's another one with Intel shows how they use solar cells in third world countries so that children can learn off, you know, learn in villages. Intel and Solar Road have two excellent exhibits there, actually how you make the things. And I would, in this one, next year I would like to go to Salem. I've been here too long in Portland. I'd like to move to Salem and maybe be a lobbyist.
 If I fail, I've given up my HUD apartment, so I might have to use the homeless place that I want to be solar-powered. Certainly not exclusively solar-powered, but just say that they're kind of somewhat off the grid. And like I say, even at Dignity Village, there was energy fights. They paid a community electric bill, and when I was trying to get in there, they were trying to get some grants for solar panels so that they could get on their cell phone, their laptop, and stuff like that.
 Also, anything done at OMSI could also be used at Dignity Village. Dignity Village is unobstructed to the south. And if I had lived there for $200 a year, I would have said my $2,000 HUD apartment, I could have spent $2,000 a year on solar cells.
 And I would have got a humidifier. Somebody had a noisy generator next to this shack I was in. And also, you wouldn't have to have these noisy generators. And I've seen this site near OMSI, and I think it's an excellent place to say that we're using science for homeless people. Thank you very much. Just a clarification, Mr. Wilkins, that the site is –
 The better landmark is near the Goodwill. It's about a half a mile from OMSI. And indeed, Right to Dream 2 is looking at whether they can use sustainable development options, including solar. So thank you for your testimony. I'd like to help them do that. Thank you very much, sir. Carla, would you please read Council Item No. 378? Request of Brad Perkins to address Council regarding Sullivan's Gulch Trail. Good morning, Mr. Perkins. Good morning. How are you? Welcome. You just need your name and you have three minutes, sir. Glad to see you.
 This is not about Sullivan's Gulch. I'll wait for this afternoon to address that issue. This has to do with Emanuel Hospital. My name is Brad Perkins, Land Use Chair of North Northeast Business Association. In March 1971, Emanuel Hospital signed an agreement with five other parties to provide land for up to 300 affordable housing units. Other signatories, PDC, HAP, and the Emanuel Displacement Persons Association were to work together to make it happen.
 That was 45 years ago, and housing has not been built there since. Here are a few quotes from the agreement.
 That the parties agree to cooperate in the development of the afore-described area within the Emanuel Hospital Urban Renewal Project with approximately 100 to 300 units of federally assisted low- and moderate-income housing, including public housing and complimentary residential and supportive use. The parties agree that all the parties will cooperate in providing federally assisted housing to achieve the goal of replacing all the existing housing units demolished by
 as a result of the Emanuel Hospital Urban Renewal Project. It is concluded that each and every party agrees to the above principles and objectives and will devote the maximum energy and enthusiasm attained toward achieving the above goals and improving the housing situation of model cities' residents.
 Four months after this agreement was signed, Mrs. Leo Warren, chair of the Emanuel Displacement Person Association, wrote a letter to John Kenward, executive director of PDC, stressing the need to begin the housing replacement process. Instead of helping the community by facilitating the replacement of demolished housing, Mr. Kenward institutionally ignored the Portland Development Commission's agreed-upon obligations.
 He convinced the chairman of the Metropolitan Human Relations Commission that there was no need for a hearing on this matter. You can see the letters. Why bother replacing housing when the signed agreement released that it needed $5 million from the Federal Housing and Urban Development Program, known as HUDD,
 so that PDC and Emanuel could finish working together to buy up 22 blocks of property with the force of eminent domain displacing mostly black tenants and clearing the land. NEBA, NECN, Elliott Neighborhood, and the Urban League insist that the Portland City Council do the right thing.
 begin the process of creating up to 300 affordable housing units, as agreed to by the city and Emanuel, by rezoning three blocks of Emanuel's property at the southeast corner of their campus from IR to M3. It's past the time to heal from the institutional racist violence endured years ago by hundreds of people. After all, aren't hospitals in the business of healing? The scars of vacant lots are the blight of today.
 I just wanted to say that, you know, everybody puts their pants on the same way. Because they're a major institution, it's all about people, and it's about negotiating an agreement that's fair to the city council and the community and Emanuel Hospital. And that's all that we're asking and hope for after this land is rezoned.
 MR. Perkins, just the documents you've given us are an agreement signed by, among others, the Portland Development Commission and what used to be known as the Housing Authority of Portland. MR. Yes. MR. And then there's some correspondence. MR. Yes. MR. And if we wanted to find the additional documents in the record, did you get these from the archives? MR. Yes, they're all at the archives, and there's a lot more there. MR. Do you have some also additional documents?
 Yeah, in my file. I have plenty, and it's worth checking into. It's quite interesting stuff. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you for your time. Carla, would you please read Council Item 379? Request of Jack Frewing to address Council regarding Sullivan's Gulch Trail. Good morning, sir. Good morning. How are you? Fine. Welcome. All we need is your name, and you have three minutes. My name is John Frewing. It's somewhat maybe out of order that...
 I want to talk about Sullivan's Gulch Trail when the community is having difficulty managing the different peoples who want to use the Springwater Trail. But the Sullivan's Gulch Trail is different, and it needs to be pushed forward by the council. There has been a study, there have been studies over the last dozen years regarding the Springwater Trail, and yet nothing has gone forward except one piece out by I-205.
 We need to promote the Sullivan's Gulch Trail, not only because East Portland is generally flat, as opposed to the hilly side on the west, and because of the increasing conflict between pedestrians and bicycles and automobiles on the street. We need some off-street communication, but the need is that –
 to get money for engineering and proceed, put it in the budget so that we get going on this trail.
 There are actually two trails, two Slovenskels Trails, one near the top of the bluff on the north side across the street from Metro, Oregon Building, BPA, et cetera. And then down along the railroad there's another trail in their concept plan that goes all the way out to Gateway and even beyond.
 The upper trail is what I'm interested in. I live at Holiday Park Plaza, and our folks walk in the neighborhood. And they don't want to walk long distances, but they need to walk.
 somewhere and There is an existing a legal easement pedestrian Easement from 16th to 21st that already exists that could be built the city owns it and I urge you to Get that particular piece on the agenda for funding in the next year or so, sir I'm I'm gonna just ask Commissioner Novick. We had a presentation not long ago on
 Steve, where you came forward with a PBOT list of projects that were in the pipeline, I believe there were a number of Sullivan-Skulls projects that were on that list. Is that correct? In a word, yes. Okay. So, sir, thank you for bringing your perspective, and I believe the opportunity has been framed. The question is now finding the funding. Right. So thank you, sir. Thank you. Carla, would you please read Council Item Number 380?
 Request of Frederick Allen Maxwell to address council regarding his cat. Mr. Maxwell, are you here? I was looking forward to hearing about the cat. Okay. All right. We're now going to move to a time certain, but first we're going to take up the consent agenda. And Carla, what's been pulled? Item 384. 384 has been pulled. Does anyone wish to pull any other items on the consent agenda? Hearing none, Carla, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. And Carla, after we've done the two-time certins, we'll take up 384 as the first order of business on the regular agenda. Okay, we have two-time certins. We're right on time. Carla, would you please read Council Item 381?
 amend an intergovernmental agreement with Metro for development of a preferred alternative package, locally preferred alternative and draft environmental impact statement for the Southwest Corridor Plan. Commissioner Steve Novich. Colleagues, technically what we're doing today is making a somewhat ministerial amendment, which Teresa Boyle will explain, but it's also an opportunity to talk about the importance of and the goals we have with the Southwest Corridor Plan.
 The Southwest Carter Plan aims to provide a range of high-capacity transit, bicycle, roadway, and pedestrian improvements to communities in southwest Portland and southeast Washington County. Today, we're confirming the addition of city funds to Metro in order to further the required environmental analysis for the project. The outcome will be a DIS and a locally preferred alternative, which will in turn qualify us to seek federal funding to complete design of the project and move it toward construction. Thank you.
 those living and working in the southwest corridor currently struggle with traffic congestion and a lack of transportation options issues of connectivity affect access to major employment education and retail centers by bringing high capacity transit to southwest we're completing the transit backbone for a region that was first envisioned over 35 years ago this essential addition to our high capacity transit network would come just in time as we get ready for the large numbers of people projected to move here in the next 20 years
 not only is transit important to the region it's important to the city we look to our investment and participation in this project as a way to achieve lasting benefit for portlanders while furthering the city's goals around jobs housing overall mobility sustainability in the environment we seek to ensure that the southwest corridor plan finds ways to connect all of those important places in the corridor that can't be reached directly with high capacity transit not just in portland but in tiger to wallaton and points beyond
 This means there needs to be a strong focus on adding elements to the transportation network so people can walk or bike to use transit. It also means we have to do a better job of distributing park and ride facilities to spread out the number of places where people drive and then ride instead of concentrating so much of it in Portland. Maximizing park and ride opportunities in the suburban communities where patrons begin and end their ride is an ethic that we feel must be embraced. And we're counting on Neil and Bob and the rest of the steering committee to work with us to make this happen.
 And I will now turn it over to the honorable Theresa Boyle. Good morning. I'm Theresa Boyle with the Bureau of Transportation, and I'm the city's manager for the Southwest Corridor Plan and the associated high-capacity transit project. With me today momentarily is Joe Zender from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Councilor Bob Stacey and Malou Wilkinson from Metro, and Neil McFarland is joining us from TriMet.
 Providing letters of support are two of our other jurisdictional partners, Washington County and the City of Tualatin, and you should have those in your packet. Because we're a little tight around the table, I'll be taking a seat in the audience so Neil can come join you, and I'll return after the presentations are complete.
 So we, along with our other regional partners, are funding the planning efforts to complete a DEIS and select an LPA, both of which are required in order to seek federal funds. Could you spill those out for both of those? Oh, yes, absolutely. DEIS is Draft Environmental Impact Statement. LPA is a locally preferred alternative. Thank you.
 The council action under consideration today is an amendment to the IGA that we have with Metro for the Southwest Corridor Plan. Last winter, we executed this agreement in order to provide a $500,000 city contribution to studying the project. And today, we are proposing an amendment to add a second final contribution of $550,000 from the city, which has been authorized in the current budget for 15-16 years.
 This will bring our total contribution to $1,050,000, which is about 11% of the total budget for the study. We're also spending city funds to keep staff working on the project, and that's a total of $300,000 for the two-year period. So if there are no process-related questions about the amendment itself, I'll turn it over to Joe.
 Well, good morning, Commissioners. Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. I have two points I'd like to make today. First, we're sort of previewed in Commissioner Novick's comments. You know, where we started this project on the city side with Metro and TriMet was with a land use vision for Southwest Barber. And it allowed us to get a clearer understanding of the consensus view with both the community and the stakeholders about how
 What kind of place do we think we can convert Southwest Barber into? How can we use transit to advance that cause?
 going from surface parking lots and one-story retail to mixed-use centers, going from unsafe corridors for pedestrians to pedestrian-safer centers that support pedestrian traffics to, in those mixed-use locations, have more housing options. So then our question became, how to use the design of the transit project to help advance those causes? So as we go into this DIS phase, that continues to be –
 sort of the lens that we'll look at it from the housing, or from the community development planning side. But secondly, since we did that plan in 2013, we worked on the PAL Division Court. And on the PAL Division Court, we were asked by Metro to have Gresham and the City of Portland develop a local action plan.
 Also, since – which really, because of the makeup and the direction of the steering committee on the PAL Division project, that local action plan, which you'll see in the near future, is focused on economic development and affordable housing development because of the concern, especially in that corridor, for displacement because that's the communities that are there. Secondly, since that – we approved that Barber concept plan, we've all become virtually aware of the housing crisis.
 and the lack of housing affordability and increasing cost of housing in the city so with the pal division action plan we came up with this uh joint pdc housing bureau city sort of proposal of actions and uh the community accepts it as sort of a good foundation a good composite of what one might do but we don't have the funding to implement it um and since that corridor is still in flux we you know we we've considered a number of options like tiff and like
 So we'll come back at it. But when we look at Barber, when we look at that project on Powell Division, that was like a $160 million transit project. And Barber is $2 billion-ish. And so that component of a housing strategy that goes with this, really what's going to be a critically important high-capacity transit project that we're looking forward to, seems to be underdeveloped right now. So I think as we also, the city, look at this project,
 We need to be upping our game on anticipating that. And when you think of the level of funding regionally that we're going to need to raise to build this project, it seems that we would probably expect that we would have a housing component that would be part of that regional look at funding. So as we go into the next phase, which we greatly support with Housing Bureau planning, at least we'll start to try to move forward our thinking on an affordable housing component.
 You're looking at me. Bob, welcome. Council President Fish, members of the commissioners, I'm Bob Stacey, Metro Councilor and co-chair of the Steering Committee for the Southwest Corridor Project. I want to thank you for taking the time to spend a few minutes to review the progress to date in anticipation of the next phase, which is the important one of going through the federal environmental impact statement process and emerging with an alternative that would be presented for decision. As
 I have to acknowledge both Commissioner Novick's leadership role
 the leadership of the City of Portland as a whole in this project. There are a number of voices, a number of needs, and between Commissioner Novick, the excellent work of the City staff, and the work that this Council did to ensure that the voices of the organized neighborhood associations in southwest Portland would be heard on a regular basis, and in
 in a process that enables them to be actively engaged in an informed way. We have a much strengthened process. Thanks for your leadership on that. This is...
 as Commissioner Novick noted using his radio voice, that was very impressive. This is the last spoke, if you will, from a Portland-centric perspective, the last major corridor in our region to be considered for a high-capacity transit investment. This is an investment in transportation choices, in a wide variety of transportation modes, not solely high-capacity transit. And it will add great accessibility
 to this part of the region, and it's two-way accessibility. If you're a resident of southwest Portland, you have destinations, including future employment opportunities that are emerging in southwest in the southeast part of Washington County as well as into downtown. There's increased capacity for transit as well as other modes of travel locally and along the corridor. And, of course, the people in southeast Portland
 Washington County, Tigard, Tualatin, and other cities will have greatly improved access to the regional center, the central city of Portland. The steering committee is wrestling with some tough choices. We literally cannot get to every one of the desirable destinations in this corridor, as you've heard before, because they are not all right along one single line. And so those choices are ones that we urgently need addressed.
 the city's leadership on and we need the information about a variety of choices yet to be made that will come from the environmental impact statement um so we look forward to continuing with this collaborative relationship with the city's active engagement at all levels including its citizenry and lou wilkinson the project manager from on metro's side will provide an update and overview thanks for your help today
 All right. Good morning, commissioners. I'm happy to be here. Malou Wilkinson, Metro's Investment Areas Manager. And I get the pleasure of following these guys, so you'll at least see something to go along with the words that you've already heard. So I am happy to be back here today. We were here before you in January of 2015. And so my point is really to both...
 remind you all in some images why we are looking at the Southwest Corridor and then give you a progress report on where we are and where we're aiming to go. As you heard Joe talk about very eloquently, we started out this Southwest Corridor Plan effort.
 by asking each of the communities throughout the Southwest Corridor to identify what their land use vision is. And you can kind of see in the background on your screen that there are a bunch of circles all across, and this also highlights Councillor Stacey's comment that you can't really get to all of the places that we'd like to get to. Those all are places that the communities identified. And what we're trying to do, as we think about investing in transportation from a regional perspective, is how we can best align the
 these major transportation investments in a way that supports local community vision so that we are achieving all of our goals across the region so a couple of images you know you look at these cars on the road this is not why we live in oregon this is not what we want our days to be like is sitting in traffic this is one of the issues that we have in the southwest corridor this is not the reason that you love your neighborhood when you can't walk on you can't walk safely around your neighborhood you can't get to where you want to go unless you get in a car
 And these are a couple of, you know, we're really doing this for us, for the people. These are a couple of images of people who live and work and have businesses in Sherwood and Tualatin. So this really is a regional investment, and we're thinking about the people and their needs and opportunities across all of the Southwest region.
 portion of our region. Some of the challenges and opportunities that you saw earlier, really there's a significantly high travel demand throughout the corridor. It's not all coming into downtown Portland. There's a significant amount that does, and it goes back and forth. But there's also a high travel demand over to Beaverton and Hillsdale and Wilsonville,
 And this is a part of the region that is growing, and we are anticipating that it will continue to grow. There are some major urban growth boundary expansion areas around Beaverton and Tigard and Sherwood, and all of those communities are growing rapidly. There's increased traffic congestion and unreliable travel times. Right now, if you try and drive between downtown Portland and Tualatin, it could take 14 minutes. If there's no traffic, it could take...
 55 minutes if there is traffic. And so if you need to get someplace on time to pick up your kid, to get to work, to get home, for whatever reason, you need to plan for an hour in your car even if it only takes you 14 minutes. So that's a big issue. There's a lack of safe infrastructure and connectivity for walking, biking, and driving. This is really partly because of the...
 The geography of this part of the region, it's beautiful. There are a lot of hills, and it's not very well connected in some places. And there's insufficient and unreliable transit. You'll hear from Neil after me about some of the efforts that TriMet has been making to improve the local transit service in the Southwest Corridor, but there are large portions of the area that has a lack of transit service.
 So all of those reasons are why we identified the Southwest Corridor as a region in 2010. The green that you see on your image, both the light and the dark, in 2010, this was identified as the region's top priority for investment, for looking at investments, both in high-capacity transit and all types of transportation modes.
 And what you see here is a map of our regional transit system. If you look closely, you'll notice there are no cities on that map. It's places. This is where people want to go. When you're a person trying to get around, you're thinking about trying to get to a Blazers game, to get to your job, whether it's at the airport or Nike or Intel or in Wilsonville.
 you're trying to go shopping, you want to be able to get to where you want to go. And you can see by the dotted lines, those are the Pell Division project and the Southwest Corridor project. Those are really filling some missing gaps in the regional network.
 So progress to date. In July 2013, the steering committee recommended a shared investment strategy that was based on that land use vision. It included parks investments, a large number of bike, pedestrian, and road projects that were focused on that land use vision, and it narrowed the high-capacity transit options that we'd study further. Each of the project partners on the steering committee endorsed that shared investment strategy. And then we moved to June 2014, where we really refined what we were looking at,
 In July of 2015, the steering committee removed Markham Hill and Hillsdale tunnels from further consideration due to a number of issues, both impacts, community feedback, and the ability to identify alternative connections that would work almost as well as those expensive, impactful tunnels.
 In January of 2016, the steering committee identified Bridgeport Village in Tualatin as the preferred terminus for a high-capacity transit line and refined some of the alignments through Tigard. And anticipated in May of 2016 is a steering committee recommendation on the right transit mode for the corridor, whether it's light rail or bus rapid transit, and the best way—if
 if a tunnel to serve the Sylvania campus is the best way to serve that Sylvania campus. So I just want to give you a couple of other images. If you look at this, this is what we started with when we were looking at high capacity transit lines. And this is where we are now. We've done a lot of work over the last six years. You can see how much we've focused in on what makes the most sense for this part of the region.
 You heard Councillor Stacey remind us that it is not just high capacity transit that this part of the region needs. It needs a number of different kinds of investments to help people. Not everyone will take transit. We need improvements in road, bike, and pedestrian opportunities to move around on the left side.
 You can see that in green, some of the projects we've identified. We need local bus service improvements. TriMet has worked on the Southwest Service Enhancement Plan to help with that. And the implementation of that is really important for this part of the region as well. And there is the high-capacity transit, which we're kind of focusing in on. Along with a high-capacity transit investment come a number of potential projects.
 investments in road improvements, bicycle and pedestrian connections. And so we've tried to highlight some of these here. In southwest Portland, some of what we're looking at is a way to connect the Barber-Nado area to Markham Hill area.
 That would allow more of a connection between those neighborhoods and for the people who work up there. More sidewalks and bike lanes, particularly all along Barber that we know is not always a safe place for people to bike. And so that's part of what is included as part of a high-capacity transit project. This is just as important in Tigard and Tualatin.
 And these shared investment strategy projects that we're talking about, we're kind of working through a process right now of identifying what would be included in a draft environmental impact statement and what wouldn't. If it's included, it doesn't mean it's funded, but it means that we're focusing in on it a little bit more. If it's not included, we need to work together to figure out how to get these projects to move forward because they are,
 all important. So we are working right now with your staff and with the communities in the southwest Portland area and in Tigard and Tualatin to figure out which ones make the most sense to fit in which category, and we'll be working on that through the fall period.
 This is our overall timeline. In May, I already told you, we're anticipating a steering committee, some steering committee direction. In June, they'll be kind of putting all the pieces together and recommending a high-capacity transit preferred alternative package for moving into a draft environmental impact statement at which we're anticipating beginning a scoping period, which is a huge amount of public review in late summer, early fall. And we're
 We're aiming to finish that draft environmental impact statement in 2017, at the end of that, with a locally preferred alternative adopted by the region in 2018.
 i just wanted to highlight a little bit of the engagement that we have been doing we've we've been trying to reach people both in person and through online activities because we reach different demographics in different ways so those are some examples of what we've learned so or who how we've reached people so far these are also some examples of stories we've been trying to get people in their own words to talk about um what what the these decisions might mean to them we've been asking employers we've been
 we've been asking leaders we've been asking youth and highlighting their stories and so all of this is available on our website and if you're interested i just encourage you to look at it and so again this is just in another format our future schedule i want to highlight our appreciation of the support the city of portland has given us so far in terms of our collaborative partnership we've been working as metro to manage the collective resources not just from the city of portland but from washington county
 Tigard, Tualatin, Sherwood has also contributed funds, so has Durham, and TriMet and ODOT. So we're all in this effort together, and I want to highlight that we really appreciate it, and we're trying to manage our resources wisely. And we look forward to moving forward. We look forward to improving the opportunities for residents to really have more options for moving around and living, working, and playing in the Southwest Corridor. So with that, I think it's Neil's turn. Thank you.
 Bob, could you stay at the dais because I'm going to have a question for you after noon. Welcome, Neil. Well, thank you very much. Thank you for joining us. Council President Fishman and commissioners, again, thank you for the opportunity to be here to discuss what I think is a very important project for the region. We are talking about fulfilling a promise and meeting a need. As mentioned, the Southwest Corridor is the last major radial project envisioned nearly 40 years ago.
 It connects southwest area and communities, downtown Portland, reinforcing our land use vision and gives us a positive alternative to an area that has just about as much traffic today as it can handle, yet growth is continuing. As former Tigard mayor and co-chair of the steering committee, current Metro Councilor Craig Dirksen will often say, it's the southwest corridor's turn.
 To stay economically viable and vigorous alternatives to the current traffic congestion is absolutely required. And congestion is clearly coming to the forefront of our region's concerns. So let me talk a little bit about the promise. This line obviously connects Tigard, Tualatin, southwest Portland to downtown Portland, which if you think about downtown Portland, it is the state's largest transit-oriented development area.
 And it's been so successful, and I think it is incredibly successful, because 40 years ago we had a vision of serving this downtown area with excellent public transit. And currently we provide about 45% of the commute trips into the downtown area, allowing it to grow and prosper. So if you think about this, this is the last – try this analogy on – pedal on the flower of light rail for our region –
 So how does that meet the need? I think we may have to go back to the drawing board on that. Pink spoke in the wheel. I didn't want to use the spoke thing again. The last pedal usually falls off. How does it meet that need? Well, 400,000 people, as Commissioner Novick noted, are coming to the region in the next 20 years. Some of us think that's a conservative estimate.
 We have never built these lines for today. We always build them for the future. And it is why this community has stayed ahead of the curve in terms of transportation for all these last 30, 40 years of increased growth. And I want to be really candid. This is a hard project, and it's an expensive project. But to some extent, they all have been hard and expensive projects.
 But can we imagine the city today and the downtown without the investments we've made in the past? And as we think where we'll be in 20 years, I think we'd all want to be in a position where we say we did invest in this last spoke or last pedal. And we were proud of that investment as opposed to saying it was just too hard and we didn't want to take it on. And as a Southwest Corridor resident myself, I think I can be a little provincial about this and say what's in it for the city of Portland?
 Well, directly, we'll rebuild Barber Boulevard, which some people, some of my neighbors, would call Taming the Beast. It will have sidewalks, bike lanes, and help meet the city's objectives for the Barber Concert Plan, as Joe eloquently outlined, providing some really amazing sites for housing. Okay.
 We also understand that the Southwood Corridor neighborhoods have a general lack of sidewalks and bike lanes, as Malou noted. And it makes it difficult for people to get to transit, to get to shopping, to get to schools, to get to the things that they need to do to run their daily lives. And so this project, I believe, is an essential element of bringing that infrastructure up to another level of success for the residents in the area.
 And just a final note, Metro has forecasted that more people would be likely to board the Southwest Corridor train in 2035 than live in the city of Lake Oswego today. So this is a major investment in the corridor travel and the economic viability of the whole Southwest sector of our region and of your city.
 so i heard your support for this and to join in leveraging the contributions that have come from odot washington county trimet metro tiger durham and tualatin and with that happy to answer any questions thank you thank you i think we have some questions uh dan i appreciate this presentation i'm very excited about the prospects of high capacity transit in the barber corridor as as you know uh i guess i want to just drill down a little bit on
 what we're talking about being more intentional about making sure affordable housing is constructed in this new corridor so i'm trying that typically when you build lines you you do purchase lots of property and i guess i'm curious how we're going to integrate
 properties you acquire with redevelopment potential for affordable housing? And is affordable housing development a strategy that is discussed in the draft environmental impact statement? I mean, I guess I would argue it should be. I don't know what the current rules are, and EIS is what's in the scoping and what's not, but I guess we could always be different and try to be upfront and address this issue from the very outset, I would argue.
 Commissioner, thank you very much for that question, because I think it is sort of as we have all become much more aware of the growth and the pressures on our housing stock in the city and the region, I think we have to put this on the forefront of all of our thinking and everything we do. I agree with that. And an example of our past strategy, which I would contend we need to grow, maybe put on steroids if you will, is that we have
 acquired opportunity parcels for construction staging and then have turned those parcels over into opportunities for uh for housing development when we started flight rail construction that was largely to demonstrate transitory into development well candidly we don't need to do that now the the goal of these same sorts of strategies will be affordable housing
 And I can give you two examples along the current alignments where we're working to do that right now. There are many more, but one is up at our site at Argyle, just sort of kitty corner from Paul Bunyan in the Kenton neighborhood. We've been working with the Housing Bureau, as you know, and Portland Development Commission on a site which is the northwest corner of Argyle and Interstate,
 and we will be integrating affordable housing into a proposal that will be hitting the streets here shortly, a request for a proposal that will be hitting the streets here shortly. And, again, that's a partnership with the city agencies as well as TriMet writing down property in order to achieve that outcome. Similarly, we have another parcel that's at 18th and Salmon across the street from, if you will, the Mac Club in the vicinity of San Diego.
 of the Civic Stadium. I'm not using the current. Thank you. Providence Park. And again, we're working with your staff and others and our intention is to include inclusionary zoning provisions as we offer that parcel as well so that we'll make sure that we are frankly responsive to that current request.
 And, again, I think that those are examples. I think that when we begin to look at this, and it will be actually part of the DEIS, the consideration of housing strategies, equity strategies. We're much stronger in that regard than I think we have been historically, and they will be in the forefront of this work. I appreciate your examples, and I know TriMet's got great intentions.
 redeveloping property it's purchased, including for affordable housing. So affordable housing strategy and relative impacts of options will be looked at in the draft environmental impact statement. Commissioner, if I can just add to that. Metro also, as we'll be embarking on the environmental impact statement, we also are looking to both a
 apply the work that we're doing on the equitable housing program in the Southwest Corridor. And so we have staff who are available to help do that. And we're also hoping we have another round of community planning and development grants that are upcoming that are housing focused. And we see a real opportunity to align some of that with the Southwest Corridor effort. So we are looking to be sure that there is as much as possible of an alignment between the work that we're undertaking to
 to invest in transportation to bring along the housing component with it. So, yes, it will be part of the EIS. And Malou has a lot to report there, but another program in her department is the transit-oriented development program. It's a modest effort when viewed from a regional scale, but Metro is able to invest up to $500,000 per project worldwide.
 for development proposals in transit-oriented development locations, such as station areas, that will deliver transit benefits.
 the team at Metro has recalibrated with the Federal Transit Administration's approval the criteria we use so they now look at affordability as one of the additional opportunities for adding ridership so that more units can be incentivized to be affordable. And we look forward to working with the city's tools in that area. Great. Thank you. Can I follow up on something Dan just mentioned? So I make a bold prediction that the four people that you see up here today are,
 We'll be sitting here when we take up the locally preferred alternative. So, and I think increasingly the council is of a mind to put conditions on dollars that go into projects. And I'm going to direct this question to Bob because I have no doubt that people of goodwill can be opportunistic in looking for options along the route.
 But I think what this council is likely to say is we want to actually have hard numbers, goals, and we want to make sure all of our tools are put to the service of accomplishing those goals. Bob, in addition to tag-teaming with Sam Chase and being the champions for affordable housing at Metro, you're a former planning director. So you have a breadth of experience on this, and I think one of the things that we would benefit from as this process matures is,
 is what are the prescriptive things that we need to start baking into every funding allocation that we make, where we're being intentional about our values and we are being clear about what the goals are. And my guess is that even though the locally preferred alternative discussion is a couple years down the road, that a lot of real estate speculation is already occurring in anticipation of where that line might go. So the window is narrowing in a sense. Right.
 And so what we'll be looking for is some guidance as to what conditions we can put on our funding component of this project, because obviously the council is very supportive of this project, that ensures that we meet measurable goals on affordable housing, not just good intentions. Any feedback? Sure. Well, first, as Joe pointed out during his remarks to council, Portland staff, both
 through the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, PBOT, and Housing, and PDC have been leaders in the Powell Division corridor work. The Portland Action Plan is a plan, among other things, for housing affordability. And what I would not counter but suggest in addition to your remarks about conditions is a sense of partnership around that.
 The city has been given, along with other cities and counties in Oregon, a tool that has long been denied, which is inclusionary zoning as an opportunity to require, with appropriate incentives for the private developer, the provision of up to 20 percent of the units in a market rate building for affordable tenants or affordable buyers. That requires some investment by the city, but it's
 it's a pattern that ought to be considered wherever we're making significant investments in transit, as well as areas that are already demonstrating market strength that merits imposition of those conditions in a thoughtful way. And I know that Commissioner Saltzman is leading that effort to take the –
 inclusionary zoning opportunity, and the ability to adopt a construction excise tax to help fund some of those incentives and otherwise provide for affordable housing. In the sessions, actions last session, the legislature neglected or failed to include metro among the governmental levels that can exercise that policy.
 excise tax. So we won't be able to assist financially, at least until after the 2017 session, if we have another bite at that apple, because we believe that there's an opportunity to have a region-wide construction excise tax approach as opposed to only in those willing communities that are ready to exercise the tool. So that's one commitment I think we can make going forward to keep working as a partner. Yeah.
 The partnership, let's take the model, though, of urban renewal, where we've had some hits and some misses. We have been at least intentional about setting the aspirational goals.
 And can we take the same thinking to this project where we look at the length and breadth of the line and we set some goals for the mix of housing, the number of houses that are affordable, and then look to see how through prescriptive measures like perhaps TriMet deciding that no land that it owns will be developed without an inclusionary housing component or something.
 or first choice going to affordable housing development the way you've done on interstate a couple of occasions to great success or those kinds of things. Do we need to have those policies up front to sort of keep us on track down the road to make sure we get the outcomes we want?
 Commissioner, I think that's a really good point. I like the way that you're thinking about it, and I believe that we will be able to identify what those policies and goals and tools should be through the stationary planning work that we do as we move through an environmental impact statement, and then I think your staff will be able to have worked through that process to identify what types of policies
 metrics you want to put at the time of an LPA. So I think that we will, the work that we'll be doing through the next two year process will end up with what you're looking for. How will the community be involved in things like deciding about the tunnel to PCC and then ongoing? How will you include the work that's already been done in some of Portland's neighborhoods and others?
 So, Commissioner Fritz, the work that all of the input that the community has been providing and will continue to be providing up until the time that the steering committee considers action on whether or not to further study the PCC Sylvania Tunnel on May 9th, all of that will be provided to the steering committee members when the time comes.
 We'll have a public engagement report that we will provide to the steering committee a week before the steering committee meeting. But we have been trying to all along –
 provide the information that we're hearing from the public and the feedback that we're hearing from the public on our website and with updates that go out to our, I think we have an over 900 person interested parties list. So we send out information in that way. So we both share it with the steering committee members. We share it back to those who are interested in the project and we try to provide it on our website. So that, all of that will be available for the steering committee members as they are asked to consider. We've also had like online
 surveys that thousands of people have participated in. Right, I understand that. I'm wondering how you sort the input from transit riders who either use PCC or live in the neighborhood south of Barber. If you've got all of that input, how do you get the piece from those who would or would not use transit south of Barber?
 We've tried to break it. We don't always have all of the information in every way that we would like to sort it. We've done focus groups in coordination with Portland Community College and with the staff from the city for both students.
 students who attend the Sylvania campus for faculty and staff who go to the Sylvania campus. And then we've also worked with the neighborhood associations that are all there. There are a number that are around the Portland Community College Sylvania campus. And a number of them have done their own surveys. And so we have that information as well. Yeah, I noted that you had the West Portland Park survey. I didn't see one from far southwest. We have that.
 Oh, good. And how about ongoing input from Southwest Neighborhoods Inc.? How is that going to be incorporated into the planning? As the Commissioner will remember, there's a component of our intergovernmental agreement that ensures that Sweeney and the neighborhood associations that are part of Sweeney will receive adequate time from the announcement of a proposal to,
 until a decision on that proposal for review internally and then among and between the neighborhoods under the aegis of Sweeney so that in those cases where there's strong agreement on one or another outcome,
 that agreement can be expressed as a formal position of the neighborhoods in Sweeney. And when there isn't, we have the benefit of the contrasting views. And just as recently as our last meeting earlier this month, we heard a presentation by staff of the recommendations for the next narrowing of options. We received them, took no action, had a public hearing, and then we had a one-hour forum –
 because we're not going to make a decision for another month. We're not on an express train here. We're on a train of deliberation that respects and acknowledges the important role of the citizens in the court.
 Thank you. I did remember that. I just wanted you to say it on the record. Thank you. I remember it, too. As the only decision maker on the city council who lives in the neighborhood near PCC, Pennsylvania, I'd like to give you my input. As somebody who's responsible for balancing many different aspects of the budget, I don't think it's cost effective to do the tunnel. And if we could just please Mr. McFarland have the 44 bus run a little more often, that would be very helpful.
 He's working on both those options. We have service improvements coming this next year. Okay, thank you. I don't want to raise the pressure on you, Neil, but depending on the outcome of the mayor's race, there could be as many as four members of this body that will be using this line to commute to work. So it would be quite unprecedented. Well, I wanted some comments on that, Commissioner, because Commissioner Saltzman, how long have you been on the council? Eighteen years. Eighteen.
 18 years. So there's now three of us who live in Southwest, and we've done an appalling job of bringing home the pork to Southwest. You mentioned it's Southwest's turn. It's the last turn. It's the last spoke of the wheel to be done, and rightly so, because other areas of the city needed it more. But when you look at the photograph that Malou showed of the elderly couple in the dirt along Barber, I was surprised.
 to see the picture of the young men at the bus shelter. There's very few bus shelters anywhere near there. So I appreciate the attention to this, and I think for those who say that district representation is better, the three of us who currently live in Southwest would be tossed if we were being judged on how much benefit we put to our area. I object. So I would thank you for your patience in that regard, I think, Alex.
 we have seven people who signed up to testify. We may lose one or more of you. Neil, can I just say before you go, um, heartfelt thank you for the orange line, Silicon crossing. And, um, I live in Northeast Portland and, and I've discovered a bike route on the weekends. It takes me down to the river, back and forth across the bridge, out, uh, the spring water corridor back through Brooklyn and the magnificent bike infrastructure along the orange line and then home. And, um,
 It really is a magnificent piece of engineering and execution. And Citi is very proud of what you've done, but you probably don't hear that enough. So I just want to thank you for the great work you've done. Well, thank you very much. And, again, Citi has been a great partner in all of this. I see. I see Teresa Boyle smiling at that. And Teresa on the back as well. Thank you. Thank you. Carla, we have seven people signed up.
 We also have another time certain backed up, so we're going to invite everyone to come forward. You'll have two minutes, and we welcome your testimony. Carla, would you? We have a substitute on this. Commissioner, did you want to? You want to offer a substitute, Steve? Wait a minute. Carla says you have a substitute. Commissioner, you have a substitute. I must have a substitute. I second. Second. All right. It's been moved and seconded. Carla, please call the roll. Could Teresa maybe tell us what the substitute is or just –
 We originally pulled the paperwork back to add some language at the request of Sweeney, language that I had omitted because it was the second time around, and I felt things were clear and they wanted clarification that way. I also got some feedback that my explanation of the financials could be fine-tuned a little bit. So we fine-tuned it.
 great thank you very much yeah well so we will not take a vote on the substitute it is on the table we'll take testimony on the substitute and then we'll take a vote carla please call up the first four i seconded the substitute first four are charles johnson mary kyle mccurdy sheila greenlaw fink and david davis welcome everybody and uh mr johnson if you could kick us off certainly thank you president fish um it was good that you were able to uh
 go even into the depths of Commissioner Schatzman's 18 years of experience on this body, because I think some of us...
 that don't live in the southwest are always a little concerned as east siders or whatever it's not fair it's not fair always southwest so it's good to know that uh and having rid uh ridden whatever the bus uh down barber uh obviously there's room for uh work here i also want to thank commissioner saltzman for uh asking if the eis is scoped
 to include housing and affordable housing. After having the public comment earlier where we learned about some of the failures in our community to do the right thing in partnership with Legacy Emanuel, it would be great if we can, not just on this project but on all projects, try and pressure for state and federal issues that include scoping for affordable housing issues.
 When we talk about transit, sometimes we talk about automobile reduction, and it gets us in an awkward position. There are going to be people living in the city of Portland. We don't know how many of the people coming will be these people, but already in Portland we have tens of thousands of people for who a car is not really a financially feasible option, and yet we want to use transit to dissuade even more and more, to persuade people to not have cars.
 So we need to definitely have – try and get clear language about how we're going to make sure that low-income people don't get displaced from access to transit. I would try, as we have wealthy Californians coming in who may or may not have cars, but will give up their car if they can have their $2 million condo walk out the front door to transit. Some people say rich people don't like transit access. I think we're seeing a changing –
 type of migration. So I hope this intergovernmental agreement can be diligently finessed by yourselves and your successors to get those improvements in Southwest. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Welcome.
 Good morning, Council President Fish and members of the Commission. My name is Mary Kyle McCurdy, Policy Director and Staff Attorney at 1000 Friends of Oregon. The Southwest corridor will cause a significant investment into a defined geographic area of much needed transit and other active transportation improvements. And that offers both a challenge and an opportunity. The challenge, as we've seen locally and nationally, is that this type of investment almost always causes significant involuntary displacement of residents and businesses. But the
 But the opportunity is the funding and partnerships in this corridor for a successful project that has the opportunity to do it right this time, investing in communities as well as the transportation facilities. The remarks we heard earlier today about the failure of the promises of Emanuel Hospital heightened the need for the city council to provide direction to appropriate city bureaus,
 that as part of the IGA and draft environmental impact statement, there will be a plan, funding, and implementation strategy to maintain and increase affordable and diverse housing opportunities in the corridor with safe access to the facility, and similar economic development plan that focuses on growing local businesses and employment opportunities, again, as part of this project.
 There are many strategies and resources to do this, and we'd be happy to work further with your staff and Metro and others on this. Some examples include implementation of the anti-displacement measures that are now moving through City Council, aggressive use of the inclusionary zoning authority the city has after Senate Bill 1533, especially in transit-oriented developments, and especially to push it below the 80% area median income that you were limited to by that bill.
 ongoing throughout the time of the project and throughout the entire corridor intensive community engagement and focus groups Community benefit agreements and community land trusts, especially as was talked about earlier on land That's acquired for construction purposes. These can be used for community and housing needs. Thank you I'm press the button at the base
 Sheila Green-Luffink. I reside at 628 Southwest Chestnut in Southwest Portland, a few blocks from potential stops on the new line. But I'm more interested in the development and have been over the last several years working with Metro and all the local jurisdictions in planning for the line because of the concern I have for an equitable community, including affordable housing for folks that live and work in Southwest Portland, Southeastern Washington County, and
 having participated in a number of probably half a dozen different groups, including Metro ID Southwest with Commissioner Novick and others, the Metro Planning Housing Land Use Groups, Tigard Station Planning, Tigard Triangle, and TIGERD.
 having co-chaired the Hillsdale Neighborhood Association during this really exciting period, I want to commend staff at all the jurisdictions who've been so actively involved. We never had a negative response when we asked, which was constantly for folks to come out and give us updates. So it's been, I think, a good amount of stakeholder outreach, and that'll need to continue. So not to repeat what you have already asked of Metro and what other folks have asked you for,
 We just hope that as you go through the environmental impact statement process and really start on this line, that affordable housing, we do set really tangible targets. I don't think 30% to 50% would be out of line, just as it is in TIF districts. It will take resources to get there, and those have been spoken of. We have some new opportunities with inclusionary zoning. I look forward to seeing the kickoff of that in Portland on Tuesday. And I hope that we can, in Washington County, have some of the jurisdictions follow suit
 As usual, you may be taking the lead and pushing some of those new tools into practice, and we really appreciate that. So just to reiterate, a lot of new tools will need to come to bear, and we look forward to working with you in a variety of ways as community stakeholders and as affordable housing developers. Ruth Adkins couldn't be here from the Oregon Opportunity Network today, but I think she would have echoed the same comments. Inclusionary zoning, set a tangible target, and let us help you get there. Thank you.
 Carla, could you please call the remaining people up? The last three are Monty Silliman, Steve Plambeck, and Marianne Fitzgerald. Marianne, it looks like you've got the table to yourself. Welcome. Are there any more? No.
 I was late because of that legendary traffic today, but I did provide written comments to try to be brief about this. Southwest Neighborhoods has been engaged in this plan for over five years. We've submitted letters over and over again, and we consistently recommend that this plan improve access to job services and educational opportunities, enhance safety for all transportation modes,
 improve pedestrian, bicycle, and transit infrastructure, and preserve and enhance livability in our neighborhoods. We did meet with staff this spring to review progress on the plan and the language in the draft IGA with Metro. The dialogue that we had resulted in changes that resolved the issues that we raised this spring.
 We appreciate the language, such as the ordinance section 2, that the Southwest Corridor HCT plan emphasized and respect the community's land use vision as reflected in the Barber concept plan and other adopted area and neighborhood plans. The land use vision is very important to us. And I should note that I haven't heard too much pushback about density on Barber. I know you've heard from several neighbors about density, but Barber seems to be the appropriate place for this type of housing.
 We really appreciate the efforts of staff to communicate with Sweeney and neighborhood representatives as this project approaches key decisions in developing the preferred alternatives that will be further studied in the draft environmental impact phase. We particularly commend City Staff Erica Nebel and Teresa Boyle and Metro Staff Chris Ford for their responsiveness to our concerns.
 We know that a lot of additional work is needed to design the system and select critical transportation projects and the shared investment strategy that are needed to access stations and key destinations, particularly because of the legendary lack of sidewalks and bicycle infrastructure and lack of transit in our neighborhoods and along Barber. Sweeney intends to stay fully engaged in this process.
 We look forward to the day when this high-capacity transit system enhances transit access to key destinations in Southwest Corridor. And we want to thank you and thank staff for listening and responding to our concerns. And thank you. Lightning, welcome. Yes. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Media PDX. Thank you.
 One of the concerns I always have on some of these large transportation projects when we're getting to the billions of dollars is that I want to have more of an emphasis, and I think I do commend Commissioner Saltzman, again, for emphasizing affordable housing, utilizing inclusionary zoning. But one of the things I think we really miss on some of these larger projects is that we have to have an understanding that,
 Using an example of Nike that they have a tremendous amount of employees that are working downtown And when we provide this type of infrastructure We have to stress to some of these larger corporations that there is a responsibility For you to develop workforce housing. It's one thing to create jobs It's another thing to utilize the current housing market out there for your employees and
 But it's another thing to start planning in the future and understanding that if you don't start investing in the affordable housing, we're going to have some very serious problems on being able to provide housing for the overall market. And when these opportunities are presented, now is the time for these larger corporations to step up and understand that these are great opportunities also –
 to invest along these type of transportation lines and systems here. And understand that when you're building more workforce housing, affordable housing, that also takes the real stress away from the city of Portland on trying to provide housing within the overall market. So now is the time to step up and understand that we can't continue to go in the same direction
 And we need your assistance to step up and start investing in these type of projects in affordable housing along these systems. Thank you. Thank you, Lightning. Steve, I guess what we're going to do now is take a vote on the substitute, and then this would go to a second reading next week. Is that correct? Exactly. Colleagues? Yes, President Pesce. I have one quick question for Joe Zender, if I may. Joe, can you come forward?
 Thank you. Could you just remind the council and the community what we're doing, what you're proposing to do with the zoning around the Barbara Corridor and the West Portland Town Center in the comprehensive plan? You know, Eric, if I could ask you to come up. Oh, Eric's here too. Sorry. Eric knows more specifically. And I just meant in general. We're moving in the direction of it being a center as it was designated. Hi. Good morning. Eric Engstrom with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 The corridor in general has been designated as a civic corridor in the comprehensive plan, which allows us to have the full range of mixed-use zoning densities available within the plan area.
 The starting zoning is still under discussion at the Planning and Sustainability Commission, so there's a choice to be made as to whether we – the timing of when that zoning change occurs, but it would be possible to use the denser CM3 mixed-use zoning at some of the more important nodes. It's just a matter of when we decide that that's appropriate.
 In the West Portland Town Center? Including the West Portland Town Center and the area near the Fred Meyer area, as well as kind of that middle section. And then, of course, we have the campus designation at PCC. Thank you very much. Okay. So we have a substitute on the table. Carla, would you please call the roll? Substitute?
 Well, I appreciate the opportunity to revisit the Southwest Corridor, and it's really exciting, as I said, and I hope that we all marshal our forces together, the city and metro and TriMed and the other cities that are participating in this group to really seize this opportunity to integrate affordable housing opportunities at the outset and to make it more intentional. And so this is great. I'm very excited about it and pleased about it. No, thank you.
 Really appreciate the engagement of my colleagues on this issue. Really appreciate our partners coming here on what was really sort of a ministerial action, but an opportunity to talk again about the importance of this project and our goals for it. So thank you. Hi. Hi.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for you and your staff taking more time to refine the proposal since the one earlier this year. Thank you to Mary Ann Fitzgerald and Southwest Mablets for your ongoing engagement, and to all of the staff and our community partners. It is indeed Southwest's turn, finally, and it should be noted that it's the last turn. It's the last spoken meeting.
 and that if we did have district representation, Commissioner Salzman's been on the council for 18 years, I for seven, and Commissioner Novick for three. For those who worry that we somehow don't represent the entire city of Portland, I need to note that this is the last one, that I have allocated $36 million to East Portland Parks since I've been Parks Commissioner, a fraction of that in Southwest,
 and elsewhere around the city too. So I personally believe that the commission form of government makes us all responsible for a wide range of decisions, and that's a good thing for our community. I also appreciate the concerns that have been raised about affordable housing. My neighborhood, West Portland Park, has a significant amount of Section 8 housing. It has the only Title I school on the west side.
 We're looking for where there's a significant proportion of the children having free and reduced lunch. And so I want to make sure personally as well as professionally that as we develop this plan that we continue to keep a mixed-income neighborhood that is cherished in Southwest. It's regretful that we sold off the Fire Bureau property on Barber under Commissioner Leonard in May.
 know that probably will want to buy it back and it'll cost us more.
 At that point, we weren't sure that this project was going to be able to move forward, and now we are. And so we do need to be looking mindfully about what acquisitions do we need to make. And I appreciated the discussion of the construction staging and the need for that. And then let's make sure that the public benefits from the significant public investment. And again, I don't believe that should include the tunnel to PCC. Just because of the return on that investment doesn't, to me, pencil out.
 The rest of the project is really exciting. I'm kind of disappointed that we're currently going to be finishing at Bridgeport Village. I hope that eventually it will go further out and serve more people, because when I get on a MAX train at rush hour and they're packed and I'm thinking that one operator is getting all those people safely home, I really appreciate the system that we've built together. Thank you very much. Bye. Thank you.
 Yes. Thanks for a great presentation. I'm going to vote aye, and this matter moves to a second reading next week. Thank you all. Carla, we have a second time certain, and I think we've set something of a record today because we're actually within about 15 minutes of the time that it's set for. So would you please call, would you please read item number 382? Thank you.
 Acknowledge the engineering contributions of the professional and technical employees, Local 17, and create the City of Portland Professional Employees Association Value Capture Program to leverage funding for design and construction of transportation and stormwater infrastructure.
 Thank you. And I'm about to acknowledge and introduce Commissioner Novick. But for those of you who are here for other items, following this item, we'll go to 384, which has been lifted from the consent, and then we'll move to our regular agenda. Commissioner Novick. Thank you, President Fish. Colleagues, on this item, I...
 know that we circulated a substitute amendment. This substitute makes changes to the resolution to add a new provision suggested by Commissioner Fritz requiring an annual report about LIDs. The
 The substitute also makes changes to address issues raised by the Chief Financial Officer in the City Budget Office. These changes add important clarity as to how the incremental property tax revenue will be calculated. There's also a change to clarify and ensure that Council will consider appropriations from LIDs for value capture revenue during the normal budget process each year. Carla has copies of the substitute. I ask for a second. Second. Thank you.
 So the purpose of this resolution is to acknowledge the contributions of our friends at Copia and also to bring forward a proposal that they've been talking about and refining over the last couple of years. We all know that they're busy.
 lots of places in the city where we have unimproved streets. We have no street at all, or we have a street without a curb. We know that we have these things called LIDs, which we approve periodically, but not very often. What Kapia suggested is that we...
 to establish a program where we look at the additional property tax revenue that is generated by the value of property being enhanced by the LADs that do exist. And then the council could look at that and
 in the annual budget process decide, we are going to take this value capture, capture, you know, we are going to take this value generated by prior LID improvements and use it to help supplement what local property owners are able to come up with in future LIDs in order to ensure that more LIDs actually happen. It's definitely very much a pay it forward concept.
 So we have two panels to present on this item. First, Amy Bowles from CAPIA, Steve Townsend from PBOT, and economist Mark DeLacy will provide an overview. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for those introductory remarks, and thank you, Council, for the opportunity to present today. First, I would like to start off with a few comments.
 As Commissioner Novick indicated, my name is Amy Bowles. I am with PTE Local 17, Professional and Technical Employees Local 17. And I'm here today on behalf of COPIA, City of Portland Professional Employee Association, specifically the COPIA chapter of PTE 17. And I am proud to be here. I'm proud to present this resolution on behalf of the hard work of our COPIA chapter members at PBOT and across the city.
 This resolution and this project proposal was really the brainchild of John Wood in close collaboration with Ruthann Bennett. Both of those folks are PBOT employees or former PBOT employees. John Wood is recently retired and actually present in the audience with us today. And Ruthann Bennett will later be addressing council in public testimony remarks. John Wood and also Ruthann Bennett, um,
 Both noticed a pattern of development opportunities that others hadn't seen, and they noticed this throughout their experience working through PBOT and on all the engineering projects that they work on. John and Ruth-Ann are two engineers at PBOT who have really exemplified the contributions of CoPIA employees at the city, specifically within their bureau at PBOT. Our members are proud to be city employees and consistently provide quality infrastructure work.
 And the engineers at PBOT solve intractable engineering problems that add incredible value to the city, to infrastructure, and also to the Bureau specifically. And the projects that they work on are not easy. And it's really fantastic that we have these incredible resources in-house within the Bureau at PBOT. Later, Steve Towns will highlight some of the innovative and highly technical projects that I've referenced. And for now, we will move on to the first slide. And do you all have the…
 PowerPoint present in front of you? Okay, great. So the LID project proposal we have been working on for approximately the last two years. And on this first slide we'd like to show a 15-year snapshot of LIDs as just one option to build infrastructure within the city of Portland.
 This program, as we've mentioned, has been in collaboration with COPEA, and COPEA has closely been involved in and worked with LIDs since the function centralized in PBOT in 2000. The LID process used to be scattered in multiple city bureaus and in multiple places in the code, and there was a question whether LIDs and engineering solutions would even be viable moving forward. LID program works with property owners and on project financing, and COPEA employs engineering expertise.
 COPEA has designed most of the 35 LIDs formed since 2000. Despite the lack of new funding sources, such as value capture and past funding sources, such as CDBG block grant funding and PDC urban renewal funds, we've been able to whittle away at the backlog of unpaved streets over the past 15 years by about 7.2% due to these LIDs. And our COPEA colleagues who handle permit engineering have helped as well.
 The figures above on the slide show the differential that would exist in the absence of LIDs, and block by block we continue to reduce that backlog. But to be clear, LIDs are not the only tool available. And now I will turn it over to Steve Townsend. My name is Steve Townsend. I'm the City Engineer and Chief Engineer for Transportation. I've been in the position about for 10 years. And so over the years I've had a great opportunity to see some of the projects that the COPEA staff have worked on, particularly on these LIDs.
 And if you take a look at the slide that Amy's putting up here, the issue of how to pay for streets, how to improve streets has been around for a long time. I mean, as you can see, these slides are going back over 100 years, so this is not a new situation the city's faced. And one of the things about it is with the LIDs, a lot of things we've been able to attack has been the unimproved streets.
 Most of the unimproved streets are there because all of the easy projects were already done sometime in the past. Unfortunately, our engineering expertise has greatly increased over the last century, and we've got ways to try to address some of these. As engineers, we design projects to last and to minimize lifecycle costs, recognizing that today's maintenance dollars are quite limited, as you are well aware. We design streets so they are not a financial burden on the next generation.
 And while learning from history, we try new things in the spirit of continuous improvements. These infill or retrofit type projects are the most difficult. They're much more difficult than just having a green field to go do work on. And I have a few slides to kind of show you some of the projects that the COPEA members have worked on and their accomplishments.
 For those of you in Southwest, because I heard, I know Amanda and Steve, you guys live in that area. If you guys are familiar with Southwest Texas, this is a huge accomplishment out there. It was a very steep, unimproved street out there. When I first came to the city, I worked in environmental services doing the design of the storm improvements, and I thought this project would never be built. It's at the headwaters of Stevens Creek.
 And with it, BES was also doing a bunch of work along Stevens Creek in the drainage area. And with this project being built and the other projects that BES also did, and this one being right at the headwaters of Stevens Creek, they are now salmon in a portion of Stevens Creek in southwest Portland that were not there today. And this project would be part of that improvement to help make that happen. Our next slide, northeast Alberta.
 Here's a second example of a project that CAPIA staff worked on. Now, this giant puddle no longer blocks access to bicyclists, pedestrians, and motorists in the underserved Cully neighborhood. In addition, it also provided an opportunity to mentor an underrepresented employee who is an engineering intern who has used this opportunity to go on and have a great career after getting her start at the City of Portland. Now, here's a photo just a block away showing –
 how the street's been improved since that time. And our next slide, the third project is at Southeast 119th and Pine, which is just a short walk from the Max Line. This intersection still looked this way 16 years after light rail started opening on the Blue Line to Gresham in 1986. Okay.
 Despite the proximity to transit, market failure prevented this area from developing until the city stepped in with an LID and some funding to make these street improvements possible. I'm going to go to the next slide. So this is what it looks like today. Okay.
 uh or during construction and before i hand this off to bart uh i just want to talk about as the city engineer this is one of the i think this is a great opportunity to try to capture some of these revenues and address the 55 miles of unpaved streets that has been an issue since for the last 10 years that i've been the city engineer and i know commissioner saltzman you've seen it for 18 years probably keep picking on dan's 18 years here
 This brought it up earlier. But anyway, this would just be a tool to try to have some seed money to be able to try to address these streets. And so with that, I'd like to go ahead and hand this off to Bart Lacey, who's going to expand on the concept of market failure and also value capture. Welcome, Bart. When's the last time you came before council? Yeah.
 1995, I believe. Wow. It was to discuss city parking policies. We're honored that every 20 years you grace our building with your presence. Thank you very much. My name is Barton DeLacy. I'm an evaluation counselor appraiser, now based in Chicago, but formerly from Portland, Portland's home. And I'm here today because –
 One of your valued employees, Andrew Abbey, asked for some help, and a lot of my work is pro bono. And to me, he asked if I could put together a white paper to address the obvious economic benefits of this type of program and to weigh in with some of my experience around the country. And I believe you have a copy of that paper with the ordinance available.
 And I guess my purpose here is to validate the economic soundness of the project and to provide perspective to remind the council that, in fact, under other kinds of names in Chicago, they call it tax increment financing. But in order for a city to intervene and improve blight –
 the positive impacts of that real estate development, either through tax collections or other mechanisms, is accepted. It's, in fact, a best practice. And to see that adopted here has...
 has made obvious improvements in areas such as 148th and Airport Way, 119th and Pine Street, which Steve was just showing you. That is an area that, in fact, when light rail went out, you would have thought,
 well, gee, that's why we have light rail, that transit-oriented development might happen here. It didn't. And a market failure is whenever – is a time that the city needs to intervene. So when the city provides affordable housing, that's because the market fails to provide housing for a portion of the population that is underserved. Obviously, when –
 Cities build streets and sewers through greenfield areas that aids and abets development. But what do you do in these pockets that have been left behind? And there's an urgency right now because, in fact, the market in Portland is very hot. You want to do two things. You want to channel that growth and development. At the same time, you don't want to encourage sprawl.
 So what better way to do it than to focus that development on the underserved areas, take advantage of a boom in the market, and, you know, frankly, without access, which is what we're really talking about here, if you don't have access to a site, it's not going to get developed. Development favors the prepared mind or the prepared site, you might say. In conclusion, I just want to – it appears to me as a land economist that this –
 precept here is unassailable. It's absolutely one of the better ways the city can intervene, lower the bar for redevelopment in the areas that need it most. And if there are any questions or
 Let me ask a question based on that slide. Thank you for your explanation. And my understanding is this proposal is outside of urban renewal districts, so that's not changing the allocation and that it doesn't increase the property, doesn't change the property taxes that individual owners pay. It just directs the city to put it in a different place. Exactly. Is that correct? Yes. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. On the next slide, I'll briefly go over how this program will work. And the goal, as indicated on the slide, is an economically sustainable cycle of public infrastructure and private investments.
 First, council will approve the COPEA value capture resolution, hopefully. Then the LID administrator will annually track an increase in city tax increment or incremental tax revenue. And this will be done in collaboration with the CFO and the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. Calculations will also be validated by the city economist.
 And a city tax increment from development above 3% will be used for the LIDs. So the only capture will be everything above 3%. Council will approve value capture funding upon the LID formation. All tax increment return to general fund after 20 years. And the city can only capture the city's share itself. Obviously, it can't capture the county's share or anyone else's share. This will be a pay-as-you-go. There will be no borrowing cost.
 There is no increase in administrative costs. This can all be done in the current confines of the administration and PBOT. And this will be targeted to R2.5 higher in commercial and industrial zoning areas. Could you explain why that is? I think it's an important piece.
 Yes, that is the areas that have, from what I understand, those are the areas that have the greatest opportunity for this value capture and for capturing this investment opportunity. So they're most likely to redevelop and then have more property taxes from that. That's correct. And we're not, under this proposal, going to be excusing property owners who would otherwise be required to develop a street by themselves. This proposal doesn't change that. That does not, no. No.
 So, it's just to give a little extra where it makes the difference between fostering the redevelopment and not. Yes. That is correct. Thank you. And then our final slide addresses project selection. And as we've previously discussed, there is an annual report to Council on LIDs and the Value Capture Program. So, Council will be briefed annually on how the last year went and on expectations for the following year.
 Property owners must have a willingness to participate in the program. They will not be necessarily forced to participate. There's an ability to generate tax increment for the city. In terms of geography, there's 95 neighborhoods infrastructure deficiency ranking. Equity will be considered under served populations.
 We also believe that this proposal and program will help achieve multiple city objectives, including housing as well as transportation accessibility objectives. Because with this will come the infrastructure for sidewalks and paved streets, et cetera, that will improve accessibility to transit. Approximated schools will also be considered as well as parks and transit objectives.
 financial need and inability to meet valuation to assessment ratio. And finally, council approves all use of value capture funds in each LID. So that's definitely a very important point. Council retains discretion. Every LID will come forward before council for a decision by council on whether or not to apply the program to that LID. Thank you.
 At this time, that concludes the slideshow. And we have three other presenters who are included as invited testimony. And also, Andrew Abbey is available to answer any questions and come forward, too. Thank you very much. Let's welcome up our next three speakers. Thank you. Our next three speakers are Monty Silliman from Riverview Bank, Joe Westerman, a potential future developer in Gateway, and Bob Rocholtz, potential future LID participant in East Portland. Why don't you come forward, everybody? Welcome. Thank you.
 Who would like to go first? I'm standing. I'll go first. Go ahead, sir. All we need is your name, and you have two minutes. My name is Joe Westerman, and I build and manage apartment communities in Portland. I've been doing it for 25 years, mostly in East Portland. First of all, I'd like to thank you for...
 One of the LIDs you approved, the 97th Avenue Green Street improvement that improved the streets, sidewalks, infrastructure along 97th. There was a lot there. The designers did a wonderful job of dealing with the utilities because it was set up for sparsely single-family homes, and now it is set up for apartment development.
 One of the big benefactors of the LID was the Rose Apartments built by Gordon Jones. Because of the LID, he was able to build a 90-unit apartment building consisting of affordable housing and market rate units there.
 And after he built that, some good things happened to the neighborhood. First people in the neighborhood realized that the neighborhood was changing for the better. In East Portland, where the Rose was built, the city rezoned that land several years ago for many more housing units.
 The city had very good vision in rezoning. It's a great place to have more housing, but the infrastructure just isn't there, and that's where the LID is so effective. It started the ball rolling with the Rose Apartments, and once the Rose started...
 I started acquiring houses south of the Rose and I acquired them and they were in disrepair. There was a couple drug houses that were closed down. I have rehabilitated them and have rented them and made them safe housing. And this is all because of the LIDs.
 probably the best example of one of the houses. It was just south of the Rose Apartments. It was a triplex. Complete disrepair. It just didn't look good. Lots of deferred maintenance, and I was able to purchase it. We cleaned up the trash can area. We have more garbage drops, and we have gone through all the units and have made it...
 very good housing now. And it's, again, the whole area started with the 97th LID. I have since purchased other houses there, and now I have enough land to build 130 units right south of the Rose. My
 My dream is to build 130 affordable housing units and market rate housing of some sort. I have never...
 thank you sir you have to wrap it up okay i've never built those uh but i uh i've talked to gordon and i'd like to have a dialogue with the city about this thank you so much for the uh lid well you have the full attention of the housing commissioner thank you sir welcome i'm monty silliman riverview community bank i was involved in the projects i've been involved in projects with joe before we financed the rose apartments for gordon jones and his investors and i will
 emphasizing in what Joe said, by having the LID, that allowed him to attract the investor partners that he was able to attract to make that project a go. That project was amazing for a lot of reasons. Again, the city getting the LID, the metro got involved in it because there was a lot of benefit there. They could not literally build those apartments fast enough. Most, you know, I guess generally speaking, when apartments are built, a bank figures it's going to take
 about 90 days to get about a 70% occupancy. In less than 30 days, Gordon had 93% occupancy. And the only reason he didn't have 100, because you have to go through and qualify people. I mean, they were literally putting paint on the walls and people were moving in. Great project. Revitalized that area. It was a big boon for that area. Riverview is a very community-conscious area.
 We love these kind of projects. We like the cooperation. These kind of projects without the LIDs and without people like Metro getting involved are not feasible. And that gateway area obviously has need when they grow, you know, fill up that fast. So it worked out real well.
 Guess that's all I'm going to say the LID is a wonderful tool and it It's the only way that people like Joe and Gordon can make these things happen. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome My name is Bob Russell and I have the button on that if you would here Now my name is Bob Russell. I Want to speak on supporting value capture? I think it's a great concept and
 And I want to add from personal experience, I want to underscore the importance of streets and sidewalks on property development and the tax revenue you'll realize from the improvements. In the late 60s, my wife and I built an 18-unit garden court complex on property next to Glen Fair Grade School.
 with frontage on then-developed Northeast Gleason. This frontage on an improved street allowed us to secure the maximum financing needed to construct quality units.
 We filled these units with families with children and enjoyed the community that developed over several decades, which we refer to our Camelot years. The quality units we were able to finance have continued to increase in value and demand. Mark Berry, a prominent multifamily appraiser, considered them the finest offered on the east side for three decades that I know of. Meanwhile, the adjacent unimproved street area,
 deteriorate. The four blocks from northeast Cooch to Gleason now have six houses that need to be replaced, three boarded up drug houses and three that are occupied at rents that don't support the purchase price needed to, excuse me, to obtain the land.
 We are committed to improving this street and our neighborhood as opportunities present themselves. It took three months to finance a property adjacent to the southern border of our property because of the deteriorated neighborhood. We had to invest $40,000 in improvements to the house just to achieve a value acceptable to a bank to secure financing.
 yet we also were required to commit to boarding up a drug house located on the property. Odds are it had street improvements comparable to the surrounding area much further out,
 existed four decades ago, neighborhood deterioration or development of drug houses may not have occurred. The properties on this street are next to a park and could have been developed with quality residential units or multifamily, preferably. And the increased property tax revenue that would have accrued to the city would have retired the street and sidewalk costs a long time ago. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you.
 Carla, I understand we have one person who signed up to testify? Yes, Ruth Ann Bennett. Ruth Ann, would you like to come forward? Thank you all very much. You're welcome. Grab a seat. Welcome. We just need your name, and you have three minutes. I'm Ruth Ann Bennett. Thank you for this opportunity to speak to you. As a PTE Local 17 COPEA Chapter member and as a Portland resident, I'm asking you to approve the COPEA Value Capture Program.
 When a street hasn't been built yet, or the sidewalks haven't been built, this can be a huge obstacle for property owners who want to build large additions to their homes or to construct new buildings. Local improvement districts allow multiple property owners to fund the construction of roads, sidewalks, streetlights, utilities, and the planting of street trees. This gives them the opportunity to make major improvements to their properties.
 The Copia Value Capture Program will capture the city's portion of property tax increases due to property development. This will make it possible to buy down the cost of street, sidewalk, and other frontage improvements for worthwhile local improvement districts approved by city council. We need streets to go to work, go to school, and to do so many other things. Road construction improves access for emergency services, roads,
 Sidewalk construction makes it easier for kids and seniors to go to school or the bus stop safely. Housing construction that follows street improvements help to eliminate our housing shortage. So I'm asking you to take this opportunity to help make our city a better place to live. Thank you. Thanks very much. Steve, is that the end of your presentation?
 It is, Mr. President. I believe that Commissioner Fritz has an amendment to offer, though. All right. So we have a substitute that is before the council. Commissioner Fritz has an amendment to the substitute? I just want to add a further, be it resolved, that the city council commends Ruthann Bennett, John Wood, and Andrew Abbey for their innovative work. Seconded.
 So we now have a substitute as amended by Commissioner Frist, without objection, as the amendment. Carla, would you please call the roll on the substitute? Then we will vote on the resolution. Do I not roll on the amendment? No, no, just by unanimous consent. We just adopted it. Okay, thank you. Saltzman? This is the final vote. No, we're adopting the substitute, then voting on the resolution. Okay, aye. Novick? Aye. Okay.
 Rich? Aye. Fish? Aye. All right. The substitute is adopted, and we will now go to a vote on the resolution. Carla, please call the roll. Saltzman? Well, I want to commend Copia, our members, particularly Ruthann and John, for thinking outside the box here and coming up with a very innovative idea to tackle that problem
 problem that's been around us for a long time those unpaved streets and that have been sort of fallen by the wayside and been neglected uh despite a lot of prosperity in the city so i think you've presented us with a great approach that we can uh not only capture the value here but make sure that that value gets channeled back into paving more streets and more sidewalks and curves and stormwater improvements to be remiss if i didn't mention that so thank you for this uh great thinking and i'm very pleased to support it bye
 I want to thank Kapia, especially Ruthann Bennett, John Wood, and Amy Bowles for their hard work developing this concept. I want to thank Andrew Abbey for working with them to develop the concept. This program is a great example of how our staff can innovate and improve our service, and we're well advised to listen to them.
 This particular innovation is what I'm especially interested in because of increased resources for infrastructure investments. As you've heard today, LIDs are an important tool neighborhoods have for improving the infrastructure they use every single day. By tracking the contribution of these LED investments to increase property values, they
 This program creates the opportunity to reinvest and bring LEDs within the reach of even more neighborhoods. While the amount of the revenue identified by this program is projected to be modest, even a small amount can go a long way. And in all these transportation issues, it's become more clear and clearer that there are no silver bullets, but there are silver buckshot. I vote aye and thank my colleagues for their support.
 Commissioner Novick for your leadership on this and for taking some of my amendments regarding making sure that we do consider equity in the distribution of the funding. Thank you to Ruthann Bennett, John Wood and Andrew Abbey. I wanted to amend the resolution so that your names are in the record for perpetuity. They are in the documentation of the City Council's minutes, but this will make it easier for in the future people to know who it was who came up with this really innovative idea, which did not take a penny.
 a penny additional funding to implement this. A lot of hard work on behalf of our valued labor partner to get the details refined. But this is an example of city employees do a lot of really great work that actually benefits way beyond the actual paving of the street, the providing of the sewer, the providing of a park, that results in benefits...
 that then increase property taxes, that then increase the amount of money that council can allocate in partnership with the community to other good works. This is how we build the city. And so this program...
 quantifies that in a way similar to urban renewal districts. And it doesn't increase property taxes. It increases the property value for the property owner. So it's truly a win all around. There's no downsides to this proposal. And I very much appreciate the intention to be very thoughtful about which further properties get the money to continue the pyramid and the snowball effect. So nice job all around. Well done, and thank you. Hi. Hi.
 That's all been said. I just want to comment that the city has a wonderful partnership with Copia, and Copia's job is to fight like hell for the people they represent at the bargaining table.
 But the true spirit of partnership is when they help us and their member help us do our work better and more efficiently and more effectively. So we celebrate that partnership. And I, too, was going to offer a friendly amendment, but it would not have been germane to the resolution, which was to encourage Bart DeLacy to return to his place of birth and end this interlude in whatever you said, Chicago or some city to the east. Steve, congratulations on your leadership. Hi. Thank you.
 The resolution passes. Congratulations. So, folks, we have a very important proclamation, which we're about to read, but because something from the consent agenda was pulled by rule, that has to come first, so we'll take that up very quickly, and then we're going to move to the special reading of a proclamation. Carla, would you please read item number 384? Okay.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County, Oregon, for the use of U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance, Federal Fiscal Year 2015 National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative Grant Program funds for agency personnel and grant program expenses.
 So I'm going to recognize Commander George Burke from the Portland Police Bureau Detective Division to give us a very brief overview. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioners. I'm George Burke. I'm Commander of the Detective Division, Portland Police Bureau, and I will be very brief. Back in 2015, we applied for and received a grant from the Department of Justice to test all of our untested sexual assault kits that were in our inventory.
 As a result of that, or in the process, we asked to include some of our county partners, to include the district attorney's office, as well as
 the Baltimore County Sheriff's Office so that we could look at more than just the City of Portland and expand it to the entire county, which has been successful. What we're asking for now is an intergovernmental agreement, which would allow us to pay out what has been allocated through the grant process that would go to both the District Attorney's Office as well as the Sheriff's Office for their participation and assistance in carrying forward with this grant. Questions?
 Thank you very much. Any questions from my colleagues? Okay. Carla, did anyone sign up to testify on this item? Didn't have a sign-up sheet, but Mr. Lightning pulled it. Okay. Lightning, would you like to testify? Okay. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Media PDX. One of the reasons why I pulled this item is I understand on these kits they're going to be tested from a private forensic lab in Salt Lake City, which I agree with that situation.
 But one of the things I want to put more emphasis on, which I've mentioned on some of my past public communications, is that I want to have a clear understanding that the state forensic labs will also be put at the top of the list, and especially with the forensic scientists having some input on things that they want to have improved in their labs.
 Now, I understand these grants, the purpose of these grants are for testing the kits, and I do understand that. But we still need to continue the emphasis on the state labs, the OSP state labs, and make sure that these labs can run efficiently enough to where we don't create a backlog in the future.
 And again, I want to have an understanding on some of the procedures from the forensic scientists that if we test five kits at the state labs, then I would like to have one of those five kits tested again from a private lab as a check and balance to make sure things are done properly. I want to have this implemented, and I also want to see more grants to the state labs for testing
 more equipment, the technology changes at a rapid pace, do we need to lease the equipment or do we need to buy the equipment? We need to start looking at the overall costs and focus on efficiency at the state labs. I'd also like Governor Brown to also step up on this and make sure this is taken care of and we do not create this type of backlog situation
 ever again. I don't think it should have ever happened. And again, I think we need to be more efficient at the state-run labs, which I think is the direction to go, but also utilizing the private labs as a check and balance on our state labs situation. Thank you. Lightning, thank you very much. Carla, this is an emergency. Would you call the role, please? Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Aye. Thank you very much. We're now moving to the regular agenda. Carla, would you please read item number 389? Proclaim April 20, 2016 to be a day of remembrance for Hank Miggins in Portland. So how many people are here today for this item? If you'll raise your hand. Hey, that's fantastic. Thank you all for participating.
 for joining us. Would our distinguished speakers please come forward for a moment? Mayor Hales originally placed this on the agenda. Unfortunately, he is in Europe on official city business. He senses deep regrets that he could not be here.
 But it is my pleasure to introduce Commissioner Dan Saltzman that has a long history with our honoree. And Dan will read the proclamation. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mr. President. And it is indeed an honor for me to read this proclamation.
 I did have a long association with Hank Miggins, I think more so than anybody else on the council. When I was first elected to the Board of County Commissioners, I took office in 1993 under the leadership then of Gladys McCoy, the county chair. Unfortunately, Gladys passed three months into my term in office, and her executive assistant, Hank Miggins, became the county chair, and I passed.
 Learned a lot from Hank in the time that he bridged the county chair between Gladys McCoy and ultimately Beverly Stein. And it was also my honor to appoint Hank Miggins to the Citizen Review Committee. He was my representative for the 10 years that he served, so I'm indeed honored to read this proclamation. Whereas in 2001, Mr. Hank Miggins was appointed as one of the nine original Citizen Review Committee members by Portland City Council,
 And whereas Hank Miggins served on the committee for 10 years and was chair for many years, during his tenure, Hank played a pivotal role in the creation of many of the protocols that allow for the committee to engage in community-directed oversight of the Portland Police Bureau. And whereas Hank Miggins' steady demeanor and strong analytical abilities were in much demand in the committee's eventful early years,
 where multiple citizen appeals of police misconduct investigations were common, and whereas Hank Miggins provided culturally aware outreach when engaging with Portland's diverse community to gather feedback about policing, and whereas Hank Miggins was passionate about police oversight and made himself available to mentor committee members and the staff of the Independent Police Review, and whereas Hank Miggins, upon retirement from the committee,
 continued his service to the city as an advisor to the committee and the Independent Police Review, and whereas Hank Miggins, through his lifelong commitment to accountability, equity, and justice, enriched many lives in our community, his efforts continue to pay dividends, and whereas Hank Miggins' leadership and life of service extended to beyond Portland, including his service to our nation for 22 years as an officer in the United States Air Force,
 and as City Manager of Spokane, Washington, and whereas Hank Miggins passed away on July 18, 2013, at the age of 78, now therefore I, Charlie Hills, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 20, 2016, to be a day of remembrance for Hank Miggins in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day.
 Thank you very much, Dan. Let's suspend the rules.
 Constantine, would you please introduce our distinguished panel? Thank you. To my right is Brenda Miggins Vaughn, Hank's daughter, and Eric Terrell, a former member of the Citizen Review Committee and an appeal process advisor. And I am Constantine Sevier, Independent Police Review Director. I would like to thank the mayor in his absence and city council for taking the time to remember a great Portlander and, in my opinion, a great American, Hank Miggins. Thank you.
 What we do here at the Independent Police Review and the Citizen Review Committee cannot happen without engaged community members, and Hank was the definition of an engaged community member. The early years of the Citizen Review Committee, there were multiple appeals in a month. I believe at least 30 appeals in a year were not uncommon, and Hank stuck it out, and Hank was on the committee for over 10 years. Okay.
 And after he was done on the committee, he served as a community member. And one of the last interactions that I had with Hank before he passed was about a week or so before he died. He was preparing for a citizen appeal, and he was helping a community member navigate the process that we have. And that he was so...
 selfless. One impressed me and I think impressed anybody that had contact with Hank Miggins. The other part that was so important about what Hank did, and I think it serves an example of community members involved in police accountability, is that there really is no police accountability without engaged community members and
 You know, we talk a lot about oversight and accountability, but accountability starts with the community. And Hank brought the passion of remembering community members as well as being fair to police officers. So I could talk a lot about Hank Miggins. He was someone who was a personal mentor to me, and I felt provided an example to a lot of us in the community. But I'll give it over to his wonderful daughter. Thank you. Welcome, and welcome to City Hall. Thank you. Thank you.
 Our family wants to thank you guys for this wonderful honor to our father. It means a lot. Several months before he passed away, I was over at his house and I was telling him about...
 that I had met, that I was talking to a lawyer that I was working with, and he was telling, he asked me, are you Hank's daughter? And I was like, yes. And then he proceeded to tell me how great he was and how much he enjoyed him and how much he respected him. And I was telling my dad that, and he was like, well, you know, I know a lot of people, and a lot of people know me, and...
 i'm kind of important these parts i just kissed him on his head rolled my eyes and said sure dad i know um but it wasn't until i had to write his obituary that i realized how much he contributed to so many people and so many communities and when i heard that they lowered the flag for him when people came to share their condolences with us they saw the loss in our eyes but we saw it in theirs too
 how many people missed him and respected him. And someone came up to me and gave me a calendar of African-American men that contributed to this city. And he was Mr. November or December. So throughout these last three years, we continue to hear stories. People continue to come up and tell me what a wonderful guy he is and
 tell us the stories of what they did together and the laughs and just the respect that so many people had for him, that it's overwhelming. And when I got the call about this, this honoring, the family had to come. As you can see, they all came from Spokane and from California. It's very, very important.
 What I've learned throughout this time is that, I mean, we knew that he was important. He's our dad. But we saw him from fishing and camping and bowling. He was much more than that. And what I've learned is that he really cared about his community. He cared about the city. And he cared about the people. He believed in truth, justice, and fairness. And he was a great humanitarian.
 And I really, really appreciate, our family really appreciates the honoring of him and remembering who he was and remembering his spirit. We just want to say thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for joining us. Welcome, sir. Thank you. My name is Eric Terrell. Excuse me. In 2001, Hank and I became members of the original CRC Gang of Nine, the newly established Citizen Review Committee.
 Although we did not know each other, we soon became close colleagues on the committee, and not long after, became close friends. I admired and liked Hank a lot. He was a straight talker and a straight shooter. He was dedicated, focused, and highly principled, and was always well prepared to take on the challenging, difficult work of the CRC.
 Although Hank was passionate about what CRC was about, he was never vindictive or mean-spirited in any way toward anyone. He was fair-minded and was there to do a job, and that's what he did, and he did it so well. Hank was respected not only by his fellow CRC members and by the staff of IPR,
 but I believe was respected by senior staff of the police bureau as well. Another close friend, Mike Hess, now retired associate director of IPR, has this to offer. Quote, Hank was the only original CRC member who did not resign when things got tough.
 He embraced the responsibilities of CRC chairmanship during several tumultuous years when no one else was willing to shoulder the burden, unquote. Hank was a true gentleman, and he was an affable, gentle man, yet strong and steady. Most often, he had a warm, inviting smile on his face. And for anyone who wishes to know Hank Biggins better,
 then you will also need to know that Hank smoked the most fragrant pipe tobacco and wore the jauntiest fedoras. Hank's wonderful, generous spirit lives on to guide us all. Thank you, Commissioners. Thank you very much. We have one more speaker who would like to be heard. Dan Handelman, would you come forward, please? And then I'm going to ask the indulgence of our invited guests to congregate for a photograph.
 i'm for me yes and comments in the council dan uh good morning uh city council and uh folks in the public um i'm dan handelman i'm here with uh portland copwatch and with flying focus video collective uh as a member of both groups i've attended just about every meeting of the citizen review committee since it began um and i told the story to the portland tribune that they got a little bit wrong they fixed it in the online version where um mr miggins and uh
 Mike Bigum, who was the chair of CRC at the time, came before city council after a TriMet officer from another jurisdiction was unable to be interviewed for a CRC appeal because the city can't compel officers from other jurisdictions even to testify as a witness. And they ended up
 changing the TriMet contracts so that it is more clear that there has to be some accountability. I think there's still a problem in us having officers from other jurisdictions working in the chain of command for the Portland Police and not having to follow Portland rules because their rules may be different. But that was something that he did before. It was even clarified in the ordinance that CRC was allowed to make recommendations directly to the council. So he kind of
 stuck his neck out beyond a little bit what was written in law to make this point. So that's something that I thought was an important story to tell. We also knew that he was a very good friend of Gary Blackmer who helped create IPR when it started. In fact, there was a committee that I sat on as a member of Portland Copwatch that
 the mayor had appointed to design a new system, the system, as Commissioner Saltzman probably remembers, didn't quite satisfy the expectations of the majority of that group. And there were people from the police association who were worried that it was going too far
 And Hank was the only person who testified in favor of the system exactly as it was written when it was first adopted. So I thought that was another interesting story. There was mention that he served as appeals process advisor. He helped make sure that that was
 The position was added. It was one of the recommendations from that committee, the original committee, that there should be an advocate for the person going through the system. It's a very confusing system, especially when you've been harmed by the police. You have no idea what's going on. So he helped make it happen. We didn't always see eye to eye. I have to say that Hank felt very strongly that it should not be an advocate, that it should be somebody who explains how the process works. But again, he helped make that happen and worked.
 participate in that and i think i also know i didn't hear it mentioned yet that hank was a member of the aclu board of directors um and one thing i never remember ever happening while hank was a member of crc or the chair is having um decision making and discussions out of the public eye transparency is part of the mission of ipr uh
 I feel like this has been happening on an increasing basis, not only at IPR but elsewhere, ironically more since the DOJ has come to town. And, in fact, I've been asking Director Sevier since Thursday night where I'm going to be able to put my camera tonight, pointing out that when video cameras are allowed in city council, they're allowed to stand in between the council and the testimony table so they can get the faces of both the testifiers and the council.
 That's where I stand to videotape the CRC meetings, and he hasn't responded yet, so I'm hoping to get a response on that question today. But again, Hank was never...
 acted in a way to shut civilians out. The prior review board, PIAC, would occasionally go into what's called executive session, where only the media could stay in. But CRC never did that. And just as a point of clarification, Hank was not the only person who didn't resign. There were three members of the CRC that didn't resign originally. But it is true that there were five people who resigned in protest, a sixth person who resigned for a different reason, and then there were three people that were left after that first batch.
 so i just wanted to put in that thank you very much dan colleagues comments before we take a picture commissioner novick hank miggins of course was a legendary figure but it's really great to see that the legend lives on and to see this many people come in the middle of a work day for this tribute so thank you all very much for coming and thanks to hank for his contributions commissioner
 The Spirit of God, good people, does live on in our hearts. It doesn't matter how long it's been. And so I really appreciate this proclamation. And I appreciated the description of Mr. McGinn's as a gentleman and a gentleman. I think he was both. And I remember him...
 through his work on the Independent Police Review Committee, which, of course, is a really awful thing that we have to be looking at. Did the police do something wrong? And in some cases, yes, they have, and that's a very serious thing. And yet when I remember Hank Miggins, I remember the fedora and the jaunty smile and the twinkle. He seemed like he had a twinkle in his eye almost always, obviously.
 And so that is, along with his kindness, is what I remember and appreciate. And his service to our community and other communities will not be forgotten. Well, I just wanted to add, whoever wrote the resolution did a great job by saying that Hank had a steady demeanor, because he really did. I always attributed that to his 22 years of service in the Air Force. Yeah.
 I just want to say that he really was. So I think we all, at one time or another, we appoint members to committees of various types. And sometimes you wonder, are they going to pan out? Are they going to make it? And I'm really pleased to say that Hank made it. He was not only my original appointee to the Citizen Review Committee, but he rose to become its chair and mentor to its director and to many appellants. So very proud of Hank and pleased to have had the pleasure of working with him and getting to know him as a friend.
 We're going to take a picture in a second. I just want to acknowledge that when the mayor issues a proclamation to honor someone for a lifetime of service, this is among the highest honors that the city can bestow upon someone who's made a unique contribution. And we're joined today by so many special people who have traveled here from outside of the state and other places, but I'd be remiss if I didn't acknowledge at least the elected officials that are joining us, starting with Representative Lou Frederick. Lou, would you please stand? Thank you.
 Former State Rep. Mike Fahey. Mike, would you stand? John L. Bell is here representing our junior senator. Welcome. Senator Ryan Deckert is here, right? And our elected auditor is here. Would you please stand? So with that, let's all gather up front and take a family picture with the proclamation.
 Thank you.
 And you have the proclamation. All right.
 Hey David, where will you post that picture so people can get it? I'll email you. We'll email it and anyone who would like to post a picture. It'll be on the iCar website too. I just, we'll give you an email and you can get a copy of that picture. Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Hey Dan. I gotta get a picture.
 Carla, let's take a two-minute break. Carla, we're back on the record, and we're going to take up four more items, and we'll try to have this concluded by noon. Carla, could you please read item number 390? Amend ordinances to increase amounts of short-term subordinate urban renewal and redevelopment bonds. Take it away.
 Thank you, Commissioners. Back to the mundane, I guess. My name is Eric Johanson. I'm the Debt Manager in the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. The proposed ordinance before you today amends two outstanding ordinances in order to authorize an increase in the amount of short-term indebtedness that may be incurred by the River District Urban Renewal Area next fiscal year.
 In addition, the ordinance authorizes a corresponding increase in the aggregate short-term indebtedness among all of the active urban renewal areas. The increase from $20 million to $30 million in River District is necessary due to updated projections of available tax increment revenues for fiscal year 16-17. Proceeds from the additional borrowing capacity will fund projects in the district's urban renewal plan and in their 16-17 budget.
 As you may recall, short-term indebtedness implements the pay-as-you-go or cash finance portion of PDC's capital program. The short-term debt that we also refer to sometimes as deser financing allows the city to comply with state constitutional requirements that tax increment revenues be spent only on indebtedness. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. Colleagues, any questions? Thank you. Carla, anyone sign up to testify? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Then this goes to a vote. Thank you.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Thank you, Eric. Carla, would you please read item 391? Establish reporting requirements for political consultants. Colleagues, before we take the vote, I'd like to just...
 place into the record again the legislative intent based on our last hearing. The Council adopted an amendment which clarifies that this would apply to a person providing political consulting services to a city elected official or a political action committee controlled directly or indirectly by a city elected official. We've done that by amendment. It is also my intent to
 and this is to guide the promulgation of the rules, that in the definition of political consultant, that we are referring to people who are primarily in the business of providing these services. And that's an important qualification that a number of advocacy groups sought that we make clear in the record. With that legislative history, Carla, would you please call the roll? Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye.
 I just wanted to note that last week we also considered the auditor's ethics reforms, and although we sort of put them on the table, I thought that some of them were no-brainers, such as raising the maximum penalty for multiple violations of $3,000, and it's my intent to offer a narrower version of her proposal with a couple of those items at some point in the near future. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership on this item. Please devote aye. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for this ordinance, which does provide additional transparency, accountability for elected officials and in the way that we do our public business. Commissioner Novick, there's an update, I believe, that there's agreement on a full package from the auditor that's come forward, so I'm hopeful that that will get sorted out sooner rather than later. And thank you again for everybody who's concerned about this. I don't know if there's any other questions.
 i'm on i i i believe that being a politician can should be and is an honorable profession and that the members of the city council strive always to be accountable transparent and honorable so this is one more measure that um documents that i thank you commissioner fritz and colleagues
 I am very proud to vote on this matter today and grateful for all the people who have helped us get to this point. I'm proud because we are the second city in the country that has decided to shine some additional light on the work, the important work performed by political consultants, but we're the first jurisdiction in the country to use as the trigger not compensation for services, but the actual provision of services.
 which is a much broader definition and will ensure that there is even more sunshine. We are, as a city, committed to open, transparent, and accountable government. I believe very strongly in the existing ethics rules that we have, and I look forward to joining Commissioner Novick and my colleagues in the auditor in strengthening those rules.
 This is something new, and this goes to a basic principle that people have a right to know who is influencing important decisions that we make. And one way we can do that is through a registration requirement. It does not go as far as I would have liked, but we can also celebrate that the barrier to that at least now is Article I, Section 8 of the state constitution, which does provide extremely broad First Amendment protections. Thank you.
 In a democracy, political consultants do important work. This ordinance will ensure that in Portland they do that work in the full light of day. Again, I'd like to thank the people that helped us get to this moment, Oregon Common Cause and Kate Titus represent us, and Mr. Andrajan and Hugh McGavock, the League of Women Voters of Portland, the indefatigable Debbie Iona, Auditor Mary Hull Caballero, Elections Officer Deborah Scroggins,
 and finally i'd like to thank the crack legal team of linda law and ben walters and a special thanks to jim blackwood and sonja schmansky on my team it is with great pride that i cast my vote in the affirmative aye thank you um carla would you we have two items left a second reading and then commissioner salzman would you please read item number 392.
 Authorized contract with Black & Veatch Corporation to provide engineering services for the Tryon Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant, Influent Pump Station, Headworks, Primary Clarifier, and Odor Control Improvements Project not to exceed $6,687,914.
 This is a second reading, vote only. Please call the roll. Saltzman? Aye. Novi? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Fish? Aye. Thank you. And our final item is item 393. Please, if you could read that in the record, Carla.
 Authorize application to the Department of Homeland Security through the Federal Emergency Management Agency for a $975,000 grant to replace the Station 6 pier and dock and purchase a boathouse for Station 6. Mr. Saltzman.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'll turn it over to Chief Marco Bonetti, who's been waiting patiently all morning. Thank you very much for the opportunity to kind of shed a little light on this project. It's actually not a project yet, but we hope to be successful in a grant application with FEMA and Homeland Security. The DOC...
 Structure at Station 6 has been falling apart over the years since the 1950s when it was built. This grant application will provide the funding to help us clean up the river, eliminate some more of the creosote pilings that have been languishing in the waters for many years. It will also help us support infrastructure to protect our assets that we've spent millions of dollars on for our waterways and protection of waterways.
 of the city of Portland. And the boathouse component of this will provide some safe storage of our assets at the station facilities so we can protect them and keep them out of the elements, too, which tends to provide a lot of ultraviolet damage to our products. So...
 If there's any questions, I hope that this is a project that can be supported by council, and we look forward to moving forward on it. Colleagues, any questions? Thank you. My understanding is that there is a match required in this if we get the grant. Yes, Commissioner. And that you have money in the building maintenance and equipment fund that would cover the grant. You wouldn't be asking for additional money from the city? That is correct. Yeah, it would be covered under the normal general fund of the Fire Bureau.
 And I apologize for not asking this question ahead of time. If you don't know the answer, if you could just get back to me. I'm happy to hear that we have an ongoing building maintenance fund in the Fire Bureau because in some of the other bureaus we are lacking in maintenance, ongoing maintenance money. Do you happen to know how much there is in that fund? Well, right now it's technically not an ongoing maintenance fund, but we do allocate a certain number every year for building maintenance and ongoing maintenance. But we –
 The target number would be 3% of the projected maintenance for all of the infrastructure buildings. And currently, I think our normal budget is about 1% that we allocate for ongoing annual maintenance and repair, roof replacements, roof repairs.
 Partial replacements, just structural repairs, HVAC units, things like that. And so we try and – I'm the logistics chief, deputy chief of logistics, so we're constantly trying to make sure that we're being as –
 We're judicially responsible with our funding and try and hit the high points as best we can and extend our dollars so we can get the best bang for our buck in every one of our city dollars that we have to spend. Thank you. I appreciate that spending of the taxpayers' money wisely. So there isn't a particular line item for maintenance in the fire bureau's budget?
 There is a line item for maintenance and repair. It's a facilities section as part of the logistics budget. Okay. If you could get that number to me, I'd be really interested. I'm, as I say, happy to have something in there. Yeah, we try and maintain all of our structures, and we do have a dedicated amount of funding that's proportionally
 proportionally allocated for building maintenance, repair, and furnishings and appliances and all these associated things. Previously, we had the general obligation bond that went for some of these big projects, and all of that money has now been spent. Is that correct? The majority of the money has been spent. There's a small portion left over that is going to be allocated for other capital improvement projects that are
 will be in concert with 2010. There was a small amount of money left over from the 1998 remodel bond, and that portion is what's kind of being incorporated into capital improvements for the other infrastructure for fire bureau buildings. Great. Thank you very much. And I can get those numbers for you. Thank you. No problem. Other colleague questions? Thank you very much. Carla, did anyone sign up to testify? I did not have a sign-up sheet. Would anyone like to testify in this matter? Seeing none, let's take it to a vote. Saltzman? No.
 thanks chief aye I think this is the second time let's hope the second time is the charm in getting this grant aye aye thank you very much we're adjourned until 2 o'clock done before 12 well done council please come to order good afternoon Saltzman Novick here Fritz here aye
 Hales? Fish? Here. Okay, Carla, would you please read the first item? Item 394, adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan. Accept report of the Citizen Involvement Committee. I want to welcome everybody to City Hall, and thank you for taking time to come and participate and to testify.
 We're going to begin today with staff from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability walking us through what we're doing, what we're actually doing today, and what we hope to accomplish. Eric, would you please come forward? And before we start, I'd like to go over some logistics to ensure that the afternoon goes smoothly. First, Mayor Hales sends his regrets. He is in Europe on city business, and as the president of the council, I have the honor of presiding over this session.
 Second, we want to acknowledge receipt of an additional group of letters, emails, and comments that we've received from April 15th through today. And all of that testimony that's been submitted will be part of the public record. We will also add any additional correspondence or written materials that arrives before the close of the hearing today, which we made part of the record.
 Now, to maximize the number of people speaking tonight, because we hope to be able to close the record today, we'll be limiting testimony to two minutes each. We really regret that we ran out of time last week before everyone had a chance to testify, so we'll be calling up the people that didn't testify last time first and then move on to new folks. Let me just make a couple observations. The first is this is not a popularity contest. Actually, that's what it says in my script.
 The substance matters more. That is, the substance of your testimony matters more to us than the number of people who say it. So your testimony is really most effective if you avoid repeating what other people have said, but tell us something that maybe isn't part of the record that we need to know. Also, whenever possible, please refer specifically to the amendment that you are testifying about.
 And there is a master list of amendments, which I think has been handed out. You can get a copy of. And if at all possible, refer to the amendment with one caveat. Please do not assume that just because the printed amendment has one, two, or three co-sponsors, that that actually means that those are the only people that may or may not be supporting the amendment.
 we have a different set of rules just to get the amendments on the table and it may very well be that a couple people have sponsored an amendment for discussion and they may not end up supporting it after the testimony so pay no attention to whether there's one two or three four five people or many that's a procedural issue that gets it uh before us and um the votes obviously will will follow later um again we want to thank you for joining us um and before i introduce eric
 Eric, can you clarify for me, actually, I'm going to introduce Eric Engstrom, but could you clarify if for some reason we are not able to conclude this hearing today and we hope to go at least through 530 before we're going to lose a quorum, it will be continued until when?
 I'll look to the council clerk to verify, but I believe we have in reserve the 27th at 2 p.m. in City Hall, if that is necessary. If that's necessary. And just a little warning. If you leave...
 Assuming it's going to be held over and we get through all the testimony, then we'll close the record. So I hate to impose on folks, but it's best to stay and try to testify because if you're not here and we complete the testimony in the House, then we will be closing the record. So with that, I'm going to introduce Eric Engstrom and have him walk us through some other housekeeping matters. Eric? Eric Engstrom Thank you, Commissioner. Once again, Eric Engstrom with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 Tonight we're getting feedbacks on the amendments to the PSC recommended comprehensive plan, which were published in the March 18th amendments report, as you noted. Commissioners have also published several additional memos with supplements to that report in the time since, which are all posted on the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability's project website. Thank you.
 Carla read the first item. There are two items as part of tonight's hearing. The first item is, as she mentioned, the supporting documents to the comp plan. Amendments related to that are on page 112 of the March 18th report.
 and we expect a smaller list of people testifying about that first item. The larger list of people are mostly here for the second item to talk about the new comprehensive plan itself, which includes the policies, land use maps, and list of projects. So I believe we're hearing the item 394 first and then 395. This is the second of two hearings. We will...
 If the council finishes testimony tonight, we have April 28th and either May 5th or May 11th tentatively set up for decision-making on the amendments, where you all will come back and actually vote on the amendments at the end of that process, and we'll be back to you.
 you'll, we hope, arrive to an as amended plan that we'll be ready to vote on. We will then go as staff and prepare the final substitute ordinance incorporating those amendments and the findings and bring that back to you in June. I believe the final vote is currently scheduled for June 15th if that schedule sticks. And Eric, because I'm gone the first week in May, I've asked that if there are amendments that are heavily contested on council that those votes be postponed until the 11th.
 Yes, I believe we were going to try and start with the less controversial amendments at the beginning and then work our way into the more difficult ones. I also want to note that as we approach the end of this process, staff is taking a moment to make sure we have the appropriate technical reports in the record, including data that supports the decisions we've made. And in particular, we have provided the council clerk with additional memos related to –
 transportation modeling, metro functional plan compliance. And in many of our background documents, there are citations for other secondary reports, and we wanted to make sure all those secondary citations are also in the record. So we've provided both electronically and physically some supplemental material for the record that rounds out that information. And we'll be discussing that in the findings adoption when we file the substitute ordinance. Thank you very much. How many people that are here today are here for the first time?
 Okay, so we have a lot of folks who've been here with us before. Let me just remind everybody that in order to get through this afternoon, we have over 100 people that signed up. So it's going to be a challenge to finish all the testimony today. We ask that you show your support or displeasure with your hands, not by applauding or disrupting the proceedings, and that will keep us on track.
 And with that, it is the – excuse me. Let me turn to my council colleagues to see if they have any comments. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, President Fish. I just had one quick question for the record. We've received a lot of input in writing from residents of Eastmoreland asking to expand the proposed amendment of changing the R5 zoning to R7.
 If the council wanted to consider doing that, would we need to notify residents in a larger area of the potential down zoning per state law? Staff has already notified the folks affected by the amendments that you've already put on the table. But if there was a substantial new amendment or an expansion of the territory of an amendment that affected a lot of people, we would want to do that notice, yes. Thank you.
 Other questions or comments from my colleagues? I just have one quick comment. I had some conversations yesterday at the Argue Neighborhood Association meeting, specifically with Valenka Speer and Doug Cook, regarding appropriate balance of apartments and single-family homes near Shaver Elementary, and just wanted to put that into the record since it was not at a comprehensive plan meeting.
 Eric, we have two matters this afternoon. So do you want us to have Carla read both, or how do you want to allocate the time? I guess we could start with the first one. There's a fairly short list, and then she can read the second one. Right, we have separate sign-up sheets right now. Okay, so let's do the first one. And are they invited courtesy of the House that we extend to people who are elected, or otherwise is that for the first matter or the second matter? It's mostly for the second, yeah. Okay. Carla, how many people do we have signed up for the first? Two.
 seven people seven people all right let's call them up four at a time i don't think we have another chair all right three at a time first three please come on up are abby bandarago kirk olson and bob carroll please come on up and the next three after them in case you're upstairs will be bob solinger brenda barnes and dana crosscheck welcome so all we need is your name and everyone will have two minutes to testify sir why don't you kick us off
 My name is Kirk Olson. I'm with Tremel Crow Company. Tremel Crow is the region's largest developer of industrial real estate property, and we've been developing here in Portland since 1978. I am here to testify regarding the –
 in support of the moderate growth for cargo in the Portland Harbor, as originally recommended by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff. I was first exposed to the economic development or, excuse me, economic opportunity analysis report.
 As a member of the policy expert group way back in 2012 when we started our work with the comp plan, I'm very familiar with many of the inputs and drivers on our region's economy. Since then, I've participated in the regional meetings.
 industrial land readiness study as sponsored by PBA, Metro, and some others. Currently on BDS's Development Review Advisory Committee.
 The business in the harbor, they're all major employers, as you know, in the city, and their procurement of supplies, raw materials, capital goods, and services from local businesses is extremely meaningful to the neighborhoods and employees that work there.
 In order to more accurately reflect the activity and future development in the Portland Harbor, I urge you to support the amendment to change the harbor forecast in the EOA from a low-growth to medium-growth forecast. Thank you very much for the opportunity. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak today. I'm Bob Carroll. I'm president of the Columbia Pacific Building Trades as well as a business rep with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. I speak to you today also to recommend that you adopt a moderate growth amendment on the EOS for the harbor. The harbor is a major economic driver of this community today.
 And when we get a shipping line back, it will be even better. So I urge you to do that. In addition, I also urge, I encourage the M33 amendment, which would redesignate the Broadmoor Golf Course's industrial land. This, too, will create jobs and encourage economic growth in the area. Thank you. Thank you both. Thank you.
 Carla, who did we miss on that first one? Abby Bandarago on Northeast Wisteria. I might have Abby here. Well, we'll see. And the next three are Bob Sollinger, Brenda Barnes, and Dana Kroszek. And the last person on this list is Tamara DeRitter. Welcome, Bob. Why don't you kick it off? Sure.
 uh good afternoon my name is bob salinger i'm the conservation director for the portland audubon society i'm here to testify on the economic opportunities analysis specifically the decision to upgrade from the low range forecast to the medium range forecast based on a new capacity that was revealed by the port of portland really at the last minute right before the final hearing of a multi-year process
 We've looked at this issue over and over as part of city committees on West Hayden Island, on River Plan, through the comp plan process. And we are very concerned that this capacity wasn't revealed earlier on. Capacity is not something you discover at the last minute. It's not hiding behind a tree or behind a building. The port had to have known it was there. It's based upon development that we're glad they've done in order to create that increased capacity.
 We don't have an opinion on whether you should go with the medium or the low, but we do want to make sure that a few things are captured here. One is that the Port of Portland has said explicitly they do not need West Hayden Island in order to meet the mid-range forecast, and also that if for some reason we go back to the low-range forecast, West Hayden Island wasn't needed for that either. Okay.
 because one of the things we're concerned about is when you make these kinds of major decisions on something like this that has gone through rigorous analysis, multiple committees, a lot of work, you come back at the last minute, you make these changes of these magnitudes, we're worried that the city may not have caught all of the little nuances that may come back and bite us later.
 Secondly, we hope the city will take a hard look at how it looks at industrial land because it really is one of the most difficult to discern processes. A lot of it is proprietary information done by consultants to go back and forth between industry and the city. A lot of it is really in a black box that the public can never see. And we've always been very skeptical of the way the city does its industrial land analysis too many times.
 we've gone through this analysis and not picked up on this capacity that was revealed at the last minute. In fact, we've been told over and over again the capacity doesn't exist and we can't find it. So I think we need to look at why this only was discovered so late in the process. But the main thing we want to capture here is that regardless of which forecast you use, the port does not need West Taiton Island, and we want to capture that in the record. If I may.
 My understanding was that the Bureau of Planning was going to come back with some language that would capture that in the policies of the comprehensive plan. Have you seen any draft language to make sure that it's clear that we're getting to the forecast without West Hayden Island? I think it could be clearer. I think it could be more explicit in terms of how it's written up. I can work with the Planning Bureau. Yeah, I would appreciate it if you would, Ed.
 Colleagues, that's kind of a conceptual amendment that I was thinking might be right on the table. I'm not sure whether it's in all the materials we've got, but I want to make sure that the public has a chance to testify on it because, as you say, that is the clear understanding. If we do decide to go to the moderate, it might be a condition of approval. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 Thank you, City Commissioners, for this opportunity to testify in front of you. My full name is Brenda Ann Barnes, and I'm a third-generation Oregonian. I speak to you from the heart. My company's name is George S. Bush & Company, Inc. It's located at 825 Northeast Multnomah Street, Suite 910, Portland. It's next to the Lloyd Center.
 I am here to testify for the support of the moderate growth harbor forecast originally recommended by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff. Our 50-person company is a freight forwarder and customs house brokerage, which means we act like a travel agent for international cargo in and out of the U.S. Currently, we are using the Port of Portland as much as we can, given the circumstances with labor and disputes thereof. We would like to be using it more.
 There are shipments that once used Portland that are moving via Seattle and Tacoma, but given the opportunity, they would return. Therefore, the medium cargo forecast is consistent with the data about cargo capacity created in the harbor from recent investments. It reflects actual activity, is consistent with other Portland and metro forecasts, and sends an important message about the future of the Portland Harbor as a critical economic engine for the city of the state.
 I urge you, City Commissioners, to adopt the amendment to change the harbor forecast in the EOA from a low growth to a medium growth forecast. Thank you again, Commissioners, for the opportunity to testify. Thank you very much. Thank you for explaining how your business works. Now I think I finally understand it. That was very helpful. Dana, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and fellow Commissioners. Thank you.
 The cargo forecast relates to demand. I'm here to talk to you about supply in this segment of the hearing. Say your name again. Dana Krafchek. Thank you. Supply relates to how much land do we have. For land that's developed, it's what kind of redevelopment opportunities do we envision. Okay.
 And state law, the administrative rules are quite clear on that. In order to consider developed land, meaning land that's improved, available for redevelopment over your planning horizon, it has to be available. One way that land is not available is when the owner tells you, I'm not interested. I'm not redeveloping.
 Why do we care about that? This relates to Amendments 33 and 34, which are not specifically the topic of what I'm talking about. But with Riverside, who you're relying on for about 86 acres of land, they've said, no way, no how, over the planning horizon. On the other hand, you have Broadmoor, who I represent, who has said over the planning horizon, we'd be open.
 to redevelopment. We don't have immediate plans, but if the opportunity presents itself, we would be interested in rezoning and developing our property. That is supportable under Goal 9 and its rules. The reverse, relying on Riverside and not Broadmoor, we don't think is supportable either from an evidentiary or legal basis under Goal 9. Just a quick follow-up question. So if it turns out we had a surplus of available land, then would the better approach be to take them out altogether? Sure.
 If you have a surplus, then it's less of an issue for you because you wouldn't have to be relying on that land to have an adequate supply. Thank you very much. Carla, could you call the next? Thank you. Last person on the first item is Dana, I'm sorry, Tamara DeRitter. There she is.
 Last but not least. I'm a Dana now. Hi. Tamara DeRitter with Rose City Park Neighborhood Association. And I have two items. First, on behalf of the neighborhood, I recommend, well, the board for Rose City Park recommends that a TSP Blue Ribbon Committee be formed to vet the plan and the TSP implementation assumptions.
 that it is to reduce single occupancy vehicle to 25% of all trips by 2045. The reasoning behind this is the language both in the background document and in the plan depend heavily on what's considered to be transportation demand management. Okay.
 TDM. TDM, if you have done your research, which most of us have not, does work. It works in places like downtown Seattle, but it does not work in the broad spectrum that is being implemented throughout the entire city. So I urge you to look at alternatives because we are facing major issues when we're talking to people in the campus institutional zone
 All the lawyers at that table, when this was rolled out for them, were concerned that there are not any tangible measurements by which they can say that they've complied.
 This program does not have tangible measurements in it. And so I urge you to consider a blue-ribbon committee that would look at the implementation criteria that is being so weighted upon in the comprehensive plan. And I want this plan to succeed. But if we don't have this information down right, then we're all pay with increased traffic flow.
 The second item is I know that we've had air quality problems, and I've testified before the Planning and Sustainability Commission back in 2009 with the Portland Plan that the air quality standards in the Oregon transportation, Oregon land use plans do not protect land use. We defer everything in land use that is goal six to DEQ.
 And by the letter of the law, we're meeting the standard because we may have to do implementation. But currently, there is not mitigation as they had promised at the commission level. And I'm speaking now as a planner.
 I had spoken to them as a representative of Rose City Park, but as a planner, I request that mitigation be considered to protect residences and schools from poor air quality. Thank you. Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to be heard on Item 394? Okay, so we're going to close the hearing on 394.
 and we're going to can we're going to keep the record open through the close of business today if anyone still wants to get documents in is that right eric yes what do you want to do through friday excuse me we'll keep the record open through friday at five uh 5 p.m it can be filed electronically or paper copy so we'll close uh 394 carla would you please read 395.
 adopt a new comprehensive plan for the city of Portland, Oregon? So we're going to begin by inviting any elected official that's here to come forward, any agency head, I see the head of TriMet's here, and any member of the Planning Sustainability Commission. I saw Eli Spivak. Are there any other gentlemen? Would you both come forward? You'll have the courtesy of the House to begin to kick us off, and then we'll proceed to the
 folks who signed up last time but did not get to be heard and will continue in the sequence that we were operating under at the last hearing. Neil McFarland, welcome. Why don't you kick us off?
 Thank you, Council President Fish and members of the Council. I'm very pleased to be here for the second time today. And I just wanted to harken back to the reason that I was here first today, which was the work that we were doing together on the Southwest Corridor Plan. And what I wanted to do is really illustrate to you that that is just one facet of the work that we're doing together with the City of Portland today.
 I want you to also recognize that we were recently recognized by the American Public Transit Association for this unique and strong partnership between the transit agency and the city as a model for the rest of the nation. And that's something that we emulate and are very proud of and want to make a real pattern. We're building on that past success and taking our partnership even further today.
 And that's reflected in the letter of intent that I signed last year along with Mayor and Commissioner Novick, who represented the Planning, Sustainability, and Transportation bureaus respectively.
 Together, we've heightened – committed to heighten our cooperation around transit, make it safe, dependable, and easy to use for all Portlanders. And I think this is really key to many of the transportation challenges that come from the comprehensive plan and the need to, frankly, house another couple hundred thousand people within our city's boundaries. Our agencies are actively engaged in a joint work plan to do this through a variety of efforts, and I wanted to just note a couple of those.
 First, we've been working together with your staffs in both planning and sustainability and transportation related to our future transit visions, which really look regionally at the future transit system and where lines need to be added and improved and other kinds of transit improvements need to be done. So that's been done in conjunction with your growing visions of the comprehensive plan and transportation system plan visions.
 And taking this down a level closer, I might point to the example of the partnership we have, 122nd.
 And this is something that we now want to grow into something we call the Growing Transit Communities Plan, where we work together to work on the goal of identifying and funding priority improvements for safety and transit access. And we provide added transit service in those same corridors. And what we have in mind is repeating that process in many other places of the city.
 I'd also just note that we're working together with city staff on another program called Enhanced Transit Corridors Plan. And this will really focus on identifying the operational and capacity constraints in areas where you right now have enormous amount of growth, where we have an enormous amount of demand, and we need to do work together to really make sure that we meet that and meet the vision of your comprehensive plan and transit system management plan.
 I also wanted you to know that we are well aware of your Planning and Sustainability Commission's interest in ensuring that East Portland is benefiting from a transformative transportation project as well. And I wanted to acknowledge particularly past Chair Andre Baugh and the current new Chair, Catherine Schultz, as great contributors to this effort.
 But we are working closely with the city to refine the alignment for the Powell Division Transit and Development Project. We are assuring through our service enhancement plans that we are in alignment with that project.
 And we recognize the Powell Division will be nothing more than a backbone for improvements of service north-south through East Portland and East Multnomah County, which is something we've heard loud and clear from the community, from the staff, and from the leadership of the city. And so we wanted you to know that we are active partners in supporting the city action plan related to equitable development in those parts of our region, our service territory.
 So in conclusion, I look forward to continuing and strengthening our partnership with the city to ensure that we are a successful partner with you in implementing this comprehensive plan. We recognize that that is a challenge for all of us, but we are a partner with you in reaching shared goals of equitable economic development and housing.
 and improve quality of life, and certainly the reduction of our impact on our climate and our environment. And with that, I'd be pleased to answer any questions you have about our role. Well, Neil, thank you. You were with us this morning, this afternoon. If you come back for a meeting this evening, we do have a door prize for you. So thank you very much. I won't go for the trifecta. Questions or comments? Again, thanks for joining us.
 We actually have two PSC commissioners, and we'll start with Eli and then Maggie Talmadge. Eli? Thank you for letting me join you guys here. I have submitted one piece of testimony signed by several members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission individually, because we're individuals at this point, supporting the proposed Amendment 45 to –
 support missing middle housing and to expand that to corridors and centers and also to support Fritz's recommendation that we not only provide 10,000 affordable regulated housing units but fund it as well. For my specific testimony, I want to talk about missing middle for a minute because it means different things to different people and I want to parse it a little bit. The other handout I have for you is my coloring in project where I've broken missing middle into two flavors.
 and I'm buying an ice cream parlor now, so I think in flavor. So one of them is the neighborhood flavor, which the concept is that there would be a type within existing neighborhoods anywhere in the city
 we could have a medley of housing types that fit within an envelope that is smaller than what's currently allowed for a single-family house. So the idea is that this is compatible wherever you go. We scale down homes. This is exactly what the Residential Info Project is grappling with and say you can have more flexibility within that volume. And you can do duplexes that way. You can do a corner triplex. You can do accessory dwellings. That's the kind of mix.
 The other form is the higher, more intense versions of it, which are really appropriate, at least for now, within a radius of the centers and corridors, which is the amendment. And that's more things like the courtyard apartments, the townhouses, maybe bungalow courts. It's a larger scale, more appropriate in central locations. And maybe between those two, we get to more of what the city club is recommending, to allow missing middle everywhere. And I like Fritz's –
 I recommend – call it mosaic zoning. I mean, the name's kind of nicer. But to let us have that variety throughout the city. And I want to take just a minute to say why I think this is important, not just in the center but outside of the city as well, which is that if you look to the history, the closer neighborhoods, northwest and southeast, were both built out under the rules of the day, which allowed this eclectic mix of housing types that we appreciate today. We have big homes. We also have homes that have been divided up into little pieces
 if you look at the zoning map of what's in place on the ground for the outer neighborhoods right now it's all yellow and that means it works that's the recipe to ensure that the neighbors that are further out will be built out with large homes on large lots that's the monoculture of housing and it's not going to support the diverse household types sizes and it ultimately density support neighborhood quarters that we already benefit from in the closer neighborhoods
 I recommend that we allow this mix of housing types subject to scale throughout the city so that when the next suburbs get built out, they have a more eclectic mix of housing also. And just as one history little bit, if you go back on the third page of this little handout, you look at the Lads Edition neighborhood and areas nearby, that was all originally zoned.
 multifamily you can do anything you want there and we have a whole range of mixes there you also look at laurelhurst portland's first suburb zone single family even today that is
 Very expensive, beautiful housing that's not available to almost anybody because it's so expensive. Whereas in the other parts of southeast and northwest also, you still have those little companion lots. So my hope is that if Portland looks to the next 20 years, we set the stage so that in East County, we can have those small units, the mix of housing that we already benefit from closer in. Thank you. So is the term middle housing, is that a national term or did we invent it?
 It comes from a guy, Dan Prolik, in the Bay Area, and it is not a defined term, clearly, but it represents, in general scale...
 the gap of housing between the large single-family homes and the four-plus-story apartments. And there's a lot of stuff in that range. So I'm trying to say maybe we should think about it. It's a useful term because it's missing, meaning that people aren't building it nowadays, largely because zoning is for single-family homes and four-storyplex. But there's a lot of stuff in that range. And I'm not going to make the case that all that stuff should be available everywhere. I think that scares people appropriately. But
 There are areas where you can keep the scale of a single family house and have more flexibility what happens inside. Is that an answer to your question?
 I'm trying to parse it because I think that if you use the same word for every word, then people are afraid that it's… Well, we had a discussion about calling it middle density housing. Because otherwise, for non-wonks or non-planning geeks, I didn't know if it was middle income. I didn't know if it was middle density or middle of the block. I'm not really a fan of the name, frankly. Yeah, so you wouldn't mind if we amended that. I think that changing the name is fine. Thank you.
 Great. Thank you. So this is in regard to Maggie Talmadge. I'm with the Planning and Sustainability Commission on one hand and with the Coalition of Communities of Color on the other. So this is in regard to M74, Eastmoreland. And I am pulling from Andre Baugh's testimony that should be in front of you, should have been submitted this morning. Got it.
 So I just want to reiterate that many members of the Planning and Sustainability Commission as individuals oppose downzoning this neighborhood. For many reasons, we can look at City Club's recent affordable housing study and their opposition to downzoning, particularly in
 went into a lot of the deliberation when we were Looking at Eastmoreland on the PSE is a fact that through the Portland plan and through the comprehensive plan We're looking at equal distribution of benefits and burdens that includes density that includes affordable housing So to down zone a neighborhood that frankly has a higher medium income has a higher percentage of non or of of
 non-minorities, non-communities of color than let's say neighborhoods like Lentz. To downzone that really flies in the face of some of these principles that we've set forward. And we want to
 be sure that, again, the full city is accountable and is carrying their weight on providing affordable housing that provides opportunities for all Portlanders. We do not want to see a continued path of economic or racial segregation in this city. So we really...
 You know who signed on to that document. I don't have a full list, but I will be one of them. We really urge you to vote no on the amendment to down zone Eastmoreland, which is against what the PSC recommended. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Hands, please. No. No applause. So, Carla, do you have the list from the last hearing? No.
 So we're just going to pick up where we ended up, right? Right. And people who did not get to speak last Thursday should have signed in outside with the people out there. And right now I show we have 22 people from last Thursday. Okay. Okay.
 We'll start with them three at a time. First three are Diane Williams, Carolyn Tyson, and Nancy Metella. They're 74, 75, and 77. And they'll be followed by Prakish Joshi, Charlotte Joshi, and Joseph Albert.
 81, 82, and 85. So if you're the next three, if you could come down and congregate, because we've got about 100 people we're going to try to get to, and so we're going to try to move people in and out. Ladies, welcome. Thank you for your patience. Why don't you kick us off?
 Hi, my name is Diane Williams, and thank you for the opportunity to hear me out today. I'm just an ordinary person who lived in northeast Portland for, I was born in Portland, Oregon, raised in Portland, Oregon, and have grandchildren now in Portland, Oregon. I moved away for some quite a time ago, but I'm here for the amendment M-42.
 So I noticed when I came back from moving to Washington to Oregon in 2005 how much things have changed. Time waits for no one. I know that for a fact. Yeah.
 So by coming back over the bridge again, I heard that there was going to be a toll. And I said, oh, okay, I can support that. And then I go, okay, let's go to Portland, back to my old neighborhood. I'm talking to my grandkids, by the way. And so I said, okay, let's go down Mississippi Street. Let's just see where it is. I was raised on Albina Street. From Mississippi all the way over to Martin Luther King, which was named Union Avenue when I was there.
 how things have changed. So coming down Mississippi Street was like, oh, look over there. Okay, the Bowman Alley's gone. That's a lot of buildings up there. You know, you notice the skyline has really changed and taken off. So I say to my grandkids, but look,
 Hey, there's a building that I know about right there that used to be a bowling alley, and I used to climb on that roof right there, and I wasn't supposed to, and I'd get in trouble. You know, I'd tell them all the history and all the stories, and their faces light up, and you turn the corner, and you get to Fremont. You get to Fremont. I went to Boise Elementary School from kindergarten to eighth grade. I kid you not.
 Coming past that school, just that school alone, seeing their faces light up, I'm getting emotional. Seeing their faces light up, seeing my face light up after being gone after 18 years kind of saddens me a lot. 15 seconds. Kind of saddens me a lot. But I get down to the street where I live down in Albina, and I take them down that street, and I go, oh, the house that we lived in, it's remodeled, but it's still there.
 So I take them down the alley, get to the alley. We drive a little further. We get all the way to Williams and Vancouver, and I'm going, whoa, I don't know anything about this. So my thing is, if you could just give the neighborhood a little rest, because it's coming pretty fast.
 Please, no applause, please. I'm sorry. Not just for me, but just for my grandkids, too. Ms. Williams, just to summarize, you're opposed to the Amendment M-42, correct? Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you for your perseverance in coming back. Welcome. Yes. My name is Carolyn Tyson. I'm the pastor of the Open Door House of Prayer. And...
 I want to just recognize the president of the council and all the commissioners. What I'm here today is concerning the proposed change number 1514 and number 1471 and amendment M42. The open door house of prayer has a substantial interest in the proposed change. The church bear the brunt.
 of the changed conditions. Open Door House of Prayer stands directly adjacent to the proposed change. The church was built in 1916. It's 100 years this year. The church is historic and has cultural value to the Boise Elliott neighborhood in question. Open Door House of Prayer was established in 1962
 We have served the need of the community over 54 years. The community will stand to suffer damage and overdevelopment. This will diminish the now livable neighborhood. We have concerns on North Fremont. And this is where we're at. We're 348 North Fremont. Fremont is a local street.
 I have concerns, we have concern about the emergency vehicles and public transportation.
 Going east, going west, the hub is Fremont. It can go to the southeast Portland. It can go to Good Samaritan, Emanuel, OSU. It can go to the beach. It can go city center. And what we look at, it's that right in that area. Could you just, I have to wrap up. I'm sorry. Thank you. So what we're saying is,
 We have seen the changes, and we do not want it to be overused, the usable. And we have you down as no to M42 again. Thank you both very much. Ma'am, welcome. I'm Nancy Metella. Excuse me. I'm here to discuss S21. I own the property at 1535 Southeast Alder in Buckman, California.
 It is two 5,000-square-foot lots straddled by a 7,000-square-foot house. Each lot is zoned R5, one of which is a corner lot. The building was built in 1898 as a single-family dwelling and is considered architecturally significant. It was converted to a triplex in the 70s and later grandfathered in because it's nonconforming in an R5 zone.
 Five years ago, I added a rental unit in the 2,000-square-foot basement of this building, but was told by the city I had to take it out because the 10,000-square-foot property could not have four units. As an aside, two years later, a 30-unit building was put in one block from me on a smaller lot. Yes, it is zoned for commercial. I'm right up against it.
 After I was forced to take out the offending unit, I filed an official request to change my property zoning from R5 to R2.5. I was told it would be taken up with the comprehensive plan process, and so I resubmitted my request to the City Council last fall. I researched my immediate neighborhood and realized that my property wasn't the only non-conforming building. Forty percent of the R5 properties in the neighborhood actually are used as R2.5s and R1s,
 I then realized that my testimony shouldn't focus on my property, but should request the conversion of the whole neighborhood to R2.5, allowing the density closer to downtown. I realize I'm running out of time. I'm going to drop down for a very important paragraph.
 I realized all of my neighbors were asking that R5 be kept, and I was the only one that was asking for R2.5. I decided to call them and meet with them and find out what we could come up together with. And this is a really important thing, is face-to-face with people together.
 I think that we have found something that can work, and that is talking about this middle thing that's happening. MR. Nancy, I have to ask you to wind up. We have your written testimony. MS. Yes, you do. MR. And it's very clear at the end what you're asking for. MS. Okay. Yes. MR. So we've made a part of the record. MS. If you can do the alternatives on duplexes and ADUs, we can make it work.
 Otherwise, there are going to be a lot of unhappy people. Thank you. Thank you very much. Just so that everybody's clear, my amendment is pretty much to say what you just said, that recognize the mosaic of what's in Buckman and respect the
 what the built environment there. So your amendment to allow every R5 lot to be converted to a duplex if desired and every duplex to have at least one ADU, I think that's a very creative solution. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ladies, thank you very much. Next three, Carla. Are Prakash Joshi, Charlotte Joshi,
 and Joseph Albert, 81, 82, and 85. And they'll be followed by William Henderson, Molly Anderson, and Maria Quintana, 86, 87, and 88. And if you're in the queue, go ahead and come down here, and let's take the front seats here so we're ready to plug you right in. Who would like to start? Ma'am, why don't you kick us off? Oh, great. Sure.
 Is there a button I'm supposed to be pushing? No, no. Okay, good. Just don't push his button. No, I'm kidding. I'm testifying about the proposed extension of the campus zone S-16 measure between Boones Ferry and Terwilliger. Yeah, a little closer. Okay. Tell us your name for the record, please. My name is Charlotte Joshi.
 And I'm testifying because this is something that has already been extensively researched in 2009. The campus has already tried to build buildings and already tried to extend their baseball field.
 There was extensive testimony, and it was found that it was not feasible. I want you to look back on that record. Lewis and Clark has now—this is a new guise for the same issue.
 And I want you to understand that the findings that the hearing officer was, were absolutely correct and based on transportation. The lay of the land is very hilly. There are not very many ways to get to Lake Oswego. And both the, where this property lies is in a fork area.
 that goes to both ends of Lake Oswego. It's heavily traveled. It's already at failure. It would be a nightmare to have more housing there, which is what the college originally planned to do.
 and more traffic. If you add pedestrians to the mix, it would be disastrous. It would block traffic for miles. It's really not feasible at all, and I don't understand why it's in the plan. Thank you very much. Sir, would you like to go?
 My name is Prakash Joshi and I live in Collinsview neighborhood and I'm the transportation chair for the neighborhood and I'm here to oppose S-16 as amended as the amendment has proposed and my issue is something that goes for
 particularly to transportation, and I want to take you back to history just a little bit. And the history of this intersection is for 20 years we've been asking, P-BOT, and now it used to be P-DOT, I think, and we've been asking for a long time to do something about this intersection, and nothing's been done because now we're in the comprehensive plan for 2030.
 35 or whatnot. We don't know where we stand with that, but we do know one thing. The traffic there is really bad, and the college has a very big, incidentally, I'm an alum of this college, and I love this college, and I live in this neighborhood. We've lived there for
 37, 38 years. The college has a traffic demand management plan, and the city approved it. But they haven't lived up to this plan. It used to be that they used to provide the figures and the numbers and the tracking of what was going on at the college.
 We're tracking in the neighborhood and it's up 16% this year alone. Last year it was up 20%. So we're over 30% over the traffic that they say they would like to control. And they need to do this. The history of this property is that this property was designed when it was bought by the college. The college came to the neighborhood. We asked what we intend to do with this property. They told us it would be professor housing, it would be in line with the homes and the
 and the houses that are there. Subsequently, about nine years ago, they applied for a 250-bed dormitory in this area and a 250-car garage. What was really missing here was the hearing officer did catch this, that the rationale for the car garage was that it would reduce traffic because since people would live there, they would go to college there. Well, people do live on this property today, the same people that they're hoping would live, law school students,
 And these students go all over the place. They come and go. They go to things they do. They're just like family. So what I'm here to say is that this is a very bad proposal coming through a channel that should not consider it in this manner. And it should be considered with the community as it was before because there's more to it than just having this thing go through. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Beau. Thanks. Sir, you're up.
 Thank you, Commissioners, for this opportunity. My name is Joseph Albert. I'm a Northeast Portland resident, and I'm here to speak in support of Amendment TSP-40116. This amendment concerns the relocation of a current city-designated bikeway from Northeast 7th to Northeast 9th. Passing the amendment would keep the bikeway on 7th. This is an active bikeway that is used 24 by 7. There are, in the middle of the night even, bicycles using this bikeway, a very heavily used bikeway.
 The comp plan is calling for upgrading bikeways to major city bikeways or greenways, and there was an idea that maybe this should be relocated to 9th. And a number of organizations, such as the Bicycle Transportation Alliance, the Irmington, Sabin, King, and Elliott neighborhoods are opposed to this, associations are opposed to this change. And the reason is it would be an inferior bikeway. There is a hill between...
 Between Brazee and Nod, I'm sorry, between Nod and Siskiyou, there's also a hill going over Irving Park. A new path around the periphery of Irving Park would have to be built. It would go across the outfields of ball fields where children play organized baseball events and soccer events. There would be new signals to cross at Fremont, Prescott, and Alberta. These would impede the east-west traffic on those streets, which already have heavy traffic at rush hour, especially Fremont. And moreover, it would cost an extra million dollars to upgrade 9th.
 to a major city bikeway in lieu of 7th. By keeping it on 7th, that's a million dollars to spend on other transportation priorities in this time when transportation dollars have been scarce and we're asking for a new tax for that purpose. And so for these reasons, I really would ask for your support of Amendment TSP-40116 to keep the bikeway on Northeast 7th. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir.
 Carla, the next three? William Henderson, Molly Anderson, and Maria Quintana, 86, 87, and 88. And they'll be followed by Lorraine Thornton, Milton Langton, and Mike Connors. I'm sorry, it's Lorraine Thornton, Greg Winterrout, and Milton Langton, 89, 91, and 92. Okay, welcome. Sir, why don't you kick us off?
 Sure. My name is William Henderson. I'm CEO of NOX Software Incorporated in Portland, also a board member of Portland Independent Chamber of Commerce. I'm here to testify against proposed Amendment P-11, which would –
 This is regarding Portland's open data policy, would effectively make it moot. So I've heard quite a bit of testimony about this, and this is coming at a time when there are a number of important issues on the table. So I want to clear up something that I think there's confusion about, which is why is this relevant to the comp plan, which is about land use and transportation? Today, we think about transportation mostly in terms of concrete and where we put paint
 But in the future, transportation is really going to be about data. So we're planning right now for massive expansion of transit, of car and bike sharing, of self-driven app-held vehicles. And all of these are fundamentally about the data behind them. What else is Uber, cab, after all, and a bunch of drivers and riders with a powerful database connecting them?
 So this is all sort of heady stuff, but I want you to imagine a future which increasingly we're seeing where companies that are innovating with our shared ruin infrastructure are producing proprietary locked-up data. We want this to be our future.
 If you have trouble imagining this future, look instead to our past. In 2005, TriMet became the first city to adopt the open GTFS standard. And thanks to that, we now have active and accurate transit schedule and route information that's available to everyone. So this openness has helped countless companies, including Portland's own Globe Sherpa,
 innovate and have led to a much better transit system. It's smarter and it's more effective. It could have easily gone another way. This was just some individual citizens who were advocating for this to be an open standard. My company, Knox Software, makes tools for city planning, and we leverage these kinds of open data sources. We believe the data should be open, but we face a kind of prisoner's dilemma here, which is we want to make it open so that our competitors can potentially use it, but what if they do the opposite? What if they lock us out of their data?
 We have no incentive to open the data, even though this is what we want to do. And this is why it's so important that the cities adopt these policies. They're the only ones who can level the playing field and lead to much more innovative and effective transportation systems. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Ma'am, would you like to go? Thank you.
 My name is Molly Anderson. I reside at 1655 South. We don't need your address. That's okay. Sorry. Thank you, Commissioners, for hearing my testimony today. I'm here because I oppose Amendment M35 in the comp plan. This is the amendment proposed by an Alaskan land management and development company, Brummel Enterprises, to upzone several properties in Selwood with disregard to the current residents and the infrastructure of the neighborhood.
 The property I'm most concerned with is located directly next door to my home at 1665 Southeast Spokane Street, with a request to change zoning from R2.5 to CM2 mixed-use commercial. This beautiful 100-year-old home is currently a rental property housing upwards of 11 people belonging to a neighborhood church organization. It plays a role in affordably housing residents that contribute to the economic diversity of our neighborhood.
 We're just up the street from Bertie Lou's Cafe on busy 17th Avenue, like all of the main thoroughfares in Selwood. Once you turn off 17th, the busyness drops away and you're on a residential street of single-family homes.
 Young children run back and forth between the houses and neighbors talk to one another. It's a large part of why I chose to make my family's home here. The threat of a four-story apartment building and retail space looming over my single-story house causes me great anxiety. Not only does it raise safety concerns for my children and threaten to break down community on my street, it would block light to my backyard where I grow a large portion of my family's food.
 Street parking is also currently at capacity. I enjoy being able to walk to the many businesses and restaurants along 13th and 17th Avenue, but would never have bought a house next to a commercially zoned property.
 Brummel Enterprises claim that they want the neighborhood to be involved in this process. They did not make their request known to me and I own the house next door. I found out about this amendment via social media. When I went door-to-door in my neighborhood to raise awareness, no one else knew this was happening either. I did not find a single person in a two-block radius that was in favor of the upzoning. After attending a SMILE Land Use Committee meeting and hearing of their opposition to Amendment M35 and their lack of faith in Brummel Enterprises, I know this company is not to be trusted with the future of my community.
 There are several apartment buildings going up at breakneck speed in Selwood. I urge you to allow for the area to be fully developed as zoned to protect the integrity of the neighborhood. Thanks for your consideration. Nice job getting through the whole statement in two minutes. I practice. And we have the written. Thank you very much. Thanks. Sir, you're up.
 My name is Milton Langton. I live at 1801 Southwest 61st Drive in the Sylvan area. I'm opposed to N-14, an amendment to the proposed comprehensive plan applicable to 6141 Southwest Canyon Court. This rump proposal amendment conflicts with the proposed of the planning staff, the planning commission,
 It conflicts with the Sylvan Hills Neighborhood Association. It conflicts with most of the people in the area, everyone that I know of, except the owner. The owner bought a house in our 20 fully developed area, paid too much for it. His wife didn't like it.
 So he tried to get his mother-in-law to move into it. She didn't like it. So he rented it for several years, almost 10 years now. And he had a tough time getting the rent to justify the price that he paid for it. So now he wants to have a rump proposal of downzoning to R5. I'm familiar with and in accordance with R5.
 down zoning when it's appropriate. I think we need multifamily. I think we need smaller houses, less expensive houses, but you don't do that in a fully built up neighborhood. This is a dangerous street. Southwest 61st Drive is the real address. He has a
 retaining wall that's about 18 feet high that prevents him to have any access to Southwest Canyon Court. That is a very, Southwest 61st Drive is a very steep ending of the thing, and the driveway is very steep. Each of my kids have got hit with bicycles in front of my house, which is next to his house.
 Mr. Langton, I'm going to have to ask you just to wrap up. We have you clearly as... The Neighborhood Association is opposed. Everyone is opposed to accept the person who wants to make some money out of this. So we have you as no and 14. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Carla, the next three, please. Are Maria Quintana, Lorraine Thornton, and Greg Winteroud, and they'll be followed by Mike Connors, Erwin Bergman, and Marty Suchek. Okay. Why don't you kick us off, your name?
 Hi there. My name is Mariah, and I'm here to oppose Amendment M-33. This is regarding the industrial overlay that goes over the Broadmoor Golf Course and also neighborhoods that surround it. There is over 57 acres of wetlands that would be developed today.
 if Broadmoor were to ever sell. Whereas just down the street, you can find lots that are open and have not been developed, and it looks as though those places would be just as fine, and we could keep Broadmoor as what it is currently. I'm sorry, I'm very nervous.
 By the way, you're doing a great job. Thank you. Also, the residents in that neighborhood that lines up with the golf course are really concerned about the problems that would arise with industrial overlay. We...
 as a resident myself, are lined up against the Buffalo Slough, which is just south of the Columbia Slough. And we every day get to see wildlife, which has, despite years and years of industrial pollution, survived and flourished. And it would be a shame to see all of the work that the city of Portland has done go to waste by having this industrial overlay and having
 the plan for that part of Portland become industrialization. We are already surrounded by that, and it's still amazing that there is wildlife and that we can still have such a dynamic environment through there. We have industrial, we have the slough, we have all of it, and it would be nice to keep it that way for the foreseeable future. Thank you.
 Could I get your full name? It's Mariah or Maria? Mariah Quintana. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks for your time. Welcome. Hi. My name is Lorraine Thornton. I live at 735 North Fremont. My testimony is for Amendment M-42.
 I've been living in Boise Elliott neighborhood for almost 10 years, and I've seen streets redesigned, which I feel made it worse. Traffic lights, which seem to be on every corner, causing more dense traffic. High-rise buildings replacing the trees, allowing the fresh air to be stagnant. More traffic, noise from construction workers, car alarms, combustion, and pollution. There are restless nights and days because the area just doesn't shut down.
 There are places like a church and elementary school that makes a neighborhood. These places are my neighborhood, my community. There are children that attend the Boise Elliott Elementary, and how can we protect them from this influx of traffic? Crosswalks and school signs are seen when the school is in session. But what about when it's after school, summertime, when children are playing on the streets or in their yards? How do we protect these innocent lives then?
 The neighborhood is looking more and more like an industrial area than a peaceful family neighborhood it once was. Oh, gosh, I'm nervous now. Why? Why?
 Adding more buildings in an already crowded area will just add on more issues of safety and parking. Who will benefit? Surely not the poor individuals. I do not see this as an equal balance when the poor is subjected to a high-priced grocery store and a vast amount of condos, apartments erected around us. What this expansion allows gentrification, which in turn allows possibility of displacement of human beings and animals, if any.
 And for those reasons, I oppose the amendment. I ask that my plea to save my neighborhood, my community, from more gentrification will not be unheeded. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome, sir. Hello. My name is Greg Winterode with Winterbrook Planning. I'm testifying on item F83. We represent Renard Dream.
 LLC, who is the developer of the YMCA building, which was just approved for use by Under Armour Corporation as their regional headquarters. We are concerned about the proposed amendment from mixed-use urban center.
 to mixed-use neighborhood because we don't believe we meet the definition of a local serving commercial use we are definitely a regional use that belongs in the urban center designation i have submitted submitted written testimony that goes into more detail i will now also reassure you that we are working with the neighborhood association on this project we met with them last night
 And we are having good results as a result of those discussions. And I will close my testimony in the interest of getting through this quickly. Thank you for your detailed testimony, sir. Just to clarify, the current redevelopment is being done at the current zoning, correct? It's being done at the current zoning. And we are proposing a fourth floor redevelopment.
 and have a design advise which would not be allowed by the current zoning which is why the mixed-use urban center is important You won't only one more floor. You don't need three more floors. No, we need one more floor. Correct. Thank you Thank you Carla next three, please are Mike Connors Erwin Bergman and Marty Suchak and they'll be followed by Jenny Boyce Susan Carr and Joe Rossi Erwin your first up welcome in why don't you kick us off? Oh, thank you. Well welcome I
 Commissioner, my name is Herbert Bergman. I am a long-time member with the Columbia Slough Watershed Council. And there will be a bit of redundancy here in my testimony, but I think as a true believer in the Columbia Slough, I think it should be appropriate.
 And I'm here to share with you my concern and strong opposition to Amendment M-33, the proposed upzoning of 57 acres of the Broadmoor Golf Course to an industrial designation. It would be a very unfortunate, if not tragic, event for all the people of Portland to lose one of its vestiges of nature in its past.
 The majority of the site is within a designated environmental overlay, an area of city the city recognizes has highly significant resources and functional values. The entire site also ranks as high value on the regional natural resource inventory.
 The site is bordered on three sides by waterways and wetlands, including Columbia Slough, the Catcairn Marsh wetlands, and the port mitigation and enhancement parcels. The site contains more than an entire mile of riparian habitat. Eliminating this site will leave the surrounding habitat fragmented. It is rated as one of the most important wildlife complexes on the Slough.
 The site also has a most impressive stand of massive trees, including large giant sequoias, just like the ones the southeast Portland community fought to save. How about Portland, the city of trees, to cut or to treasure them? Analysis by the Industrial Health and Watershed Health Workgroup and the Planning and Sustainability Commission indicates that the designated
 designating the Bratman Passau is better suited as open space and habitat than industrial land. It does offer significant job potential. Terrain features together with its very extensive E and Z zone will make necessary infrastructure placement extremely challenging and expensive. And I guess that's it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Ma'am, why don't you go ahead. I'm Marta Suchak.
 I'm here about Amendment P45, is it? You know, the one, the middle housing one. But I'd like to, I hope I have time to make a comment on another amendment that was spoken to earlier. I'm not against middle housing. I'm against this amendment for a couple of reasons. One is that it's a middle housing amendment.
 The first important thing is that we could have a lot of middle housing if we required some ADUs be developed on some of the lots where we're demolishing houses if not, but that's another matter we don't seem capable as a city to address. The two reasons I'm against this is that this whole process has gone on for two years, but this amendment with significant implication has come up in a month. Okay.
 and it has not gone through the public process. It should have gone through, and for that reason I request that the record remain open and that the public gets to address this as much as, for example, the City Club. And there are tens of thousands of us who aren't in the City Club. Many of us would be asked to leave if we were. The other reason that I want to say is the problem I have with this is not that I'm against middle housing.
 I'm against this. Apply zoning that would allow within a quarter of a mile of designators' centers where appropriate and within the inner ring of the central city. That's fine. But doing it through the zoning code, we have no certainty about what our neighborhoods are going to look like. This could easily result, despite what the city planning bureaus say, despite that, we're not going to get adequate public input on it, and you know it.
 We're going to have the zoning code applied, and we're going to have a mosaic. We're going to have things that the norms and standards and ethos of professional planners used to oppose. They were anathemic to it. We're going to have a big mess, and we're going to have a lot of angry people, and we're going to have a lot of lost trees. The second thing I'd like to say is that I support the upzoning of Eastmoreland. I'm from Multnomah.
 If you do not upzone it, you put all those trees at risk because of the 5,000-square-foot lot exemption in the tree code. And this whole thing is revealing this flaw, Commissioner Fish, that these things collide, that one of the goals of the comprehensive plan is preservation of the environment. The tree code also tries to protect trees. The 5,000-square-foot lot...
 exemption is going to take down a lot of trees. And we don't need to, somebody said we all need to bear the burden of this. That proves that they think density is a punishment. I don't think it is a punishment. And so I think we need to have choices in our neighborhoods. Thank you for indulging me. See, I'd be asked to leave too. You are always welcome, as you know, in this house. Sir?
 Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Mike Connors. I'm here on behalf of Hayden Island Enterprises. They're the owners and operators of the Hayden Island Manufactured Home Park. I'm here to testify with respect to Amendment P-48. That's an amendment that Commissioner Fritz sponsored, and it was an amendment that was proposed in response to comments that we made back in November of 2015.
 We support the amendment. We very much appreciate Commissioner's support of it. However, we are asking that the commission consider more specific language. And really, this is in a letter that I submitted to you today. Really, the issue comes down to this. The amendment has very general language about facilitating replacement and alteration of manufactured homes within an existing manufactured home park.
 Our more specific issue is that our park is a recognized nonconforming use. And in a typical, it's because it doesn't comply with the development standards, the current development standards. In a typical nonconforming use situation, if a owner were to replace, remove, or significantly alter a structure, it requires that the entire site be brought up to compliance with the current development standards.
 As you can appreciate, a manufactured home park is in a unique situation because there's more temporary structures there. And so my client wants to make sure that to the extent homes are being removed and replaced...
 That's not going to trigger a requirement. This is an issue that prior to my representation of my client, they went through and got a letter from the city recognizing or acknowledging consistency with our interpretation. But we're asking you to adopt a formal policy because when my client goes through financing, for instance, a letter from the city attorney's office doesn't meet the
 isn't as valuable as much as an actual official policy in the comprehensive plan. Just to clarify, the policy that I've proposed in the comprehensive plan would allow this specific language that you've presented to be put into the zoning code? It goes in the zoning code, though not in the comprehensive plan. That's great. If that's what you're willing to do, then we're okay with that, whether it's the comprehensive plan or the zoning code. Thank you. Commissioner Fritz has been following this issue probably the closest to anyone in the council, but...
 The magic of your client's property is it's not just the manufactured homes. It's the locations for people who can temporarily live there, a construction foreman, someone working at the circus or whatever to get a lease space, plug in, get services. We're not proposing to do anything that prevents that from happening going forward, are we?
 No. Really what it amounts to is what happens when a home is removed and replaced with a new home. There's an ambiguity or question in the code as to whether that triggers the entire park to be brought up to compliance with the current standards. I'm sure we'll look closely at that. Thank you. Appreciate it. Carla, next three, please.
 are Jenny Boyce, Susan Carr, and Joe Rossi. That's 102, 106, and 107. And they'll be followed by 112, Paulette Rossi, 114, Sue Stringer, and 116, Tom Karwacki. So you're first up, why don't you? Okay.
 I'm here in regards to the notice I received about my area of Portland M45 being rezoned for high density residential and mixed use buildings. It's the area between Northeast Halsey, Highway 84, 57th and 63rd. And it's very different than north of Halsey economically, diversity wise.
 I bought my house in 2011 at the end of the crash and didn't make a lot of money. That's the only way I was able to buy it. If I sold it now, it would only be worth $200,000, and I couldn't buy another home in Portland. This is the case for a lot of people in that area. I love my little neighborhood. It's made up of working-class families, racially very diverse, age-wise very diverse, and
 and it feels like the Portland that we're losing so quickly with all the development and that our culture of Portland is becoming more middle class, hipster, white, which I am, and there's nothing wrong with that, but I love diversity as well, and I get that density is important. I believe that it's a design for a more...
 ecological healthy city, but I also see diversity of place, class, race, age, etc. as necessary for a healthy city. I received the notice a month ago, and so I walked around my neighborhood and handed out a flyer about it and talked to several people who didn't know about it and weren't very enthusiastic about those changes and
 Some people were. Some people are excited about selling their house, but most weren't. And most people would be displaced, wouldn't have another place to go. I talked to a woman who lives in a fourplex apartment building. What does that mean? I need to stop. You can wrap up, yeah. Who's been there for 40 years. It's a rental. She's an older woman. She would have no place to go. Okay.
 So I think we can be more creative than this. Instead of displacing people, it's a creative city. We can figure this out, ways to do it. I don't have those ideas so that people aren't displaced. Thank you. Thanks very much. I'm not clear. I'm sorry. Do you support the amendment? No, you don't. Okay, thank you. And I understand the reasoning. Ma'am, go ahead. My name is Susan Carr, and I am here to oppose M35 in Selwood, the rezone on Southeast 16th.
 I live on southeast 16th, 8412, around the corner from the block that is in question for the rezone. There are a number of properties that the Burma Enterprises has requested.
 It seems like they're on somewhat of a fishing expedition to rezone a number of different properties. And when we heard at the March 30th Smile Land Use Committee meeting, the agent for Brummel had no specific details about what they wanted to propose. It was very vague language of a four-story building that would be very nice to trust them. Okay.
 Sherritt is a very small street. Even living on 16th, we do not use Sherritt because it's a harder street to get in and out of. Our neighbor across the street is the Selwood Middle School play field, so we're very aware of the ins and outs of the traffic with the play fields and the –
 all the sports teams that use the play field. Plus the fact you probably are well aware there's just a lot of traffic with parents that the school generates, and 16th being away from the main part of the school receives a lot of parents waiting for their children, and they have to access 16th from one direction or another, and usually it's either Sherritt or Harney on either side.
 The Brummells are also an out-of-state developer, which was pointed out by someone else previously. No one would stand to benefit but the Brummells. Selwood has a number of different apartment buildings already in appropriately zoned areas. Selwood also is increasing its density with a number of new proposed projects, as well as their wind power.
 There has been current demolition, at least in our part of Selwood. A duplex or a triplex has replaced the single family that had been there before. I urge you to reconsider on this one or not pass it through. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we'll hear from Gabriella's father. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Joe Rossi representing three families, the Gary, Giusto, and Rossi families on Amendment F-72.
 First, I want to express my appreciation to staff being patient with me to help me understand the 2035 process and its goals, and then to develop a plan that best meets that. The two primary ones that stand out to me are middle-density housing opportunities and complete community, especially walking community.
 I'm testifying in support of F72 with just one minor ask for a slight change. First, my support is on everything's been decided on the east side of 122nd. Staff shifted some of the density closer to Shaver Street and away from the neighborhood on the south. I think that was very appropriate. It's closer to the street and away from the neighborhood, so we welcome that.
 On the west side of 122nd, well, first I want to point out how much R7 is on the map. We're just really swimming in an ocean of R7 here. And what we're really missing is enough density to actually support our neighborhood commercial, which is why it has never been there. So I think this fits in within those goals, especially between the three school buildings, elementary, high school, and middle school, and the new parks, which we're really blessed to have.
 On the west side of 122nd, the only thing we're asking for is to look closer at that R3. In that dotted line in the lower left corner, we have some R3 mixed with commercial corridor. I'd like that change to all commercial corridor to better integrate the housing component. I kind of see a 50-50 mix there. And if we had an all commercial corridor, we could shift some of the densities maybe up above the commercial. And I think we'd have a better project and something nicer. Yeah.
 Thank you very much, Joe. So we're going to call three more people. Just a time check. Because we had over 100 people who signed up, it's, I think, increasingly unlikely we're going to be able to finish up today. And we'll do another time check around 4.30. And if it looks like there's still a big chunk of people...
 left to testify we may we may decide to suspend closer to five and then just put people on first at the at the the final hearing but we'll play it by ear carla the next three please are paulette rossi sue stringer and tom karwacki and then we seem to miss 97 and 98 matt ferris smith charles so and howard patterson will be after this group here okay if the
 Why don't we take, who are we missing? Go ahead. Ma'am, why don't you get started? Hello, my name is Susan Stringer. I'm a resident of the Elliott neighborhood. Thank you for the opportunity to testify on amendment TSP-40116 in support of the proposed greenway on Northeast 7th Avenue. Thank you.
 For many years, neighbors on 7th Avenue have seen a lot of unsafe traffic behaviors, mainly from frustrated commuters avoiding MLK. They are cutting through the neighborhood, using 7th Avenue as their route, driving faster than posted speed limits, refusing to stop for pedestrians, and rarely yielding to cyclists. Currently, 7th Avenue is a de facto bike route.
 In addition, hundreds of pedestrians use this street, including children that attend Albina Head Start, King, and Irvington schools, as well as residents walking to take public transportation. Keeping all people safe that are using 7th should be a priority. A group of neighbors got together and realized that the BTA, Bike Loud PDX, Go Lloyd, Northeast Broadway-Widler Alliance, and King, Elliott, and Irvington Neighborhood Associations were among the organizations that had the same vision as residents who also supported the Greenway.
 It's exciting to see so many organizations and residents from very different backgrounds share this progressive vision of the future of 7th Avenue as they join together to help plan the future of our city bikeways. As a resident, I am grateful to be a part of this process because we want to make sure this process continues
 is a process where everyone is involved. Our group held three different community events. Some of our neighbors are excited for the positive change, and some are concerned about the greenway design. Therefore, we are talking to pedestrians, cyclists, neighbors, and city residents to make sure everyone has a voice. We will continue to advocate for everyone's involvement because a greenway on 7th is everybody's greenway, not just for those who live on 7th.
 Included in our written testimony are supporting documentation, including letters from neighborhood associations, signatures in support from residents, survey results, and a list of reasons why 7th Avenue is a superior choice over 9th Avenue, in addition to being half the cost, saving $1 million of taxpayers' money. Thank you for your time and attention. So is the amendment to move it to 9th? The amendment, well, we would prefer...
 I've seen it go back and forth from 7th to 9th to 7th. So I think it's been moved to 9th. We would like to see it go back to 7th. Got it. Thank you.
 Hello, I'm Paulette Rossi, and I am not talking about the property that Joe Rossi's been tracking for, I think, years. I'm talking about my opposition to Comp Plan Change 688 and Comp Plan Change 290, which changes a current R3 multifamily middle-density housing property to a mixed-employment R5 single-family zoning.
 The property is on Sandy Boulevard between Northeast 145th and 147th. It is vacant ground going south for 22 acres, making the eastern boundary of the Argate Park neighborhood. Argate is hundreds of R7 and R10 single-family homes and hundreds of apartments. The neighborhood leads the
 current R3 zoning of condos, townhouses, and duplexes.
 This property was originally zoned R3 in the 1960s by the forward-thinking Mount Noma County Commission that reasoned that downsizing baby boomers would buy condos and their children would buy starter homes that were townhouses. Please keep R3 zoning. It is a spice of life to have housing choice, and it is a flavor that makes housing affordable. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. My name is Tom Karwacki, Vice Chair of the University Park Neighborhood Association. I'm speaking today not only on behalf of the University Park Neighborhood Association, which has a sheet dealing with specifically F68 and N30110 and N30087, which we're all in favor of,
 And specifically then on the other side with North Portland Neighborhood Services headline, the North Portland Land Use Group, which is composed of the land use committees of the 11 neighborhood associations of North Portland Neighborhood Services and the North Portland Neighborhood Chairs,
 have approved the following comments. Overall, we feel that the City Council amendments improve the 2035 Comprehensive Plan recommended draft, and we specifically oppose two BPS staff amendments, P55 dealing with the Harbor Superfund and P68 dealing with technology. We generally support almost all of the amendments. We suggest P45 to have some of P19's language updated,
 which would be some sort of zoning capacity so it's not the entire quarter mile, that it's somehow dealing with 3,500 or something like that. In conclusion, and in sort of important things, there's over 50 of these policies that we agreed to and so forth. I'd like you to take a moment, close your eyes. I know this is hard to do, but I thought it was going to be clean up for the first group. The NPLUG and NPS chairs ask you to close your eyes for a second and think of what your individual amendments would do to North Portland.
 And we see a North Portland that has a variety of housing types and missing middle densities near centers that serve all people, courtesy of all of you. Houses that are affordable, thank you, Saltzman and Fritz. Neighborhoods that have historic homes and resources preserved, thank you, Mayor Hales. Neighborhoods that are engaged in land use and budgeting, thank you, Commissioner Fritz. A PIR that serves everyone and those who remember Vanport, thank you, Commissioner Fritz.
 A Hyden Island neighborhood center that limits heights and may have a bridge to the Expo Center. Thank you, Mayor Hales. No fossil fuel export or regional distribution centers. Thank you, Mayor Hales. And a pedestrian-friendly Lombard Avenue and a Willamette Bike Boulevard, courtesy of Commissioner Novak, that doesn't have a convenience store on a blind curve. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Is this what you see? No, thank you very much. I just have a clarifying question. You said you oppose P65? P65.
 it was P55 and P68. P68. P. So it's Policy 55 that dealt with the Harbor Superfund, which we preferred the Citizens Harbor Advisory Group. And the technology was, we thought the wording made it so that you wouldn't have public investment for technology. Got it. Thank you very much. Next three. All right.
 Our 97 and 98, Matt Ferris Smith and Charles Tussauds. And number 117, Howard Patterson. And then that's all from the previous Thursday's list. Oh, that's it. Okay. Sir, we'll start with you.
 Great. My name is Charlie So, and I'm here to speak in support of Amendment P45 regarding middle housing. So middle housing can help address three of the city's most urgent issues right now, which is housing affordability, neighborhood preservation, and transportation access. So first, middle housing can add more affordable rental units. These buildings are shorter and smaller, and they can be built.
 built with lower construction costs, and these reasons make them significantly more affordable than your typical tall concrete or steel apartment or condo structures that we have seen a lot. And middle housing can also make home ownership more affordable. The existing single-family housing stock is becoming increasingly unaffordable for young families in Portland to buy their first home.
 Middle housing type of homes will offer families a fair chance to afford owning a home in Portland.
 And second, middle housing offers a scale transition between the mixed-use centers and corridors and the surrounding single-family areas. Legalizing middle housing could reduce one-to-one demolitions by making it possible to add more units in existing houses rather than tearing old houses down and replace them with larger and more expensive homes. Okay.
 These middle housing structures also have lower construction impact to the neighborhood in the area. So by legalizing middle housing, Portland can grow in a smarter way and maintain some of the neighborhood characters that make Portland unique. Finally, density is one of the most important factors making walkable housing.
 bike-friendly, and transit-accessible neighborhoods. So well-designed housing structures effectively add more density with smaller footprint and enhance walkability, and this will support Portland's transportation policy and mode split goals by allowing neighborhoods to support active and green transportation choices, such as walking, biking, and public transit. Thank you. Thank you. My name is Howard Patterson, and I co-own the house at 267 North Ivy Street. I'm an 18-year resident of Portland. I'm here...
 to support Amendment P45 and also to speak in strong opposition to Amendment M42. North Fremont, west of MLK, is designated as a local street. The stretch of North Fremont affected by M42 features a beloved elementary school, a historic church, and
 and two lots of affordable middle density housing. The other structures are single family homes. Now, there are a few empty lots awaiting development along North Fremont, a couple of blocks west of Vancouver. Amendment P45 would suggest that these lots be developed as middle density housing, adding density to our residential neighborhood without overwhelming its livable character, serving as a transition zone from the high density commercial Vancouver corridor to the more open landscape of single family homes further west and north.
 and R1, in fact, is how this region is now zoned. Developing these lots within the limitations of R1 zoning is perfectly in keeping with P45's recommendations. However, due solely to the insistence of a single landowner, Amendment M42 attempts to upzone these lots and a number of others to CM2, despite virtually no support and a great deal of opposition from the community, including opposition from some of the landowners whose property this amendment would upzone, in particular the Open Door Church. .
 This kind of spot zoning is not in keeping with the comprehensive plan and is likely to have detrimental effects on traffic in an area already troubled by increasing congestion on the safety of school children and other pedestrians and on the area's small-scale residential livability.
 This landowner has presented no plan, not even a description of the project he intends to construct. Further, we have no idea of what might be built by future developers in the other lots he does not own that are also being upzoned. This landowner is a longstanding member of the local community and has been very generous to that community in many ways. But whether a developer comes from inside the local neighborhood or a distant city, a zoning change that opens the door to such unrestricted development seems unwise and uncalled for. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
 I have slightly more detailed testimony in writing also submitted. Welcome. Hi, thank you. My name is Matt Ferris-Smith. I live and work in Portland. I'm a renter here. First of all, I just want to say kudos to you all for sitting through all this. Before I start yammering at you, I don't know how you do this job. I sat at the last CompZone meeting you had last week, three hours in a hot room.
 Kudos to you. So thank you. I just wanted to say that. So yeah, so I'm here today because I strongly support Amendment P45 regarding middle housing. I really wish council would support this.
 I have heard both last week and this week a lot of concern around the process around this. And I empathize and I understand that concern. But, you know, you can't – I think there is opposition to this. There will always be opposition to this. And as, you know, public officials, sometimes you have to make these hard choices. And I think this is the right thing for Portland. Yeah.
 So middle housing, I would say, really strongly reflects Portland's values. We care a lot about livability and neighborhood character in Portland. And middle housing would improve both livability and neighborhood character through our city. Adopting Amendment P45 would enhance Portland's livability and neighborhood character in the following ways. One, by improving academic success for lower income students, because we know that those students benefit from living in mixed income neighborhoods.
 Two, by preserving our nearby farms and natural areas because they are more likely to remain undeveloped when we allow for more housing inside our city. Three, by reducing the need to get around Portland using a car because walking, biking, and transit become more convenient and safer when we allow for more housing inside our city.
 so summing up academic success for all our students easy access to natural areas convenient and safe options to travel with a car these outcomes reflect portland's values and middle housing supports them all please blast this amendment thank you thank you very much carla next three please this is the new list for who signed up today how many people are on this list we know i don't know if i have the last page but right now i have 84. okay
 I don't think there's 84 people. The first three, please come on up, are Terry Parker, Mark Hoffman, and Peter F. Fry. And they'll be followed by four or five, I think, I'm sorry, eight, Doug Klotz, Lori Kovach, and Carol Klan. Welcome, everybody. Terry, why don't you kick us off? Okay.
 Okay, Terry Parker, I'm speaking on P45. By calling for the addition of middle housing in single-family home neighborhoods, it appears the density extremists and affordable housing crusaders have teamed up to destroy the village in their eyes to save it.
 This paradigm would be equivalent to constructing 80-story buildings in downtown Portland in the Pearl District. The whole idea of middle housing throws out traditional zoning that has been designed to protect the sanctity of Portland's diverse single-family home neighborhoods and tears at the heartstrings of the very neighborhoods that people buy into the
 for their livability. Street trees alone cannot replace green yards that provide outdoor living space for families and supply habitat for urban wildlife. The fence that extends across my modest backyard often doubles as a freeway for the many gray squirrels that make my neighborhood their home.
 As opposed to preservation, the middle housing concept opens the door as an incentive to demolish more and more affordable and quality single-family homes. Land prices increase significantly when more density can be added. Will new housing options be as affordable as existing starter homes? While internal conversions of existing large houses should be considered as a way to add density, cottage clusters do not belong in R5-zoned and smaller lot-sized neighborhoods.
 Any new construction in single-family zone neighborhoods needs to fit the scale and setbacks of existing homes nearby and must require one off-street parking place for each housing unit. Charging households in single-family home neighborhoods a fee to park on residential streets in front of their own homes is contrary to affordability. Likewise, affordability is not continually increasing sewer, water, and garbage service rates and jacking up property taxes. Weakening zoning regulations must not be determined by profit-centered development interests.
 If the middle housing concept is to be considered, an extensive amount of community outreach and public response must take place, decoupled from, and not to be confused with the comp plan process before and if any implementation could take place. Thank you. Jerry, thank you very much. Welcome, sir. Thank you, Commissioners. I was...
 My name is Mark Hoffman. I'm the Director of Development for Garden Commercial Properties, a subsidiary of our parent company, Garden Homes. We're a New Jersey-based development group that have owned a piece of property in Portland for 30 years. I personally have been involved with that for 20 years. It is a property located on the corner of Northeast 122nd and Sandy. This is a property that has been proposed to be
 classified as general employment, and we have before the Commissioner's Amendment 59, which would shift it to the mixed-use corridor. I've submitted testimony previously in support of why we're asking for this. Primarily,
 The highest and best use for this site is a mixed-use opportunity going forward. It's been used for retail for many years. A mixed-use corridor would allow the redevelopment of this site in the future in many interesting ways. Again, this testament that I've submitted shows that very clearly.
 It's our thought that the current manner in which this property is being used is underutilized. We admit that. But we see in the very near future an opportunity to re-energize and revitalize that corridor with a mixed-use zone. As part of that, the types of projects we've done include re-energizing
 We have a number of different avenues we pursue, which include lifestyle centers, which have components of residential. The flexibility to choose what type of residential might be appropriate for the community and meet the needs of the area is also something that I think would foot in well here. But the most important thing, in my opinion, is the retail use that's currently
 available is something that is very appropriate for the area. I worked with the DOT five years ago to set up that whole corner to facilitate the development, and I appreciate your time. Thank you, sir, very much. My name is Peter Finley-Fry. I'm here as a planning consultant for Gardner Homes, which, as you know, is located at 122nd Northeast Sandy, and speaking about Amendment 59.
 The staff argued that the site is well-suited for employment. It is not, in my opinion. Single users on large sites like this are very rare and do not happen very often. Multiple users do not occupy an isolated site. This site is not geographically connected to Columbia Corridor. It's separated significantly by Sandy and a large overpass.
 Staff further assumes that employment wages are higher than commercial. This is also not necessarily true. A call center or bank office could happen on this site as employment use, but neither have very high wages at all. Multiple-use commercial centers containing self-owned businesses, professional services, and managers all have higher wages and jobs accessible to the surrounding neighborhood. So what does the neighborhood need?
 The urban form map designates 122nd as a civic corridor. If you look at the maps as we did, where the Safeways are, where the Albertsons are, none of them are around this neighborhood at all. The neighborhood does not have commercial services, no grocery stores. Portland's goal is to provide goods and services accessible to the neighborhood. We feel that we can help do that. Thank you very much.
 Carla, the next three, please. Are four, five, and six, Doug Klotz, Lori Kovach, and Sam Noble. And they'll be followed by seven, eight, nine, and ten, Kerry Walters, Carol Chan, and Mary Kyle McCurdy, and Nick Sovey.
 Hi, thank you. Doug Klotz. I'm here to speak about the missing middle P45. I support that. I heard the concerns from the United Nations for Reform, Ms. Suchek and Mr. Parker. They seem to mostly support the concept but are concerned about implementation.
 I believe that adopting Amendment P45 now is the first solid first step toward providing more affordable, sustainable housing, adopting into policy the city's support for middle housing. Once that's in policy, then the future process will be to implement the policy, write the regulations, and that will come along with the neighborhood involvement that these folks are involved in.
 concerned about this is just a policy this is not zoning code amendment so this was this is the first step and I think we should do that now and send a message that we support this I also support oh I would have mod I would modify the area of application mentioned in the amendment
 It's a map of it, which covers currently an amendment that covers areas within a quarter mile of designated centers and within the inner ring. I would add within a quarter mile of frequent service transit corridors and especially at least a quarter mile around light rail and BRT stations, which seems like that's indeed where we want density of any form. Thank you.
 i also support zone changes crafted by bsa bps planners and supported by the planning sustainability commissions for two areas in inner southeast the proposed zone change from r5 to r25 between stark and alder and 15th and 20th is a conservative approach i appreciate the mayors and commissioner fritz's uh
 Work on that alternative proposal But I think it's unnecessarily complex and confusing compared to the simple zone change to our to five which will have a similar effect The area of east of lone fir between Belmont Stark and 26 and 30th is already higher density than that previous one staff went through this lot by lot carefully crafted a zoning pattern and I Think we should support that and so therefore I oppose that
 Commissioner Novick's proposal number two. Thank you very much, and we do have your written testimony, so thank you. Welcome. Hi. I'm Lori Kovac. I'm testifying in support of Commissioner Novick's Amendment No. 2 in his memorandum dated April 12, 2016, which would leave the zoning unchanged between Southeast 26th and 30th and between Stark and Belmont, excluding the area north of Belmont proposed for mixed use. Thank you.
 The area in question is currently zoned single-family 2,500 and 5,000 and was proposed to be changed to multifamily 1,000 and 2,000. The comments I heard from the planning staff in support of the proposed zoning change is that the area has an existing mix of housing types and that there is a potential for affordable housing in the area. I think the residents of the area are being treated unfairly by the way these justifications are currently proposed to be implemented.
 the issues of a mix of housing types and a need for affordable housing are equally true for many parts of buckman sunny side and kerns if the principles upon which this the proposed zoning change are valid they should be discussed and implemented in the neighborhood
 or a citywide change of zoning standards, not by picking on a few households. Changing our zoning now would be unfair. Our neighborhoods should be able to participate fully in the concepts developed by the residential infill project and particularly in the discussion of middle housing, which I support. We currently have a vibrant mix of single-family duplexes, triplexes, and some larger multifamily residences. What makes the mix work is the scale of the buildings, few of which are over two stories, and most of which meet single-family setbacks.
 The proposed changes would allow currently conforming single-family homes to have four-story apartment buildings constructed immediately adjacent. The scale of the buildings that would be allowed outright in the proposed zoning do not belong in an area with historic single-family residences. This change is too extreme for an area already providing a variety of housing of the types the city is hoping to encourage. Please adopt Commissioner Novick's amendment to leave our zoning unchanged. Thank you very much for your consideration.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. My name is Sam Noble. I own a house at 710 Southeast 26th Avenue in the Buckman neighborhood. I'm here today to support P45 middle housing and oppose amendments S20, S21, S22, which reject the PSC recommendation for Buckman west of 20th Avenue. I oppose the proposals described in memos number one and number two from Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick on April 11th and April 12th.
 Changes in Buckman to the west of 20th are minor, but as part of a comprehensive plan where many neighborhoods are zoned to grow just a little, this is important. As a lesser point, the R25 designation allows roof lines to rise an additional five feet, and this can be critical in an area where many older buildings need new foundations that are only financially justifiable by building ADUs in new daylight basements.
 My house is east of Loan First Cemetery. My immediate neighbor to the south is zoned R2.5, but my similar house and lot is zoned R5. The PSC proposal would normalize the zoning in my area in a fair way. Remember, five feet higher to the south.
 I love the idea of bonus density overlay, especially one that can bring existing multi-unit buildings into conformance. But I can't support the Nova Kales proposal for two reasons. One, it ignores the reality that some mold structures are going to be redeveloped, especially those that are smaller and less valuable, as found on 26th Avenue. And two, design review is expensive and uncertain, undermining the bonus value. We'll lose housing capacity. We need prescriptive standards.
 You have heard lots of support today from middle housing. Missing middle development is most attainable on R1 and R2 lots, and higher density zoning is a meaningful way to compensate property owners who are suddenly adjacent to intense commercial development on corridors. To conclude, the area east of 20th is adjacent to a town center, has adequate parking and frequent bus service. The streets lack consistent historic architecture, and there are few historically significant properties.
 So I want to end my testimony with a question for counsel. If you won't zone for the missing middle here, where today's density is already higher than what's proposed, and that same proposal didn't galvanize a small army of bright yellow T-shirts to provide sincere and compelling opposition, where can you actually support it? Thank you very much. Carla, the next three, please. I have requested to come up together. Carrie Waters, Carol Chan, Mary Kyle McCurdy, and Nick Sovey. That's...
 7 through 10, and they'll be followed by 11, 12, and 13, Ellen Dubbins, Virginia Burgess, and Bob Johnson. Welcome. Why don't you kick us off? Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Carrie Waters, and I act as Community Engagement Manager at the Native American Youth and Family Center.
 I come before you today on behalf of Anti-Displacement PDX, or ADPDX, a coalition of community-based organizations that, as you know, aims to end displacement in our city. ADPDX has worked with city staff, the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and City Council for over a year to develop and advance equity principles in the comp plan. As you know, improvements envisioned in Portland's neighborhoods throughout the comp plan will inherently lead to higher property values.
 Without proper mitigation of these pressures, development excludes and isolates many long-time community members, disrupting our sense of place and belonging. The policies we successfully advocated for in the comp plan provide a framework to ensure that development benefits rather than further burdens those that have suffered in place throughout times of abandonment and disinvestment. Thank you for including these policies in the draft plan.
 In the meantime, we are here today to weigh in on the proposed amendments. Reinforcement of exclusionary practices like the proposed downzoning in Eastmoreland will only further race and income segregation and is simply put, bad policy. I speak to you today in my professional capacity, but also as a lifelong invested Portlander to support Amendment P45, middle housing.
 Last month, our landlord finally found a buyer for the old Buckman Middle housing where my family has lived for the past six years. We don't know the implications for this, but our housing crisis couldn't be more evident as we perused Portland's staggeringly limited rental supply.
 We oppose amendments S-20 and S-21 in the Buckman neighborhood that down-designate significant blocks along Morrison Street that have potential for higher densities to support more housing types and affordable options for renters such as myself to stay in the neighborhood.
 We are confident that you will seize this opportunity to make Portland an equitable and inclusive place to live over the next 20 years and for the seventh generation. Thank you for your support and consideration. Thank you. Nick, why don't you? Thank you.
 We've got a different order. Thanks. Okay. Hi. My name is Carol Chan, and I'm a staff with APANO as a Chinese organizer associate. We oppose the downzoning of Eastmoreland neighborhood, which can be a part of a citywide solution to end displacement. Okay.
 Specifically, we oppose amendments M74, M75, B88, which would down-designate the comp plan map for the Eastmoreland Plan District and other areas of that neighborhood. We agree with both Bureau of Planning and Sustainability staff and with the Planning and Sustainability Commission that Eastmoreland should stay at the draft plan designation. Those who are opposed to down-designation, please stand up. Okay.
 I'm already standing behind you. Thank you. Addressing displacement requires making equitable policies on both sides, allowing for access to high opportunity neighborhoods while investing in people in places like East Portland. It's also important to make a distinction about the down zoning of areas like Powellhurst Gilbert,
 that bear the brunt of overcrowding schools that are also in great need of investment and infrastructure, transit service, and high quality housing. Eastmoreland is a very different story. Into the next 20 years, we must ensure that families have better housing opportunities, also paying attention to neighborhoods like the one I work in.
 I've witnessed families at an apartment complex in East Portland struggle making ends meet to pay their monthly rent. Many tenants are afraid that they'll be forced to move. Moving is stressful. It means that they're forced to leave their current support system. Friends, other families, and services...
 They're familiar with. Families are living with excessive mold. Floors crawl with cockroaches. The landlord does repairs to beautify the apartment complex until midnight and pays no attention to horrendous living conditions that families endure.
 Some families won't ask the landlord for repairs, afraid of retaliation and even eviction. I've already seen signs of this happening. The landlord gave residents a 24-hour notice to completely remove all items from all cabinets, drawers, and refrigerators so pest control could go in. If tenants didn't comply, tenants would incur a rescheduling fee. With non-negotiable terms like these, living conditions feel unfair and no end.
 Anti-displacement policies that you've adopted will absolutely help people. Thank you. Although these struggles cannot work alone, access to affordable options in places like Eastmoreland and Buckman must also be made available so that people have choices, if not more barriers to
 to fair housing that I've described will only increase. Do we want to see this kind of income and race segregation where families struggle for basic dignity? We welcome ways that all neighborhoods be an active part of the solution for affordability across Portland. Thank you very much.
 you're next good afternoon council president fish and members of the commission my name is mary kyle mccurdy policy director at 1000 friends and a member of 80 pdx i also testify today as a resident of eastmoreland in opposition to proposed amendment 74 which would down zone eastmoreland from r5 to r7 my husband and i purchased our first and only home in eastmoreland in 1990. we chose it because it's a neighborhood of opportunity
 It has a network of walking and biking friendly sidewalks and streets for the children we plan to have, has good schools nearby, near to downtown, pretty good transit at the time. Within walking, biking, and transit of two neighborhood centers, Westmoreland and Woodstock, close to Reed College, and it was relatively affordable back then. These are the same reasons many people want to live in Eastmoreland today, except two things have changed. One is that it's a great place to live.
 It's become less and less affordable, and all of the active transportation options have improved. We have the Orange Line, the Springwater Corridor, the 20s, bikeways, and more.
 Since then, we have raised two children who attended Dunaway, Selwood, and Cleveland public schools. We've been active in our community. Among other things, I've served as the president of the local school foundation for each of these schools, and my husband is a past president of the Neighborhood Association. He's already submitted testimony in opposition to this downzoning. The opportunities and amenities offered by neighborhoods like Eastmoreland should be broadly available to families and individuals of all incomes.
 With the current zoning of R5, that's already challenging, and I think you'll see ways to address this when you receive recommendations from your single-family infill committee. However, exacerbating this challenge by increasing lot sizes to 7,000 square feet is simply creating an economically exclusive gated community without the gate.
 Significant investments have been made in transit, bicycling, and pedestrian infrastructure, including the $1.2 billion Orange Line. That's a public investment that more families and individuals should have the opportunity to benefit from. As many Portlanders, including in my neighborhood, grow older, they should have the opportunity to age in their neighborhoods where they already have a network of friends, know the grocery clerk and the bank teller, etc. Changing the zoning to R-7 is going in the opposite direction of meeting changing family needs.
 I need to wrap up.
 thank you thank you very much nick i'm nick sovi i'm the director of rose community development and the co-chair of the east portal national plan housing subcommittee i hope that you'll support the anti-displacement pdx recommendations in the comp plan i want to thank council and the planning and sustainability commission for working with us to fix our housing emergency
 EPAP has spent the last two years working on involuntary displacement prevention recommendations, and we think the comp plan actions are consistent with those. East Portland is experiencing huge rent hikes, no-cause evictions, displacement of entire buildings.
 The City Council needs to put on a full court press to really address the displacement problem. That includes the things that are in the comp plan about planning and zoning. It includes fixing the design review process. Rose is doing a project in Lentz that just lost four units and had hundreds of thousands of dollars of additional costs.
 put on by design review and other city requirements. We can look at building codes, taxes and fees, financing, value capture. I think these are all important.
 With the growth in Portland, we're looking at something like 100,000 new units, and we think that presents a tremendous opportunity to develop a workforce to build that housing through community benefits agreements that support workers and small businesses. So thanks for adopting the plan, and I hope you'll pay attention to the implementation as well.
 no new redlining and displacement. Thank you. Thank you all very much. Carla, next read. Our 11, 12, and 13, Alan Dubbins, Virginia Burgess, and Bob Johnson, and they'll be followed by 14, 15, and 16, Al Garvey, Larry Margolin, and Deborah O'Neill. Welcome. Thank you. Why don't you kick us off? We're going to.
 go the other way sorry i've been getting it wrong every time why should you be any different sir why don't you kick us off thanks commissioner um president of the council and commissioners my name is alan dobbins and i'm here to talk about the complan amendment m60 um i live we all do live in twilliger plaza and have the privilege of serving and i have the privilege of serving on the board of directors as vice president we find ourselves
 With a kind of problematic planning situation, Plaza is located within four different planning zones. We would be well served were the Plaza in just one zone, high-density multi-dwelling. As we look to the future...
 As we consider the silver tsunami, elderly white-haired folks reaching the age of retirement, living longer, facing more protracted periods of illness, while the plaza already provides excellent health care services, we believe we will need to offer additional services. I want to thank each of you because I think you've all spoken at Tulaga Plaza, so you perhaps know about us, but I want to say a little bit more. Thank you.
 We are a place for some 350 members have come to live out the last years of their lives. They are people who choose to live near Portland's rich cultural and political center and the university. They want to be involved in civic and educational activities. Our mission statement speaks to this point. Quote, the plaza is a nonprofit continuing care retirement center.
 empowering seniors to lead vital and engaged lives within the plaza and the larger community. It is also a place where over 200 employees work, and the plaza has been recognized several times as one of the most attractive places in which to work in Portland and indeed in Oregon. The plaza is a standalone facility. That is, it is not owned by a corporation. The board is fully responsible for its management and operations.
 The board consists of nine members who live in the facility plus four outside members with full voice and voting privilege who bring needed expertise to board decision-making.
 We have a foundation, one of whose purposes is to provide support for those who have exhausted their financial resources so that no one will ever be forced to leave the plaza for financial reasons. We are proud that the plaza offers a vibrant and stable place to live, and we expect to continue to do so for many years. I apologize for exceeding my time. No, thank you. Thank you very much. And let's take a moment and acknowledge that when Jack Ullman got the Pulitzer Prize for editorial cartooning,
 One of the things that he put up was a video of his parents, a video tribute to his parents off of his cartoon art. And it begins with their home when they were at Twilliger Plaza. His father lived right over me.
 I think it's safe to say, speaking for all my colleagues, that all of us probably do more preparation for that invitation. Because when you look at it and you see former Supreme Court justices and elected officials and journalists and people, it's one of the toughest audiences to go speak to, and it's an honor to be invited. Sir, you're very kind. And I might say we also prepared for another tough one.
 Thank you for joining us. Ma'am, you're next. Okay. My name is Virginia Burgess, and I'm a resident member of Terwilliger Plaza since 2014. I'm here today in support of the Amendment M-60. My involvement with the plaza began in 1985 when my mother became a member, and she lived there until 2012. Okay.
 She died at 99. In 2000, I was recruited to serve on the Terwilliger Plaza Foundation Board, and upon completing nine years on that board, I was then elected to serve on the Governing Board for an additional seven years with duties as treasurer and seven years on the Finance Committee as well.
 The plaza began with a 360-unit tower building in 1962 that restricted membership to ambulatory seniors only. No walkers or wheelchairs allowed. Times have changed. Since then, the plaza has evolved to include 247 independent living units of varying sizes, plus a 44 assisted living and 21 residential care units to accommodate most levels required by members.
 In 1997, Tuolumne Plaza gained full international accredited status as a CCRC, Continuing Care Retirement Community. Although fewer than 10% of CCRCs are so accredited, the plaza has maintained this status continuously since 1997.
 During my association with the plaza, I have seen continued growth in facilities and services, including refurbishment of living units, addition of double glazing and central air conditioning to the tower, addition of assisted living buildings, addition of wellness center workout and classrooms, swimming pool, expansion of the auditorium, library, and dining room, and additions to the qualified staff to serve those areas.
 The Plaza's financial position is strong with BBB credit rating, a $17 million annual budget, and a $24 million reserve fund, all of which will support further growth in facilities and services.
 Again, to enable this healthy growth, I am in support of Amendment M-60. If I have ten more seconds, I will add one of the things we are proud of is that we don't have just large, expensive units. We still retain small one-bedroom and studio units, so we have a broad section of people. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll just also note that the Bureau has recommended support for M-60, so thank you for coming out and testifying on that. Thank you. Sir, you're up. Thank you.
 My name is Bob Johnson and I am the interim president and CEO of Terwilliger Plaza, along with Jenny and Alan. Thank you very much for your time and the opportunity to speak in support of Amendment M-60. Terwilliger Plaza is fortunate to have an engaged and visionary board of directors, the majority of whom are residents of Terwilliger Plaza. As they have looked to the future, they see as essential the need to add services and to grow.
 Additional services and growth are needed to answer the challenge of the baby boomers who, like me, are starting to move into communities such as Terwilliger Plaza. In the near future, we will see a record demand for housing in communities like Terwilliger. The plaza sees the specific need for adding memory care services beyond what we offer now and the need for additional independent apartments because of this silver tsunami, as the boomers have been dubbed.
 There will be increasing need for housing of all types for persons 65 years and over. The plaza also wishes to continue as an independent nonprofit organization. Economies of scale demand growth to achieve that goal of continued independence.
 Adoption of the comprehensive plan in this amendment will allow for a less confusing and less costly expansion process for Terwilliger Plaza if the plaza chooses to expand at some point in the future. Working with four zones that currently intersect the property is confusing and may ultimately make any future building impractical, which will seriously hinder the services that the plaza can offer to the aging population. Thank you very much for this time. I encourage you to vote for Amendment M.
 and 60. Thank you for your support. Thank you all three. Carla, next three please. Larry Margolin and Deborah O'Neill 14, 15, and 16 and they'll be followed by Josh Easton, Renee Corbett and Gabriel Triplett, 17, 18 and 19. Sir, you're first. Why don't you lead us off.
 My name is Larry Margolin, and I'm here to talk about Amendment M-20. You can just move the mic a little closer. Sure. And that whole thing moves if necessary. I'll just move myself. My name is Larry Margolin. I'm here to speak on Amendment M-20. And firstly, thank you for considering Amendment M-20. My neighbors and I support the CM zoning on Markham Hill and the proposed extension of this zoning designation one block west up Markham Hill to Southwest 12th.
 This area up by OHSU is in significant need of quality housing and services within walking distance to OHSU. There are upwards of 3,000 new students that arrive each summer and struggle to find quality housing options on the Hill. Many of the 1930s single-family homes have been converted to multiple units or bedroom rentals.
 The neighborhood continues to be concerned about, or the neighborhood association continues to be concerned about the vehicle traffic and parking issues on the hill. But I think that the city planners are correct that the hill needs improved amenities, sidewalks, transit, commercial services, and housing to reduce the vehicle trips up and down the hill. Thank you.
 For my property, I'm currently undergoing a design and feasibility study to determine the best use that fits the neighborhood and provides needed housing and makes economic sense. We're looking at a small apartment building designated to serve the OHSU community with new sidewalks, stormwater mitigation, and modern housing options. This will be a pedestrian and bicycle-oriented development sitting just half a block from the number eight frequent service bus and four blocks from the tram.
 so i thank you for uh submitting amendment m20 and i appreciate your support does the neighborhood association support it do you know i went to the neighborhood association meeting uh and it was voted four to six with only 12 people there and only six voters um but they they didn't uh no so four to six was the thing i appreciate the numbers thank you good afternoon hi i'm albert gary my last name is spelled g-a-r-r-e
 I'm here to speak in favor of Amendment F72. My wife and I have lived in the Argate Terrace neighborhood for 32 years. I am here to speak about the zoning designation for property in the Argate neighborhood, which is immediately west of 122nd Avenue and south of Northeast Shaver Street, that is currently open land and is being farmed by its respective landowners.
 For full disclosure, my wife and I are one of those landowners, and our 10-acre portion of this land is currently zoned residential R3.
 It was about 31 years ago during annexation of this land when the city went through almost an identical zoning process for this property. The result of that process was a decision to designate most of the open farmland as an R3 medium density residential zone and some of it abutting 122nd as commercial zone.
 Amendment F-72 continues the philosophy of that original zoning decision. It was correct 31 years ago, and it is even more correct today. Regarding the residential zoning of this land, the R3 designation for this property makes especially good sense because of its proximity to the soon-to-be-opened Lewitt View Park. Those who choose to live in a medium-density housing arrangement
 are more likely to need and use a park. Having an active park is vital to keeping it safe and neighborhood-friendly area, which makes the entire neighborhood a better place to live. So a future residential R3 development on this property, which is located near a city park,
 a collector street, an arterial street, and a commercially zoned area makes good planning sense. It will contribute to a more complete community, and it will make the Argy neighborhood a more desirable and livable area. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Deborah O'Neill, and I'm a resident of Portland, and I'm here to testify on behalf of the Bosco Milligan Foundation Architectural Heritage Center.
 the bosco-milligan foundation bmf thanks individual council members for advancing amendments to the comprehensive plan that increased the protection of historic buildings and neighborhoods we urge the council as a whole to include these amendments chapter three and four of the final adopted version of the plan
 Attached short testimony is a list of the amendments to the comprehensive plan goals and policies that the BMF supports. These amendments, if adopted, will give historic resources a more important place in the comprehensive plan and thus offers the possibility of creating centers and neighborhoods that maintain and increase Portland's desirable character.
 We recognize that the policies set the right direction and that programs by governments, nonprofit organizations like ours, and private investors and individuals will be necessary to actually implement these goals and policies. We look forward to working with the city on implementation. I thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Carla, next street, please. We're going to go with 17, 21, and 22. 17 is Joe Easton.
 Josh Easton, Joe Angel, and Eric Hovey are next, and they'll be followed by Renee Corbett, Gabriel Triplett, and Cameron Harrington. Gentlemen, hello. Mr. Angel, you want to kick us off? I will. Thank you. My name is Joe Angel. I started in the restaurant business in 1967. At that time, Burger King had no drive-thrus. In 1975, I had moved to Portland and started –
 a series of buildings, and on the third building at Lloyd Center, we opened the first drive-thru in the country for Burger King. The customer demand was such that they asked us to do that because of so many people having an experience with In-N-Out. The result was a big success. It allowed us to reduce the parking lots that we had been required to have in the past, and we needed to be in areas...
 where there were pass-by trips, areas like where there's a Fred Meyers or a Safeway or a pharmacy. We don't rely on trips that come directly to us. We rely on trips that are out there doing other things. The issue of safety has come up in 40 years of operation. There has not been one accident between a drive-through lane and a pedestrian, not one.
 In the 1990s, I was on the planning commission, and the governor asked me to get on a task force for ODOT. The task force was charged with trying to reduce vehicle miles traveled, and we came up with various methods to do that, trying to get people out of their cars and into other forms of transportation. We had a very successful group, and we came up with various ways to do that.
 We also worked on the problems in the restaurant industry, which because of our society, the peak periods come three times a day, whether you like it or not. So you have to have parking for those three peak periods or they end up going out into the neighborhood. We have relied upon commercial zoning since the time commercial zoning started.
 Because we make 30- and 40-year commitments. When we buy into a C2 zone, we expect that we can sign leases with people for 30 or 40 years. Could you just help me understand that a little better, the interplay between a long-term lease and the potential trigger of a conditional use permit and how that works? Yes. Sure.
 Our big fear is that we have bought property that is C2 property and the city suddenly changes the zone on us. We have a drive-thru lane. That then becomes a non-conforming use. My tenants, I'm now out of the restaurant business, but I'm a landlord. My tenants are required to remodel every 10 years to stay current with the brand's image. And so when they go in to get a permit,
 They're a non-conforming use, and they get into a whole series of requirements that the only thing that changed was the city changed my zone that I had maybe bought 20 years ago. Is there a way to resolve that issue without having to change the drive-thru component? Yes. Let me get to what I'm asking for. I'll quit telling you my story. Here's what we would like.
 Allow drive-thru lanes in all commercial zones except the obvious places. Downtown, 39th and Hawthorne, 23rd, 21st, Multnomah Village. Districts that are obviously pedestrian-oriented districts. Allow drive-thrus that are permitted before the date of this new zoning to be conforming uses under the code.
 If you decide, Joe, we don't care, we want to change the zone there and I have a drive-thru there, please, please don't make it nonconforming.
 It's right into the code that it is a conforming use if it's before a certain date. And is this proposal reflected in a current amendment, or is this a tweak to an existing amendment? This is a no amendment. I will have to give you a letter with my testimony. Could you do that before Friday? I will. I had to try to come up with solutions for you today. No, no, we appreciate it. That's why we're giving you a little extra time. So just wrap up if you would. Okay. Okay.
 To change the proposed zoning, the proposed language says prohibit. Right now in the code it says not allowed. When it's not allowed, you're able to go in and try to convince the staff that you need a drive-thru. And so it should be outright in areas where there's now C2 zoning. But if you put it in areas where you don't want it, say not allowed, not prohibited.
 I'm going to have to ask you to wind up there. I would appreciate seeing a proposal in writing before Friday. The mayor's already made clear he feels very strongly about this issue. We do have an amendment that's in the packet that kind of addresses it, and what you're suggesting is kind of maybe a third way. I don't know, Joe, whether it has support on the council or not, but I'd like to see what it looks like, and I'd like to get staff feedback on it. Thank you. And I have a question. Do you have any properties in the downtown area that have drive-throughs?
 not anymore Commissioner I used to have one of Burnside and Broadway it's now sure a picture of the window of that well you did wonderful yes it was one of the best experiences of my first term but that's beside a grass but in the central city I have a server it was part of the demolition yes I had permission to throw the window so I believe that the mayor's amendment was simply to prohibit in the town area
 You're pointing out the ones in the Lloyd District or Central City and those. Right. That's your concern. And over by the Multnomah County Courthouse. Yes. So it may be a refinement of what the mayor was intending because I think he was talking about not allowed in other areas. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. And what I also think I hear you saying is there might be –
 opportunity for grandfathering just so the rules don't change radically. This is a complicated issue. The more you can put in writing for us to chew over, the better. Thank you. Welcome. Greetings. Hi, my name is Joshua Easton. I'm a resident of Collinsview neighborhood. I live on Maple Crest Drive. I'm a homeowner there. And I am testifying today to protest last-minute changes, specifically Amendment S-16, or last-minute changes
 by Lewis and Clark in an attempt to incorporate properties located at the intersection of Southwest Terwilliger and Southwest Lower Boonesbury Road into Lewis and Clark's campus institutional zone. These properties are not located within Lewis and Clark's master plan, and as such should not be included within the boundaries of the campus institutional zone. As was mentioned earlier today, the campus institutional zone is not located within the
 The college was denied a request to include these properties in a land use case in 2009, and Lewis and Clark did not raise this request during work on the comp plan or upon review by the Planning and Sustainability Commission, and doing so now indicates a clear desire to circumvent the public process for land use decisions.
 The primary problems from this rezoning, which were referenced in the 2009 case, arise from the serious transportation and environmental impact that development of this property would have on the Collinsview neighborhood. For these reasons, the Collinsview Neighborhood Association unanimously opposes this amendment. The primary reason is that with the use of Southwest Terwilliger and especially Lower Boones Ferry Road as primary arterial thoroughfares from residents of Lake Oswego to I-5,
 There's too much traffic. There's too much traffic on this two-lane neighborhood street that makes it untenable for residents like myself who live on Maple Crest Drive, which sits adjacent to these properties to enter and exit our neighborhood in a safe manner.
 Every morning, traffic regularly backs up from I-5 to my street, which is a distance of over a mile, and allowing Lewis and Clark the opportunity to develop this property, which it has indicated a strong desire to do in previous attempts to rezone this property, would only exacerbate that problem. And I hope the council will seek to –
 not incorporate this amendment into the comp plan update. Thank you. May I just be clear about something? Because we've been getting a lot of testimony about the procedural, apparent procedural concerns about this. I assume that even if we had more time and this was fully vetted with the neighborhood, you've set forth substantive reasons why you would oppose this. Correct. Aside from whether it has been properly vetted. That's correct. Until any infrastructural changes are made to that intersection, there are very clear reasons why we should oppose development of the property. Thank you.
 Eric Hovey, consultant to the Retail Task Force. Last Thursday I spoke to the importance of P44 to assure a full spectrum of grocery stores and P60 as pivotal to provide for retail development with the diversity of goods and services, especially in underserved areas.
 Today I'm here to expand my remarks in support of P51, a new policy that calls for considering short-term market conditions and how development patterns will transition over time.
 how they'll transition over time when creating new development regulations. Planning that fosters less auto dependence but without shortchanging resident needs and business vitality, especially, again, in underserved areas of the city as in East Portland. Metro household surveys and retail data that we have compiled convey three messages. First, while transit, walking, and biking are on the rise, auto use still accounts for more than 80% of trips outside the central city.
 So retail, it's very important to continue to accommodate that auto use, as Joe Angel has mentioned. Second, outside the central city, Portland is under-retailed, especially in East Portland, where grocery choices remain scarce and expensive for residents. And third, the city's food deserts are also the places where building rents are subpar, making it more challenging for investment in quality retail to pencil out.
 Encouraging investment requires development standards that are in sync with what the market will support today. Otherwise, investment freezes and we move further from the community that the comp plan envisions.
 Development standards can become more aggressive in places that become more walkable as transit services improve and auto use declines. Retail will respond with less parking and greater development intensity getting closer to the customer. Your support of P-51 can encourage this step-by-step transition in a way that stretches but does not reach beyond where the market is at both today and where it will be at 20 years from now. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
 harley could we could you call the next three are renee corbett gabriel triplett and cameron harrington 18 19 and 20 and they'll be followed by brent aaron mark whitlow and james gorder 23 24 25.
 Hi, my name is Renee Corbett, and I'm here to support Commissioner Fritz's P48 amendment in regard to mobile homes. I currently live in a 60-unit trailer park that's under sale that was done very secretively without any notice to the tenants. It houses 60 people, our most vulnerable citizens, children, disabled, and veterans. It puts me at risk with my 80-year-old father for becoming homeless.
 working with Legal Aid, Living Coley, the CASA organization, St. Charles Parish. We are trying to stop this illegal sale. P48 word in place now would help us. We are trying to buy our property ourselves with these agencies' help. Please be aware how much we need 48 and the city's help. I'm at risk to be relapsed and enter into recidivism. I'm a recovering addict and an ex-convict.
 I can't be homeless again, and I'm asking for your help. Thank you for your activism and your testimony. And thank you for coming. And at some point, I'd like to ask staff to just explain what
 uh when we say encourage preservation of mobile home parks which i strongly support i'm not aware we have any existing tools in our kit so i i want to make sure we're not over promising something that while i completely agree with this under under state law and our existing toolkit we are
 We are woefully under-equipped to do this, and we don't have a funding source, so I don't want to mislead people, but I'd like to know what those options are. Well, I think what it would prompt is the discussion of how do we develop those, and if we had a fund, that might be an appropriate use of that said fund. No, and I completely support my friend in doing this. It's just lamentably this has not risen to an area of high priority within our existing housing emergency and our approach.
 and the truth is that some of the most at-risk housing in our community is in fact these mobile homes and i would like to go one step further i'd like to as part of a preservation agenda i'd like to figure out a way working with the state to come up with a funding mechanism to allow tenants to purchase and to manage as some kind of co-op with a land trust because otherwise
 They're in areas that are growing and changing, and this is some of the most at-risk housing. But we just don't have a very effective toolkit right now. They're being targeted. They have bought eight on North Killingsworth alone in northeast Portland. There is a gentleman from the state of Oregon, Ken, whose office oversees this, but there's no legal precedent to back us up. Well, and to go one step further, what if we not only found a preservation strategy, but we found a way to help people?
 the future owners to replace their existing units with more energy efficient, more sustainable, habitable units going forward. MS. Right now we just don't want to be homeless. Excuse me for interrupting you. I just need my little tin can. MR. Well, thank you for taking the time to come out.
 Hi, my name is Gabe Triplett, and I want to thank the council for giving me the opportunity to speak. I am the pastoral associate at St. Charles Catholic Church in northeast Portland in the Cully neighborhood. And Cully is at the forefront of the displacement crisis happening in our city. Churches in the neighborhood are watching as gentrification tears apart our communities and our relational fabrics that provides stability not only to our church communities, but also to the entire neighborhood. Thank you.
 When we look at the housing problem in the Cully neighborhood, we look to the trailer parks because they hold the most risk and the most potential. So I'm speaking in support of Amendment P-48 proposed by Commissioner Fritz. This amendment will create a priority for Portland to encourage preservation of the mobile home parks as a low-moderate income housing option. Okay.
 Hundreds of families, actually 10% of the Coley neighborhood lives in one of the five trailer parks in the neighborhood. So if the parks are preserved, they provide stability to the rest of the housing in the neighborhood by creating permanent affordable housing.
 But if they are allowed to be developed, then that is five cells that displace hundreds of families and create a huge ripple effect that will affect everybody in the community. One of the parks in the neighborhood is Renee's Park, the Oak Leaf, and it is currently being sold. Residents have been told that the buyer plans to close the park and redevelop it with high-end housing facilities.
 So in the Culley neighborhood, we understand the need and the importance of P48. However, the time frame doesn't fit and doesn't work for the Oakleaf.
 So we're asking the City Council to immediately work with the Oak Leaf residents to prevent the loss of their homes and preserve the Oak Leaf as a permanent, affordable place for low-income people to find stable and secure housing in our city. And I would just add that when you look at the population in the Oak Leaf, you see military veterans, low-income families, disabled people, all the people that are on the margins and on the edge and
 highest risk of being homeless in the city. Thank you very much. Could you make sure that staff has the actual address of the property so that they can check into what's the zoning proposed and current? Because that might factor into certain decisions too. I will. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Cameron Harrington. I work with Levine Cully, also here to...
 support Amendment P-48 to preserve mobile home parks. As we've heard, these are tight-knit communities that meet many of the ComPlan's goals around housing. They are relatively high density. They, I think, should be qualified as this middle density housing.
 They are preventing displacement actively every day. They are providing housing opportunity for folks who have struggled for decades to find stable housing. And they could represent a permanently affordable housing stock in our neighborhoods. The impending closure of the Oak Leaf threatens to displace 30 families, as you've heard. Other mobile home parks in Cully and elsewhere in the city are sure to follow, and hundreds of low-income families are.
 are at risk of becoming homeless when these parks are sold and closed, which is really a matter of time as land values continue to escalate and the profit that could be made by redeveloping them for other uses makes these properties attractive targets for investors. Commissioner Fisch, you mentioned the lack of tools in our toolkit.
 That is a concern. One tool that has been used by jurisdictions in other parts of the country that would fit very nicely under the kind of purview of this amendment and this policy is to create a dedicated zoning designation for manufactured home parks, which would prevent them from being converted to other uses. Okay.
 One nearby example is Snohomish County, Washington, which has recently enacted such a zoning designation. Others around the country have done the same.
 Right now, we are working alongside the Oak Leaf residents with CASA of Oregon, which is prepared to help the residents make a competing offer to purchase and self-manage the park as a co-op, as you suggested. But we do need help from the city and state and county to fill that funding gap to make that happen and prevent homelessness. Thank you very much. Colleagues, starting first with Steve. Steve, are you able to...
 Stay until 5.30? 5.30, yes. Amanda? Yes.
 okay so we're going to continue till 5 30 but we're going to take a three minute break right now which is actually right so we don't uh lose the quorum we'll come back in three minutes and we're gonna we're gonna plow ahead till 5 30 and see what's what's left at that point so before you we uh break i just on the record i appreciate having the address of this oakley property on the um on your testimony so we can follow up with staff because i do think it's an intriguing concept to have a mobile home designation in the zoning code and that's something that we'll look into
 MS. Just say it. MS. What's that? MS. You said you want the address? MS. I've got it right here. MS. Oh, okay. MS. Kelly gave it to me. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. MR. We can tell you that it's zoned R2 and the designation is not proposed to be changed through the conference. MS. Well, that's helpful. We're not giving a bonus for turning it over. But I don't know whether at this late stage we can add a looking into the mobile home, but it might be a further consideration.
 work plan thing. Come stand on the owner's neck. Well, yes. You need other things at this time. None of this will help. Thank you for your time. We're taking a three-minute break. Let me see. There you go. All right, folks. Order.
 So, Carla, what number are we at? We are on number 23. We're at 23, and we've got about 50 minutes left. I think it's unlikely we'll get to 70. We'll probably, if we're lucky, get to 50, 60. Let me just offer some...
 positive encouragement for people. If you're testifying on a matter where we've already heard lots of testimony and you think you can do it in a minute rather than two, and instead of repeating some of the themes, there's something additionally that you want us to focus on, please do so. You'll get the full amount of time, and we're listening and making notes, but sometimes focusing on the area that hasn't been addressed is more useful. But thank you all for your patience, and we'll start with you, sir. Thank you.
 Are we on? Okay. Mr. President and commissioners, Mark Whitlow, I'm an attorney at Perkins Coie. I'm here on behalf of the Retail Task Force and the International Council of Shopping Centers. We did appear last time, ran out of time, so we're back with a different theme. We're going to talk about the Portland plan. Your director advised you before the last hearing started that if
 When in doubt, go back to the Portland plan. It's been a while since it was passed, but it identified food deserts as a big problem. And all these years later, as we look at the work now before you, it seems that the food desert problem is still there, but it's sort of getting buried, if you would. So we think the city has a solution, and it's to provide adequate zoning for auto-accommodating uses and developments there.
 that provide the platform for grocery. Grocery is a tough business, minimum markets or margins, and you have to provide adequate zoning to accommodate that type of use. So mixed use that requires verticality prices a grocery supermarket out of the business. So take a look at your handout. The last page is the dial from...
 Figure Roman numeral 7-1, it shows that of the general commercial, that's the auto-accommodating zoning. Now, in the city, 60% of at least the lots are going to something else other than CE, which is the only other auto-accommodating zone. So you're losing huge tracts of auto-accommodating land that's needed to provide the groceries and
 that would solve the food desert problem before you. So we're urging you to, instead of diminishing CE zoning, create more of it. Do it in strategic locations. It's also the zone that does not prohibit drive-thrus. Groceries use drive-thrus in their own businesses for fuel, pharmacy, and grocery pick-up.
 Mr. Whitlow, do you have an amendment you're supporting, or are you just asking for something new? We are supporting P60, P44, P51, and we're in opposition to P32. We would offer to form a work group with you. We have all of the brochures available to sit down and talk about how to solve the food desert problem through zoning. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm Jim Gorder, a resident of Southwest Portland. I'm also a member of the Residential Infill Project Stakeholder Advisory Committee, but I'm speaking for myself today. I'm speaking in opposition to Amendment P45, the Middle Housing Amendment. There's a great need for smaller, more affordable housing in Portland. P45 is not the answer.
 It is a heavy-handed, one-dimensional solution to a problem which presents a variety of subtleties and opportunities. It inserts into the comp plan at the last minute an idea that requires careful study and impact analysis. There's been no neighborhood involvement. It would decimate some of our most complete character-filled neighborhoods. It covers huge swaths of the city's most complete neighborhoods.
 It would displace established residents living in some of the last vestiges of semi-affordable rental housing. It would incentivize the demolition of smaller, older homes. You would see the sales of backhoes booming in this town. As I understand it, it could be inserted into the code as an overlay. Be honest. It is not single-family housing or single-dwelling housing.
 A quarter mile around the centers is too large and arbitrary, and it makes the zoning map of Portland look like an overflowing plate of donuts. There's no guarantee of affordability. It segregates middle housing, and we should be looking at opportunities for dispersed middle housing.
 Please pull this amendment off the table. Thoroughly study the implications. Study the alternatives. Involve residents in neighborhoods that would be impacted. Develop a plan to guarantee affordability.
 Then, if you feel it is still a worthwhile proposal, bring it back with openness and for a full vetting before the city and its citizens. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Commissioner Fritz? I just want to clarify. So this is a broad policy. Anything that would implement it would have to come back to council after that full public process. So it's not like this can spring up tomorrow. The zoning code currently doesn't allow it. No, but it does say within the half mile.
 Yes, and still there would need to be a full public process to decide what would the rules be, what would that look like. So I just want to allay some of the concerns that I've heard throughout the hearings. Your point is well made, though, that there does need to be that process. I have about a two-foot thick stack of paper from these hearings, and you're going to make the final cut at one of my favorite lines. It makes the Portland zoning map look like a plate of donuts. It's very evocative in it.
 Other than Crate, to some of us it sounds tasty.
 I'm sorry I even opened that up. But, sir, go ahead. Okay. Thank you. My name is Brent Aaron. I'm a traffic engineer with McKenzie. I was here the last hearing. I wanted to talk specifically, add into the record some information on P60 and P32. So I'm kind of following up from some recent testimony, including Mr. Whitlow's. So regarding P60, it's important to have a wide range of information
 facilities available, including auto accommodating. And what was interesting was new traffic studies all over the region, and we had one recently in northeast Portland where we looked at what's the alternative mode, and we proposed 18%, and PBOT staff came back and said, no, you can only use 16%. Our studies show it's only 16% in that area. Citywide, it's about 81% right now is automated.
 is auto trips. And the 2035 projection in the RTP model is 76%. So, again, autos will continue to be the majority of trips into the future. So it's important to have those facilities available.
 And then on P32, I wanted to speak against that. One of the things, this is regarding the drive-thrus and further restricting the ability to have drive-thrus. One of the things that staff has mentioned is concerns about safety with pedestrians and so forth. We weren't able to find any documentation that drive-thrus create a safety problem for pedestrians or other users.
 But your codes, your standards currently provide for adequate safety. You require separate pedestrian paths. You require landscape setbacks. You have driveway standards that already address those standards. And in most cases, when you have a drive-through facility, you don't need additional driveway locations. You can use the driveways that you already provided with. Okay.
 That was basically what I wanted to add. Can I ask a question? Does P32 prohibit the sort of hybrid drive-thrus that are in certain grocery stores where people can come and pick up groceries? They don't look like Fred Meyer has one. They don't look like traditional drive-thrus. They're just areas where you can bring your car around, and you've ordered the groceries, and they are put in there. Would that prohibit those hybrid drive-thrus?
 No? Our understanding is that the priority is to maintain the code. Okay, well, I'd like to get clarification on that because the one thing I realize that this drive-through issue is taking on almost mystical significance in our discussion. And there's some people up here that feel very strongly about it, and I respect that. But I am personally concerned about taking away an option for people that otherwise cannot get out of their cars.
 And so I believe there are issues among older adults, people with disabilities, and families with children, where there's a convenience factor that has to be balanced against our other values. And I want to find out if we can thread that needle. But at this point, it does feel like it's a pretty polarized debate. Yeah, to your point, we worked on the Fred Meyer Canyon in Beaverton, and Beaverton Code actually classified that issue.
 where you drive up, you know, you order online, you drive up, and they bring out your groceries to you. They classify that as a drive-through facility because people did not get out of their car, so we had to go through a conditional use. We want to make sure that that sort of thing doesn't happen. I'll follow on that. Thank you very much. Gentlemen, thank you. Next three, please. 26, 27, and 28, Jim Labenthal, L. Miller in Carleton, Oregon, and Bob Bernstein,
 And they'll be followed by 29, 30, and 31, Robert Harper, Bob Carroll, and Steve Dottier. Gentlemen, welcome. Who would like to start? I would. Go ahead, sir. We've submitted a letter that... Name first. I think she... I don't know if you could put your name in there. Oh, Jim Lobenthal, and I'm a member of Riverside Golf Club. And I'd like to touch on a few points in our letter that we've submitted, and we are submitting new information.
 We have provided a quick summary of some of the stuff we've submitted in the past in terms of the golf industry and our opposition to changing Riverside from open space designation to industrial. One of the areas we have not talked about is habitat at Riverside, and it's come up more recently with the Broadmoor discussion of habitat values. And if you look at the larger geography, we're sandwiched between Columbia Edgewater and Broadmoor, and we see wildlife moving back and forth across our area.
 And so a couple of the illustrations that we've included in the packet that we've given to you show that if you put an industrial designation on, you essentially sever that habitat corridor. So while there are habitat values on Broadmoor, there are also values on Riverside. Also surprising to us, the number of trees was quite different between the two sites. Our site's about twice as big
 as the Broadmoor site, but it has about 900 trees and there's only about 100 trees on the Broadmoor site. So we've got nine times as many trees. I think we just have a thicker tree cover between our fairways. So we don't believe there's a strong case for maintaining Riverside as an industrial sanctuary.
 and we'd ask that you support amendment m34 removing us from the uh industrial sanctuary and preserving the open space thank you very much sir and thank you for your your your written test mike go ahead afternoon my name is lucas miller i'm general manager of riverside golf country club and would just like to talk about the possible negative impacts of the industrial designation the club's celebrating his 90th birthday probably as you know it was july and um
 I'd just like to talk about our concerns about the possible negative impact of the industrial overlay. In this outdoor recreational industry, we experience a 5% to 10% member attrition rate on average annually. Members leave clubs such as ours for a number of usual reasons, such as job changes, home relocations, marriage, divorce, accident, injury, and even death. So we're continually marketing for new prospective members.
 We have a full-time membership director who is responsible for that and dedicated to that continual effort, since it's so imperative to replace existing members with new members. We often need to sell these prospective members on the reasons they should choose our club over others in Portland. And, of course, the other clubs are doing the same thing, and we're just worried that it'll be easy for their salespeople to say no.
 some just something like i'm not sure what's going on at riverside i heard the lands been designated as future on industrial and you know maybe you should ask them about that and of course just that little question about the future of our club maybe enough to sway these prospective members to join our competitors um so it's you know naturally be difficult to confirm and quantify because we don't really hear from the other members these members who join other clubs on why they didn't join ours so um
 I guess Jim and I were thinking we may need to provide our members and staff with little talking cards with speaking points on Oregon land use. And as silly as it may seem, I think that might be the only way we can get through a complex conversation like that consistently.
 So, in closing, we request that you support Amendment 34 and retain this open space and wildlife corridor. Our club doesn't plan to convert its land to industrial use, and we plan to continue operating as a Gulf Country club for at least another 90 years. Thank you for your consideration throughout this process. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome. Hello. I'm Bob Bernstein, and...
 I'm sort of a citizen scientist, and I'll be doing turtle surveys tomorrow around Fano Creek. So let's talk turtles. Turtles are found around Broadmoor Golf Course in that area of the slough. Most people think that turtles are aquatic animals. Well, part of the time they are, but they're also terrestrial. And they're on land to find nesting sites, dig their nests, finding mates.
 to relocate during different times of year due to hot and cold temperatures. And painted turtles are only one of the 12 sensitive species that are found around Broadmoor, and each of them have their own stories.
 This amendment, which I oppose, would fragment their habitat, causing loss of genetic diversity, loss of nesting sites, leave them more vulnerable to predation. When you crowd prey animals into small areas, like setting up a supermarket for predators, basically. These animals have been around for eons. It would be nice if they could exist in Portland. That picture that I gave you.
 What it said to me is the little turtle saying, well, is there room for me in Portland anymore? I'm not sure. The common plan has many statements about increasing wildlife habitat areas around the slough, take care of migrating species, which the turtle is, and their routes. Turtles tend to use the same routes over and over, so turtles could just end up perishing on blacktop or getting squished by cars.
 It also says to avoid harming the environment if at all possible. Why is this amendment even being brought forward? It makes no sense to me, and I thank...
 Commissioner Fritz and Fish for opposing this amendment, and I wish others would change their mind. And it deeply bothers me that you have bullet points in this plan that speak to protecting habitat, but those bullet points do not fall under any commissioner's or any bureau's mission statement. So you have empty statements about wildlife that get trampled on. Thank you.
 And if you're going to do that sort of stuff, then don't try to take credit for having something that takes care of wildlife because it doesn't. So I would like to see one of you or all of you bring forth some sort of amendment with teeth that if you're going to have bullet points to protect wildlife, that somebody owns those amendments and is responsible for their implementation. Sure.
 Thank you very much. We will. Carla, next three, please. 29, 30, and 31, Robert Harper, Bob Carroll, and Steve Dodier. They'll be followed by 32, 33, and 34, Stephanie Stewart, Paul Leisner, and John Larson. Welcome. Why don't you start us off? My name is Robert Harper, and I'm here in opposition to Amendment M-42.
 So in opposing this amendment, I'd like to express why I believe our neighborhood is already, without this amendment, very well suited to the sort of dense residential development that will make this city a more prosperous and equitable place over the next 20 years.
 What I think is great about our neighborhood is that we see in existing plans for the Fremont Corridor a clear vision for dense residential development accommodated by the existing R1 zoning. Much of Fremont, as you may know, between Mississippi and Vancouver is R1, and that's the sort of development that can build the solid and sustainable density that we need in these sort of residential areas. Thank you.
 And while that potential may not be realized at this point, we clearly have zoning to accommodate smart forward-looking development in that area today.
 For instance, the largest chunk of land in this amendment is about 58,000 square feet. So that could accommodate 58 residential units today. So there's tons of potential in this spot, and I'm not necessarily calling for the tear down of my friends' and neighbors' homes. I'd like to point out, though, that the lack of density in housing in Fremont is simply not a zoning problem. There's tons of potential with the existing, smart, and sustainable R1 designation.
 And it's the sort of potential that won't overwhelm our already rapidly growing neighborhood like C-M2 zoning would. Thanks for your time. Thank you very much. Welcome.
 Hello. My name is Steve Dotterer, and I'm from the Bosco Milligan Foundation, and I'm following up on Deborah O'Neill's testimony. I just want to hit a couple of the specific amendments that we're supporting. There's the amendment for diverse residential neighborhoods, and then another one that is calling for the resolution of conflicts in historic districts, and we support those and hope the council will adopt them because I think it will help
 resolve some of the current controversies in those areas. And I don't think, particularly with Eli Spivak's comments this morning about, or this earlier, about two different types of middle housing. One where you're fitting more within existing buildings. I see that as a
 a measure that will work with this policy to get us where we need to go in terms of producing both dwelling units and preservation. We're also supportive of the amendments in Chapter 4, which make it clear that the city is really reinforcing the historic resources elements and recognizing that the city's actions are limited by the state owner consent law. And we think it's appropriate to be clear about that.
 And finally, the Bosco Milligan Foundation supports the East Moreland and Kings Hill Historic District proposed down zoning amendments. Thank you very much. Thanks very much. Carla, next three. Is Bob Carroll here? Okay, the next three are Stephanie Stewart, Paul Leisner, and John Larson, 32, 33, and 34. They'll be followed by Hillen Jones, Bruce Campbell, and Barbara Strunk, 35, 36, and 37. Thank you.
 good afternoon hi i'm stephanie stewart i'm with the mount tabor neighborhood association i live at 1121 southeast 50th and three of us are here today to speak to three of the amendments uh one we support and two we oppose and i'll start with the one we support it's actually amendment number f61 and it addresses a one block section of upper hawthorne um
 just the lots lining Hawthorne and just between southeast 50th and southeast 51st. There's a natural transition that happens at the bend in Hawthorne where Hawthorne intersects 50th and then travels south. And this transition is reinforced with a downgrading of transportation classes by two classes at this location.
 And this natural transition has been emphasized and reinforced with multiple public processes, including the Hawthorne Transportation Project.
 The built environment of the commercial lots lining Hawthorne between 50th and 51st, again, a one-block section, they're at a low-intensity commercial level at this point, which really interacts nicely with the neighborhood, and it doesn't impose on the residential lots.
 The relationship between these businesses and the residential lots is great at this point, and we believe the lowest designation commercial intensity for this area is a positive move, and the amendment, F61, supports that. However, the language of the amendment states that it will be all lots east of southeast 50th, between 50th and 51st, but the map that goes along with this actually doesn't
 excludes two lots, the lots that are at the intersection but still east of Southeast 50th.
 And we would suggest, well, we'd like to clarify if that's a mistake in the map. And if, or do you think it's a mistake? It was a mistake. My amendment was not done this lot, this lot, this lot. It was everything east of. Okay. Well, that would be great. We would support that. Thank you. That's a friendly amendment. Yes. As friendly as it gets. Yes. Thank you. Thank you.
 We always try to be friendly.
 Our neighborhood association has been very interested in that site and its future development since the 1980s. It's been vacant for quite a while. We were also a little concerned given our longstanding interest that this just came up fairly late in the process and we were sort of scrambling to understand what was being proposed and how we could be involved. One of our main points is that we feel it's important that the needed infrastructure be in place before a development is allowed to occur.
 The intersection at 60th and Belmont is dangerous and functions poorly. We've known that for many years. It has the city. The location had more injuries in the last 12 years than all but one other location in our neighborhood. It's got a very problematic level of service. Traffic backs up in all different directions there. It's a very problematic level of service.
 People are then cutting through, it's causing cut-through traffic. So our neighborhood and PBOT have been aware of the problems there for many years. In the past, PBOT worked with us to do some planning for all of 60th. So there is in the TSP project 70006, the 60th Avenue corridor improvements, which actually in
 some necessary infrastructure improvements to that intersection to make it function better. So we really feel that until those improvements are done, we shouldn't be upzoning that property and we should be supporting what the planning staff have originally suggested in the planning commission.
 We'd love to see it develop, but we want to make sure that it's developed at a scale that's appropriate for that site and the available infrastructure. There are two large buildings, the old Adventist Hospital and another structure that are fairly tall, but they're already sucking up a lot of that infrastructure capacity there, so we don't feel it would be appropriate to upzone that area anymore.
 And again, we certainly don't fault the property owner for looking for this opportunity because it will help them maximize their return. But we sort of count on you guys and us and the planning staff and all of us to make sure that these changes are actually good for the whole community. So we again encourage you to oppose this amendment. Can you give me the number of it again, please? It's M28. Thank you.
 john welcome hi i'm john larson uh 5829 southeast salmon i'm also here representing the mount tabor association neighborhood association and um i'm here to oppose uh amendment s8
 which is about Portland Nursery at 50th or 53rd and Stark, which would take what is now a split between a commercial zone and a residential zone and grant full commercial zoning to that property. We are absolutely in support of Portland Nursery. We love them. We're delighted to have them in our neighborhood. We all love them.
 patronize them and it's a terrific neighborhood partner. And we support the continued nursery aspect of Portland Nursery. What we are really afraid of with giving them full commercial zoning is that it will have the unintended consequence of making that property far more valuable as a non-nursery as some other commercial enterprise. And whatever the property owner's intention is now,
 that it will signal to somebody that they could come in and buy that property and turn it into something altogether other from a nursery. So although I think your intention to support them as a nursery in granting and suggesting this amendment is a positive one, we're really terrified of what the –
 long-term outcome of that might be. We think that the Planning Commission staff on the sustainability and planning staff did a really elegant job of extending the commercial zone for them at a full 123 feet
 of commercial depth to their property, which gives them a lot more flexibility. And they've taken the formerly non-conforming nursery use on the residential portion and made it be conditional rather than non-conforming. So they've gone a long way to accommodate Portland Nursery. And we have met with them repeatedly to try to help.
 solve this problem and we're just very pleased. We think the staff did a great job of kind of cutting the Gordian knot on that thing and making it work. And actually, you know, you've seen us here before on some contentious issues from time to time. And we're
 We're really pleased to be able to say we think the Planning Commission staff did a really great job on this stuff, and we're really pleased with what they did, and we want to support them and commend what their solution was on this and oppose the Amendment S-8. Thank you very much. Thank you for your written testimony, and thank you after we're three hours into a hearing that's complicated and sometimes a little dry, and thank you for your kind words about the staff. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Our 35, 36, and 37, Hillen Jones, Bruce Campbell, and Barbara Strunk. They'll be followed by 38, 39, and 40, Kristen Shorey, Soren Impey, and Steve Kilduff. Okay. We're in the home stretch. Welcome. You guys are unbelievable. Well, you too. You waited patiently. Thank you. I'm Hillen Jones, speaking in opposition to Amendment M-33. I haven't been sleeping well. I'm still in shock.
 If bullseye glass were a smart bomb, I'd live in the blast zone. A daycare center, a Fred Meyer corporate parking lot, and a small city park where local kids play is on the far rim of the blast zone. I went to a talk hosted by the Eastside Portland Air Coalition to get more information. Aaron Brokovich was there. It was worse than I thought. Every neighborhood in the city has blast zones. ESCO, precision cast parts, Intel, just to name a few.
 Ms. Brokovich wasn't in town chasing ambulances. She comes to Portland anyway to visit her son and grandchildren. Now the visits are a tax deduction. A few weeks later, close friends called to let me know the city council was going to rezone the Broadmoor Golf Course next to them from open space OS to industrial. It was going to be paved over. Jobs would come. I thought about the Fred Marr parking lot and the park next to it and wondered.
 What's the temperature difference between the empty asphalt lot and my small kid-filled park on a sunny day? Do you guys know? I asked Google. It's easy to drown in the information. I took the first few entries. One is from a National Geographic article, another bullet points from a company selling sod, and the third a search done in Arizona on open space and urban environments. I read those articles and realized my friends don't live next to a golf course,
 It's open space with benefits. Open space with trees is 30 to 40 degrees cooler than concrete or asphalt. Sit in the shade of any tree in any park in the city and you'll know this is true. One tree removes 26 pounds of carbon dioxide. That equals 11,000 miles of auto emissions. One acre of trees eliminates 13 tons of particles and gases annually. A big tree removes 60 to 70 times the pollution a small tree does. This is one of the rare times I think size and age matters.
 The EPA and DQ aren't going to save us. They're not coming. The U.S. Forest Service discovered the toxic levels of heavy metals in my park next to the Fred Meyer parking lot. It's up to you and me. We're the ones that are going to save us. Every tree in open space makes a difference, whether it's one tree on a lot with one bedroom house or a grove between the airport and a busy highway.
 While it's cold comfort that the owner of Bullseye lives in his own blast zone, I don't blame the developers or the business owners. Scorpion and the Frog, it's an old fable. It's in their nature, but it's not in ours. There will be no apps making a cloud rain. We're not going to put our lips around our smartphone and inhale fresh air. Only open space and old trees make fresh cold air. And every last one matters in these times of record heat and automobile density. Thank you so much.
 My name is Bruce Campbell, and I'd also like to thank the commissioners for their patience in hearing everybody speak about all these issues. Today, again, I'd like to speak in strong opposition to proposed amendment M33, which proposes to turn the Broadmoor Golf Course into an industrial sanctuary.
 Sometimes I wonder who came up with that term, industrial sanctuary. It was very Orwellian. I'm used to wildlife having sanctuaries, but private enterprise having sanctuaries, that's a new one for me. The trouble is with this amendment is that it privatizes the public commons, and it turns into a death sentence to the wildlife habitats in Broadmoor's beautiful old-growth trees.
 Over a century ago, John Charles Olmsted helped to create Portland's world-class green spaces and parks, providing our city with a livable future. We should heed Olmsted's progressive spirit and continue his good work. Great cities all over the world protect their green spaces. If it wishes, let Broadmoor sell its property, but not to industrial development.
 Sell it to the city of Portland. Convert the Broadmoor into a public nature park. Wealthy in wetlands, bird songs, and yes, turtles. There's turtles everywhere out there. Let Broadmoor be our gift to future generations, not some kind of booby prize.
 Please, please toss Amendment M-33 in the recycle bin. Let's protect our open spaces and be good stewards to all the life that depends upon our goodwill and continued vigilance. Thank you. Sir, Mike Kauk isn't here to say the following, so I'll say it for him. It would have been a shame to go through an entire comp plan process without invoking the Olmstead name. Thank you.
 I have a copy of that plan in my office that I copied from the archives. They have the original. One of the historical facts that I love is that John Charles Olmsted was both the son and the nephew of Frederick Law Olmsted. Yeah. You can sort of figure that one out, but he was both the son and the nephew, which is fascinating. Very inspiring to have a visionary that lives so far.
 in the past. Everything he put on paper, everything that he envisioned has sort of been filled out a hundred and something years later. It's extraordinary just going around in a horse and buggy and sort of imagining Mount Tabor, imagining a wildlife corridor on the west side, imagining a forest park, imagining all these things. Let's carry on this good work. Thank you, sir. Welcome. Hi. Hi.
 I'm Barbara Strunk. I am the United Neighborhoods Reform representative to the Residential Infill Project. I am testifying for and against Amendment P45 as it is currently written. That's the middle housing amendment. We support strongly the concept of a higher density transition zone between mixed use and single family zones.
 However, we caution you to proceed slowly with this middle housing idea and propose the following amendment to the amendment, and that is limit the rezoned transition areas around centers to 200 to 300 feet or two blocks of centers with complete services, including frequent public transit. Some of our reasons are as follows.
 We think a quarter of a mile around each neighborhood center is far too large. As drawn, middle housing zones would encompass most of the inner east side and the middle east side, opening up large areas of the city to the risk of destroying traditional neighborhood character, historic housing, and urban green spaces that both the comp plan and the residential infill project are charged with protecting.
 We need a thoughtful process, including modeling, to judge the impacts of such a zone change on neighborhoods. The residential infill project has not completed its work regarding scale and mass of single-family houses. Code must be clear and transparent that much smaller houses are the sustainable, affordable way of the future.
 This includes any buildings in any proposed middle density housing zone. Before such a large area of the city is rezoned, middle housing, the goals around middle housing must be clearly defined. What is an appropriate center? What is the size and price of middle housing density? This moves too fast.
 Do some thoughtful modeling on the impacts of this proposal. Designate a much smaller area in the city in which to initially try out the middle housing zone idea and then move from there. Thank you. I just want to have the same comment to you that there will be a process. And the reason that I'm probably going to support this is it says that the zoning within a quarter mile where appropriate. So that process will allow us to decide is it one block, is it a quarter mile, or is it something in between. And hopefully there will be a –
 Very strong public input process. Absolutely, yes. Thank you. Carla, before you do it, we have time now for six more people. Then we're going to do a little housekeeping, and we're going to close at 530 sharp. So the next six people are going to be called. That gets us to what number, Carla? That will get us through 40. Sorry. To 43, who is Ed Fisher. So apologies to all of you who are 44.
 four and above who came hoping to testify. We'll do a housekeeping at 5.30 to talk about next steps and opportunities to be heard. And you did say, President Fish, at the beginning that we'll continue the hearing until 2 o'clock next Wednesday. Right. And what we did today was have the first 20 people who didn't – well, the people who didn't get to testify last get to –
 go at that point. And in fact, we won't be taking testimony from anybody else. So if you're here, you're in line, we'll get to testify next week. You have a golden ticket if you're here in line. Exactly. And we'll go through that after we hear from the last six people. Again, apologies to those of you who've been waiting patiently. You never know, some people might have left already.
 You will have a chance. I'm 40. If somebody wants, I'll bump. Carla, tell us who the next six are, and then we can do some horse trading. The next six are Kristen Shorey, Soren Impey, Steve Kilduff, and then the last three would be Michael Mahaffey, Martha Stiven, and Ed Fisher. Steve Kilduff, and I can bump. I got turn. Very kind. Is there someone that won't be able to come next week that would like to do a trade? Right here. Okay.
 Okay. That's a private transaction. You guys can work it out outside. This is Portland in action. Thank you so much. Yeah, thank you. Do we have a third up here? That should be Mr. Kilduff, so whoever traded. Oh, let's see. Well, ma'am, why don't you start while we're waiting? Good. My name is Kristen Shorey, and I'm a resident of Sylvan Highlands, and I'm also a board member of the Neighborhood Association. Today I'm representing myself.
 As a board member, though, the last five years, I have seen a lot of development in our neighborhood. I've witnessed numerous developers come and present to our neighborhood in good faith to work with our neighbors. We have a growing matrix. We are moving from a single family to lots of condos. We have a new development that's going on at the end of Canyon Court that will be 244 units.
 apartments. We're a little nervous about the traffic impact that that's going to have in front of East Sylvan, which is designated to become the new Odyssey home. So our current zoning allows this increase. And most of the developers are small, and it's great to have them come and be supportive in our neighborhood. We support the type 3 process that they go through.
 It's allowed for purposeful and reasonable growth, and our hilly, windy neighborhood needs to have that slow, reasonable growth. I'm requesting that the council does not approve Commissioner Novak's amendment number 14.
 which is for 6141 Southwest Canyon Court directly down from the 244 large unit that will be going in. The zoning change of the single parcel is unprecedented and unwarranted, as evidenced by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, who did a fantastic job doing research in November –
 This site is not a proposed center or corridor, and transit options are limited. Although there are some commercial services within a quarter mile, the transportation infrastructure is congested, and any changes merit consideration of a broader, more cohesive area. We completely agree. Thank you for your time. Thanks very much. Thanks for hanging out with us. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Soren Impey and I'm speaking on behalf of Bike Loud PDX where I am a board member and I will also speak for myself later.
 I'd like to thank the commissioners for the many projects outlined in the TSP, including improvements to our neighborhood greenways and bike facilities, and most especially protected bike facilities that have been proposed. We do have a concern about one of the amendments in particular, Amendment P90. Policy-based was struck from this amendment.
 language, and I strongly believe so this is P90, which describes a transportation hierarchy. And we strongly believe based on the Portland Plan, the Climate Action Plan, and the bicycle plan, that the transportation hierarchy should be a policy-based policy.
 policy. So we strongly believe that that language should not be struck from that part of the comprehensive plan. And I also want to speak in support of Project 40116, which was amended. And we want to support the designation of Northeast 7th
 as a major city bikeway rather than Northeast 9th. And the rationale for this is that this is already a route that's getting a lot of cut-through traffic and is a direct route with less elevation gain, whereas the alternative is indirect with lots of, you know, meandering, you know, sort of...
 Parts of the roots that we think are inappropriate. And now I'd just like to finish off by speaking for myself in support of P45, the missing middle. And in particular, I would like to mention that P45 is not an example of something that will demolish or destroy character of our neighborhoods. But that...
 In many neighborhoods, the missing middle is part of the character. For example, in Buckman, where I live as a renter, lots – you know, the amendments S-20, S-21, and S-22, which are up zones currently –
 have many missing middle houses in them, apartments, garden apartments, and duplexes. So I would like to point out that the missing middle is actually already a part of the character and history of our neighborhoods. Thank you very much, sir. Welcome. Thank you.
 Commissioners, thank you so much for accepting my testimony this afternoon. Ty Wyman here speaking in support of N14, which pertains to 6141 Southwest Canyon Court. I have submitted a couple of letters to you before, and I have no intention of reiterating anything, but I attended the hearing last week, and there was an opponent, a neighbor opponent, who testified and I wanted to directly respond to him.
 some of his points, you have been given, I think, six pages, and I would refer you to page three of the documents I've submitted today. Just to orient you, you will see 6141 Southwest Canyon Court in the lower left-hand corner. The amendment would redesignate that from R20 to R5.
 The testimony that you heard last week strongly suggested that there is a poor pedestrian environment in this area. And we absolutely disagree and we think that the facts as put before you establish as much. There is continuous sidewalk from the site to the Sylvan commercial node. Not only is there continuous sidewalk, there's a mid-block crosswalk of which you don't see a whole lot on the west side.
 as well as dedicated ped-bike pathways that lead directly to the intersection. The other aerials that I've given you simply highlight that information. There's also suggestion that this has poor transit access. That's a three-minute walk from the site,
 to the Sylvan Interchange. The Sylvan Interchange is served by the number 58 bus, which leads both to Beaverton Transit Center and to downtown. The three- to four-minute walk to transit absolutely ought to be considered transit accessible in this day and age. Last document is from our traffic engineer rebutting the contention that sidewalks would never be installed along Southwest 64th
 first, indeed, upon development they will be. And remind us again, you represent? Dr. Nata Rosuli, who is the owner of that, of 6141 Southwest Canyon Court. Thank you very much. Thank you. Next read. Last read. Michael Mahaffey, Martha Stiven, and Ed Fisher. Thanks for your patience. Sir, why don't you kick it off? Thank you.
 Good afternoon. I'm Michael Mahaffey, Executive Director of the Stasis Foundation, and I'm also a member of the board of the Goose Hollow Neighborhood Association, Goose Hollow Foothills League. On behalf of our president, Tracy Prince, who's also on the board of the Architectural Heritage Center, I'd like to express our great appreciation to Mayor Hales for his Amendment No. 58, which removes the upzoning of the Kings Hill Historic District.
 And this important amendment will prevent demolition of many priceless architectural assets while retaining the already high residential density of Goose Hollow, one of the highest in Oregon, in fact.
 I'd also like to join the Architectural Heritage Center and express our appreciation to the Council for the other amendments to protect the vital heritage on which our city's livability and prosperity ultimately depend, specifically Amendments 4 and 12. For the record, I'd like to briefly mention the proposed amendments to Policies 3.42 and 4.3, 4.27, 4.45, and 4.52.
 In closing, I'd like to observe that the protection of Portland's heritage is in no way at odds with its sustainable development, its growth, and affordability. On the contrary, let me assert that heritage is essential to it.
 I think we're at a crucial moment as a city where so many of the internationally celebrated accomplishments of the last four decades are increasingly in peril. And once again, as in the 1960s, we have the danger of, if you will, an architectural industrial complex that could tempt us to allow irreversible damage to our urban legacy today.
 It is the neighborhoods and their activism, sometimes rowdy activism that has made people uncomfortable, that have safeguarded our livability and our urban quality up to now.
 And this activism has promoted the proven vitality and diversity of Jane Jacobs' urban vision and rebutted the kind of trickle-down, hypertrophic formulas of, say, an Edward Glazer, if you know his work. In that light, I urge the city to reinvigorate and not degrade the neighborhood involvement system. Thank you. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you, and thank you for extending until 5.30. My name is Marty Stiven. I'm a planning consultant, and I'm here tonight on behalf of Belmar Properties and Richard Passantini. I testified before you in January and asked for two amendments to the plan, and I thank you for putting those amendments on your list. The first is at 60th and Belmont. You heard from the neighborhood tonight. Since we testified before you in January, we met with those neighbors, and we heard their concern about the traffic.
 And then we also learned that the TSP does contain Project 70006 that includes 60th Corridor improvements with specific changes to the intersections at Stark, Burnside, Belmont, and Gleason. We then subsequently testified to the Planning and Sustainability Commission on the TSP asking them to fund those improvements in the TSP. We also went to staff and talked to them about the incremental impact of
 traffic between a mixed-use dispersed and a mixed-use neighborhood plan designation and learned that
 that given the amount of property and the negligible change in the small increase in density that that change would allow, there would be a negligible impact on the transportation system and one that wouldn't show up in their models. So for that reason, your staff is supporting this plan amendment at 60th and Gleason to mixed-use neighborhood, and we would ask you to continue to support it.
 The other change that we asked for was at 9th and Gibbs, which you've added. We've asked for that to allow additional height and development, and we just want to thank you for putting that amendment on your list too and ask for your continued support.
 thank you very much sir you now officially have the last word well thank you my name is ed fisher and i am currently the president of the homestead neighborhood association which is up around the ohsu area and on april the 8th i sent a letter to the mayor and the council uh in expressing the neighborhood's opposition to amendment m20
 So I won't go over the details of that letter right now. I'm here today mostly to reiterate some of our concerns and explain some of the additional reasoning that we're using for our opposition to that. And I am pleased to be the last person you have to listen to today. So thank you for allowing me to be. I think I speak for all my colleagues in saying that one of the highlights of our job is actually hearings like this because it always brings out the best in Portland.
 And while there's a little bit of the endurance side of the equation, the quality of the testimony and the civility of this conversation, I think, makes us all proud to be Portlanders. I agree. I agree. Well said. I agree. So, as you know, M-20 has two parts. One would be extending the mixed-use zoning westward away from OHSU along Gibbs from 11th to 12th.
 Our neighborhood association is against any additional commercialization in that area. We believe that there are enough blocks now. There's a lot of area that's currently zoned out.
 Mixed use that are not being utilized. There are several vacant lots actually on the east side of 11th There there are a lot of places up there now that we believe there is sufficient space for commercial development And we would like to keep that from encroaching westward into the residential part of our neighborhood and
 And so people, our neighborhood was, in fact, contrary to testimony you heard earlier, at the meeting on April 5th, at the neighborhood, the advisory meeting, there were only two people voting in favor of the M-20 amendment, not four, as was said earlier. Right.
 And those two happened to be the property owner and the person he brought to the meeting with him. The rest of us, and at the subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors of the Neighborhood Association, it was held right after that meeting, it was unanimous that we opposed M-20 as it's currently written. But the second part is the upzoning from mixed-use neighborhood to mixed-use neighborhood.
 from mixed-use to dispersed to mixed-use neighborhood. And our opposition to that primarily is around the commercial use.
 and the commercial development that would be possible. One thing that's of significant concern to the neighborhood up there is parking and traffic. And the upzoning to mixed-use neighborhood would allow commercial parking structures. And the fear is that this could lead to additional traffic on the hill and
 And currently there are a lot of residents up there that are actually selling spots on their property to people working at OHSU in the medical complex. And that's a real concern because it exacerbates the traffic situation.
 I need to say that we are not necessarily opposed to another tool that you may not have in your toolbox and would suggest that perhaps staff or someone could look into it. We're not opposed to increasing the height and providing greater density of residential density in those areas, but we believe that going to that upzoning of the commercial use could be detrimental to our neighborhood. And in a nutshell, that's my testimony. Thank you very much, sir.
 Welcome. So can we have staff come back just for a sec? We'll just do a little housekeeping, and then we'll close the hearing. We will continue the hearing. Eric, will you just walk us through again next steps, people that want to submit written testimony and the continuation of this hearing and what you anticipate over the next two weeks? Sure. I believe you earlier commented,
 closed the hearing and agreed to accept testimony on the first item on the supporting documents through this Friday. Friday, close of business. Right. So that's the next step with that.
 I don't know how many more we have in the queue, but the date that we have to continue this is April 27th, 2 p.m. in this building? Correct. We have about 40, I think. Yeah. And I'm not sure if you earlier heard maybe the suggestion that that continuation be just for the people already on the list. Was that what I heard correctly? I think that's the consensus. We would also suggest that you then continue taking written testimony through that time period.
 So ordered.
 in terms of clarity of when the deadline is. After that point, we still have on our agenda the meeting on the 28th, which we would begin working through the amendments, and we agreed to start with the easier, non-controversial ones. And to the extent possible, you'll put those together as packages? Yeah. And then we have either May 5th or May 11th, and we're still working with the Council to confirm the final –
 session time for that, but that would be a continuation of what we start on the 28th, but likely it would be the more difficult items. My hope is, since I'm gone that first week, that if there's the more difficult ones that may have a split vote, we would kick over to the 11th so we could have the, I could participate in those. Right. That was our intent, I think. Okay.
 Can I get one clarification, Eric? You have two items, one of which you're expecting to hear testimony on the 27th. Carla has to figure out how this appears on the agenda. Do you want the supporting documents to be continued then to next Thursday, the 28th? It doesn't show up on the agenda at all on Wednesday? The supporting documents would not be on the agenda Wednesday. It would just be...
 taken to the next stage of debating any amendments to that on the 28th. Okay, but the 395 today would show up both for Wednesday afternoon and Thursday afternoon. Correct. Thank you for that clarification. Colleagues, any questions or concerns? Susan, last word? Thumbs up? Okay. Well, we're going to continue this hearing. Thank you all very much. I think this is scheduled, or did we just do that? I mean, I can have a pass or something.