Welcome to City Hall, arts community. We are so honored to have you as we ponder the state of the arts in 2016. Carla, would you please read the item? A roll call? And do a roll call first. Saltzman, Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales, Fish? Here. Item 396, accept report on the state of the arts from the Regional Arts and Culture Council. Eloise and Jan, would you please come forward while I make some opening remarks? Yes.
 Good afternoon, everyone. As President of the Council and as the City's Arts Commissioner, it is an honor to welcome you to City Hall and to introduce my third State of the Arts presentation. This annual celebration of the arts is a chance to welcome artists and advocates to City Hall to highlight the accomplishments of the past year and to have some fun. Portland is known for many things, including its natural beauty and its unique architecture.
 its environmental ethic, its commitment to innovation, its food, its quirkiness. It's also known as a first-tier cultural destination, a place where the creative spirit is nurtured and honored, where arts and culture flourish. This afternoon, I'm pleased to first welcome two of our strongest advocates in this movement, Eloise Damrosch, the Executive Director of RAC, and Jan Robertson, RAC Board Chair.
 Eloise and Jan are going to kick us off and we'll introduce other arts leaders who are joining us here today. Ladies, welcome. Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be here as always. Thank you, Commissioner Fish and City Council, and thanks to all of our dedicated friends joining us today. As we do every year, we're here to share some of the successes and some of the challenges we have experienced this past year as a result of your investment in RAC and by extension to Portland's arts community and life in our vibrant city.
 I want to acknowledge and wholeheartedly thank the RAC board, many of them who are here today, and the RAC staff who's here in Legion. Thanks also to RAC grant staffer Jack McNichol to my right for jumping in with tech help. Eloise, could we ask the RAC board members that are here to please stand and accept our thanks? If you're a board member, would you please stand? And let's suspend the rules and give them a round of applause. Thank you.
 Thank you. And if you are one of the dedicated staff people for RAC, would you please stand and accept our thanks? There they are. Thank you. And now I will introduce Jan Robertson. Good afternoon, commissioners. Before we launch into our presentation, I want to thank the rousing and talented Oboadi Legacy Project for kicking us off with their fabulous Ghanaian drumming. I trust no one is experiencing a post-lunchtime slump as a result of their performance. Could we give them one more round of applause, please? Thank you.
 The Oboadi Legacy Project is one of many arts organizations and individual teaching artists who are vital parts of our arts education efforts, which enhance student learning and help train our future workforce to be creative, innovative problem solvers. Our arts integration program, the Right Brain Initiative, aspires to give every K-8 student in the region access to the arts regardless of neighborhood, language, or income.
 By pairing classroom teachers with local artists, RightBrain provides new tools to engage students in creative exercises that help them learn their core subjects and is especially effective for English language learners. Study after study proves that students do better in school when we engage their whole brains. Last year, we shared with you some of the exciting data that tracks test score improvements for students in RightBrain schools over time.
 The Right Brain Initiative continues to grow as this map illustrates. We're now in seven districts, 63 schools, serving 25,000 students and 1,350 educators. About 50 artists and arts organizations and our implementation partner young audiences are helping us deliver arts-rich learning in the schools.
 RightBrain is also part of the growing STEM to STEAM movement, inserting the arts into science, technology, engineering, and math lessons to help students build their creativity and collaboration skills. Our own Congresswoman, Suzanne Bonamici, co-founded the bipartisan STEAM Caucus in Congress and introduced an amendment to the federal definition of a well-rounded education by adding arts education. Thank you.
 This is now featured in the new Every Student Succeeds Act, which replaced No Child Left Behind, heralding a new day for education in our nation. RAC is also expanding our arts education role by supporting art and music teachers funded by the Arts Tax.
 Now that every elementary school in Portland has an arts teacher, RACA has begun providing technical assistance and other services to Portland's six school districts and the 72 art and music teachers whose salaries are paid for by the arts tax. It's thrilling to see that pre-tax, there was one arts specialist for 1,100 students, and now the ratio is one per 400. With arts specialists now in place, opportunities for students to experience performances by professional artists are on the rise.
 Thanks to the efforts of the music teacher at Prescott Elementary School, students at this Park Row school were inspired when mariachi Flor de Toloache included an all-school assembly in their West Coast tour. The only all-female mariachi group in the U.S. is based in New York City with one of its members hailing from Portland.
 We were so pleased that Commissioner Fritz attended the recent Portland Public Schools Arts Showcase in the Portland Art Museum and spoke about the vibrant return of the arts to Portland schools thanks to the Arts Tax. It was truly a remarkable celebration. And now another treat for us all. We welcome Bravo Youth Orchestra performers from Rosa Parks School, an example of how arts specialists together with arts organizations are working together to transform public education. Thank you.
 Do music stands come in colors now? Obviously so. Or did you paint them? They're much more interesting than the ones that I have ever seen before. Somebody should have thought of that before. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 © BF-WATCH TV 2021
 © BF-WATCH TV 2021
 ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶
 © BF-WATCH TV 2021
 ¶¶
 © BF-WATCH TV 2021
 © BF-WATCH TV 2021
 Wow. Bravo, young people. They don't call them that.
 Thank you, Bravo musicians. What you've accomplished in a short period of time is truly remarkable. And thank you, Seth Truby, for sharing your incredibly talented students with us.
 Last year was a celebratory one for RAC, marking our 20th anniversary of becoming a nonprofit regional arts council. We threw a 30th birthday party for Portlandia and were pleased to have Mayor Hales preside, Commissioners Fish, Fritz, and Novick standing with him, and former Mayor Bud Clark, who 30 years ago paddled in his canoe alongside Portlandia as she was barged to her new home.
 Rose High Bear blessed the event and Storm Large sang together with 80 Chapman School enthusiastic musicians. In the fall, we staged a city hall-wide exhibition of 35 years of public art, capped off with a lively music-filled reception for a crowd of artists, city employees, and friends. During this past year, Buster Simpson and Peg Butler created this piece called Cradle along the Greenway in South Waterfront.
 It consists of three western cedar trees resting on concrete tetrapods and features four words in Chinook Wawa provided by the Confederated Tribes of the Grand Ronde. Cradle offers a dynamic encounter between the weight of the human-like anchors and the buoyancy of the tree biomass. As Buster Simpson so often does in his public artworks, he comments on and brings to light intersections of nature and urban environments.
 Murals have become an increasingly prominent component of public art in Portland. This recently completed work on the year-old Portland Mercado is a welcoming addition to this important community landmark and reflects some of the cultural traditions of the vendors selling their wares inside.
 And here at Open School on North Lombard and Emerald Street, one artist was brought in to work with 40 young students, first of a kind for him, to design and execute this mural, much to the delight of all involved. He has become a great friend and repeat guest at the school. Truly a public art love fest. Both of these and many other murals have been reviewed, approved, and partially funded by RAC and the city.
 Another source of amazing murals in our city has been the brainchild of Gage Hamilton and Mark Wagner, co-founders of Forest for the Trees. They are both here today. Will you please stand so that we can thank you? This program over the past three years has resulted in 52 large-scale murals by artists from around the world and from Portland.
 Most are in the central city where they're the most large walls and business owners eager for images to adorn their blank walls. But Forest for the Trees hopes to expand out into all corners of our city going forward. We are so lucky to have such hardworking visionaries as Gage and Mark among us. Now looking ahead, works that aren't quite here yet, but I have to share with you some of what's ahead. This is a list of projects.
 parks. Part of the bond measure that I know Commissioner Fritz lives and breathes every day
 There are a series of new parks and each one of these will have some form of artistic expression in them. And you can see from their addresses that these are kind of far flung out into the neighborhood, which is great because many of these areas are not typically touched as much as some of the other parts of the city due to public construction. So we're looking forward to seeing what's ahead in the coming months.
 Next is a work in progress by Boston artist Mikyung Kim for the east end of the new Selwood Bridge. To be called Stratum, it will consist of 23 distinctive sculptures, of which this is one in fabrication. I hope you can make it out. It's 14 feet high. These 23 sculptures will march up each side of Tacoma Avenue between the bridge and 6th.
 The steel columnar forms will have rich patinas that reflect the layers of the river itself. The pieces are being fabricated locally and will be installed this summer. The art project is funded by the city's Percent for Art because, unfortunately, Multnomah County's public art ordinance exempts bridges. Next is River Guardian by Lillian Pitt and Michael Hilda. It's another work in progress to be placed in the south waterfront along the river.
 This image of the face here you can see in clay will be cast in glass and be the face of the guardian sculpture designed with the following themes in mind, honoring ancestors, respecting nature, healing and understanding, and sustainability. Lillian writes, quote, It will stand as tribute to the resilience and enduring presence of Native peoples, especially those of my people from the Columbia River, unquote. This is also coming this summer.
 While some cities in the country have requirements of public art for private developers, we do not, although we have certain opportunities in the City Code for developers to include art in their projects, and we, of course, wholeheartedly endorse that. Using the City Code's floor area ratio public art bonus, the artists of Risa A&D created a series of three sculptures for the Waterline Apartments north of the Fremont Bridge.
 These sculptures celebrate the work of master penman and rail yard watchman Tom Stafopoulos, who worked in railroad yards that preceded Portland's Pearl District. The pieces adapt some of the imagery, poetics, and craft of Tom's unsanctioned public art, the painted columns of the Lovejoy ramp. Although the ramp is demolished and the paintings have largely disintegrated, these sculptures help to carry Tom's story into the future.
 And last but not least, and maybe the most head-scratching of them all, is the Fair Hill Dumbbell, the guerrilla development land office building with ground floor retail in the heart of the Burnside Bridgehead. The project consists of two canted six-story towers that will be hand-painted with the original artwork on all eight of its elevations. Developer Kevin Cavanaugh is currently working with RAC on the selection of an artist. Thank you.
 This building will clearly stand out, small though it will be, against the surrounding modern glass and steel of the architecture currently under construction. And this is clearly a rendering since we don't have the artist's vision yet, but we'll be eager to share it with you when we have it. So how will that work when it needs to be renovated?
 repainted will it need to be repainted in its current form yes and there will be a covenant with the owner to make sure that that is done so that's a very significant investment well it is and although part part of the building is pretty hard to reach so we're hoping that um it's not going to be a question of having to paint the whole building if if it gets tagged but well i wasn't thinking just about getting tagged but you know as paint deteriorates it needs to be redone
 So that part, the covenant will be in there so that when the whole building needs to be repainted, it will get done like that again? Yes, and they're using a very, very durable kind of paint. That's specifically... Good question. Believe me, that's the first thing that pops into our mind is how are we going to make sure that it stays looking right. Yeah, it's been interesting to watch the renovation of the mural on the Historical Society and looking forward to seeing that painting.
 restored to its former glory. Exactly. And now, turning to some highlights of our grants program, I would like to welcome Sushila Jayapal, who is the chair of our Grants Review Committee. So, Sushila. Welcome. Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners. As chair of RAC's Grants Review Committee, it's my pleasure to be here with you today. Thank you.
 Thanks to the Arts Tax and RAC's continued private sector fundraising efforts, we have been able to significantly increase the size and number of RAC grants over the last two years. Just five years ago, RAC granted a total of $3 million to artists and nonprofit organizations. This year, we will award more than $4.8 million. As you can see from this chart, general fund investments from the city and three counties in blue have been up and down.
 And our fundraising efforts, including Work for Art in yellow, add to the total. The arts tax in green is what has enabled us to get where we are today. But we still have a long way to go to achieve the goals of ballot measure 26-146, shown in orange. This year, general operating support organizations are receiving an average of 3.6% of their budgets from RAC compared to the goal and the national average of 5%.
 And the fund that was envisioned to expand arts access currently stands at $100,000, a small fraction of the $1.5 million that we had hoped to receive from the arts tax for this purpose. Despite these challenges, we do have more grantable funds than we had before. And I'm proud to say that we've demonstrated RAC's commitment to equity as our grant-making programs continue to evolve.
 Arts organizations that receive general operating support report using their increased allocations to expand programs and services for underrepresented communities. And this past year, RAC awarded a significant number of its project grants, 28%, to artists of color. Also this year, Multnomah County contributed funds to the Arts Access Goals of the Arts Tax to help us launch a new grant program, the Arts Equity Grant.
 These grants, formerly known as Expanding Cultural Access Grants, are specifically targeted for organizations that are working with communities of color, immigrants, refugees, underserved neighborhoods, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ communities, and other underrepresented residents of Portland and Multnomah County. We will be announcing $100,000 worth of arts equity grants next month.
 In the meantime, I am pleased that three RAC grant recipients are here with us today to tell you how RAC support made a difference to their organizations and to our community. Daryl Grant is joining us to describe how a RAC project grant helped him with the new work. Andrew Proctor will describe how general operating support impacted literary arts' stunning first year of managing Wordstock.
 And Luan Algoso from APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, is here to talk about the grant that made possible the launch of their cultural event series in the Jade District. Thank you. Professor Grant, welcome. Thank you, Commissioner. Why don't you kick us off, Daryl. All right. Thanks. Thanks.
 Well, I'm really appreciative to RAC for allowing me the opportunity to come and speak about the impact of the RAC project grant. I'm recalling that I moved here in 1997, and I had never applied for a grant before. The very first funding I ever received was a $1,000 technological development grant for RAC. It was the very first research project I ever carried out. And so it was this –
 incredible moment for me of sort of understanding that there's a connection between the community in which you live as an artist and the opportunity to do projects that impact both your career and the community that you serve as an artist. This last RAC grant I got was for a project that I conceived called The Territory. In 2012, I received funding from Chamber Music America from their Jazz New Works program to write a new...
 write and perform a new jazz work. And the project that I was inspired to do was to write a piece that kind of described both the historical, geological...
 territory of Oregon, but also the cultural history and those stories of sort of what made this a unique place. The Territory was a 60-minute live performance for nine musicians, which we premiered at Chamber Music Northwest, and we were later able to perform it in New York City. I requested a grant from RAC to be able to
 mix, master, and produce a recording for the live performance that we did at Chamber Music Northwest at Call Auditorium, and was very pleased to be able to do that. So...
 I guess in one sense you could say that this is the product, this CD. But it was really much bigger than that, because the thing that I was really interested in was pursuing a conversation, not just with other musicians, but with other artists from different disciplines and creative people from different disciplines, about how place impacts their work. So RAC also funded the idea that I had to collect video interviews
 with different people. Kevin Cavanaugh, the designer, was one of those. Ben Chambry, the actor. Leather Storrs, the chef at Noble Rot. All of us impacted by this place. All of us making special and unique work that was connected to this place. And so...
 that conversation sort of rippled out. We were able to produce a video from that, which screened at my CD release, and a portion of which will be referred to in an OPB art piece.
 show, which airs tonight, actually, about the Territory Project. So it's really appropriate that today we're doing that. So I guess the thing I would say about RAC as it affects individual artists is that I like to use the metaphor of an ecosystem or an ecology, and that all of us, both artists and arts institutions and patrons and government, are all sort of
 fixtures or factors in this ecology. And I like to think of RAC as something like an aquifer, a watering hole, right? There's this idea that for me as an artist that I need to travel around the world to make my art. But when I want to commit to a place, I need to have some place that I can sort of, that the resources are available to me to carry out the work that I do in this place. And I feel like RAC
 provides access to those particular resources that allow us to impact the place that we live, to think of ourselves as connected, and to allow our work to have resonance and significance in the community. So that's what I would say. Awesome.
 Welcome, Andrew. Hi, welcome. Thank you for having me. I'm grateful to be here and grateful for you guys for making time to have this wonderful couple of hours. I'm the Director of Literary Arts, and you probably know the organization is one that runs Portland Arts and Lectures, the Order of Book Awards and Fellowships Program, and Writers in Schools, and we now run Wordstock, which is, on one hand, of course, Portland's
 a book festival but it's also a huge cross-sector collaboration that include non-profits and literature music visual arts and broadcast includes for-profits large and small and agencies like the multnomah county library general operating support is what we receive from rack and it's essential and i think a lot everyone in this room who does receive it would understand it is essential in creating a stable organization that allows us to go out and take risks and take on bold new projects and then collaborate and create a lot of value for the community um the
 When we were asked to take on Wordstock, it had run into some hard times. It was both in terms of attendance and in terms of finances. And to make it work, the festival needed a new home and a new program vision that was collaborative. And that's where you enter Brian Frizzo and Portland Art Museum and JS May, who, on the strength of a phone call, provided the art museum to us entirely free of charge. The festival all of a sudden, in one stroke, had a new venue right downtown Portland. And joining their efforts were Powell's Books,
 Oregon Public Broadcasting, and the Multnomah County Library. And then following them were some incredible funders, including the Miller Foundation, Meyer, and Murdoch. That meant we had a place and a venue and some money to get going. And we hired Amanda Bullock from New York City, the fabulous festival director.
 And she did an amazing job on November 7, 2015. And here's what happened. It was one day downtown. Everybody 17 and under were free. Anyone with a high school ID went free. OPV recorded the entire festival, which is now slowly being released throughout the year on Oregon Public Broadcasting. And it was full of music and visual art. There were 100 writers.
 50 of those writers were Oregonians, which is in line with our mission in the Oregon Book Awards and Fellowships Program, and 50 were from the national stage. 20% of the writers presented at Wordstock were writers of color.
 There were 43 events and 67 pop-up events throughout the art museum. There were programs for all ages, 16 workshops and many free youth workshops. There were 250 volunteers. And in terms of attendance, for context, about 2,500 people had gone to the festival in its earlier iteration over two days. And normally on a Saturday in November, about 1,000 people visit the Portland Art Museum.
 For Wordstock, over 8,000 people attended the festival in a single day, including over 800 students, which made it a truly intergenerational day. The economic impact on small businesses and large businesses was huge. We featured dozens of small presses in the book fair. They were cleaned out that day in terms of stock. Powell's Books doubled their sales from previous festivals that day.
 And local restaurants, bars, and shops all around the park blocks looked like they'd had a riot in them. They'd been so cleaned out by the large crowds. The cultural impact, hundreds of writers presented work on diverse range of topics, local, national, international. Thousands of readers came downtown and discovered new writers and ideas, talked and ate together, listened to music, and discovered new visual art.
 But again, what is crucial is that this whole journey began by having stable funders, especially the general operating pool for us that allows us to go out and take these incredible chances and risks in the community. And I think it was a wonderful event. So I really am grateful for RAC's general operating support. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you, Andrew.
 Good afternoon, members of City Council, Commissioner Fish, Commissioner Fritz, and Commissioner Novick. And thank you for the opportunity to come before you all today to talk about our experience in receiving the Expanding Cultural Access Grant from the Regional Arts and Culture Council to support their State of the Arts report today. My name is Luanne Algoso, and I'm the Community Engagement Manager at the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon, or otherwise known as APANO.
 And we're a statewide grassroots organization that advocates, organizes, and empowers Asian and Pacific Islanders in the state in achieving social justice. Since they are unable to be present with me today, I also bring in this room with me the members of the APANO Arts and Media Project, otherwise known as AMP. And AMP is a member-led committee within APANO who identify as artists and creatives emerging in established communities.
 ranging from a wide spectrum of genres such as music, visual art, theater, film, poetry, and technology. And I have the honor of being the staff support for this group, as well as managing APANO's overall arts and culture programming, including the Jade Midway Creative Placemaking Program, where we work with artists from East Portland to use art as a tool to address
 issues around transportation, housing, and community identity. And we're grateful to have Commissioner Fish serve as ex officio on our placemaking steering committee. But I'm here today to testify in support of RAC's State of the Arts Report and to share APANO's experience in receiving the grant last year for our pilot program, Mic Check, Voices from the Margins Cultural Events Series. APANO has been engaged in arts and culture work since its conception in 1996,
 as a method to celebrate and recognize our experiences as a community. But in more recent years throughout each program area at APANO, there is now a component of arts and cultural work that members have created to support and amplifying issues that APIs are facing today, whether it's through theater, music, visual art, or poetry. After the creation of the Arts and Media Project, members came together to host the Mic Check Voices from the Margins Cultural Event Series
 which took place between July 2015 and March 2016. And the events consisted of an open mic night of poetry, specifically for the API queer and trans community, a collaboration with Oregon's only API theater collective, Theater Diaspora, with the stage reading of Citizen Min, a play about Oregonian civil rights activist, Minoru Yasui, who is most famous for his protest of the curfew imposed on Japanese Americans during World War II,
 cultural performances that took place at the Jade International Night Market, the Disoriented Comedy Showcase, a show that highlights API women, queer and trans comedians locally and nationally, and finally a powerful poetry writing workshop by trans South Asian duo Dark Matter. The Mic Check series supports Opano's work in amplifying the experiences and issues within the API community that are often unheard or intentionally silenced.
 Without the funding from RAC, we would not have been able to create the space for these stories to be shared, not only within the API community, but with the public, as a way to educate our allies and connect our stories in solidarity to other communities of color.
 Each event used a method of engagement that further connected communities to the issues that APANA was working on, specifically around health, education, and LGBTQ issues. It was especially important for us to use this pilot program to have the opportunity to raise issues around gender, queer, reproductive justice, and issue areas that tend to be fraught with tension in the API community.
 Each event also reached a diverse set of community members from trans and queer APIs to youth to locally based immigrant and refugee residents in the Jade District during our Jade International Night Market, which brought around 25,000 people during each weekend last year.
 We truly appreciate the support from RAC, which has enabled us to do this work in ways that we didn't think were possible. We're now hoping that the mic check voices from the Margins Cultural Events Series can become a key annual event for APANO, where we can continue to highlight the issues and stories in our communities that are often marginalized. Thank you for the opportunity to testify before you today and about our experiences and RAC support. Thank you very much. Let's give them a round of applause. Thank you.
 Thanks to all three of you for your inspiring accounts. And thank you, Sushila, for your leadership in our grants program. Next year, we'll have many more stories such as these as we see the results of our new arts equity grants currently being reviewed. And now it is my distinct pleasure to introduce RAC board member, co-chair of Work for Art, and fearless leader of our world-famous Portland Timbers, Mike Golub, who will talk about advocacy and development highlights at RAC.
 Mike, by the way, has been impossible ever since the last weekend, since the thorns and the timbers won. I was impossible before. Welcome, Mike. Thank you. Good afternoon. Pleased to be here. We're going to share with you some of the ways we're engaged in the private sector in support of the arts. The collaboration and symbiosis between businesses and the arts is what the Americans for Arts calls the partnership movement. And it's a vital component for a thriving and growing arts community in any city.
 As many of you know, Business for the Culture and Arts, BCA, recently closed its doors, and the RACC Board worked with the outgoing BCA Board to absorb and perpetuate two of their more successful programs, the Art of Leadership and the Breakfast of Champions. Both are successful, long-running, and financially self-sustaining programs. The Art of Leadership program trains emerging business leaders to become valuable board members for nonprofits, particularly in the arts and culture sector.
 Recently, 38 people completed the six-month course, and they celebrated their graduation last week with a speed dating event where they met representatives of local arts organizations who were looking for new board members. This past February, 320 arts and business leaders Nick attended our Arts Breakfast of Champions event at the Portland Art Museum.
 The event brings together companies large and small, art supporters long-standing and new, to celebrate their contributions and inspire future efforts. At the event, we recognize top donors and champions for the arts, including Greg Ness of The Standard, who's shown here. We think Breakfast of Champions will continue to be a signature event every year and a catalyst for additional support for the arts by the business community.
 We raised about $10,000 from this year's breakfast, which will be accrued to this year's Work for Art campaign. Speaking of a Work for Art campaign, as many of you know, Work for Art is our employee giving program. We are now in our tenth year of Work for Art, and during that time we've raised more than $7 million, benefiting over 100 arts organizations in our community.
 This year we have more than 2,000 donors for more than 70 companies participate. I want to give a shout out and thanks to Commissioner Fish, who's been a wonderful stalwart supporter of Work for Art. This being our 10th year, we set an ambitious goal of raising a million dollars. This will be a record raise. Please report we are more than 85% there.
 But to get us towards the finish line over the next couple of months, we are introducing a new event at the community, Battle of the Bands. So on May 12th,
 At the Crystal Ballroom, you will see seven employee bands from companies such as Burgerville, Key Bank, Kaiser, PGE, The Standard, Tonkin Tour, and ZGF. We'll have some other surprise acts. We'll have a celebrity panel of judges. It's going to be a great night. So to preview what you will see and hear in May at the Crystal Ballroom, I wanted to introduce Paula Burton and Brian Delgin. By day, they are...
 They work for GGF Architects, but by night they are performers. So Paula and Brian, take it away. Thank you, Mike. Thank you, all of you, for having us today. It's a delight to be here. It's wonderful to not only have the opportunity
 to play Yule, but to compete, and I say that loosely, to perform alongside some other companies three weeks tonight. Yeah, so Brian and I, we are part of the ZGF band, Pencil, Skirt, Caller, and Straight Edge Rulers. It's funny, you're not a ZGF band.
 Probably not funny if I have to explain that, but anyway. So we're going to sing a video tape of What to Expect and then heard the news today about a member of Pop Royalty partying. So about 90 minutes ago decided to play something else. So let's check it out. The man calls you and it's horrible
 Never meant to cause you any pain Put him on edge, just keep his mouth in Only one thing you're left in Is a purple rain Purple rain Purple rain Purple rain Purple rain Purple rain Only one thing you're left in
 I never wanted to be your wee lover I wanted to be some kind of friend Maybe I could never feel you from another But it's just me and my friends can't help you Purple rain, purple rain, purple rain
 Love on a plane, love on a plane Only one of these two brains I know, I know, I know times are changing Time we all reach out for something new That means you too Say one leader Can't seem to make up your mind I think you better close it Let me guide you to the love on a plane
 Purple rain, purple rain Purple rain, purple rain We want to see you underneath that purple Purple rain, purple rain
 Wow. Wow. Thank you, Brian and Paula. And I hope that inspires you all to come to the Battle of the Bands and see what other talent is lurking beneath the working people of this community. Who knew? Who knew? So in closing, I'm so pleased and privileged that RAC is the steward of the city's investment in arts and culture.
 We see and hear the fruits of this work every day in all parts of our city, from community centers to concert halls, from schools to city streets, from established art spaces to pop-ups in parks and in neighborhood cafes. We know many people visit here for the arts. We see them following the public art walking tour and flocking to performances, festivals, and diverse cultural celebrations of all kinds.
 At the heart of all of this are artists, organizations, and arts lovers. And crucial to all of this richness is the financial commitment the city has provided and the personal value you each place on thriving arts community equitably for all Portlanders. We are here to say collectively thank you, and to pledge that together we will keep the arts strong, vibrant, and thriving moving into the future. Thanks very much. Thank you very much, Ellen. Applause
 So, a little more testimony. A little more testimony. I have a question. Oh, yeah, please. I have a question. I appreciate the detailed report and, of course, the performances. Thank you, everybody, for being here. The report shows that at the total revenue of $9.7 million, $8 million comes from the public.
 And about $7 million of that comes from the city of Portland, including $5.6 million from general fund. So I'm very proud of the investment that we have made over the seven years that I've been on the council. And I'm committed to continuing that investment. And that's aside from the arts tax. It's continuing money from the taxpayers of Portland. It's very clear that it's a regional investment.
 that we have such a vibrant Arts and Culture Commission. And it's also, as Mike Golub said, it's about business. It's about jobs. It's about attracting the kinds of creative businesses, including software developers and others, as well as creative artists. So how are we going to get the other jurisdictions to pay their fair share, I think, is a big question. I'm glad to hear that Multnomah County has
 gave us some money. How much money did Multnomah County give last year? They moved us from $170,000 to $300,000 plus an additional $75,000 for Right Brain Initiative. So they doubled, which is good. We can keep them doubling every year. That would be...
 That's the plan. That's the plan. And I just charge all of us with that, that just as I was educated when I first came onto the council about that, you know, parks are more than fun and games. Arts and culture are more than music and performance. And it really is a part of who we are as a city. I don't expect you to have an answer. And I also wanted to comment that I appreciate the emphasis on equity and making sure that everyone in our community has the opportunity not only to experience but to benefit from the money that the public dedicates.
 I think this is our next challenge, folks. We got the arts tax passed. It's got its flaws. There's some who would change it and there's some who would keep it the same. But it is currently providing teachers in school, which is the main thing. And it needs to fulfill its promises both to the taxpayers and to RAC and the community. How are we collectively going to get Beaverton and Hillsborough and Lake Oswego and Dunthorpe to pay their fair share? So it's just a – you may have some thoughts on it. Especially Dunthorpe.
 Do you have a clout there, maybe? Well, I can say that because I was out in Clackamas County just yesterday meeting with three of the commissioners and have met with the others as well. We have asked for actually a reinstatement from a cut that they gave us a couple of years ago. And I would say on balance, it's looking more promising, although they're a bit unpredictable. Okay.
 We've also asked for an increase from Washington County, specifically to support some of our partners who are based in Washington County, so that the whole infrastructure of the arts in the counties will be stronger. So a combination of more funds that we reinvest for them, but also strengthening their own leadership in the county. And that's gathering some traction. And then I've recently been meeting with Metro counselors because...
 If you look at the history of RAC over the 20 years, when we took on the region, the same region that Metro is responsible for, they were funding us way more substantially than they are now, and it's a variety of factors. But I've been meeting with some of my board members along with me, with each of the council members, to try to sort of blow some...
 breath on those coals that have gotten a little cool. But they're very receptive. It's just they have the same problem that everybody else does, that they don't know where the money comes from. You know, Eloise, I appreciate Commissioner Fritz raising this issue because I think it's really important that we boost participation regionally. And one thing that struck me at the RAC Arts Forum, first of all, I was so encouraged by what I heard from everybody who was on the stage.
 I would say, including my colleagues. It was a proud moment for me. But I also, it occurs to me that when you know you're going to have a leadership transition and we will have a new mayor, the question is will it be decided in May or November and
 One of the first orders of business, I think, is for that mayor to convene the regional leaders around the arts and address this question. And we have not in the last three and a half years had such a gathering hosted by City Hall. And I think that in light of the comments that Amanda's made, I think it's incumbent on us to suggest to the mayor-elect that we bring our regional partners in, talk about the shared values and why it's important to region,
 then start drilling down on how we can boost participation outside of multnomah county so i i applaud a man for raising and i think i think we could have we can we can push the mayor elect whoever that is towards that so yeah i'm gonna need you all to come back right so we are um i believe we have a few people who've testified we're going to take them then we're going to uh take a motion to accept the report and then do closing statements so if we could just pause for a second carla how many people signed up i show three people
 Jim Winkler, Ian Mouser, and Matthew Gailey. Okay. Do we have three people signed up? Come on up. If you could come up. Is Jim here? Why don't we start? And Ian, would you like to kick us off? Sure. Can you hear me all right? That's a bit of an echo. Yes. Yes.
 My name is Ian Mouser. I'm the founder and director of My Voice Music. My Voice Music empowers young people through writing, recording, and releasing music. We use music as therapy and we use music as a way to teach youth social and emotional skills. We work with about 2,000 youth each year and we work with them on a one-time basis or we might work with them week after week, year after year.
 I'm here to share a story about one particular youth that we worked with, which is an intersection of my voice music, this young person's life, and the Regional Arts and Culture Council. This young person that we met was about four years ago, and she was in crisis when we met her. She had just been discharged from the hospital. Her family, her father had just lost his job, and her mom was in and out of the hospital due to physical illness.
 When we first met this young person, their family didn't know where they were going to get rent each month, let alone find a place for their daughter to engage in extracurricular activities such as a summertime rock camp.
 Thanks to the Regional Arts and Culture Council, as well as several other supporters, My Voice Music was able to provide free rock camps to youth in foster care, as well as those experiencing crises and challenges. This young person came to us, and because she came to us that summer, she got engaged in our weekly programs, and because she got engaged in our weekly programs, she started showing up year after year. We began to form long-term relationships with this young person.
 Now this young person's a student at Portland Community College. She got her GED. She's working a job, and she's actively living and creating a fulfilled life for herself.
 In retrospect, I asked her, you know, what was it that allowed you to be where you are right now, given where you were when I met you? And she said, My Voice Music Summer Rock Camp, that first camp that she was at, changed her life and changed the trajectory of her life. She said it gave her hope in a time where she was in crisis, and it gave her a new aspiration to pursue. And that new aspiration allowed her to invite new peers into her life that could support her, adults in her life who could support her, and gave her long-term mentorship so she could be supported on her journey and see a new path for herself.
 You know, it takes just one spark and just the right moment at just the right time to change a person's life forever, to start a fire in somebody whose consequence we may not know for many years down the road. The Regional Arts and Culture Council certainly supports igniting that spark in individuals, in the community and in the city as a whole. Thank you for your support of the arts through the Regional Arts and Culture Council. Thank you very much. Matthew, welcome.
 Thank you so much. I think I'd like to transition over to the piano and bring Leah up to give our final remarks. We hope you do. All right. Leah, come on up. Sorry if I'm seated. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales and city commissioners. My name is Leah Mulligan, and I'm a musician and actress who takes classes and performs at FANG.
 And I'm Matthew Gailey, famous director of education and performance programs. You've heard a lot of amazing stories this afternoon about the profound positive impact that city funding of RAC has on our citizens and our organizations and our city as a whole. And we want to share a few final words with you and then a final song. Thank you.
 First off, we want to say thank you. Thank you to Mayor Hales for being such a strong supporter of arts and culture. I know all of us at FAME have loved singing with you and the First Lady at Pioneer Square with our friends from Pink Martini.
 And thank you also to Commissioners Fritz, Salzman, for both of your support of RAC and of FAME and of many other great arts groups. And I wanted to give a special shout out to Commissioner Novek for joining FAME on stage at the Pioneer Square Tree Lighting Ceremony this past November. And to our FAME friend, Commissioner Fish, for coming to so many of our performances and events.
 Commissioner Fish, you rock! Beyond saying thank you, we also want to say one more thing. More needs to be done. The Arts Tax, which is a great tool, has yet to fulfill its total promise. Organizations like FAME rely heavily on this support.
 We are a grassroots growing organization focused on equity and inclusion and utilizing the arts and creative expression as tools to help improve the lives of real people who are historically underserved by the city and by our community. We ask you, Mayor Hales and City Council, to consider adding at least $3 million to RAC's budget this year.
 to help make up the difference in the arts tax collection shortfalls. We know budgets are tight and times are tough, but this support would make a real difference to me and to my friends at FAME. We have some letters we've written to Mayor Hills that we'll leave with you.
 which helped to illustrate how important this support is to us. Thank you for considering our request and for all your support. And with that, Matthew, let's hit it! Look at the stars, look how they shine for you.
 And all the things that you do And they were all yellow I came along I wrote a song for you Oh what a thing to do And it was all yellow So then I took my turn Oh what a thing to have done
 And it was all yellow. Your skin. Your skin and bones. Turn it. To something beautiful. Do you know. I love you so. You know I love you so.
 I swam across, I jumped across for you. Oh, what a thing to do. And it was all yellow. I drew a line, I drew a line for you. Oh, what a thing to do. It was all yellow.
 Your skin, oh yeah, your skin and balls turn into something beautiful. Do you know, for you I'd bleed myself dry. For you I'd bleed myself dry. For you I'd bleed myself dry.
 It's true, look how they shine for you Look how they shine for you
 Look how they shine for, look at the stars. Look how they shine for you. And all the things that you do. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you so much. You're welcome. Thank you for joining. Would anyone else like to speak? If not, I'll entertain a motion to adopt the RAC's report. Mr. President, I move to adopt the report. Is there a second? Second.
 There's a second. Shall we, yeah, we'll take, let's call the roll and we'll take closing statements as people vote. Carla? I really, really appreciated all of the performances and the performers. Thank you very much. And it's always great to hear from Eloise and Jan and from the man on the cover of Jewish Life, Mike Gollum. Thank you all very much for today and for everything you do. Hi. Ritz.
 One of the challenges about funding arts and culture is that it's so wonderful that it's the performances we've heard today, it's so enjoyable. It's not like some of the work that the city does replacing sewer pipes, for example. You know, Commissioner Fish has done an amazing job of presenting the projects on replacing sewer pipes in a way that make them seem interesting, but he's had to work really hard at it. And the way that you present things, it's
 hard, it's easy to miss that as well as being enjoyable for the performance as well as for those of us appreciating the performance, that it is jobs and it is about our city and it is about the fundamental fabric of how we do things as Portlanders and as Oregonians. And so I think that's our next challenge. And we were able to educate and inform folks about the arts tax to get it passed to help them understand why we need arts teachers in schools. And so we have that.
 We're continuing to fund at the city level. We have to find ways to find more funding so that starving artists are not starving, so that they are valued members of our community who have jobs that can help them pay the rent and buy houses and put their kids through college like anybody else's job.
 And that's, I think, the next challenge, and I'm sure you're up to it. So thank you very much, Commissioner Fish, for your leadership on this issue. I'm looking forward to working with the next mayor to figuring out how can we get the other jurisdictions to help step up on this. Well, thank you, colleagues. It is a tremendous honor to serve on a council that believes passionately in art and culture and to be part of a tradition of success in our community.
 It dates back many years of support for the arts. First, I want to say that Mayor Hales sends his regrets. He is on council business in Europe, but he is here in spirit. I want to make a few comments about the past year. As some of you know, this is a year in which my family fled to Europe, so I had a lot of extra time on my hands, and I often chose in the evenings between going home and communing with my microwave or maybe getting out and seeing more things.
 And so it's been a year in which I've had the great pleasure of partaking of more art and culture and being a patron and seeing more wonderful things. And boy, have I seen wonderful things. I am so grateful for the abundance of great art and culture in our community. As some of you know, I'm particularly partial to modern dance, which is odd because I don't understand it conceptually and I don't dance.
 But there's such beauty in dance, and there's such joy in seeing movement and expression on the stage. And so I want to thank White Bird and Body Vox and Northwest Dance and all of our great dance institutions in our town, who against all odds are continuing to persevere. And I want to particularly say to Wally and Paul, it's about time you guys got married. Congratulations. Thank you.
 We're so blessed to have so many festivals here that bring world-class art. And a highlight for me was the great Diane Reeves, who sang at a sold-out concert here, a great jazz singer who just brought her passion to Portland and just overwhelmed us. We're a great film town. And I had the honor recently of seeing some Academy Award-nominated shorts at the Art Museum, including one that chronicled a Syrian doctor
 who calls Portland home, but who takes a very hazardous trip to Syria to treat the victims of that civil war. And the next time we hear someone propose at the national stage that we should restrict Syrian immigrants, we can think about this doctor in our own backyard who so bravely serves the world and who calls Portland home. And his film was nominated. The film about his life was nominated for an Academy Award.
 I've been able to witness great literature through literary arts and so many other organizations that bring the best in the world to Portland for our benefit. I'm so grateful that unlike many other cities, independent bookstores are thriving and growing, not shrinking. In cities across the country dealing with a real estate boom, the independent bookstores are contracting, and according to Steve Dean recently, we have more and more choices for
 I'm grateful that the opera turned 50 and celebrated with style. The opera in our community is of such great class and accomplishment, and I'm excited about the fact the opera is moving to a summer schedule where we'll have even more choices each summer. I'm grateful to Tony Starlight for the show that he continues to run in our community and all the local talent that he showcases, and I'm grateful for all the artists of fame
 that remind us that regardless of our abilities and regardless of where we come from and who we are, we all have a spirit that we can share with others and celebrate. And I'm so grateful that fame calls Portland home. I could go on and on and on with what I witnessed and what touched me in the past year, but I want to pivot to what I see as the challenges ahead that we need to unite around.
 This past year, we celebrated a great anniversary for RAC, and we celebrated 35 years of percent for art. We celebrated the arts tax and the progress we're making. We celebrated the extraordinary accomplishments of the Right Brain Initiative. Thanks to Mike's leadership, we're continuing to make progress with work for art. There are so many pieces we're celebrating, but there are some great challenges that we have to unite around. The first is we've got to collect more revenue from the arts tax.
 And we have to fulfill the commitment we made to bring general operating support for some of our most important institutions to 5%. So this council is going to be working with our revenue bureau to boost the collections. And if anyone listening today hasn't paid their arts tax, please do so. Not only does it mean that 40,000 young people in our community now have arts instruction like many of us took for granted when we were kids, but we have additional revenue that comes to RAC to help.
 support art in our community and we've got to do better. So one challenge is to boost the collections from the arts tax. A second challenge is to make sure that as our city continues to grow and prosper, we do not price out the non-profit arts organizations that bring such distinction to our community. One of the great pressures in our community right now is with rising rents. Groups are being priced out.
 And they're not just at risk of being sent to the margins of our community or into other counties and jurisdictions. We're at risk of losing some of our nonprofit organizations to other cities that would be happy to compete for our bounty. And so I think a second challenge we face is to figure out how a great public-private effort can be launched
 to keep our great nonprofit arts organizations in Portland and help them deal with an increasingly unaffordable real estate environment. And the reason, by the way, I feel optimistic about that is that the last time we brought a bunch of really smart people together and we challenged them with something that was on the horizon but it eluded us, they came together and they figured out the arts tax and they were able to convince over 60% of the voters that it is worth investing in arts.
 And I think if we unleash the creativity and the ingenuity of that same group and said, how do we make sure that fame stays with us? How do we make sure that the Logro Theater continues to have a home here? How do we make sure that there is art and culture in every part of our city? I think we can come up with some innovative solutions in the Portland way. And I think that's a second challenge. And the third challenge, I think, is not to take for granted what we have.
 In my view, there are four things about Portland in addition to the great natural beauty and the people that call Portland home that make this a uniquely special place. The first is that we are deeply committed to this idea of nature and the city. And we celebrate the idea that we bring nature into the city and we don't see them as either or. We see them as one.
 The second is we're on the forefront of a global movement around sustainability, and we're literally working to transform our economy to capture the advantage of that sustainable wave. The third is we're a small business town. We're not a town with a lot of Fortune 500s. We're a town with a lot of mom and pops. And in our 50 neighborhood business associations, 95% of the businesses which anchor every part of our city have five or fewer employees. And we should celebrate that because there are so many benefits to being
 a small business town. But the fourth thing that makes us special and that we experience every day is we are a city that honors and celebrates art and culture. And we don't compare ourselves to any other city because we're different. And we're Portland-sized and Portland-scaled. But I think our third challenge is never to take for granted that because it took generations of people building the momentum which led us to this day where we can celebrate so many wonderful things that happened last year
 But there is nothing that says it's inevitable. It will require our continued vigilance. And so I want to challenge everybody here today and within our listening audience to do three things. First, sign up for Work for Art. Please, for God's sake, give Mike a break. Join Work for Art. He needs to get to a million dollars. You'll get an arts card and get two-for-one tickets, and we'll all feel good about what we do. And by the way, Mike, last year Mike brought Daimler trucks into the fold.
 He sat down with the head of Daimler Trucks and Mr. Baum agreed to bring the whole company into Work for Art. So the next time someone says to you, why does it matter that we have a headquarter business in Portland? Think about the power of Daimler through its employees supporting the arts. Let's give Mike Golub a round of applause for doing such great work. Number one, please join Work for Art. Number two, please pay your arts tax. There are an alarming number of people in our community who think it's a discretionary tax.
 It isn't. The voters have said we're all going to participate in this great exercise. So please pay your tax. And the third is, every day, take a moment to support and celebrate the art that you're passionate about. Each of us are drawn to something different and unique. And each of us has a chance by being a patron and a supporter to nurture something great in our community. We are all stewards of this great art and culture scene. And let's take a moment every day to celebrate it.
 and to support it, and let's never take it for granted. To Eloise and Jan and the board and the staff, we are so grateful for the leadership that you have provided all these many years, and particularly this past year. And as we're poised, looking forward to have a new leadership at City Hall and a new vision for how we are all going to collaborate around the arts, let's recommit to continuing to strive for greatness, for generous support of the arts.
 for celebrating what we have achieved. And let's set our sights on what I believe is the great challenge of the next few years to make sure that we don't lose those great non-profit arts organizations that call Portland home. Let's make sure that they continue to afford to be in Portland and to add such joy to our lives. With that, it is my great honor to vote aye, and the report is accepted. Thank you all very much. And we're going to take a three-minute recess so that people can transition, and we have one more time certain today, so thank you.
 All right, we're going to try to soldier on here. Carla, how are you? I'm good. Carla, could you please read the next item? Okay.
 Item 397, authorize $65,000 for grant agreement with Momentum Alliance through the Diversity and Civic Leadership Program to support community engagement activities for communities of color, immigrants, and refugees through October 31, 2016. Commissioner Amanda Frith. Thank you, President Fish. Welcome, everybody. Thank you, everybody.
 Now in its 10th year, the Diversity and Civic Leadership Program is central to meeting the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's community engagement goals, which are indeed the community engagement goals of the City of Portland. These goals include increasing the number and diversity of people involved in their communities, strengthening community capacity, and increasing community impact on public decisions. Thank you.
 The diversity and civic leadership grants focus on expanding new community leaders' understanding of how the city works and how to communicate with and engage with city bureaus on an ongoing basis. In other words, how to make a difference. There is also a focus on new partnerships between organizations representing communities of color and immigrant and refugee organizations so that they work together as constructively as possible.
 Today, we are thrilled to welcome Momentum Alliance as the sixth diversity and civic leadership partner organization with this ordinance before council to improve for this year a $65,000 grant for the current fiscal year and then ongoing funding. The determination to fund Momentum Alliance is the result of council action last year to expand the diversity and civic leadership program by adding a sixth community partner.
 The Office of Neighborhood Involvement organized a competitive process resulting in nine applications being reviewed by a committee composed of five community representatives, all people of color and immigrants and refugees, alongside with representatives from Commissioner Novick's office and mine. Momentum Alliance is well suited to expand the range of communities served by the Office of Neighborhood Involvement and the city.
 In a few minutes, we'll be hearing from representatives of Memento and Alliance to hear more about their organization and work. And then we'll get updates from our other diversity and civic leadership grantees, which are the Center for Intercultural Organizing, Latino Network, Immigrant Refugee Community Organization, Native American Youth and Family Center, and the Urban League of Portland. Now I invite Jerry Jimenez, the Program Coordinator for OVRA,
 Office of Neighborhood Involvement's Diversity and Civic Leadership Program to introduce herself and our panelists. I'm all jazzed up because I was sitting in here during the music. And we are, again, suspending the rules, right, President Trish, that we can clap today? My name is Jerry Jimenez. I work for the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. Ten years ago, I came here to work on developing a community-created diversity and civic leadership partners. And so the program is 10 years old now.
 I would like to especially thank Commissioner Fritz for being our champion for the whole 10 years of our process since its inception. The city has spent time, money, trust, and energy in a program that we didn't know would work, and yet it's exceeded every expectation we could possibly imagine in increasing the diversity and voice of Portlanders and new Portlanders.
 across the city, the following request of Community Connect to support more engagement from the Portland community that historically had not happened much. In 2015, we released a seven-year report on what we had learned and what the DCL partners had achieved so far. I left some copies with Carla.
 And the report concludes that the DCL program has succeeded at meeting ONI's goals for the change we seek, including greater and more diverse participation, building community capacity, and the impact on public decisions. We also last year received an acknowledgment from the Ash Center at Harvard University as one of the top ten innovations in American government. That was pretty exciting.
 Not only are we able, through your support, to be here today and to add our sixth partner, we're also opening up a small grants program this spring as well. We have members from each DCL partnership here today to give you a brief update of the program, and we'll start with the three young women from Momentum Alliance. We have Zakiya Williams.
 with Carla Castaneda and Emily Lyon. And after that, we've had a request for Urban League to go next, if that's okay. Thank you. If you say so, it's okay. Okay. Welcome, ladies. Who would like to go first? I will be going first, kind of. So we want to thank you for having us here today. I guess I'll get started. I am from a body that ate beans and rice throughout my childhood when my parents couldn't make rent.
 I am a first-generation college student who will be receiving a master's degree next year. People assume that because I am a black woman that I am angry. People assume that I grew up in the hood and that I'm a negative black stereotype. People assume that because I am educated that I am no longer engaged in the struggle. You can learn from me that a person that is terrified of public speaking can be speaking in front of you today.
 You can learn from me that being quiet doesn't mean that I can't speak volumes. You can learn from me that sharing your story can be the most powerful tool in healing. I am Zakiya. I stand for black lives, all black lives. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer, and trans black lives. I am undocumented. I am a dreamer. People assume that because I'm a fighter, I never lose hope.
 People assume that because I have an accent and don't always use proper grammar, that I'm uneducated. People assume that because I'm a girl, I can't make decisions about my own body and safety. You can learn from me how a fearful, undocumented student can fight for her dream, work full-time, take care of her family, all while receiving scholarships to attend college.
 You can learn from me how being Mexican can trap a person into a stereotype, but learning one simple step of loco-rico dance has connected me to my roots. You can learn from me how a shy girl can go to our state and our nation's capital, tell her story to change laws. I am Karla. I stand for people with disabilities. I am the daughter of Taiwanese immigrants. I am from thinking that dieting and shrinking myself would make me more beautiful.
 I am an aspiring dancer who hopes to find freedom in dance. People assume because I'm an Asian woman, I should be soft-spoken and submissive. People assume because I wear revealing clothes at work that I am unprofessional and don't take my work seriously. People assume because I have a sexually transmitted infection, I should be ashamed of myself.
 You can learn from me how being open and honest about having genital herpes makes my relationship with others and my own body stronger. You can learn from me how the struggle for self-love can be the greatest struggle of all. You can learn from me how to be an outspoken advocate for social justice. I am Emily, and I stand for all immigrants. We are Momentum Alliance. Momentum Alliance is a youth-led social justice nonprofit.
 whose mission is to inspire young people to realize their power individually and collectively, and to mentor future social justice leaders. Nothing about youth without youth. We believe that youth should be leaders in our own lives and in our city. With experienced coaches and allies, we support young people from underrepresented communities to become social justice advocates, decision makers, and leaders in the public community.
 private, and nonprofit sector. People most directly impacted by these issues should be the ones at the table, identifying solutions and making decisions. This is why youth have decision-making power at all levels of our organization. This is why our founders, board, staff, and participants
 are all young people from underrepresented communities. We seek to engage and inspire. In order to ensure that our organization is led by young people, our bylaws state that 51% of our board has to be 25 years old and younger. Presently, out of 25 board members, 75% of our board is 25 and under, with our youngest board chairs being 14 and 23.
 85% of our board are people of color, 75% of our staff are people of color, and 65% of our staff is 30 years old and under. Our program coordinator, Carla Castaneda, and our youth director, Vanessa Dominguez, were both hired at the age of 19 after being program participants. Our co-executive director, Diego Hernandez, who is also here.
 was a founding board member at the age of 23 and hired at the age of 26. That said, we also have staff who are in their mid-60s and 40s. We believe deeply in the power of intergenerational and intercultural alliances. We work with young people between the ages 14 and 30. We are undocumented, immigrant, indigenous, teen parents, allies, LGBTQIA+,
 We are raised in seven religious traditions. We are gang-affected, HIV and STI positive, low-income, youth of color, youth with disabilities, youth experiencing foster care and shelters, youth transitioning from houselessness and incarceration, youth who have experienced war, genocide, domestic violence, sexual assault, racial profiling, and displacement.
 I am an undocumented Mexicana that migrated to the United States when I was only four years old. I came with no knowledge of America, only that America is the land where dreams come true. America is the land of the free and the brave, but I wasn't free nor brave. Being undocumented and low-income made everything extremely hard to reach, like school and work and even obtaining a driver's license. Going back to Mexico to visit my hometown wasn't even an option.
 While my peers were looking at FAFSA and out-of-state universities, I was wondering if higher education was even an option for me. As a young undocumented high school senior hoping to go to college, I felt powerless. I was 17 years old when I was first introduced to Momentum Alliance in 2012. They offered me a paid internship to be a youth leader at their summer camps. I got to meet youth like me.
 who were undocumented, who were passionate, and taking action. We organized, canvassed, and lobbied legislators to expand access to financial aid for undocumented students. From then on, I knew the importance of youth organizing and youth civic engagement. I learned that as a 17-year-old, I could be a leader, and that I could also be brave.
 I was invited to attend a reproductive justice workshop with another undocumented youth, and I knew that this was an important issue that I wanted to organize around. Reproductive justice is when all people have the power and resources to make our own decisions about our own bodies and lives without fear of shame, discrimination, and violence. The first meeting we attended for reproductive justice was a room filled with much older people.
 We felt like we didn't have a say, yet we do. We had a voice. We were there for others to see that young people are ready to take action. Sex, gender, sexuality, relationships, health care, contraception, abortion. These things have a huge impact on our lives and our families. But there is a lot of silence and shame around these things. The last year, at the age of 19,
 I helped launch our Reproductive Justice Youth Advocates cohorts, where young people have a safe space to talk about these things. Our program meets every other Sunday. We use storytelling and relationship building to build power, because we know that our stories are invaluable tools for social change.
 We know that building relationships reduces the sense of isolation and powerlessness that underrepresented young people feel in our city. Along the way, we dive into political action and civic engagement. With partnerships with other organizations, we learned about local, state, and national politics. We learned how a bill becomes a law, how county resolutions pass, how ballot measures work.
 We learn how to canvas, give testimony, lobby public officials, and evaluate policies. Zakiya and Emily were both program participants last year and want to share their stories on the importance of leadership development with underrepresented and marginalized young people. I moved to Portland several years ago from Texas to pursue a master's degree in marriage and family therapy at Lewis and Clark College.
 I joined MA because I wanted to be involved in the Portland community and with reproductive rights. I am passionate about reproductive health care access because I come from a state that is constantly shutting down abortion clinics and restricting women's access to health care. I wanted to use my frustrations from my home state to make a difference in my new home. I was accepted to Momentum Alliance's Reproductive Justice Youth Advocates cohort in February of last year.
 By March, I was already attending my first lobby day in Salem. It was at Momentum Alliance that I had my first lobbying experience. We traveled to our state capitol multiple times to lobby for bills that would expand healthcare access, housing, and education opportunities. I remember taking a selfie with Governor Kate Brown. We told legislators that low-income women and women of color
 trans people, and undocumented people must have access to affordable health care. We told them that families affected by poverty, incarceration, and domestic violence must have access to stable housing. When you see such a diverse group of young people in the state capitol, you realize that leadership can and should take diverse forms. We might be young, we might not look like, talk like, dress like,
 or act like your typical leader, but we are leaders. Because we are passionate about our community, connection, and social justice. Momentum Alliance was a perfect home for me. As a 23-year-old black woman, I found it difficult to find my voice be taken seriously in predominantly white spaces. Almost instantly, Momentum Alliance became a family for me. I remember after our first cohort meeting, I thought to myself, wow, I'm not a minority anymore.
 For the first time since moving to Portland, I found a community that understood me. Momentum Alliance has changed my life because since being a program participant, I've joined the board. I hold an executive board position, and I became a youth coach for our new cohorts this year, all by the age of 23. I get to be involved in an organization that fundamentally seeks to make youth leaders for the identities and issues we are passionate about.
 Most often, these issues we are passionate about are decided by folks that are not connected to, are invested in our communities. Momentum Alliance has given me and so many other youth a platform to speak our truths and develop leadership skills. I want more young people to have the experience that I had. I came across Momentum Alliance when I was 25, when I was at a conference for culturally specific organizations working on reproductive health access.
 Carla was repping Momentum Alliance there. When I heard that she was a program coordinator at the age of 19 at a youth-led nonprofit organizing free social justice camps and summits for underrepresented youth, I was smitten. My mind was blown. There are spaces in this world where young people have real decision-making power and real leadership positions, and one of them is Momentum Alliance.
 I immediately applied to join the Reproductive Justice Youth Advocates cohort and was accepted. Momentum Alliance has changed my life because it has given me the opportunity and the capacity to go from a program participant to a program coordinator, leading a new group of young leaders. Momentum Alliance has helped me believe that I too can someday become a city commissioner.
 Reproductive justice is not the only issue young people care about. We care deeply about education issues, about economic development and environmental degradation, about gentrification and transportation. We are passionate about all the issues. Building off of the tremendous success of last year's cohort, we want to continue our reproductive justice cohort this year, and we want to launch a new cohort on education justice.
 And hopefully in the future, with your support, we can launch more issue-specific cohorts. As Audre Lorde, a black lesbian activist, once said, there is no such thing as a single-issue struggle because we do not live single-issue lives. There is so much talent and so much thirst for social change among our city's youth. Young people can and want to be leaders.
 There are countless people and organizations in this city working right now, day and night, to provide youth leadership opportunities. We all want to increase the depth and breadth of our youth organizing work. We all want to increase the amount of leadership stipends and leadership opportunities we offer our city's youth. We are thrilled to be joining Portland's Diversity and Civic Leadership Program. It is an absolute honor to be among the Center for Intercultural Organizing,
 the urban league erco nea and latino network we thank you all for your time and your consideration and we look forward to building with you all strengthening our work and our collaborations to create leadership opportunities for all communities in our city thank you thank you do you have any questions thank you thank you next up commissioners we have the urban league
 And we also have ERCO with Yang Sang Sung, and they're going to tell you a little bit about what they've been doing. Commissioner, these will be short updates to this presentation.
 Just to update you on the rest of this diversity and civic leadership program. I wouldn't hope to try to follow that act. Welcome. That was real good. Well, thank you, commissioners, for taking the time to hear us out. And thank you, everyone, for letting us cut ahead. I've got to go out to East Portland to actually work with some community members. So I figured I'd use your money for that rather than you here. So, yeah, the Urban League has been using DCL money to basically work on our State of Black Oregon report to figure out,
 how and where does the black community need us, which is everywhere. So through our service programs and through our community engagement, we have been trying to find...
 how and where the community needs us and activating new leaders, specifically out in East Portland, where a lot of our community has been displaced and moved. And so to do that community organizing takes a lot of dedicated time, effort, and energy and consistency, which this program allows without having...
 that consistency and that regularity, people in the community, specifically the black community, aren't allowed or able to build a sense of trust. So often in the black community, services or something will be provided and then it will fall short or it won't come through. That is not the DCL program. And I'm really thankful for that. And I think our community is really thankful for that. I don't want to take up
 all the time. I brought one of our cohort members from our most recent social justice and civic leadership program, and she can just talk really briefly about one of the projects they worked on.
 Hello, and nice to see you today. My name is Tamika Taylor, and I was a participant in the social justice and civic leadership cohort with the Urban League of Portland. And it was a really amazing opportunity to not only support the mission of the Urban League, but to also find my own voice within the struggle and the movement. Yeah.
 Being an African American who was born and raised in Oregon, it's been difficult to find opportunities where you can actually engage with your community and talk about the issues on a deeper level while you're also being developed for roles of leadership.
 And this program through the Urban League has definitely given me that opportunity. We had the privilege of working with YWCA and putting on a screening of Black Girl in Suburbia at Portland Community College Cascade Campus.
 and we had over 200 people from the community and other communities join us that night for the presentation for the film screening so without the program we wouldn't have had the development and kind of the support to be able to pull off something like that and it means a lot to us hello good afternoon commissioners my name is young son song I'm the community organizer with erco I
 And I first of all want to thank you all for your support and leadership for DCL program to grow. It has created a space and empowers our community leaders to now engage in city budget planning, crime prevention, law enforcement, and building parks through employment and volunteering.
 ERCO celebrates its 40th anniversary. An organization was founded by Refugee to Help Refugee. The core principles of self-help and mutual aid of our founding members carry on still now. ERCO served over 28,000 families last year.
 But we know social service is not enough. So we take such an integral part of the city. We are workers. We're neighbors. And we're your family members. And our needs are not that different from anyone else's.
 And we need access to healthcare, affordable housing, safe neighborhood, and excellent education to be contributing members of the society. But for us to fully integrate it into the different decision-making process, there are lots to learn, different language, worldview, communication styles, et cetera.
 So for the past eight years, ERCO Engage provided a capacity building workshops over 200 grassroots leaders. And this year's training topic focused on city government, effective advocacy, civic engagement, and voting.
 And we're going to continue to educate and mobilize our community members to participate in upcoming elections. And secondly, we provide technical support and mentorship for the smaller and newer ethnic communities. For example, several members of the Bhutanese American communities participated in a leadership program last year, and they just filed a paperwork to become a nonprofit organization.
 And NRCO is going to continue to support the organization, apply for grants, and setting up a board of directors. Lastly, we encourage our community leaders to do a public testimony and serve in the city board and commissions and committees.
 I would like to invite you all to the New Year in a Park. It's April 30th on 82nd by the Madison High School because I think it is such a great example of how DCL fosters
 the spirit of collaboration among the community and neighborhood and city government all together. Last year was the first time celebrating Cambodian, Thai, and Lao community. About 5,000 spectators attended, and this year, Burmese community stepped up and joined the planning committee, and Hmong community is the fiscal agency for the year. So I...
 I want to thank you for your time and your leadership for supporting DCL. Thank you. Thank you all very much. I was hoping she was going to mention that big party because it's on my birthday. So good plan. The next up we have Latino Network. We have Antonio Sabira. Okay. Alejandra. And we also have an interpreter. Who is? Luisa. Okay. Luisa. Welcome. Thank you.
 Who would like to start? Good afternoon, commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to be here today in this wonderful afternoon. I just want to start by saying that thanks to the efforts of inclusion and equity of the city of Portland and to the DCL program, I'm here in front of you this afternoon. My name is Antonio Ramirez. I am with Latino Network as the Leadership and Integration Program Manager.
 One of my responsibilities is to engage members of our community in the discussions that are important to our families and our children. Therefore, we continuously are looking for opportunities in which members of our community can participate in a very meaningful way. Thanks to the funding that we received from the DSHEL program, we have been able to engage hundreds of members of our Latino community in different decision-making processes together
 within the City of Portland and Monoma County as well. Just to mention some of them, we have provided input and feedback to Portland Parks and Recreation, to the Independent Police Review Office, to the Department of Police, and to the Marijuana Policy Task Force. Latino Network has been part of the DSHL program since its inception in 2007. Thanks to this program, we have done what was difficult to do for most of the neighborhood associations.
 to include community of colors. Historically unrepresented and we were out of the decision making process of our city. Thanks to the DCL program, we have been able to provide hundreds of members of the Latino community with the tools to become leaders in their communities, in the schools that their children attend, and in different places in which they can be examples for other members of our community.
 Just to mention some of those examples, three of our former participants in the Academia de Líderes, or Líderes Academy, are now employed in different offices and organizations where they can motivate the civic participation of other members of the Latino community. One of the wonderful coordinators for this program, Victor Salinas, is working now for the City of Portland. In short, I would like to thank the City of Portland and each commissioner
 particularly Commissioner Fritz, for their commitment to inclusion and equity. Also, I would like to thank Amalia Larcon, Oni Director, Brian Hoop, Jerry Jimenez, Amy Archer, and Victor Salinas for all the support that they have provided me in my role within the DCL restructure because I have been in this position just for one year and they have been amazing sources of support. I know that we are advancing towards a more equitable city
 However, I just want to mention that we have to continue on this path to achieve at least parity between DCL partners and neighborhood associations. With this, I would like to introduce Alejandra Flores. She's one of our current participants in the Leaders Academy. Currently, we have 35 participants in this cohort. She will be talking about her personal experience.
 and what it means for her to be a participant of this Leaders Academy. Buenas tardes, comisionados. Gracias por la oportunidad de estar aquí esta tarde. Good afternoon, Major and Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity of being here this afternoon. Mi nombre es Alejandra Flores y me identifico como un miembro de la comunidad latina. Vivo en el norte de Portland y participo actualmente en la Academia de Líderes. Ahora entiendo...
 es parte del programa de DCL. My name is Alejandra Flores, and I identify as a member of the Latino community. I live in North Portland, and I currently participate in the Leadership Academy that now I understand is part of the DCL program. Tengo cuatro meses participando en el programa, y gracias a este programa, he reconocido que no importa de dónde vengo, ni cuál es mi color, ni mi primer idioma.
 pero que como una residente de Portland por más de 10 años, tengo derecho a que mi voz sea escuchada. Cuando se van a tomar decisiones que me afectan directamente o que también afectan a mi familia.
 I have been participating in the program, and thanks to this program, I have recognized the importance of my participation. It doesn't matter where I come from, the color of my skin, or my first language. But it's important that as a resident of Portland for 10 years, I have the right of my voice to be heard. And I want to be part of the decisions that are made that affect me and my family as well.
 Gracias a este programa, estoy adquiriendo algunas de las habilidades necesarias para encontrar espacios en la ciudad en donde los intereses de mi comunidad sean representados. Thanks to this program, I have acquired some of the abilities, necessary abilities to find spaces in the city where my interest and my community can be well represented. Gracias a la Academia de Líderes, he podido aprender de mi comunidad
 has not always been included in the decisions that people who are in power make and who make public policies. Therefore, I want to continue preparing myself to be able to participate in a constructive and significant way in the places where decisions are made. And this would not be possible without a program like this.
 Thanks to the Literature Academy, I have learned that not always we have been part of the decisions made by the people that take the decisions in the city. And that's why I want to keep preparing myself to participate in a constructive and a meaningful way in places where decisions are made. And this could not be possible without programs like this.
 Este programa ha logrado despertar en mí una conciencia social que voy a compartir con mis hijos y con otros miembros de mi comunidad. Ahora entiendo lo importante que es participar cívicamente para que todos seamos considerados en esta ciudad y construyamos una ciudad más equitativa e igualatoria.
 Thanks to this program, this program has awakened me, the social conscience of sharing with my kids and other members of society the importance of participation. Now I understand that it's important to participate civically so we can all be considered equal in the city, to be equal and engaged in the same manner. I accepted this invitation because in my opinion I believe that these types of programs must continue and strengthen themselves, since it is important.
 Since it's for people like me, we find safe spaces where we can prepare, be more prepared and feel really included in the city we live in. Please continue to fund the DCL program so that other people have the opportunity that I am having now.
 i have accepted the invitation because i believe that these kinds of programs they they have to be continuing and strengthening because in this manner people like me people of color we find spaces free spaces where we can all can be prepared and to participate and feel included in the decisions that our city are made we feel that places like this in the city and where we live
 We want you to keep financing this program, DCL, so people like me can find other spaces and keep preparing themselves. Thank you very much. Last but not least, we are going to move as briefly as possible because some folks I'm sure got their little parking machines and probably need to rush downstairs in a minute. We have Donita Fry from NAIA Family Center here.
 And Alfredo Higueras from CIO, Center for Intercultural Organizing. Welcome. Good afternoon, commissioners. I'm going to be brief because you've heard me talk many times before, but just want to express gratitude for funding the DCL program. I...
 I'm so appreciative for the years that I've been here advocating for recognition of Native American history in our city. Native American history is American history. And through funding for the DCL program and building capacity in the community, we've been able to advocate for many changes in advancing that priority from our community.
 And with much gratitude, we have the Intertribal Gathering Garden at Colley Park. We have Conmox Park being named in the Chinook language, which means together. Tillamook Crossing. We're really starting to see Native heritage, Native American heritage in our city. And it's because of leadership like yours that are enabling us to,
 engage our community members to create space for them to lean into their leadership abilities. I believe that we don't have a leadership program. All we're doing is enhancing the leadership skills of our community members because each one of them are leaders in their own right and they're very grateful
 We come together monthly. The Portland Youth and Elders Council is a little bit different than other DCL programs, that we provide a space very much like a neighborhood association for the Native community. As Native Americans, we don't identify geographically like neighborhood associations do, but we come together at the Portland Youth and Elders Council and practice heritage and culture, and also create a cross-cultural sharing space where
 Folks who don't have a relationship with the Native community can come together at the Portland Youth and Elders Council and highlight issues, educate ourselves, and heal as community.
 I also have been home for the last couple of days with a sore throat because of your funding. You guys make my community drive me to death. So I want to thank you for that as well, that it's a pleasure to be able to serve through this opportunity. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Thank you, Commissioner. This is my first time doing this, and I'm thankful and nervous at the same time. Thank you for opening this space for me to share an important part of my life. My name is Alfredo Higueras, and I come from Santiago, Chile.
 I'm very fortunate to be present today and talk about my experience at Center for Intercultural Organizing and their Pan-Immigrant Leadership Organizing Training, also known as PILOT. Though what I will share with you today is my personal story through this period, I believe that many of my fellow PILOT members, present and past, can relate to a few of my thoughts, and I hope you can as well.
 I grew up in Chile and moved to the United States of America after I finished high school. I came to Portland because here's where my sister and my family lives, and I'm proud to say that I'm following into my sister's footsteps by being the second person in my family to be a pilot member. She's the one who incentivized me to apply.
 I moved to Portland because I wanted to continue my education and seek a better life. Back at home, college is not as accessible as it is here, and work opportunities to balance the cost of an education don't satisfy basic needs of day-to-day living. When I moved countries, my sense of community was deeply shaken. I had to start new friendships, find a job with no work experience. I had to move to New York.
 find housing with no rental history, enroll in school without knowing the who, the what, and the where, and think every move twice into health insurance. And needless to say that every move was also a compromise of who I used to be in Chile. This whole experience was abundant in joy as it was in frustrations, because all I wanted to do was connect with the city and its people.
 It's within the frustrations of being a young immigrant, like having no doctor when sick, failing to pay my bills because I don't understand the systems in place, or quitting a job because of the stereotypes of my persona, is that I started to connect my reality with the ones of other Latinos to whom I interacted on a day-to-day basis, like working as a cook in a restaurant.
 I realized that besides my experiences, I was still very fortunate with where I stood, and that for many in my community, choosing where you live, committing in a way that suits your needs, having access to quality social services, going to college, connecting with opportunities for personal growth, and moving on from experiences like mine are elements that are far and beyond more inaccessible, challenging, and burdensome than my own. And this is what made me want to make a difference in my community.
 Pilot has been the starting point in that journey and has been an amazing experience. I've connected with refugees, fellow immigrants, community leaders, and amazing people from all walks of life, like everyone in this room, including yourself. I've been introduced to concepts of how our society works from a perspective that I can understand, and I've been exposed to the issues that affect our local community and how I can become an involved citizen.
 And many of my misconceptions and biases that stem from deep-seated frustrations of when I first arrived have been unfolded and placed into a better context. Through pilot, I've been able to tap into a wide pool of resources that helps me contribute to social change.
 I've become an intern with Center for Intercultural Organizing to work on a school project about social service accessibility. I volunteer in diverse programs that they hold and events such as this year's 2016 candidate for mayor forum. There are various opportunities that with pilot I would have never imagined having in Portland.
 To summarize, I feel very fortunate to be a pilot member and to stand alongside a diverse and rich community of people who invite me to grow and empower myself. Pilot and the doors it's open have tremendously helped me to restore that shaken sense of community of when I first arrived and foster within myself a lifetime of positive development.
 Portland is my home, and I will continue to invest myself here as an active citizen. However, I can't stop thinking of all the other immigrant and refugee individuals with tremendous potential to contribute in our community and how Pilot is an empowering, restorative, active, and community-building experience that benefits all of us. Thank you for your attention. That concludes our invited testimony. Do we have sign-ups? I don't show anybody else signed up. Anybody else want to testify? No.
 Kerry, should we adopt the report? Do I have a motion? Actually, unfortunately, it's an emergency. And when we scheduled it, there were five members of council who were supposed to be here. And now the mayor is in Europe on city business and Commissioner Saltzman is out. So what I'm proposing to do, President Fish, we need to postpone the vote until May 4th.
 which is two weeks from yesterday. Without objection, since we'll lose a number of the people that are here, would either of my colleagues like to make a few comments? It's wonderful to be reminded of the great work that the DCO program does and the great work that the members of it are doing as it is every year. It was also phenomenal to hear from the new partner, the Momentum Alliance. They really appreciated what you had to say and thank you all for being here.
 Thank you very much. I am very proud to be the commissioner in charge of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement. I'm thrilled to welcome that momentum alliance to our family. I know the other five partners are also glad to have a new partner.
 sister organization, sister and brother organization. And I'm going to suggest with Commissioner Novick's indulgence that perhaps we'll have a short presentation just for Momentum Alliance on May 4th so that we can inform Commissioner Saltzman and Mayor Hales about our program. But I really appreciate everybody being here today. There's lots of folks who've been watching at home who will be able to benefit from knowing how to do that.
 how welcoming Portland can be and that we need to continue doing that. So thank you all very much for taking your time to be here today. I also want to thank Claire Adamsick in my office and Brian Hoop in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, as well as Amalia Alec-Crandamaris and our entire team, especially those who were part of the selection process.
 And this and better will do. Colleagues, the other piece of the information that I need you to know is that because the selection process has taken until now, there will be some small grants that ONI will be using the rest of this year's money for, which will come to us in June sometime. So that's another thing to look forward to. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you for an outstanding report. Jerry, thank you for organizing a terrific forum. And I just had a comment to our friend from Chile. Okay.
 My daughter recently graduated from college, and she was a double major, but Spanish and comparative literature. And she's been bilingual since she was in high school. And one of the trips that was funded while she was in college was to Chile, and she was there during the World Cup. And the country went crazy, of course, because the team did so well.
 And when she came home and finished up in Los Angeles in school, I went and visited her one night, and she said, Dad, let's go explore a Chilean restaurant in Los Angeles. So we found a restaurant. We went to the restaurant. There was no one else there except the owner who was watching soccer. And he came over to talk to us, and he was surprised that my daughter was fluent and conversant, but then equally surprised that she was commenting on all the pictures he had on the walls of iconic places in Chile that she had visited.
 And so he pulled up a chair and spent the evening, had dinner with us. And so I'm deeply moved by the many testimonials here from people who have brought their traditions here and their language and are fiercely holding on to those traditions and in the process making Portland a better place. I believe passionately as to my colleagues that as we become a more diverse community, we're going to be a better and stronger community.
 And it's very exciting to see young people that are seizing leadership or to, as Donita said, and it's one of my favorite expressions, leaning in, leaning into their authentic leadership. So thank you. And Commissioner Fritz, thank you for being such a champion for this program. And we'll have the vote on May 4th. And with that, we're adjourned.