Everybody knows what is going on. We are, of course, a public body and therefore we're required to have open meetings and access. We have our open meeting. We have access here in the chamber, but a lot of people, of course, rely on open signal for the broadcast because they may not be able to come here now or they may have accessibility issues. So we like to have these be
 broadcast live. Today there's problems with the broadcasting equipment so they are recording the meeting and they will rebroadcast it as soon as they have their broadcast equipment fixed and it will also be broadcast with closed caption.
 In the meanwhile, I apologize for anybody's inconvenience to buy that, but we will go ahead and continue the meeting under these circumstances. Thank you everybody for your patience. Next individual please, Carla. Item 348, request of Adam Brunel to address council regarding urban renewal in Lentz. Is Mr. Brunel here? That leaves Mr. Lightening.
 Item 349, request of Lightning Super AI Humanity to address counsel regarding research project Lightning Super AI Governance. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Super AI Humanity. And again to Elon Musk cutting off my conversation, I'd like you to know I don't appreciate it. I'll move on. One of the things I've tried to do here is basically have a robo-politician represent
 put into place of a commissioner. And since Commissioner Fritz has announced her retirement, I'd like to replace Commissioner Fritz with the machine. And one of the things, one of the things that I've researched a little bit, I'm going to have to change the charter. I believe that our technology is at that level right now. I believe that we are passing the narrow
 AI to general AI and we'll go to what the industry calls ASI, but I call it super artificial intelligence and that's my name.
 that I've created and what I want to do is begin to basically implement ideas into the machine and have the machine communicate back to us and then take those ideas across the United States and access that in a reasonable manner and come up with solutions. Now, IBM is already doing that.
 And I'm going to show you a video today that'll show you exactly the direction they're going. But I'm asking Elon Musk...
 that is going to be rolling out the robo-taxis, fully autonomous, in the next year, a thousand out on the streets, and will crush Uber and Lyft into the ground, and I feel so sorry for you because you did that to the taxi industry in Portland. So guess what? Me and my friend Elon are going to crush your businesses into the ground. Oh, sorry. It's all about the shared economy. Anyway, could you play the video, please?
 You clearly haven't been watching Star Trek Discovery. Don't interrupt my speech and if you want to talk... Alright, alright, here we go. ...speaking. Huh, that's interesting. Alright, thank you. Always wears the coldest videos.
 And apparently closed captioning is now working on the website if people want to access the website if you need closed captioning Next up will be the consent agenda Carla of any items been pulled off of consent. I've had no requests Please call the roll fish. I Hardesty I you daily I Fritz. I we learn I consent agenda is adopted next item up please is first time certain item and
 which is item number 350. Proclaim April 25th to be Music Millennium Day. Commissioner Fisch. Thank you, Mayor. Today we celebrate the independent music record store, Music Millennium. I'd like to acknowledge that Terry Currier, the owner, is in the audience. Terry, would you please raise your hand? Welcome. Thank you.
 Terry and Music Millennium have been instrumental in keeping unique music and LPs alive in Portland. We'll hear more of the store's impressive history and legacy from our panel. Commissioner Udaly co-sponsored this proclamation with me. Commissioner Udaly, would you like to make any opening remarks? Sure. Hello, everybody. Thank you.
 First a confession. I started my day listening to the music of my youth on Spotify and thinking about the people and places who helped shape my musical taste over the past 35 years. Trust me, the irony did not escape me. As convenient as music streaming services are, no algorithm can ever replace music nerd expertise or the chance discovery of an obscure album flipping through the bins at your local record shop.
 Music Millennium has been on my record shopping round since I moved to Northwest Portland in 1987. Almost 50 years ago, no. I've discovered music, made friends, and had the amazing experience, many amazing experiences, of seeing some of my idols perform in the intimate setting of their, I think, flagship store on Burnside. Is that true? Yes. Fantastic.
 50 years of serving Portland's music needs and supporting Portland's independent music scene is an amazing accomplishment. Music Millennium is a Portland institution, a heritage business, and one so worthy of our recognition and celebration today. So thanks for everyone who's here. And go buy a record, Portland. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Mayor and colleagues, I would be remiss if I didn't also acknowledge Laura Galino de Lovato, who is here. She, of course, is the executive director of Northwest Pilot Project. She is the chair of the board of PDX Jazz, and she was really the inspiration for this celebration today. So, Laura, thank you very much.
 We have a panel of invited guests, which I'd like to invite up right now. Peter Damman of the Waterfront Blues Festival, Janice Mancuso, an entertainment industry specialist, and our dear friend Marcia Hocker, board member of PDX Jazz. If all three of you would please come forward. Welcome. Who's first? Claire. I guess I'll go first. Hi. Thank you so much for doing this. My name is Peter Damman. I'm a board member of PDX Jazz.
 I've been a working touring recording musician in Portland for 30 years with people like Paul DeLay, Linda Hornbuckle, and more recently, LaRonda Steele. For the last 25 years of that, I've also been artistic director of the Waterfront Blues Festival. I've gotten to know Terry Currier and Music Millennium pretty well through all of that.
 Despite the enormous changes in upheaval that have happened in the record industry in the last few years, Terry and Music Millennium have not only survived, but they've thrived, and they've become what many of us believe is the best independent record store in the United States.
 For sure, Music Millennium has been a great record store, but has been so much more than that to our music community. Music Millennium supports us and Portland's music scene in innumerable, incalculable ways. From his work with the Cascade Blues Association, and more recently Music Portland, to his founding of Oregon Music Hall of Fame, Terry has invested profoundly and selflessly in our scene.
 When we've needed to pull together a benefit concert or a memorial for one of our friends, Terry has always stepped forward to help. In my work with the Blues Festival, Terry has been an invaluable informal advisor. I have talked to him pretty much on a weekly basis to find out who's hot and who's not, who's up-and-coming acts are that I should consider putting on the stage. More than that...
 Waterfront Blues Festival has survived and thrived for 30 years because of the really vibrant music scene that Music Millennium has helped nourish. And I feel indebted to them for that. Music Millennium is not just a great record store. For 50 years, in so many ways, it has been really the heart and soul of Portland's music scene.
 Tarion Music Millennium understand that live music is a thread that strengthens and binds the weave of our community. This would be a this is a much happier more joyful city because of Music Millennium. Thanks. Janice, welcome. Hi, I'm Jan Mancuso. I've worked in the music and record business for 50 years working in distribution, retailing at a label, on radio, and producing records. I
 And I am proud to say that I've known Music Millennium and Terry Currier for at least 30 of those years. In music, Terry Currier is a key figure in Portland and at the national level, too. And in the record business, his name is synonymous with Portland. People come from all over the world to shop at Music Millennium. The store staff are as knowledgeable as they are helpful. Whether it's identifying a piece of music, I've heard customers say,
 sing their requests to clerks trying to find things or directing people to the listening posts which you can audition new music there or Discussing an artist who's coming to town or who just played here Terry spearheaded the founding of a network of independent record stores nationally to help support artists and recorded music as the chains and other stores closed and
 and he's worked tirelessly with local artists to promote them through his store and honor them in the Oregon Music Hall of Fame. Music Millennium has sponsored concerts to bring rare and underappreciated artists to Portland for all of us to enjoy, and hosted in-store musical performances to bring musicians even closer to their fans.
 He even started a record label to help promote local artists. Music Millennium's booth at the Waterfront Blues Festival is a giant supermarket of Blues and Roots records, hosting meet and greet sessions with the performers at this world-renowned charitable gathering every year. For 50 years on, Music Millennium is one of the finest record stores in this country, one of the few
 and one of the great and we're so glad they are here. Good morning Mayor and Commissioners. I am Marcia Hawker, a member of the PDX Jazz Board of Directors. I serve as Chair of Education and Community Engagement. I also serve as a member on the Program Committee with Terry Currier.
 I'm delighted to be here to celebrate this wonderful and well-deserved recognition of my friend Terry Currier by the City of Portland. There have already been statements about the many positive contributions to our community by Terry and Music Millennium, so I'll just give you a few of my interactions.
 In 2001, I began shopping for jazz CDs in Music Millennium when I became a volunteer radio host with KMHD. It was during this time frame that I met Terry Currier, and I met him through Jan Mancuso. Jan always spoke about Terry with superlatives.
 Music Millennium quickly became my main source of vintage and new releases. And long before anyone was shopping on Amazon, there was Music Millennium. I always find that the staff consistently goes above and beyond to accommodate each and every search.
 For the past six years, I've served with Terry on the PDX Jazz Program Committee that selects the jazz artists from Portland nationally and internationally who perform at our annual February Festival, which is now extended through year round. Terry's commitment to contribute and his leadership of Music Millennium across the board for
 for over 30 years of its 50 years is invaluable. It is a testimony of his iconic value to the city of Portland and qualifies him as a true Portland treasure. It's a privilege to publicly express my appreciation. Thank you, Terry, and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you. Thank you, Marcia, Jan, and Peter.
 Thanks to a Senate Lawrence who has worked tirelessly to pull this together. Mayor, the next two things on my cheat sheet are if you would honor us by reading the proclamation and then council comments and then we'd like to take a photograph. Very good. So this is a proclamation. It represents the values of all of us here on the dais.
 Whereas Music Millennium was founded in 1969 by Don and Laureen McLeod and Dan and Patty Lissy on the corner of 32nd and East Burnside, where it still operates today. And whereas Music Millennium is the oldest continuous record store in the Pacific Northwest. And whereas Music Millennium specializes in underground music not commonly found elsewhere in the city.
 And whereas, in 1989, Music Millennium birthed the concept of the in-store performance, with 40 straight days of live music in the store, now a common practice in record shops all across the country.
 And whereas, Terry Currier, the current owner of Music Millennium, formed the Coalition of Independent Music Stores in 1995, which paved the way for National Record Store Day. And whereas, in 2004, Terry founded the Oregon Music Hall of Fame.
 And whereas today Music Millennium is a Portland icon drawing in people of all ages for vinyl records, CDs and cassette tapes. And whereas Music Millennium is a national leader in the music selling industry and proudly celebrates 50 years of continuous and weird business here in Portland.
 Now therefore I Ted Wheeler mayor of the city of Portland, Oregon the city of roses do hereby proclaim April 25th 2019 to be music Millennium Day in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week Could you come to the microphone up to the mic and just have a seat introduce yourself for the record? Good morning. I
 I would like to thank you, the city commissioners and the city of Portland for giving us this honor of having our own day tomorrow. It's quite an accomplishment for a record store to last this long but we couldn't have done it without all the great people in Portland supporting us. Music Millennium is more than a record store, it's kind of like a community center.
 And we have the support of people like this that are up here on the panel and our customers especially and the people that have walked through the doors and worked at Music Palenque for the last 50 years to give us this honor to be around here today. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 I just wanted to thank you all for being here. Thank you for Commissioner Fish and you, Daily, for putting together this proclamation. My husband spent many happy hours in your store. I think we probably bought half of it at one point or another. So thank you very much for the joy that you bring to a lot of customers. Very good. Thank you, Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Commissioner E. Daily. So we'll take a photo. Yep. Very good. Thank you.
 No, no, we'll come back here. We're having a great time. I'll just, okay. Go ahead. We don't know what to do. I'm going to go on Wednesdays. Let's stand in the middle here. Over there. George is good with shoes. Who's bossing us around first? One, three. Thank you, everyone.
 Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you so much. Thank you. Oh, yeah. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks. Hello, Commissioner. Hi. Good to see you, Ms. Dahlke. Good to see you, too. Okay. What's next? I guess I got a future. The whole generation, I think, that doesn't know what it is. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
 All right, next up is item 353 from the regular agenda. Amend Title 33 to update the neighborhood contact regulations.
 Colleagues today we're continuing the hearing on the neighborhood contact code update. This is a continuation of the hearing from the hearings actually from March 6th and April 11th. This policy was born from the comprehensive plan process to update the neighborhood contact code by simplifying, clarifying, and expanding reach of notice to residents around new developments.
 This is the third hearing from this item for this item and today we will be considering and voting on the amendments that have been introduced by my colleagues. In front of you, colleagues, are being distributed as the list of amendments. Do we have that? Looks like it's on the way. The list of amendments. For members of the public in the chamber today, there are copies in the front of the chamber.
 or will be in the front of the chamber next to the council agenda. For those watching and listening today, the amendments are posted online on the auditor's website for the council. Last week these amendments were proposed and seconded for discussion purposes and council heard and read verbal and written testimony on each of these amendments.
 To ensure that we honored the hard work of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability and the Bureau of Development Services, as well as the strong public process that's been the precedent for the Comprehensive Plan and the Neighborhood Contact Code Update Project, Council took a week to consider the testimony presented on each of these amendments.
 The written record remained open until today, April 24th at 9.30 a.m., and we allowed substantial time last week to hear verbal testimony in council chambers. Today the intention is to revisit these amendments and vote on each one of these amendments. After all of the amendments have been considered and the council has voted on the amendments, the ordinance itself will move to the second reading as amended.
 On May 1st, we'll have a final vote on the ordinance as amended. With that said, we'll now move to vote on each of the proposed amendments, unless anybody has anything else they want to open with on this. We'll go right to Fritz Amendment No. 1. This was restrict meeting timing on weekdays. Weekends. I'm sorry, weekends between 1 and 6 p.m. Was there any further discussion on this? Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. We talked about this, I think, the last time, right, about what's the preference. I think my concern would be why would we limit it? Why wouldn't we say sometime between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. so that we actually have flexibility rather than limiting ourselves to the afternoon?
 Thank you Commissioner. The testimony we heard was that there's a lot of conflicts in the mornings on weekends, either religious services on Saturdays and Sundays or activities on Saturdays that families and children do. As we saw, and I think you noted with the...
 public forum we put on for the budget on a Saturday morning, it didn't get nearly as well attended as others. I think as a practical matter most developers are going to be working business during the week and so they're probably not going to schedule these on the weekends at all. That was their test. It was in response to the testimony that we heard from neighborhood associations and others that mornings on weekends can be filled with other activities.
 This is a very small issue, and it would be horrible for us to spend a lot of time on this. But I also want to push back just a little bit and say I did a budget one-on-one forum that had 150 people at 10 a.m. on a Saturday morning. And so I think if we make it inviting for the public to come, the public participates, I just would hate to think that if –
 that we would just be so narrow that you have to do it in the afternoon. So that's my only comment, and I'll go with whatever flow ends up moving. This is not a fall on my sword action for me either. Yeah, right, right. It's not something I'm going to like. And then another thing. Thank you. Very good. That's a fresher in the morning. Any further discussion on this item? Carla, please call the roll on amendment Fritz, amendment one. Thank you.
 Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Okay. Udemy? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment's adopted. Fritz, amendment number two, this is the requirement that public meetings be accessible. Any further discussion on this item?
 Carla, please call the roll on Fritz, amendment number two. Fish. Aye. Hardesty. Aye. Udaly. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for this amendment. I vote aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. The amendment is adopted. Thank you.
 Next item is Fritz amendment number three. This is applying a third type of neighborhood contact process for development in the design overlay zones, ELDs, and land divisions with environmental review. If I may just interrupt, Mayor. Commissioner Fritz. I took out the expedited land divisions at the hearing last week, so this amendment is not actually what I proposed. Very good. So it's in the design overlay and land divisions with environmental review. Okay.
 And if I might speak to this amendment. Commissioner Fritz. I had a conversation with the mayor yesterday about this, why I care so much about this, and this is...
 not quite fall on my sword commissioner hardesty but it's one that i really care a lot about and as a community organizer in the 90 early 1990s i was really good at getting subdivisions stopped in environmental zones where they were going to completely mess things up and then i got appointed to the planning commission in 1996 and was part of the subdivision code rewrite and one of the things that i realized is if their developers meet with the neighborhood first
 then they can understand more about what the issues of concern are. And although there is then a subsequent process of the land use review,
 It goes better for all sides if there's an early meeting before the application is submitted. And so it was part of the subdivision code rewrite. Environmental zones are across the city. Johnson Creek has a lot of environmental zones as well as Triune Creek and other places. So it's a case of these are special areas. The city has agreed they are special areas. They are Goal 5 designated resources, and so they deserve the extra funding.
 process of offering the neighborhood the first right to host the meeting and time enough to schedule it at a regular meeting. If the neighborhood doesn't want to, then the developers, even if they do, the developer still has to post the contact requirements. So we are making things uniform across the city. We're just adding these extra steps in the design overlay zone and in land divisions with environmental review. And I would really appreciate your support on this.
 So Commissioner Fritz and I appreciated the conversation we had yesterday. I don't mind disclosing that I was somewhere between opposed and neutral on this event prior to our conversation. I think you allayed many of the concerns that I have. But in all fairness, since I know the Bureau of Development Services and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability are leaning no on this, I'd at least like to hear their perspective prior to the vote.
 And as these are my bureaus, I want to at least give them the opportunity to express whatever concerns they may have.
 Good morning. I'm Sarah Wright with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. We did consider during the process of developing this proposal adding a sign to the existing Neighborhood Association offer process and we decided that the meeting itself really needed to have consistent timing and be advertised to and open to the general public and retaining the Neighborhood Association privilege did not accomplish that and
 Combining the proposed process, the sign in the public meeting, and the current neighborhood association process in the case of the design overlay and the land divisions and environmental review brings extra time and uncertainty back to the development process.
 at this point, so that's why we don't support it. So Sarah, let me ask you this, because Commissioner Fritz, I think, has made a compelling argument that in these districts, I mean, first of all, let me acknowledge the equity question which you raised, and my bigger picture question is,
 Someday can we do this throughout the city as opposed to selecting these limited zones? But the neighborhood associations already play a particularly strong role in these areas and they would likely be Asked as per code anyway, would they not? They would like to be the the neighborhood association would be the logical first place per existing code. Would it not? I
 The current code would require the developer to offer to the neighborhood association to have a meeting if they want to have a meeting. Yes, that's the current requirement. That's all that's required. And we heard some testimony last week from...
 some in the community who had identified specific projects that they felt because of that interaction, the projects had been strengthened. So they weren't there to block the projects. They were there to shape them to be more consistent with the will of the neighborhood. Would you concur with that? There are some neighborhood association meetings currently that are very successful, yes. I caught the hedge too. That was pretty funny. Sarah's good. She is very good with that, yes. You'll do. Thank you.
 Is there anything else? Commissioner Hardesty had a question. Why would we make the process different for one special community that's not available for other neighborhoods who are having the same kind of growing pains and are facing the same kind of barriers?
 The proposal, as it came to you, applies the same requirement across the whole city. So for any project building more than 10,000 square feet, there would be required a signposting, and that's all. Just a signposting and an email or a letter to the Neighborhood Association, District Coalition, Business Association, etc.
 And then if the project was building more than 25,000 square feet, there would be required public meeting. The developer is required to make sure that the meeting happens. So regardless of whether or not there's an active neighborhood association in the area, the meeting has to happen. The developer can host that with the neighborhood association if they choose to and if the neighborhood association wants to. But it's the developer's responsibility to make sure the meeting happens and is advertised on the sign so that everybody knows about it. So that's the proportionality.
 proposal as it came to you? Oh, yes. Remember that piece. So my last question is, and so it's not that the meeting can stop the development from happening. It is a notification process. So just because you don't like what's happening and you do the meeting doesn't mean it stops. Right.
 Would you say that verbally, please, just so that people hear? Yes. The meeting is informational only. Many of the developments are either by right, which means they can be built according to the zoning code, or they are going to enter later a land use review process that will include hearings and opportunities to provide testimony to the city. So...
 It's not, this meeting does not have any decision making traction. Thank you. It's my understanding that part of the amendment that Commissioner Fritz introduced for the design overlay and the environmental overlay is that those are two geographies where there does tend to be that follow up.
 land use review where there's an opportunity for further public comment and that was part of the logic of having that be a third type of contact. I don't want to put words in your mouth. But they're more complicated and you have to address the approval criteria even in, you know, you're aware of that and for the cases that have come to council.
 So after I had stopped subdivisions for a while, I had the opportunity to either go to the PTA tract or something else or continue in land use. And the reason I kept doing land use is most neighbors get 14 days notice and then a hearing. And they don't know what the rules are, how to...
 interact with them. That's why the neighborhood land use folks, where there is an active neighborhood association, can be really helpful to the developer as well as to other neighbors by saying, no, you can't just say you don't like it and therefore it doesn't work.
 we have to stop it by showing up, you have to address the approval criteria. And by having the meeting ahead of time before they've put in all of their work designing the subdivision or designing the building in a design zone, they get input from the neighborhood and they become better projects.
 as opposed to them coming to council, you know, choosing a type three so that they can get to council so that we're put in the position of making a more political decision on do we like this design or don't we like this design? They tend to get settled earlier. Makes sense to me. Any further questions? Anything else? Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thanks, sir. With that, Carla, please call the roll on Fritz 3. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment for it's three is passed. And last but not least, fish number four. This requires notification of adjacent organizations within 400 feet. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Udaily? Aye. Fritz? I vote aye and I have another comment after you, Donme.
 I, the amendment is passed. Commissioner Fritz. I need to thank the staff who've done an absolutely amazing job on this project. And I realize that the vote prior to this adds complexity. And I really appreciate you working out the language in the amendment to make it work as well as it could be. And just thank you very much. With that, colleagues, thank you. The ordinance as amended moves to second reading.
 Carla, could you please read the next item, item number 354, regular agenda. Authorize application for and accept three traffic enforcement grants for $64,000 and appropriate $45,000 for fiscal year 2018-19 from the Oregon Department of Transportation Traffic Safety Division 2019 grant programs for sworn personnel overtime reimbursement.
 Thank you both for being here. Sergeant Engstrom, I believe you're kicking us off. Is that correct? I sure will. Thank you, sir. Sergeant Engstrom with the Portland Police Bureau Traffic Division. I'm one of the sergeants that supervise the patrol aspect of our traffic enforcement and education program there. I also work very closely.
 often with the Vision Zero program and doing education and enforcement missions throughout the city in some of our high crash areas and currently serve as a supervisor on our major crash team that gets called out for some of our crashes that unfortunately end in fatalities and or serious life-altering injuries. So we do have a number of grants that we accept from the Oregon Department of Transportation for various things,
 and we have three of those grants that we're working with today before you to see if we can get those approved so that we can move forward with a few other additional services to our community. As you're well aware, we have our Vision Zero program in place with this city, and we're trying very hard to reduce the number of serious injury and fatal crashes that affect all of us on a daily basis.
 Unfortunately, a regular basis throughout our city. And as you've seen in the news, no doubt this month has been particularly difficult for our city and our traffic division. Our major crash team has been working very hard on these investigations to help the families of those who are affected.
 The three grants that we would like to accept from Oregon Department of Transportation are one for seatbelt enforcement and education. We've had this grant for upwards of 20 years, and Portland is third in the country for compliance with seatbelts, and it's actually very high in the upper 90s percentile for compliance. However, there are a number of folks that still aren't using their seatbelts as appropriate yet.
 This actually played a role in a recent fatality as well. That is one of the grants. That one is for $22,000. A speed enforcement grant, which I particularly manage that one for the last couple of years. That's designed to...
 put some more emphasis on our high crash network of streets and look for those who are abusing the speed limit, which greatly contributes to some of our fatalities, which again, a recent fatality had speed as a factor in the outcome of that crash. That grant is for $30,000, and then the third grant is an advanced motor officer training grant,
 Portland Police Bureau has a motor unit that used to be quite larger. Now we're down to about 18 motorcycle officers and four motor sergeants. It used to be almost double that when I became a motor officer a number of years ago.
 So we are limited in our resources, and these grants allow us to be able to go out and devote extra time and resources to a problem that we have in this city with officers on their off-duty time. They can come in and work remotely.
 under the Department of Transportation for the state, they will reimburse the overtime to get more attention out there on the streets. Now officers are not forced to do this. They are entitled to their time off as anyone is.
 but they can choose their times to come in and work at their convenience and the convenience of their family. They're also not forced to issue citations. We want them to work, we want them to work hard, but whether they issue a citation, a warning, give an opportunity to go to a class, whatever they deem appropriate in that particular situation is allowed.
 We encourage them to work hard and continue working throughout the time that they're on that deployment, but the outcome of the traffic encounter is up to them.
 A little bit more on that last grant for the training opportunity our training staff in the traffic division is Known throughout the west coast for having a very very rigorous program. We're very well trained We work really hard to do that and we'd like to impart some of that expertise to other agencies here on the west coast and this is a one-time grant for $12,000 to host a
 motorcycle training seminar at the Oregon Department of Public Safety Standards and Training facility down in Salem. So those funds will go to help prepare for and implement that training program.
 If you have any other questions, I'm happy to answer them on any of these fronts or in traffic in general. Sergeant Angstrom, something you said that's almost secondary to the grant, but which certainly caught my attention. Did you say that the traffic division was twice as large? Yeah, when I came to the traffic division in, I believe, 2009 as an officer, I believe we had about 35 people on motorcycles.
 and we had about eight to 10 officers in cars. Currently we have 18 officers in motorcycles, two in cars, and we used to have five sergeants and we now have four. So the traffic division has been greatly impacted. Our traffic investigative unit consists of a sergeant and four investigators.
 And we go on call for two weeks at a time for the major crash team. And we always have a lead investigator and a number of officers and a sergeant. And then we have a backup investigator. And we don't have to use that too often, the backup. But recently we have, where that initial investigator gets tapped out with such a big caseload that we've had to pull in the backup. And then that backup arrives.
 received three page outs in less than 24 hours and we had to go back to the original investigator. So we are taxed quite a bit in the traffic division and we need all the resources and help we can get to make a bigger impact and help this city achieve its goals of Vision Zero. Too many people and their lives and their families are being affected by traffic.
 traffic violence on our roadways. Thanks, Sergeant Engstrom. Yes, sir. Captain Lorico, did you have anything to add? No, no, except for that in 2014, we had 33 motorcycles. More specifically, that's a little more current information. So more than double. Thank you. Questions, Commissioner Daly?
 First of all, I want to thank you for your service to the city and just acknowledge that the work that you do is stressful, it's dangerous, and it is also traumatic, especially this month. I am personally disappointed and frustrated by the behavior we're seeing on the streets, both as a citizen and the traffic commissioner. And this month, I think with eight,
 Deaths? Yes. Seven or eight? Eight. Has been particularly heartbreaking. I'm sorry, nine. Oh, okay. Nine. We had nine in about 13 days. Jeez. Yeah. As you know, I support the traffic division. I wanna see increased enforcement. I of course support application for these grants.
 I wanna know if this is going to supplement your budget or backfill a gap. Are we gonna get something extra? This is a supplement. It is a supplement. Yes, ma'am. I'm very glad to hear that. I'm surprised that there's no grant for distracted driving enforcement. We already have that in place. We do, okay, fantastic. So some of those other grants are, we have a DUI enforcement grant, we have a distracted driving grant, and what am I missing?
 Speed grant? Well, these ones that I've mentioned today. May I ask, may I add, I should say, the seatbelt grant, the way that's enforced is very similar to the distracted driving grant. And there's no restriction on the officers who are working a seatbelt grant who sees someone go by with their cell phone up to their ear and stopping that car. So we are able to use, to do that as well. Yeah. I mean, I don't.
 I don't drive a lot, but when I do drive and I see someone weaving, chances are they're on their phone. When someone almost hits me in a crosswalk taking a turn, chances are they're on their phone. One of the accidents you mentioned, a passenger was ejected from the backseat through the windshield and died. He was not wearing a seatbelt. It was a TNC accident.
 Do we have a law that requires people to use seatbelts when they're riding in cabs or TNCs? I've had that question a couple times this week. The Oregon law requires everyone who is in any passenger vehicle with less than 15 people in it to use a seatbelt. The only exception would be, there's a few exceptions, but a taxi cab driver, but their passengers are required to wear seatbelts.
 And I think that is a safety thing on a different level with regards to robberies and things like that and stuff like that. I don't know all the reasons for it, but that is one of the exceptions.
 There's a couple other small ones, but when it comes to Uber and Lyft and those other agencies, you are required to wear your seat belts. If you are 16 or older, it's the responsibility of the passenger. If they're under 16, it's the responsibility of the driver. So in that particular case, had that vehicle been stopped, the driver would not receive the citation. It would be the passenger not wearing their seat belt. So I'm gonna admit that I did not know that.
 and that I don't always buckle up when I'm riding in a cab. I buckle up if the driver's making me feel uncomfortable. So I think a little public education is in order on that, and maybe some signs or stickers in the back seats. I'll just follow up on that. Absolutely. But I had to take this opportunity to daylight that issue because I think most people don't bother buckling up. Thank you. Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you so much for coming to brief me on these grant opportunities. I want to go back to something you said, Officer, about the people that are on the street. How many officers are in the Traffic Enforcement Division again?
 In the division that again we have our patrol side of the division in our investigative side of the division So the whole how the total number the total number 24 24 7 sergeants 24 plus some sergeants. Yeah, so we have 18 five sergeants 24 plus 5 29 yeah, so then 29 people totally in the division at the current time Yeah, and how many are actually out during traffic enforcement? I?
 On a day-to-day basis, I have the traffic division on day shift, me and one other sergeant, and we each have currently four officers working for each of us. So we have two sergeants and eight officers. However, each of our officers are required to work one day out of their four for East Precinct as backfill in a precinct.
 district. So I'm just talking traffic right now. I know the whole story. The total number is 20. 120 officers down. I know all that. I'm just really trying to narrow down into who's on the street providing support for traffic. Right. So I don't want to get into the big thing about. Right. What I'm getting at is any given day.
 In day shift for the entire city of Portland, I have myself and two to three officers. Okay. And I ask that because I heard you say that officers have the option of coming in when they want to, to work overtime, to do this enhanced enforcement.
 And that they can basically do it the way they want. I guess my question and my concern are they targeting specific communities? Are you collecting data on the demographics of who's being stopped? Who's being impacted by this enhanced activity? And if so, what can you tell me about that? Sure. We ask our officers when they're working any enforcement whether straight time or overtime to try and focus on those high crash corridor areas or areas where we're having
 high number of violations or a number of crashes things like that and our data shows that they're doing a very good job of working and Conducting those traffic stops in those type of areas when it comes to the traffic division But the areas with the highest crashes are very low-income communities where the city has failed to invest in good roads and good lighting
 and good infrastructure. So again, I'm really just trying to get a sense for if you're focused in neighborhoods who the city has lacked investing resources in, who are the demographic factors
 that are being stopped and impacted by this enhanced activity? Sure. We absolutely capture all that data. Each time an officer does a traffic stop, they're required to fill out a little mask online, and all that data is captured as to the demographics of the person they stopped, what the outcome was. So when it comes to this overtime for the speed grant specifically, they're supposed to be on high crash corridors. Now those, yes, go through some areas of the city that are,
 are underprivileged or don't have as much infrastructure built up. However, some of those streets, like Burnside, for example, goes all the way from the West Hills all the way to the east side. Burnside's a high-crash corridor. They can work Burnside way out there, or they can work Burnside down here. Same thing with a number of these other streets, like Powell and Division and MLK and Lombard, all over the city. BHH is one of our high-crash corridors in Southwest.
 So we try and spread it out. Is that data available? I'm sorry? The data, the demographic data that you're collecting, is that data publicly available now? Publicly? It's the stops data collection is what we have and our strategic services division takes care of all that. But my question... And they have... I don't know what's publicly available. Yes, ma'am. It is publicly available. I actually have a PowerPoint.
 presentation on that data that I can leave with you that overlays the demographic crash data standard with our STOP standard. The methodology for officers working overtime is no different than the methodology of officers working straight time.
 My expectation of those officers is that they are taking into account the neighborhoods that they are working in and that they are acting appropriately to make sure that we're not criminalizing driving behavior. And that doesn't matter whether they're working straight time. It doesn't matter whether they're working overtime. When the sergeant talks about people have a lot of freedom to decide whether they work it or not, that doesn't mean they have –
 this is not a managed or unsupervised grant. The sergeant supervises grants, they put signups on the board where the criteria for that job
 is spelled out and that includes the timeframe. You don't get just to do it during the timeframe that you want either. And to add to that, we adjust a lot of our focus on the high crash corridors based on our ongoing meetings with our partners at PBOT and ODOT and certainly to address concerns for fatalities, particularly pedestrian fatalities as they're 50% of what we're experiencing right now.
 It's heartbreaking. And so that may mean that although High Crash Corridor is on the west side of Burnside, that because we've been experiencing a spike in fatalities or injury crashes in another area, we will go there for a period of time and monitor the effect of that. And particularly when it comes to pedestrians, focus on warnings, handing out pamphlets and brochures, bringing along our partners such as Oregon Impact.
 that have come out with us recently on a new project that we've been doing, to just simply be out there to contact people and talk to them about their behavior or their safety and then give them information that will help them keep safe in the future.
 Thank you so much for that. I would love to know whether or not that data, we used to get those reports annually, and I haven't seen them for about five or six years. So I would love to know if the data is being collected, how we get access to we, the public gets access to that data. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. It's actually become state law recently that we collected, so it's continued. State law is collecting it, but it doesn't say giving it to us. Oh, sure. Commissioner Daly. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. Since some of this intersects with my bureau and our historic shortcomings, I just want to point out that more than half of deadly crashes occur on just 8% of Portland's streets, and we call these streets our high crash network.
 And the parts of the high crash network that are in low income communities and communities of color are being prioritized by PBOT for our Vision Zero improvements. But I also need to point out that many of them are actually owned by ODOT and we have no jurisdiction over them or ability to improve them. And ODOT and the City of Portland have very different standards.
 and priorities as far as moving people and cars through our streets.
 very good uh commissioner fritz uh first thank you captain lorenco and and sergeant angstrom for all the work you've been giving me colleagues i've been looking into this in relation to this grant but also in relation to the cannabis tax the recreational cannabis tax which some of which is allocated to vision zero and to the traffic division and so and i think that's a conversation we need to have as there will be more cannabis tax available this year as to where the appropriate
 to allocate that is. On these particular grants, and again, thank you for your work in going the extra mile as Commissioner Udalli alluded to. In your grant application, you state that communities of color, women and people with disabilities will not be uniquely impacted. Will the grant reporting include the demographic information that Commissioner Hardesty alluded to? The grant reporting at the end of the cycle? Yes.
 We have a number of different grants, and I only manage the speed grant and a work zone grant. So I can only speak to the ones that I particularly know. And in my grant application, there's a number of questions I think there's
 Six different bullets or something that we have to address and I cannot specifically remember if that particular question was on there Okay So could I ask then that when you do do your grant reporting you add the question and give the council the data? For the City of Portland sure Really helpful. Thank you, and then you plan to notify communities about the planned participation in the blitz periods How will you get that information out can will it be in languages other than English or English?
 Again, the blitz periods are usually with the seatbelt grant, and I think we have some with our pedestrian safety grant and our DUI enforcement grant. It doesn't have it for the speed grant, but when they put out information, it usually goes through our PIO's office, public information officer's office, and we can get that on social media and things like that. Now, if that comes in other languages, I'm not aware. We can make that request. Thank you.
 And then something else just occurred to me. With the decrease in the amounts of traffic officers and police in general, do we have vehicles that are sitting in the garage during a shift? No? No, ma'am.
 Fleet Services has done inventories and recovered any cars that they are aware of that are not being utilized and particularly because of the way our vehicles are fueled and the car basically logs into the fuel system and talks to Fleet Services. They know whether or not we are using a car or not and if we don't use the car then we get asked about why not and can we give it up.
 Well, I'm wondering, maybe we could put some of them to good use and keep them for when we get staffing backs, just have them parked at the side of the road. Because, I mean, really we're wanting to deter people from doing the bad behavior in the first place, as Commissioner Udaly said. So I have certainly found that traffic tends to slow down when there's a police. Ghost car programs are popular in many jurisdictions. Yes.
 And among the initiatives that I've been trying to propose, besides enforcement and uniformed personnel, to kind of help out with the lack of staffing, that's certainly one of them. Great. Thank you.
 Very good. I want to thank you both. And Sergeant Engstrom, I want to thank you and Sergeant Barnum for spending some time with me of late to give me more insight into what's going on in the traffic division. I want to thank you both for the hard work that you're doing. And I really appreciate the fact that you're connecting this back to our Vision Zero goals. We highly respect the work you're doing. I want you to know that. Thank you. Thank you.
 Public testimony Carla. How many people do we have signed up? One person signed up. Very good. If you guys want to cool your heels for a few minutes. I just like to say thank you to everyone for the meetings and the hosting us and our in your support. Thanks captain. Appreciate it. Three minutes name for the record. On subject please.
 I'm Maggie and please turn up your volume at home because I have a soft voice. Okay. I am happy to tell you that I love, love, love everything about this and I'm going to tell you why right now. This is about electric bikes and biking and you can get these online.
 materials on 820 Southwest 2nd Avenue from Thomas, Kuhn, Newton and Frost. This is about electric bikes. This is about biking laws. This is about rules of the road. You talked about kids in the school zone. Okay, now I've got five quick points to make.
 First one, reducing the speed limit in neighborhoods to roadways attached to neighborhoods is a great idea to 20 miles an hour. This reduces the carbon output and makes for a cleaner planet.
 Number two, in France, 14-year-olds are now allowed to drive the equivalent of a neighborhood electric vehicle. That's great. Point number three to Hardesty, for the price of a single mile of four-lane transportation infrastructure, hundreds of miles of pedestrian and bicycle and electric vehicles,
 vehicle infrastructure can be built enough to support a mid-sized city. You were talking about investment of infrastructure and how much it costs. And it's good for the economy because when people get out of their cars, they're reducing the carbon impact and they're going into mom and pop shops and they're shopping.
 So this is good for the local economy. You're reducing the amount of money you have to spend on infrastructure. You're getting people to slow down to reduce their carbon output. Excuse me, Vision Zero is wonderful. Here's what I would...
 authorized more money to be spent on if the police would stop people in these areas where they failed to You know the city has failed to provide infrastructure and lighting and all that and instead of giving them a ticket and
 Say, did you know that if you slow down, you will reduce the carbon you're releasing in the atmosphere? And here's a sticker for you that says, driving slower for a cleaner planet. Have a nice day.
 And leave it at that, you know, we're all about recognizing that it's climate change, right? And you can slow down and reduce your impact on the planet, cleaner planet. This is for your grandchildren, this is for your children's grandchildren.
 Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. And with that, this is an emergency ordinance. Any further discussion, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Hardesty? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Thank you to the Oregon Department of Transportation and the Portland Police Bureau for working on these grants. Crashes are devastating. Aye.
 Wheeler. These are great grants that are being brought forth today and I appreciate the police borough bringing this forward. It'll improve safety around seatbelt usage and as Sergeant Engstrom mentioned, that has even led to a fatality as recently as a few days ago. Child passenger safety requirements, speed violations and community outreach as well as motorcycle training. All of these are highly valuable.
 The seatbelt grant has already saved lives and has avoided personal injury, and we've seen that because of this grant, the past seatbelt usage in our community has gone up, and as was mentioned through testimony, it remains very high to this day.
 And of course, Vision Zero is on all of our minds. These grants will enable us to continue our efforts around Vision Zero. So I thank you both for your presentation. Maggie, thanks for your testimony. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, Carla, is item number 355 off the regular agenda. Thank you.
 amend an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to extend the sex buyers accountability and diversion program through December 31 2021 all right, and we have LifeWorks service director Amy Shea Reyes and commander Jeff Bell. Good morning. I
 Good morning, Mayor and Councillors. Thank you for allowing us to speak before you today. First of all, I want to apologize. I think you're, or at least many of you are aware of Officer Mike Gallagher and the excellent work that he does in this regard. He's unable to be here today because as is very typical of him, he's working, he's actually in Medford right now
 helping train officers in Southern Oregon about identifying and dealing with human trafficking. So I'm a poor substitute, but I appreciate you hearing us anyway. So basically this ordinance continues a intergovernmental agreement with
 the City of Portland, LifeWorks Northwest, and the Multnomah County DA's office. And it extends the program for 24 months.
 This is the Sex Buyers Accountability and Diversion Program, sometimes known as John School, colloquially. And this program helps to reduce the demand for commercial sex and human sex trafficking through education of the people who are actually arrested for purchasing sex.
 the services. The program aims to greatly reduce criminal justice costs and public health costs through increased awareness and the primary education piece of this program focuses on helping the people realize the human cost of their decisions to to solicit prostitution. These folks are
 only eligible on their first arrest and they're given a choice to pay a fee to attend the class or or go through with the criminal process past experience has shown that this program has a very low recidivism rate and the
 comments from folks that go through the program tend to be very positive and tend to be tend to show a great appreciation for the information that they've learned. The class is a day long, it's a seven hour class and it addresses health consequences of sex trafficking
 They have either a video presentation by a survivor of sex trafficking, or I think they occasionally have actual folks, survivors come in and talk to them. They get a presentation by the Multnomah County DA's office. Typically Officer Gallagher does a presentation on the criminal aspects of this, and they have a panel discussion.
 And again, the feedback from folks is a lot of appreciation for being made aware of the impact that their decisions have on these human beings that are essentially trafficked for sex. And so this has proven to be an effective tool in...
 combating human trafficking in in the city by reducing The demand for those services very good Is there anything else in the presentation any further any questions before we go to public testimony Commissioner hardest quick question has this program ever been? Evaluated I see we keep extending the contract, but we haven't actually gone back out got a new contract Has it been any evaluation? I
 Not that I know of. We do, we present quarterly reports and we collect data from those reports, but it hasn't had a formal evaluation as that I know of. Are we anticipating going out with a new RFP or are we just going to keep extending this one indefinitely? My understanding was, and I might be getting this one mixed up with the other ordinance, that we are going out with an RFP after this latest extension. Thank you.
 Thank you. Is there any public testimony? Yes, we have one person signed up. Maggie? All right, come on up. Thank you very much for the presentation. Appreciate it. And you did very well, by the way. You are not a poor substitute. You are excellent. Thank you. And thank you both for your work. It's really important. This is an issue that is fraught with controversy because I want to delineate between somebody going to
 a massage parlor or a place like the birdcage where both parties are participating consensually in public to
 something with other people around from sexual trafficking where there are victims of, these are victims of crime. Okay, so what I'm gonna say next is a couple of days ago I was out
 at Waterfront Park, because it was nice, it was like, you know, the low was gonna be like 51 that night. And so I was eating, you know, it was sunset, and this guy came up and started talking to me and we just started talking about politics and, you know, all that. And then it turns around, he was fishing for a quote unquote date.
 And you know I was in my gray t-shirt, and I you know I looked very khaki. I mean That he must have been pretty desperate, but anyway He wanted me to go off to his apartment, and it's like are you nuts are you absolutely crazy? Nuts I've never seen you before Adam like I'm not gonna go off with you anywhere, but He found somebody the next night and
 And I watched them walk along the waterway and I went up and, you know, talked to the woman and I said, you know that song from the Dixie Chicks called Earl?
 then I started singing don't go home with strangers and I hope she got my message because you know, you don't want to tell women what to do You just want to give them the information and let them make a decision but I think educating women that there are dangers out there and and also
 showing young women and children how not to get sucked in.
 And again, I want to delineate this from the very adult stuff that goes on in the birdcage-like venues that exist or, you know, consensual massage parlors where it's like everybody's way overage and consenting adult. Okay? That's it. Okay. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Diana, and this is a really controversial topic, and it's a very serious topic. I am grateful for the education programs that are out there, and even more grateful for people who have been involved
 arrested but given the opportunity to participate in these education classes. My only comment and encouragement would be to make this education for everyone, men and women, youth and people of all ages, because there are people out there who are
 you know, sex workers, that is their employment. That is how they make their money. People may not agree with that method, but it's what they're choosing to do. And so having this education for everyone instead of just limiting this education to people who are currently violating our Oregon state laws,
 I think it should be transparent for everyone and put out there in a way that can be friendly and inviting.
 in the earlier testimony when Maggie was talking about the traffic violations and officers having the right to you know handle that how they would like I kind of believe that it should be the same Transparency for this because this is a high risk field. This is a high risk topic people get hurt people who are aware choose to still go into this program and I
 lack of education Doesn't help anyone and so I'm grateful for what we are currently setting up I think it's very important and I'm very happy to see this and I think that we can also make it better So, thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. I left my sex trafficking ribbon and Vision zero button at home. I'm sorry I did I
 It's never too late. Thank you Maggie, appreciate it. Very good, so any further discussion on this? This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Colleagues, with your forbearance, I'd like to switch up the schedule and go to 357 and 358 and then I have to go. But I want to be here for these two items. So if we could move to item number 357 please.
 Authorize the Mayor to sign the updated Stadium Good Neighbor Agreement for Providence Park. Very good. So colleagues, this is a second reading. Last week this ordinance had its first reading. It received public testimony. We have open amendments that were put on the table from OMF Peregrine. They were moved. They were seconded during the first hearing last week. So we'll take up the votes in order.
 Because we are then taking up the votes on this, we can procedurally not move the ordinance today, so we'll move it to second reading with any or all of the attached amendments. So that's the order of things. So the first item is Amendment No. 1. This was approved.
 to have police officers within the stadium in addition to provide providing private security Officers any further discussion on this item mayor? Why has the conditional to the extent possible been removed? Is there somebody from staff here couldn't explain that thank you for being here. Good morning Carlisle expected venues program manager the OMF and
 So the rest of the text in that amendment is in the existing agreement that's stated from 2000. So the suggestion at one point was to add the to the extent possible because we were simply aware of the challenges of finding adequate police to participate in the off-duty program that's utilized for that. So it was just a recognition, and the neighborhoods responded that they did not like that and wanted to make sure that it was recognized.
 Required and that we stuck with the original agreement language. Okay. Thank you Commissioner Fritz. Thank you. No question for you. Okay, I'm here and I did review the video from last week I'm sorry. I wasn't able to be here. So if if this requirement for Portland police officers to be there Why can we not have a requirement for them to also pay for paid parking enforcement? That's a great question and
 This is the wrong city attorney to answer it. But I would say we do have from Peregrine if you want to talk to the Timbers directly about that. That's a good idea. And I know we did have some email correspondence that the city attorney opined that that would have to be an operating agreement. I think it's a gray area.
 I think if you want to move forward with that conversation, we can do it. I think that what's obviously going to have to happen after that is a more in-depth discussion between PBOT, Timbers, probably OMF, to sort of figure out what kind of solutions there are to make sure that the parking enforcement is increased. I don't know that we're gonna be able to solve that issue right here today. No, Peregrine, is that something that you'd be willing to do? Absolutely, I think there's some, my name's Ken Puckett with Portland Timbers. There's some confusion last week.
 PEDOT right now almost $68,000 for parking permits to close streets around the park So we're paying PEDOT and we still struggle to get enforcement on those permits that we buy So we'd love to sit down with with them and say well Where's that money going because right now it's just in the form of plastic bags that we my staff hangs over over parking signs We struggle on Sundays to get somebody up to verify those so we're paying for a service already that we're not getting so I
 We'd love to have that conversation. How can we make that cleaner? If we need to help with that, we're more than willing to pay for that. I mean, where would the revenue go from the tickets that the enforcement people that we are paying for goes? Is that something that...
 We would pay just the net on. I mean, there's a lot of different discussions to have here. But you're willing to have that discussion? We're willing to have that. Absolutely. But I just want everybody to know, because I think it was missed last week, that we do pay for parking permits every game, almost $3,500 a game, to close streets down and follow the traffic plan that Piedad has given us. We follow all the procedures. The bags have to be up, you know.
 no less than 24 hours to be verified to tow. They have to come verify them, and then they have to come tag the car to be towed. So there's this whole process that we're already paying for that I think was lost in PDOT's testimony last week.
 I think the gentleman's name was Mike. I can answer one of your questions. Where that money's going is to replace the revenue we're losing on the parking spots that you're taking up. They're all two-hour parking. There's no metered parking. But you just said you're closing streets. We are. I'm bagging off the parking meters. We're not bagging meters. They're the A-zone parking. There's no revenue made there.
 Oh, okay. There are no parking signs, kind of like what you have over in Northwest, you know, the Stadium L, Stadium Z, Stadium... Unless you have a... We're in Zone A. Neighborhood Pass? Yes. Okay. Well, I mean, it's clear to me still why you would have to pay for that accommodation. We don't have a problem paying for that accommodation. Yeah, I'm open to this discussion, but I'm not...
 prepared to make an amendment no no I just wanted to check with the Transportation Commission As a fair equitable to solve this problem, that's all we're looking for not something free It just seemed to be a missing piece of the puzzle as I was watching the video Kind of not being in the moment, so thank you for being willing to have that discussion between all of you good conversation Thank you. Thank you. Please call the roll fish. I you daily I Fritz I we learn all right I
 Amendment one has been adopted. Amendment number two, this is regarding the meetings of the oversight committee being in conformance with state public meetings law. Any further discussion? Yeah, Mayor. Commissioner Fish. So the commitment that I would like to have here, and we got a report last week on boards and commissions, and we have a much more sophisticated template that we now use to evaluate whether we're in compliance with the law
 how we structure boards and commissions, what expectations are, you know, when emails or public records and the like. This on its face looks like a sensible first step, but I don't want it to preclude a deeper dive by civic life
 Commissioner Udalli, so that we can see that is this in fact operating in accordance with our expectations. So I view this as a bridge and would hope that we can come back and evaluate whether it is sufficient. Sounds good. Good. Thank you. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Udalli. Aye. Aye.
 Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendment 2 is adopted. Amendment number 3 is with regarding to neighborhood noticing. Any further discussion? Please call the roll. Fish? Aye.
 You daily. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment three is adopted. Amendment number four with regard to hiring of an independent consulting firm. Any further discussion? Yes, I just have a suggestion. It says prepare a report. Could we add to be presented to the council? Because I think it's important as it comes back here. Right.
 It's a friendly amendment. We can. The one caution I would have on that is I'm not sure we want to make that an annual obligation that it actually come to council. So, I mean, I think the way that this agreement has worked in the past successfully is, you know, once things get kind of up and running and they're going along, council doesn't need to be in that loop on a regular basis. I do think that makes a lot of sense for after the 2019 season. That's the first sentence. And so I was proposing to add to be presented to council at the end of the first sentence, which is for the 2019 season.
 2019 season, there's then another sentence about each subsequent season. I think that makes sense. Sure. Yep. Absolutely. Thank you. Can I include that as a friendly amendment so we can move this? Just make a motion? I'd rather not make a motion. What I'd rather do is have it be part of the record.
 Mayor, it's a friendly amendment because it's simply clarifying. I believe it is clarifying and therefore she has made a statement on the record which staff has adhered to. Yes, so that covers it. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Newdailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Amendment 4 has been approved, so we will move this. Commissioner Fritz? Thank you. I know you have to go, but I want to just put some comments on the record.
 Something to consider is where the transportation network companies and the taxis drop people off. It seems like if we're expecting other people who drive to be walking from the smart park, that it shouldn't be more convenient to drive right to the stadium where it's going to be more congested. So I know you're looking at that.
 Maggie, I wanted to say I'm really happy to know that you're a dedicated sports fan and we certainly share that in common. I'm wearing my green Timbers and red for the Thorns today just to show support. Mayor, I want to thank you for bringing up the 107ists and I know we've got a member here today and this is a partnership with the community and it's unique.
 And then my last comment is that the documents look at where TriMet service close to the stadium is going to be increased. The problem for me as somebody who lives in Southwest is that I can get to the transit mall, but then there's no more greater frequency of buses that go back to my neighborhood, which makes it really difficult to take transit. So as you're continuing to work on this, that might be something to look at in terms of where –
 Ticket holders live to see if there's a potential for enhanced communications I would also is that it's the voucher for their parking. Is that a new thing this year? No, that's been in place for Well, okay, I've been a thorn season ticket holder since the beginning I've never heard of it and I agree with commissioners hardest cheese Comment that it shouldn't only be season ticket holders You know when you go to the Ducks games you get a ticket and it's got a coupon on the back Whether you're a season ticket or not
 So just something else to consider, but thank you very much for letting me put my comments in after the actual hearing. Very good, excellent. So this is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading next week as amended. Thank you. And the next item before I have to go here, item 358, this is a second reading. Approve the updated Providence Park Comprehensive Transportation Management Plan. Any further discussion?
 Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Udailey? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and then I think you'll wanna move back to item 356. Commissioner Udailey will preside. And may I thank you for representing the city at Deputy DeRosa's funeral. I appreciate that. Thank you. Could you hand me a gavel? Sorry, she usually does that. That's all right.
 I bring one for the preventive of eaters baseball. That's 356 and then we'll go back to 365. Okay. Carla, please read the next item. Item 356, amend a grant agreement with LifeWorks Northwest in an amount not to exceed $210,000 and extend funding through June 30, 2020 for the new Options for Women program.
 We have bureau staff here to give a presentation.
 Thank you for your patience letting us do soccer before that. Uh no problem. So again uh Jeff Bell I'm the uh commander of the detective division for the Portland Police Bureau um and um I apologize some of this is going to be a little redundant and again um I want to start off by recognizing the excellent work that officer Mike Gallagher and his partner officer officer Ariana Ridgely have done over the years in this arena. So um the
 This ordinance amends a grant agreement and extends that funding through June 30th, and I'll talk a little bit about that. It's been a pleasure over the years to have the Bureau have, the Police Bureau have this working relationship with LifeWorks Northwest. This is not necessarily common throughout the country, and we think it's,
 helped our mission greatly. This funding allows our human trafficking unit to be more efficient and continue their work of identifying victims of human trafficking and the prosecution of people soliciting prostitution. This, we currently work with the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office and the courts when victims of sex trafficking are
 victims of sex trafficking are identified, which allows not only for court ordered placements in these programs through LifeWorks Northwest, but allows us to refer victims of human trafficking to LifeWorks Northwest. Again, this contract supports new options for women. I'll let Ms. Reyes talk more about that.
 but essentially it's trauma informed care to women who have been trafficked, essentially to help them exit that forced presence in the sex industry. This is primarily done through professional counseling services and a network of outside service providers. And again, this amends the term of the grant through June 30th of 2020.
 Hi, I'm Amy Shea-Reyes with LifeWorks Northwest. Thank you for having me. LifeWorks Northwest is a non-profit social service agency providing prevention, mental health, and addiction services across the lifespan. Last year we served 26,000 people in Multnomah, Clackamas, and Washington County. The NOW program falls within our young adult and adult specialty services and we're helping women exit the sex industry. We provide mental health, addictions,
 mentoring and case management to these women, and your support allows us to do that in a trauma-informed and
 really specialized manner where we're able to take our time, meet women where they're at, really work on engagement and outreach. We're able to meet their basic needs first because sometimes they're coming in and they can't even deal with an assessment. They need us to help them with housing or to go to the doctor or many, many other things.
 One of the benefits of now being part of LifeWorks Northwest is our continuum of services, and many of these women also have children. We have a fit case manager on site, so we're able to help women whose children are in DHS custody or working with DHS navigate that system. We're also able to help women get into our project network, which is a residential addictions program for women and children, if they are at a high level of substance use need.
 We have outpatient counseling for children as well. And many of the, or on occasion, we're also able to connect some of these children with our children's relief nurseries, which we have in each county. We're able to provide a holistic approach, not just to the women, but their family, which long-term is a really good investment. We have what we call community court. This is a diversion program for women who are having their first charge.
 We have historically held a class every other month for four hours. It's been just our LifeWorks staff kind of giving some education around the law, around healthy relationships. We have recently decided that we want to change that to make it a two-week process because we noticed that women would come, do their time, and leave, and we never saw them again.
 We felt like that was a missed opportunity to provide outreach. So we are now having women come for two weeks. They have an assessment. They attend. They have two choices for groups. They could attend either one. And they, we ask that they come to four groups.
 and two individual sessions that could be substance use or mental health, whatever the need is for them. And we're hoping that this will help our engagement and help bring more women into our services. Our staff are amazing. They are so non-judgmental. They care so much about these women and just want to help everyone.
 Our relationship with the Portland Police Bureau is the most special thing I think I've experienced. My first sex trafficking unit meeting, I was floored at the compassion that the officers showed towards these women. And I just greatly appreciate that women are not being looked at as committing a crime, but being victims of a system.
 We really appreciate your support. We really appreciate the opportunity to be reaching out and helping as many people as we can. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions or comments?
 Well, I'd just like to thank you for being here again and appreciate this program. I like that it's self-referral and it's voluntary and you're helping a very vulnerable population stabilize and have a second chance at a new life.
 Yes, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, President Udeli. I didn't realize this is a non-emergency ordinance, and so I was going to make my comments at the vote, but you won't be here next week. So thank you for the work that you do. It's really important work on both parts, and it's good to hear that that relationship continues to be strong. I know Commissioner Fish and I are really proud of having funded this program throughout the recession, and it's good to know that it continues and you're continuing to make improvements to it, and so thank you for the work that you do. Thank you.
 Carla is there any testimony we have one person signed up Maggie? Thank you. You have three minutes and please keep your testimony relevant to make so I noticed that there's Not any women coming here. Oh, sorry. I'm Maggie. I Notice there's not any other clients coming up here, and that's understandable And I just want to thank them for existing. I
 That's it. Thank you. All right. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Carla, please read item 358. No, 359. Oh, did we? Sorry. We did 358. I thought we did 357. We did both. Okay.
 Moving right along. And here I had some closing remarks that I failed to deliver. Carla, please read the next item, whatever that may be. 3. 3.59.
 authorize a temporary inter-fund loan not to exceed $2.6 million from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability Solid Waste Fund to the Portland Clean Energy Community Benefits Fund to provide interim financing for startup cost of the Clean Energy Community Benefits Program. Thank you.
 Thank you. Colleagues, this is a second reading. Last week this ordinance was first read and received public testimony. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. Carla, please read item 360. Well, yes, 360. Mm-hmm.
 amend underground wiring districts code to permit the attachment of wireless facilities on poles. Colleagues, some last minute issues have been brought to our attention and we're pulling this item back to my office for further discussion before bringing it back to council. Do I need to take any further action? All right, Carla, please read the next item.
 Item 361, create a local improvement district to construct street, sidewalk, and stormwater improvements in the Northeast 97th Avenue, phase two local improvement district. Colleagues, this is also a second reading. Last week, this ordinance was first read and received public testimony. Is there any further discussion? Seeing none, Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Udaly.
 Thank you. The ordinance is adopted. Carla, please read item 362. Authorize a contract with the lowest responsible bidder and provide payment for the construction of the Dam 1 needle valve replacement project at an estimated cost of $2 million. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, President Udallian. Teresa Elliott, the chief engineer, is here to explain why a needle would cost $2 million. Thank you.
 It's more than a needle. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. Good morning, Commissioners.
 I'm here to ask for your authorization to solicit bids and authorized payment for the construction of the dam one needle valve project these are Lerner Johnson valves that were installed on the dam in 2019-29 and allow the water bureau to release colder water down into the downstream this that lowers it take losses to take water out of the lower portions of the reservoir and
 And then these cold water releases go into the stream to make it a more habitable environment for the Chinook and coho salmon that live downstream of our reservoirs. We're replacing these valves because they've exceeded their useful life. They don't open and close as effectively as they used to, and they pose some safety risks for us operating them.
 The new valves will include some electronic actuators so that we can operate them remotely or manually on site if we have to. We will be advertising using the city's formal low bid process starting this summer and construction is expected to start this fall.
 This contract though only includes the construction. We actually bought the valves themselves under a separate contract because they have a 40 week long lead time procurement time to actually fabricate the valves. And we have a bunch of in-stream restrictions of why we can be there when we can.
 So the project has, we do include this, we will be including the city's MWESV participation requirements, which I believe for construction contracts is still 20% because this is in the Bull Run watershed and has limited access. Our only public involvement is through the quarterly Water Bureau resource protection reports that we put out to a lot of agencies.
 excuse me and then we have been working with both the Forest Service and SHPO State Historic Preservation Office to make sure that we're minimizing the impacts on the historic dam itself and
 Specifically, your question about why does this cost $2 million, first of all, there's three valves that are being taken out. Those valves, we said that we have a moderate level of confidence because, first off, you're taking an old valve that...
 we and we're replacing it but as you take off something to do maintenance on it or to do replacement on it sometimes you discover that there's other things that need to be taken care of at the same time so we have a high contingency on it we have a moderate level of confidence because we're finding that things that are bid in the watershed tend to cost us a little bit more than things down in Portland
 Then because we have a lot of time restrictions for in-stream work and a lot of restrictions from the historic preservation group We just thought that we would we are more comfortable saying it's an a moderate level of confidence rather than saying it's an optimal level And I'd rather be correct on my numbers rather than Overestimate it and then come back to you and you wouldn't have to explain why I blew the budget So I'm here to ask or answer questions if you have any I
 Any questions? No? Carla, is there any testimony? Yes, we have one person. Maggie? Thank you for your work, Teresa. Thank you, Maggie. She is going to pass. This is the first reading of the non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. And that's all for this morning's council agenda. Council is adjourned.
 Nice job. Council for April 23rd, 2019. The mayor is out. I am the presiding officer. Carla, can you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Hardesty? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Udallie? Here. Thank you. Before we begin, will our city attorney please read the rules of decorum, although I'm fairly certain everyone knows them.
 But this looks like a rowdy bunch, so. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or first readings of ordinances. Thank you.
 Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. If it does not, you may be ruled out of order. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you're a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 Residing officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you're in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Please remain seated in council chambers unless entering or exiting. If you are filming the proceedings, please do not use bright lights or disrupt the meeting. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or council deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest or trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Thank you. So today is a day of recognition and celebration. Hopefully this will be a fun council afternoon. Carla, will you please read the first item? Item 363, proclaim April 24th to be Reverend Dr. James Lawson Jr. Day. Commissioner Fisch. Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, this afternoon,
 We are honored to welcome an esteemed guest to Council Chambers, Dr. James Lawson. Dr. Lawson was an architect of the Civil Rights Movement, a dear friend and colleague of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., a mentor to Representative John Lewis, and for over a half a century, a transformative leader in nonviolent resistance across our nation.
 Dr. Lawson is joined today by the Portland State University Conflict Resolution Program, and it is now my honor to invite our distinguished guests and panelists to come forward. First, Dr. Patricia Schechter. Where do I know that name? Director of the Conflict Resolution Program at Portland State University. Pastor J.W. Matt Hennessy, Senior Servant, Vancouver First Avenue Baptist Church and immediate past Chair, Ecumenical Ministries of Oregon.
 Caroline, excuse me, Carolyn Johnson Evans, a student in conflict resolutions program and a member of SUN, Students United for Nonviolence, and our guest of honor, the Reverend Dr. James Lawson. If the four of you would please come forward and take your seats. While you're taking your seats, let me just say that we're having some technical snafus today, but it does not prevent this event from being filmed. Thank you.
 and also for people to be able to follow us on the internet. And it will be, when it is run in its entirety, it'll be accessible to the community. Our run of show is as follows. We will hear from our distinguished panelists, colleagues will have an opportunity to make comments, and then we will ask our honored guests if they would indulge us for a photograph. Dr. Schechter.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish and Portland City Council. Nick did such a wonderful job with the sort of bios that I don't need to repeat his eloquent and succinct intro, but I will just...
 testify on a personal level to say that I have been privileged to feel welcome and at ease in this beautiful building and in this beautiful room thanks to Nick's service and thanks to the warmth and genuine quality of the people who work here every day at City Hall. But I have to say that
 that it is a signal honor of my lifetime to have this moment with Reverend Lawson and the distinguished co-panelists. And I want to acknowledge and express my gratitude to the very many people who have sustained me and my family personally and have helped us all to reach this place in time together. Thank you.
 Each of the panelists is prepared to say a few words in recognition of today's proclamation, and I would like to turn the mic over to Carolyn Johnson-Evans. Thank you, Dr. Schechter. Good afternoon. My name is Carolyn Johnson-Evans. This is my first visit to City Hall, so I thank you all for the opportunity to speak with you all today. Thank you.
 As mentioned, I'm a student in a conflict resolution program at PSU, and I am also a leader in SUN, which is Students United for Nonviolence. So SUN is on a mission to unite PSU students and the Portland community in a common interest for peace and justice, by promoting the awareness and the practice of nonviolence through activities and events. The really cool thing is anyone can participate in a nonviolent action. You don't have to register,
 You don't have to have a background check, and you don't even have to count the jelly beans in a jar. All you need is the willingness to embrace nonviolent action as an effective means of defeating oppression and injustice. We can do that right here in our local community and in our global community as well. I want to thank Dr. Lawson for all of your passion and dedication to continuing to promote, teach and practice.
 And I want to thank this council for honoring that passion and dedication. Thank you.
 about my neck sorry pastor hennessey thank you president thank you so much madam president to commissioner fritz and to commissioner hardesty commissioner fish uh to you doctor we're so grateful to have you here and i would like to just say on behalf of vancouver avenue first baptist church it's an historic church and the only church in all of oregon that dr king spoke in 1961.
 I was not born then, I was not around then, but I heard it was really a great time. I also want to say that we have the presence of our NAACP president here today as well, Pastor Mondanay, and we're grateful to have him. And I just want to say a few words about what you have inspired.
 historically for all of us. We are grateful in addition to the work I do at church and in the interfaith work that I do at Ecumenical Ministries, we're in the process of working with gang members to really find jobs and to create peace and to find ways to work together. We have a good group of interfaith
 peace and action collaborative people who are working together across faith lines and in fact people who have no faith as well, but just really believe in peace and believe in reconciliation. And so I find it a complete honor to be here today in your presence with my fellow panelists and with these wonderful council members. And I want you to know that of all the cities you've ever gone to, Doc, this is the best one ever.
 And it's the best city council ever. I need you to know that. And the only way you were gonna go to heaven is through Portland anyway. And so we're really grateful to have you here. So again, I wanna say thank you for being here. Thank you for your many years of work. Your footprint has helped so many of us
 in this work of reconciliation and uniting people. And in a time that we live now, we need it more than ever. And I just wanna say thank you for that opportunity. And I wanted to be here this afternoon at six
 to hear you. And unfortunately, I haven't figured out how to be in two places at once. This is the Ecumenical Ministries annual fundraising dinner, and therefore I've got to be there. But I promise you, if I can get out, I'm going to get out. Okay, was that my outside voice? I'm sorry. Thank you so much again. I'm grateful to be here.
 And besides that, he's from Ohio. And, you know, people from Ohio are pretty great people anyway. That's right. He graduated from Baldwin-Wallace, and I graduated from Oberlin. Yeah. Eddie, could you move that a little closer to him? Okay. It's on. Madam President and members of the council and commissioners and friends who have gathered here today, let me just express my...
 profound appreciation for this occasion and for your welcoming me in this fashion. A lot of my work in the southeastern part of the country from 1958 to 1974, I would never have allowed the city commissioner, commission to know I was in town. Right. And even with that,
 There are pieces of that past where the police were alerted to the fact that I was in town and urged to give me a royal welcome if they saw me or came in touch with me anyway. So this is a massive contrast, and I'm extremely grateful.
 I'm grateful that Portland State is hosting the James Lawson Institute. And I'm grateful for all of these who are here in the house, who've helped to make that possible this weekend. So I can only say to you, thanks. I do follow a little the politics in Oregon. I have been here before to Portland, to Eugene, to Corvallis.
 And I am extremely hopeful that Oregon politics might help to lead politics in the United States in a better direction than where it's been going in recent years. So again, it's my great pleasure to be here, and thank you so much for this honor and for welcoming me in this fashion. I recognize that the message of nonviolent struggle, nonviolent art of social, political, economic,
 change is brand new. I was very, very fortunate to grow up in a family in Ohio where my father and mother had differences on this issue. And I remember still the debates between the two of them in our presence over whether or not I should be fighting boys who wanted to fight me because I was the preacher's kid on the block. But that has been a great influence on me.
 for my discovery that in the scriptures, the Hebrew and the Christian Bibles, and in particular people like Isaiah and Jesus, there are the signs that there are better options for the human race, better options for civilization, better options for police forces. And so I've been fortunate to be
 engaged in that for now since age four and age eight, and I'm now 90. And it's been an extraordinary sort of journey, but yet I recognize it's an incomplete journey because it is clear, as both Gandhi, who coined the term nonviolence, and Martin Luther King, my friend and colleague for 11 years, both of them have said that
 The systems of domination and control of societies, those systems are anti-human. They must fade away. They must be dismantled. The power of violence on Western civilization especially must end so that we, the human race, can maybe then really taste the fruits of what it is to be alive and to be human and to work with the creator
 in our Declaration of Independence for making the human race tap some of the great, massive, unimaginable potential of what it is to be human. What on earth will have when we discover that? Dismantle the old stuff that is hurtful and hateful to too many millions and millions of people and discover the great power of life itself through which we can do all things.
 So again, my great thanks to you for this afternoon. Well, Dr. Lawson, thank you so much for joining us. And Pastor Hennessey, Patricia and Carolyn, thank you for honoring us by your presence on the panel. We have a number of ways that we can honor people on this council. And a singular way is for the council through the mayor to issue a proclamation declaring a day in honor of
 of someone worthy of honor and respect. So it's my great pleasure to turn this back over to Chloe Udaly, the president of the council, who has a proclamation to read. Can we say something before the proclamation? Thank you, Commissioner. Colleagues, would you like to speak? Commissioner Hardesty.
 Thank you, Commissioner Fish and you, Daley. I just wanted to take a moment to tell you, Dr. Lawson, how important nonviolent direct action has been to me personally and to the work that I've done in this community. I am a child of the Civil Rights Movement and grew up starting off believing that Malcolm X had it right.
 That if you hit me, I'm going to knock you out. It took a while for me to understand the power of nonviolent direct action and what a moral message that is for those who participate and also for those who witness it.
 And so I wanted to take this opportunity to really thank you for creating a pathway that many of us today start with that premise that it will be nonviolent, that it will be direct action, that we will be able to speak truth to power, but we will do it in a loving way, and we will not have to be disagreeable to disagree with injustice.
 I also would be remiss if I didn't give a shout out to my friend Tom Hastings, who has done an incredible job in centering nonviolence, whether it's with the peace team, whether it's with his work with his students. I would be remiss without saying, well done, Tom. And I got to tell you, he's been talking about you. Every time he goes somewhere and sees you, he just comes back and he's just giddy all over again.
 We are honored to have you here today. Thank you. And we're honored to have you here because you have been such a model for so many people. And on our worst days, we think, man, what would it what it must have been like when you started this journey? And so thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And thank you all for being here to witness this.
 what I believe is one of the best things we've done since I've had the privilege of serving on the city council. So thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Again, thank you all. It's been said. Dr. Lawson, my mother and my mother-in-law are both in their 90th year. And I think that they would, if they were in this chamber, say a double thank you for continuing to advocate when for many folks, 90 might be time to,
 do some gardening or something else. And yet you are continuing, as you have dedicated your life to this, to continue to push on it. So thank you so much. Thank you, colleagues, for your words. And thank you for giving me an opportunity to regain my composure because I feel very moved by this. Before I read the proclamation, I also want to thank you for being here. I want to thank you for sharing your experience and perspective
 It can feel like change takes forever and we're living in somewhat hopeless times. So hearing from someone who has spent almost 90 years fighting the good fight that you see progress and you have hope is very very meaningful, so thank you. And now I have the honor of reading the proclamation on behalf of the mayor.
 Whereas Reverend Dr. James Lawson, Jr. was regarded as the greatest teacher of nonviolence in America by Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the architect of the civil rights movement by Representative John Lewis, and whereas as a Christian missionary in India in the 1950s, Dr. Lawson learned about Satyagraha? Did I get that right? That's good enough. Okay, thank you.
 a philosophy of nonviolent resistance, and a method to fighting for social justice developed by Mahatma Gandhi. And whereas, while a student at the Divinity School of Vanderbilt University, he provided nonviolence training workshops informed by Satya Graha to many students and activists, including future leaders of the civil rights movement, such as Diane Nash, James Bevel, and Representative John Lewis.
 And whereas his trainees launched the Nashville sit-ins, a campaign of nonviolent direct action to end racial segregation at restaurant lunch counters. And whereas Dr. Lawson was among many transformative African American leaders who helped to end legal racial segregation in the U.S.,
 And whereas throughout this life, Dr. Lawson has continued to teach and lead in the principles of nonviolent social resistance and started the James Lawson Institute.
 And whereas in 2018, Dr. Lawson was nominated to receive the Congressional Gold Medal, one of the nation's highest honors. And whereas today, we celebrate Dr. Lawson for his incredible career in civil and human rights, and for his inspirational leadership in continuing to transform the United States, and we welcome him through the Portland City Council,
 Now, therefore, I, Commissioner Chloe Daly, on behalf of Ted Wheeler, Mayor of Portland, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 24th, 2019, to be Reverend Dr. James Lawson, Jr. Day in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this day. We're going to gather up front to take a photograph now. Thank you, Mrs. Good to meet you. Thank you. Thank you.
 and we'll see you in a while. Yeah, that's right. I did, that was amazing. Wasn't that something? That was amazing. Yeah. Yeah. So we'll come back here and we'll go back to it. OK. Commissioner, do you have the proclamation? And the almost correct proclamation. Thank you, sir. I am. My pleasure. Again, thank you.
 I don't know. We're almost there. This is crazy. Gender balance. See, the women are taking over. I know. All right, so let's get everybody in. Pretend like you like each other. One, two, three. One, two, three. Yes.
 By the way, let's have a special shout out to Portland State University, the conflict resolution program, and Ascinda Lawrence who helped organize today. Let's give them a big hand. We'll see you later today, Alfie. Okay, sir. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 We have to take a recess. We're gonna take a three minute recess until the next time certain. You know who you are. Thank you, Commissioner. You're welcome, I'm here for you.
 All right, Carla, can you please read the next item? Yes. Item 3664, Proclaim April 2019 to be Second Chance Month. Thank you. Colleagues, I had the pleasure of joining dozens of people at Southeast Works yesterday to celebrate Second Chance Month, and I'm going to share an abbreviated version of my remarks before reading this proclamation. Thank you.
 Second Chance Month aims to raise awareness about how we as a society undermine the successful reintegration of justice-involved individuals into community, why we must do better, and how we can. It's about every human's right to dignity and their innate potential.
 Despite having paid their debt to society, people with criminal histories face barriers to education, jobs, housing, and other things they need to live stable and successful lives. The law and order mindset that informs many of our policies and practices is inflexible and unforgiving. It is also uninformed, as the very barriers we have erected to keep us safe are perpetuating harm and crime.
 The Justice Policy Institute compared the American justice system to those of similar countries and found that our incarceration rates were 5 to 11 times higher. Do you think that makes us safer? No. It does not. In fact, the evidence shows that incarceration has minimal, if any, effect on reducing crime and the U.S. consistently ranks high for both violent and nonviolent crimes.
 What if being tough on crime actually requires a more humane approach to criminal justice and reentry? Our systems of policing, juvenile justice, pretrial detention, sentencing, and parole all contribute to an excessively punitive system that diverts resources away from prevention and rehabilitation and clearly does nothing to discourage or prevent crime.
 and in fact, our punitive approach to justice involves individuals trying to reintegrate into society, increases recidivism rates, and makes us all less safe. The Vera Institute of Justice tells us that in reality, when we provide opportunities for people to meet their basic needs and to work toward their fullest potentials, they're far more likely to live successful lives, which lead to safer communities. We have...
 Do we have a panel or are we going to, okay. Panelists, I have notes here somewhere about today that seem to have disappeared. So I'm just going to invite the panelists to the table. Thank you. Okay, here we go. I had two different scripts. So before we get started with the speakers, colleagues, would any of you like to add anything on second chance month? Yes.
 All right. Now it's my pleasure to welcome Linda Hastings and Ashley Valeras with Southeast Works and Shannon Olive with Women First to provide some comments on Second Chance Month. Welcome. Thank you and good afternoon Madam President and City Commissioners. Thank you for the opportunity to be here this afternoon to support the City of Portland April Second Chance Proclamation.
 My name is Linda Hastings and I am the Justice Coordinator at Southeast Works. I have worked in the justice field for 15 years, specifically at Southeast Works for the past eight years, delivering and coordinating programs for justice-involved individuals. Since 1997, Southeast Works has been a leader in employment and training programs for both youth and adults involved in the justice system.
 Throughout the years we have worked with the City of Portland, Prosper Portland, Multnomah County, Department of Community Justice, Multnomah County Sheriff's Office, Oregon Department of Corrections, Washington County Community Corrections, Oregon Department of Human Services, Oregon Department of Education, Oregon Employment Department, Work Systems, and
 and the Department of Labor to develop on-site targeted programs and wraparound services to assist those who are experiencing barriers to employment due to their involvement in the legal system. We offer over 100 employment-related workshops monthly through our WorkSource Center. Several are tailored to our justice-involved audience so that they can tailor resumes and targeted job search.
 Our city-funded reentry program includes Prisoner Reentry Employment Program, funded by the City of Portland. In addition, we also run New Start Reentry Resource Center, Reentry Enhancement Coordination, Justice Reinvestment, Youth Career Connections, The Second Chance Project, Connect to Jobs,
 and the pre-release exit program in the Washington County Jail. These eight programs alone serve 1,100 individuals each year. In addition, our WorkSource Center Southeast served 8,666 individuals last year, with 24,631 sign in for services.
 Of this number, 1,542 self-attested to a prior justice involvement. We know that this is probably higher as it is self-attestation and not required to enroll in the center. With that number, we are serving over 2,600 justice-involved individuals annually. We are known for our work in the justice-involved community, and many come through a P.O.,
 word of mouth from a family member or friend. We work with our partners to refer for mental health, treatment, housing, and health. In addition to our employment needs, we have co-located services that they will need as they move back to the community and reintegrate. These include DHS on site to take SNAP and TANF applications,
 Vocational Rehabilitation for Accommodation Needs, Job Corps to Enroll Justice Involved Youth, and for Trades. The DCJ Change Center to refer for COG Behavioral Workshops, three OHP Health Navigators to assist customers to sign up for OHP, and a Veteran Representative.
 This month we have developed an on-site service with Metropolitan Public Defenders. We have an attorney on-site at Southeast Works to assist those who have fines and fees, expungement needs. We find this is a huge barrier and stops our customers from finding decent housing, getting a driver's license, and securing a good job.
 Our work is our passion, and our passion is to ensure each person walking through the doors has an opportunity to redefine themselves and to be judged on their skills and ability and not on their background. Before I close, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the City of Portland for funding our important work.
 I thank you for the opportunity to speak today. And on behalf of Southeast Works management, staff, former involved justice individuals, and Southeast Works Board of Directors, we enthusiastically support this second chance proclamation. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and city commissioners. My name is Ashley Valeris. B as in boy, A-L-L-A-R-I-S.
 I was referred to Southeast Works by my DHS family coach through the Southeast Works Second Chance Program. Because I was formerly justice involved, I needed to help in finding a job. I enrolled in the Prisoner Reentry Employment Program funded by the City of Portland. Thank you, by the way. I'm nervous, I'll get through it, I promise. My career coach assisted me in developing a career map and I was encouraged to set
 goals for me to achieve. I told my career coach about my desire to work for a nonprofit and help in my local community. Not long after I was referred to Southeast Works, an internal position for Southeast for receptionist was posted. My coach thought it would be a good fit for me, and after careful consideration, I submitted my resume for the job of receptionist for New Start Reentry Resource Center.
 After our initial interview, I was called back for a second interview and secured receptionist position on July 24th, 2018 at the starting wage of $13 per hour. In New Start, I work with former justice-involved individuals releasing from local Inverness jail and state institutions. I assist with intake, scheduling, inventory, customer flow, and in the computer lab.
 I ensure that the kitchen is stocked with food for customers and order all personal hygiene items for the customers. I ensure that the center is maintained and clean and a neat manner and that it's a safe space for everyone. My favorite part of my day is my interactions with the customers. I hope that each person that I come in contact with feels validated and accepted. Some days I come, I connect customers to community resources and other days I
 I'm helping someone navigate new technology and putting together someone's first resume in many years. At the end of the day, I believe everyone just wants to be heard and treated with respect. My coworkers at Southeast Work have been more than welcoming and patient while I adjust and learn the ropes. It's rare you find such genuine support, but I have found it with my coworkers. I have a work family now. I never thought I would have that. We treat each other with respect and love. That's family to me.
 I know looking to the future I will continue to grow and advance my career, observing and taking in all the knowledge these wonderful women have to share with me. On August 31st, 2018, I was promoted to program assistant and recently was given a raise, bringing my current wage to $18 an hour with full benefits.
 Had it not been for the referral to Southeast Works through the Second Chance Jobs Program and being accepted into the city-funded Prison Reentry Prep Program, I wouldn't have found New Star and the great job I have today. They knew I had a record, but I was never judged. They don't treat me like I'm a number at a plant. They treat me like I'm a person with actual life experiences. I've learned from them, but I've never felt judged. It is my sincerest hope that I can have the same kind of positive impact.
 These kind of services are invaluable for former injustice-involved individuals. And looking to the future, I hope to continue to pursue my passion in making an impact in my community. It is my hope to become a career coach and within time and write classes and training. Southeast Work has started me on that path already and supports my development. Southeast Work has paid for motivational interviewing, trauma-informed care, training on drug and alcohol, and...
 so that I can be trained to be a career change for justice involved individuals in the near future. This program has changed my life by providing me with living wage, opportunities for training and advancement in organization in a brighter future for my three children. The prep program has turned my life around and has set my future in the right direction. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I know how nerve-wracking it is to sit at that table.
 and it doesn't really get any less nerve wracking. And your story is really important for us to hear. So thank you. Yeah, thank you. Commissioner Fitts.
 Thank you so much for coming back to share, and in particular, thank you for saying thank you. You know, there's a lot of taxpayers' money goes into these programs, and you just told the taxpayers of Portland why it was important to invest in you and in your program and continue to do that, and we have to connect the dots for people, and you just did that really beautifully, so thank you very much. Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you all for having given us the opportunity to be here today.
 with the Second Chance Proclamation. My name is Shannon Olive and I am the founder and president for a new women's organization called Women's First Transition and Referral Center. We are a grassroot organization in a nourishing environment where women rebuild their lives and self-worth through peer mentorship, life skills trainings, empowerment groups, and essential community support.
 We serve just as involved women, women in recovery, and women seeking a transformation in her life, recovering from traumatic experiences.
 Our primary focus is African American women because these women face a disproportionate amount of stereotypes and culture prejudice in our society. As a new organization serving for two years, one of our goals is to establish and maintain relationships with partner organizations so resources can thrive.
 be offered and referrals will be provided to accomplish our participants' personal and professional goals while meeting the immediate needs. Last year in April, we launched our reintegration peer mentorship based out of Coffee Creek Correctional Facility, and we serve women six months prior to their release.
 by building relationships, making connections, and developing trust as they're in the prison, and also working with them to help them to create action plans while we then identify what resources, services, and programs are needed
 that coincide with their action plans to help them to be able to navigate back into society, to be able to become successful and productive citizens of our community. Since last year, there has been five women that's been released. There's three women in our work caseload that is really active.
 And we've had one that has been released this year that is active as well. What we've discovered in the last four months in once when women complete transitional housing or treatment, they're coming up against a lot of barriers with housing.
 As you guys know, if you don't know, transitional housing and treatment is only three to six months. It's very temporary. And housing is a basic need for all of us. One of the things that we've talked to different agencies and organizations and also the women that we serve that they have shared with us, which is they are in fear of. These are the responses that they have shared with us. One, the cost of fair market price is high.
 So, if you have a job and the fair market price is high, how can I afford to stay in a one or two bedroom? 33% of our women have children. Two, I do not want to live back with family because they are still subjected to the lifestyle that I just came from. Three, either I have family members that I've burned my bridges because I was in addiction or I was in and out of prison and now they don't want to have anything to do with me.
 not having a place to call home can be a trigger for me to go back to doing the things that I used to do because I don't have an establishment coming out of prison or coming out of treatment.
 And the last thing that is also a challenge is because we are a new organization and we're looking to get funding, is that we have to reach out to other agencies to try to get rent assistance. If we've had a woman who's actually found a second chance landlord that's willing to give them a chance. And the problem is moving costs. Yes.
 Security deposits is an issue. So when we go through other agencies, they have criteria and eligibility that they have to meet in order for them to get the assistance. And we've had two clients already that got denied because they didn't meet those criteria or eligibility requirements from those agencies. So women's first, we are working to meet the need.
 that our women are having, facing challenges because we do not want them to have to cross those barriers once they have completed treatment, once they have completed transitional housing, because we do understand what that looks like for them. We are people of lived experience. We are women that are work,
 We are women that are serving the population that has been through the struggle that they have been through. So we are meeting the needs and raising money to purchase a clean and sober long-term continuum home where women can have a place to go to until their names are called on that Section 8 or Wade and Hood housing, or until they're able to receive, get into their own apartment.
 And so we are here just to share the work that we're doing. Our organization is helping women to rebuild their lives so that they can become productive and successful citizens of our community. And we hope that we will be able to get the city's support so that you all can work with us.
 to help us to help these women that are transitioning out of prison, transitioning out of treatment, so that they can also have a second chance to be productive citizens as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for being here, and thank you for your service and hard work on behalf of our community. And now I have the honor of reading this proclamation on behalf of the mayor. Thank you.
 Whereas everyone deserves an opportunity to rebuild their lives, reach their fullest potential, and become productive members of society, and whereas an estimated 70 million Americans have a criminal record, and over 600,000 are released from prison every year, and whereas justice-involved individuals often struggle to find housing, secure employment, pursue higher education, regain voting rights, and regain financial freedom,
 and whereas justice-involved individuals are disproportionately represented in Portland's homeless and unemployed populations, and whereas people of color are disproportionately represented in Oregon's prison system and face even higher barriers once they are released,
 and whereas we are all safer when justice-involved individuals are given every opportunity to access stable homes, secure employment, and rebuild their lives. Now, therefore, I, Chloe Daly, on behalf of Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim April 2019 to be Second Chance Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month.
 May I just make a comment? Yes. Thank you. You offered earlier, and I wanted to hear the presentations first, and I want to thank each of you for taking the time to come in. I just want to thank the pastors for staying after the previous...
 proclamation to honor this one and I know that the faith groups do such a lot of work. I'm mindful that Pastor W.G. Hardy has also had been such a leader in providing post-incarceration support services at Highland Christian and so just wanted to honor his memory and to thank you for the partnership between the non-profits
 and the faith community and the city, the taxpayers, all working together to make sure that people have opportunities. Thank you. Thank you. All right. You want to do a photo? Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. So precious. Thank you. You're welcome. Oh, stand up, Scott. Good job. Oh, thank you. Good job. Great job. I love the hands to use. I'm glad to do that with us today. Yes, absolutely. Nice job. Did you have the press? Thank you. Yeah. As we can see, it's prettier than just a tall man. Yes, absolutely. I bet. Great job. All right, everyone, smile. One, two, three.
 Let's do it again. Let's do it again. One, two, three. Wonderful. Thank you, everyone. Thanks so much, Lisa. Thanks, everybody. Thank you. Thanks for taking the time. It was your first time. Yes, that's right. Thank you. That's your first time. Thanks for everything. And maybe next year, we'll thank you. Thank you for coming. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you, that is all for today. We are adjourned.