Okay, are we ready? All right. Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to the April 28th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. And would you please read the two items that we have on the calendar this afternoon? Okay.
 Item 430, adopt new and amended supporting documents for an update of Portland's comprehensive plan, except report of the Citizen Involvement Committee. Item 431, adopt a new comprehensive plan for the City of Portland.
 Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Let me see. Should I cover any of this procedural stuff first? I probably should. So the decisions being made today and on May 11th are for the purpose of establishing a, quote, as amended plan so that staff can prepare final documents for our consideration. The final vote on the as amended plan is scheduled for June 15th.
 We have developed agendas for today and May 11th to make decisions on amendments that have already been offered. New amendments offered after today will potentially impact the adoption schedule. I want to make it clear that the votes today and on May 11th do not indicate or prejudice the vote we cast on the findings and on the final plan. In other words, voting to adopt amendments does not commit you to vote for the as-adopted plan. But I hope, obviously, that we work our way towards one that we all support.
 As we consider the potential amendments, some will be bundled together for consideration of related items as a group. If any one of us wishes to have a bundled item considered individually, please make that clear as we go. As we make motions today, I ask that all of us refer to the amendment numbers printed in the original BPS amendments report from March 18th, which I have in front of me and I hope we all have in front of us so that we can be straight about which issue we're talking about.
 If you're referring to further amendments or amendments to those amendments, please reference the appropriate supplemental memo by date and item number. Ask staff for help if you have trouble doing that, as I probably will. So for many of these items, I'll ask the council clerk to read the descriptions of what we're talking about so that we stay on track.
 And for purposes of getting us on the track and going in the right direction, I'll turn it over to Susan and the team. Okay. Thank you so much. I just wanted to start by thanking you and your staff for all your diligence, perseverance, and really thoughtful review of the document, of all the amendments. It's been quite a process. And your staff, all of them, have been just wonderful. We've worked hard.
 to make this process very clear, very transparent, and I hope that that's been helpful to you all, all of us, and Eric in particular. You've all gotten to know him much better over the past few months.
 We've worked to compile the list of amendments before you today, and the layout, we think, is in a really easy to understand method, very straightforward, and it should help you be able to track each of your decisions. Also I wanted to know that we have maps with us, lots and lots of maps. We have background materials, whatever you need.
 to help illustrate any of the issues that you're talking about, just ask, and we can show you particular locations, or we can discuss in more detail any of the policy issues. And with that, I just want to turn it over to Eric, and I want to wish Commissioner Fritz a happy birthday. That's right. Happy birthday, Commissioner Fritz. If there's a tie, I get the tiebreaker, right? Oh.
 What better present than...
 I'm a planning geek, as you know, so this is just the best. No better present than that. Have her weigh with the comp plan for today. There you go. I wanted to take a few moments to just go over the material in front of you so you can get oriented to how this will go. The operative document is the one that's dated today and tells the agenda for amendment consideration. And beyond the cover page is –
 essentially a run of show for consideration of amendments. They're itemized as individual motions that you can consider. On page 14, it starts the second part of the document, which is the reference things that relate to each of those documents.
 So when a motion refers to more than one policy, those policies are printed in order of the motions in the back half of this document. So if you, for example, with motion three, which relates to minor amendments, map amendments in northwest and southwest Portland, there's a list of specific properties on that document.
 page 17 that's corresponding to that motion. We'll put those things on the screen as we go to to help, but I wanted to orient you there. There's also at the back of this packet a
 List of the items that are tentatively on the May 11th agenda, and obviously any further things that you pull today or don't get through today will be forwarded to that agenda as well. So if there's an amendment that you were looking for and you don't see, it's likely that it's on that May 11th agenda. We did hold some items for the benefit of Commissioner Fish, who couldn't be here today. Okay.
 You also have the March 18th document on your desk, so if we refer to any page numbers in that, it looks like this. It has the original. It's the way the public is going to be able to see this, basically, because that's what's been published on the website. We've also provided copies of all of your supplemental memos over the last few weeks with any additional things that came up after the publication of that document.
 So that report and your memos essentially constitutes all the source material for these amendments that we'll be referring to. When we get into site-specific map issues, we also have a PowerPoint with some slides and maps that we'll put on the screen at that point and go over with you. So it's your hope and expectation that we will get through all –
 All 32 amendments to the supporting documents and 12 motions on the plan itself today. Have I got that right?
 You've got, yeah, up through item 32 is our aspiration for today. We'll see where that leads us. Oh, just, okay, that's as far as you hope to get today. All right. I'll bite off more than we can chew then. Right. And we're starting with more general amendments that have largely been already culled of the things that you wanted to talk about individually. But you, of course, can add an item that you want to pull. Okay.
 You've also got a copy of the economic opportunities analysis on your desk because the first motion is related to accepting the revised version of that, and I'll highlight the specific pieces of that when we get to that. But that's the other document you have on your desk. Any questions about the general layout before we –
 So the basic idea is that the mayor or if there are other volunteers can make the motions and then we'll go through the usual process of considering a motion. Since I have that script in front of me, unless the council has a concern with that, I'll just make the motion in each case and somebody can second it and then we can get into it.
 Okay. So you want me to make the motion first on number one? So the first grouping, the first couple relate to the supporting documents, and the first one was related to the employment economic opportunities analysis. Okay. So I move to tentatively accept the changes to the economic opportunities analysis. And should we have Carla read the item? Okay. Carla, would you read that?
 Tendatively accept changes to the economic opportunities analysis prepared by staff dated March 2016. This motion includes direction to staff to update any tables and charts consistent with subsequent MAP amendments we may make today or on May 5th and bring back appropriate findings and the updated EOA for consideration on May 25th.
 the Council will vote again on the ordinance to accept the final version on June 15th. Okay. Is there a second? Second. All right. Discussion or presentation. Do you want to walk us through this, what changes we are making to the EOA by this? So the primary change was based on work session in earlier last month to reformat and readjust the
 to account for the amendments that were on the table to employment-related land and then also reorient the document to strive for the medium-range commodity forecast rather than the low. So the version before you has been adjusted to do that. And it also, I believe at Commissioner Fritz's request, has incorporated some changes related to how we referred to the decision on West Taden Island. Okay.
 If I might just read that, partly to gloat and partly so that people at home know what it is. And it says, the plan accommodates the medium cargo forecast for 150 acres of marine terminal land demand by 2035 without annexation and industrial development at West Hayden Island. And then it further says –
 the medium cargo forecast of 150 acres will be met in the existing harbor access lands geography described in eoa sections one to two also an additional 50 acres or more of an industrial rezoned land is potentially available to support marine terminal development that lies just outside of the harbor access lands geography west hayden island is not relied upon to meet future demand for marine terminals in the next 20 years that's very clear
 And that's important because there is a commitment to keep looking at the industrial lenses required by the state, and so we want to be very clear that the direction of the comprehensive plan is not to be developing West T-Node. Other questions, discussion before we take action on this amendment? And we don't have to take testimony at this point because we took testimony before, right? So we don't break for anything other than our own discussion at this point. Okay, so are we ready to take a vote on this amendment? Yes.
 I guess I'm curious. It seems like there's – I thought we were – a 16-acre surplus for industrial lands, and if we take Broadmoor out, that puts us in a deficit, and if we keep Riverside out. So, yeah, what happens? The current language is written –
 And that's partly why we worded the amendment to refer to subsequent changes you make, because we're going to have to update the tables that are in the document once you've made your subsequent map amendments. But where the starting point is in this draft is assuming Riverside coming out and Broadmoor goes on, and then we will adjust those tables accordingly. And the outcome kind of depends on the combination of votes you make on the –
 on those different individual parcels there are so if we end up passing a comp plan that has a deficit of industrial lands uh then we're gonna luba will remand it to us we would raise that to you before you get to that point and then talk that through okay because there's other decisions that are industrial lands that are not on the river too there's the ones in northwest and some of the other ones that would also factor into that thanks okay any other questions
 ready to take action okay roll call please on amendment number one on today's agenda I know that I okay now next motion I move to amend the citywide systems plan as described on page 112 of the March 18th amendment report there's any need to describe that any further than that right
 Sorry? A reminder that the citywide system plan is a companion document to the comp plan, and it is where the infrastructure planning documents are that support the land use. And that doesn't include the TSP, right? You'll take a separate vote on the TSP. Separate vote on the TSP later on in the process, right? Because obviously there's still questions about some projects in the TSP that we've got a lot of testimony about. All right.
 Just for folks watching at home, the changes in this one truly are minor, such as changing wastewater collection system to wastewater treatment system and the bulleting and such, adding an and here or there. So I appreciate the attention to detail of staff. Okay. Any other questions or concerns? Let's please take a vote on that motion. I'm sorry, who seconded? Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you. Saltzman? Aye.
 Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. Now we're on to minor map amendments. So the first of these is a motion moved to adopt the minor map amendments list prepared by the staff for northwest and southwest Portland. These items are on pages 54 and 92 of the March 18th amendment report. Is there a second? Second. Second.
 So let's take a moment to look at those. If anybody else needs a refresher like I do. Just for each of these, for folks who might be watching at home wondering when theirs comes up, maybe you could just read the map ID list. Would that work for making sure that people know whether we've covered their stuff or not? Sure. Sure.
 This includes, as was mentioned, both northwest and southwest Portland. And I could put it, you have it on the screen. It includes amendments B-116, B-89, B-96, B-95, B-118, and B-90. Thank you. Okay. Any further concerns or discussion on those minor amendments in northwest and southwest?
 Okay, then let's take a vote, please, on that motion. Moved them already? I did. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Now, more minor map amendments. These in...
 North and Northeast. So I move to adopt the minor map amendments list prepared by staff for North and Northeast Portland. These items are on pages 58 and 65 to 66 of the amendment report. This excludes item B21 on Northeast 84th, which has been pulled for individual consideration. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Want me to read those again then? Yes, please.
 So in North Portland, it was Amendment B-106, B-16, B-19, B-20, and B-115. And in Northeast Portland, this is a slightly longer list, B-103, B-105, B-36, B-67, B-26, B-49, and B-27. Okay.
 So a lot of these were split parcels, right? Yeah. Not all of them, but a lot of them were. Split designations and nonconforming densities is the theme of these minor amendments. B30, B35, B32, B33, B65, B66, B73, and B74. Okay. And you pulled 84...
 which will take up, I'm sorry, B21 on Northeast 84th that will take up for individual consideration because there's still a dispute about what the designation should be? I think one of your colleagues has an amendment to offer to that. Okay.
 All right. So does anyone have any others that they want to pull off or any other concerns before we take action on this package? The issue with B21 is that we received a request for an adjacent lot to be included. That's right. Yeah, that's right. Okay. All right. Any further discussion or concerns on this one? Then let's take a vote, please, on this motion.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now motion to, I move to adopt the minor map amendments list prepared by staff for East and Southeast Portland. These items are on pages 70 to 71 and 81 to 85 of the March 18th amendment report. Is there a second? Second. Okay, anybody want to pull anything off that list? Read that if you'd like.
 This is a longer list. Starting with the east, it's B356789101112, 4513 and 117, and those were all in east Portland. And then moving to inner southeast Portland is 68106108, sorry, 107, 43-1,
 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 87, 69, 40, 41,
 M41, M56, B80, B31, 39, 75, 76, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 97, 98, 109, 110, 113, 114, 77, 38, 104, 99, 100, 101.
 And, again, those were mostly split lots that we're correcting or some nonconforming densities and a few open space corrections and adjustments to incorporate land at the adjusted urban services boundary. Okay. I just noticed one of these. I'm surprised. Waverly Country Club, we're designating it as open space? As part of our negotiation to adjust the urban services boundary to –
 As part of periodic review, we
 work with other budding jurisdictions to adjust that service line and the service line reflects the area of land where we are able to provide urban services and possibly annexation and Waverly is Is receiving sewer service from the city of Portland and as part of that negotiation with Milwaukee It was discussed to shift that within our urban services boundary. Although there's no annexation proposal. I
 But they could annex now. They could. Okay. Yeah, there were some other...
 Parcels along the Clackamas County line with Portland that I discussed with the mayor and the Milwaukee and city staff, I think we've rectified all those. Yeah, and that adjustment or that separate instrument to memorialize that agreement will come before you sometime in the next three to six months for your ratification. And then if in the event it changes further after today, we can include an accompanying amendment to these designations.
 You'll notice, Mayor, that B104 is to remove Alcroc Island from the urban service boundary. Yes, and that was another point of discussion in that meeting, so thank you. Yes. That's a city-owned property, but it's currently within Milwaukee. Good. I'm glad we're making both of those right. Other questions, concerns, points to ponder here? All right. Then let's take a vote on that motion, please.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. We'll send the deed to Milwaukee now, to their island. Not yet. Not yet. You still own it. It's another step on the way there. But they can take care of it. Oh, we haven't got there yet. We're working on it. Look forward to that.
 Okay, so we're going to move on to minor policy amendments and errata. Not that we ever make a mistake around here, but we did. I move to adopt the minor policy amendments and staff errata list. Carla, would you please read that description?
 This includes the policy errata identified on the November 13, 2015 errata memo from staff and the following policy amendments. P1-4, 6-7, 10, 12-14, 17-19, 22, 22-67, 29, 31, 53-54, 61-67, 69, 74, 65,
 76 through 83, 86 through 88, 92 to 93, 95, 97, 100, 102 to 103, 104, and 107 to 109. This also includes changes to Table 10-1, as described in Item 6 of the Mayor's April 11 Memo. Okay, is there a second to that? Second. All right. Any discussion?
 hang on just one second because on 67 the way i amended it wasn't quite what was written here so let me just look at that i throughout the document colleagues i've been really concerned about the worst the use of the word ensure which we should only be saying we're going to ensure something if we can actually do it um so my amendment had taken out that word but yeah we should be ensuring that it minimizes it doesn't say that we're going to
 It says, when aggregate resources are developed, ensure that development minimizes adverse environmental impacts and impacts on adjacent land uses. And through zoning code and other, we should be able to ensure that minimization. We can't ensure the complete avoidance, but we can ensure the minimization. So that's OK. Thank you.
 Other questions, concerns about this one? And let's take a vote. Oh, there's one more. So on number 76, right-of-way vacations, that actually needs to get polled because it depends on our discussion as far as
 So what it says now is maintain rights of way if there's an established or existing future need for them, such as for transportation facilities or other public functions, as established in Policies 8.38 to 8.43. I had actually asked for consideration of adding another policy.
 public function as part of the list of rights of way which Involved parking so I'd like to pull that one so that we can add it to Couple with your decision later on whether you agree with me that we should when considering street vacations look at whether it's used for parking Or other functions. I could get we could pull that we're gonna pull number 76 from the package that we're now Considering take that up separately Any others like that? I think I have any I
 Give me a second. The bulk of the work that I've been doing for the last six months is in here, I think. Yeah, yeah. Mostly on very minor changes. There's a lot in this list, right. Again, it gives me great joy to see many of these changes we worked really hard on. Thank you.
 Mayor Hales. It's me. Hi. A voice disembodied voice out there somewhere, Catherine. Just for purposes of clarity in the record, since you've already moved and seconded the motion as read fully to include that policy, I think you need a friendly amendment to the motion to pull that one policy out. So I'll accept a friendly amendment to my own motion. Thank you. But remove item number 76, which Commissioner Fritz moves and...
 Someone seconds? Yeah, I think I seconded that motion before. So Dan seconds that. Thank you. So we'll first vote to amend this item by removing item number 76, right? We need to take that vote. Is that what you're saying, Catherine, that we actually should vote to remove 76? Okay. So we'll take the vote, please, to remove item P76 for separate consideration. Roll call on that.
 novic aye this is an adequate birthday gift thank you very much aye we can do better than that aye um let's see if there's anything else in that package that uh you're right there's a lot there most of the policy items okay i think i'm good are you are you does it look all right amanda yep thank you okay then let's take a vote please
 Elfman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Now, next motion, speaking of birthday gifts, this is one I'm pretty happy about. I move to adopt the historical preservation policy amendments list. Carla, please read the description. This includes the following policy amendments, P20, 21, 28, and 20.
 30, 34 through 42, and 101. This also includes a modified definition of historic resources as noted and further corrected in the Mayor's April 28 Memo Item 2. Second. Okay. Yeah, so this is a whole series of policy strengthenings about historic resources, which I'm very happy to have included.
 And P33, we're taking up separately. Okay. Do we have anything in here about petitioning the state? We've got under P35, the policy 4.55, within statutory requirements for owner consent. Is there anywhere in the plan that says could we work to get rid of some of the restrictions that we have from the state? Not to my knowledge yet. Okay.
 So we might want to pull that one. Which one are you looking at? It's on page 31, P35, policy 4.45. It's your... Right. Within statutory requirements for owner consent. Right. Yeah, we did. We had discussed whether... Could we add a... I don't know. What's the amendment process here? I can add an amendment on the fly. Can we? So could we add another sentence that would say, work to strengthen state protections for historic resources?
 Hmm. That all right? Yeah, or you can make that a separate policy, either one. There's a number of policies that kind of, in the historic section, refer to the statutory limitations, so it might make sense to have a separate one that says work to strengthen the state. All right. Why don't we, instead of amending this, why don't you craft that one as an additional policy, bring it back, and we'll consider it separately? But I think it's a good idea. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Anyone have any concerns or further questions about this package? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Very enthusiastic aye. Okay. All right. Now we're going to move on to transportation. I move to adopt the transportation policy amendments list. Carla, would you please read the description? Okay.
 This includes the following policy amendments, P16, 23, 24, 25, P89, as further amended by the Fritz Memo dated April 13, P96 and 98. Okay, is there a second? Second. Mayor, I would move to hold P96 for separate consideration, although it might be a fairly brief consideration, transit funding. Six.
 This is Commissioner Fritz's amendment, new policy after 925 on transit funding. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I see. Okay. You want to pull that one and do some work on it? Yes. Okay. So Commissioner Novick moves to pull P96 from the package. Is there a second? Second. Roll call to do that. Holtzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. I can't find it now. Yeah, it's on page 39.
 So we'll get back to it. Okay. So any others in this group? Steve, are you comfortable with all these? I assume you are. I think most of them were yours. Give me a minute here, please. Yeah, that's fine. No hurry. This document's going to be around for a couple of decades. Exactly. It can take all the time we need. So it doesn't include drive-throughs, campus off-site. No, the drive-through item is pulled out. Transportation, et cetera, parking. Okay.
 Mm-hmm 23 is in a minute Oh, so yes p24
 PBOT had had some concerns about my proposed language. This is on Western neighborhood trails. And I had suggested develop pedestrian-oriented greenways and enhance the Western neighborhood's distinct system of trails to increase safety, expand mobility, access to nature, and active living opportunities. We need to change the word greenways because PBOT is concerned that that means specifically bikeways, and that's not what I was intending.
 So how about pathways? All pathways are pedestrian oriented. How about connections? Develop pedestrian oriented connections and enhance the system of trails. Does that work? Which amendment is this? This is P24. It's on page 17. We have PBOT staff here if you'd like help with that. Courtney, you got some thoughts about that?
 the goal was to recognize that in some of the southwest neighborhoods biking is is really difficult and we don't want to lose the fact that we may have pedestrian trails that are not recreational connections i think what you said the paths pedestrian connections or paths are fine right we were just concerned that the greenway definition and the greenway report and the rest of the document was more specific to bikeways with some
 So I liked what you had said about pedestrian connections. Okay. Thank you. Commissioner, I'm informed that actually we meant to pull this. That's what she's doing. That's why you meant to pull it. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So does that word solve the problem, do you think? I think it does, unless you'd like to talk about it more, Commissioner Novick. Okay.
 I guess I'd like to poll for further consideration the off-street parking language Commissioner Fritz has proposed in her April 13th memo. Okay, well, hang on. We'll get to that in a second. Oh, okay. So I'm going to accept the change of the word connections. It's just a friendly amendment. We don't have to take formal action on that. So then which one are you talking about, Dan? Policy 9.57, off-street parking, the amendment proposed by Commissioner Fritz in her April 13th memo.
 Okay, where does that show up? I think the parking has already been pre-polled, and it's on the list. It's not part of this. Oh, it's not part of this package. Oh, okay. So, okay, there you go. So, yeah, it doesn't include. So, we'll be considered later. Yeah, it does not include that one. I want to talk about it, too. Yeah. Okay. So, could I ask a clarification on P23 about eastern neighborhood site development and
 It says require that land be aggregated into larger site before land divisions and other redevelopment occurs, and then require site plans which advance design. I'm not quite sure what this is saying. Well, the purpose of this was to disincentivize flag lots and other peculiar site design arrangements that don't do much for,
 street life and connectivity which is something that is a particular problem in East Portland because of the incomplete street grid and so this was saying that there are going to be situations in which
 site development might be technically possible under the zoning code but there's going to be encouragement to go ahead and aggregate additional sites to make the project more coherent if they don't own the other sites right that's that's why we can't require that they that's what the policy says is require so I wonder could you change it to consider whether
 land can be aggregated and considered yeah we did use the word require so why refresh my memory we have in the in some plan districts a requirement for that and so it does what it does do is block an individual property owner from subdividing until there's a larger
 contiguous set of parts. We had intended to require, and we can require, right? In Pleasant Valley that's a requirement now. So the idea was to apply that requirement in... That's right. We did it by plan district before, but we haven't done it. We didn't do it in the Outer Southeast Community Plan or anywhere else. Thank you. By policy. There is a relief valve in the sense that you can also...
 redevelop without a land division through other mechanisms. It says in other redevelopments in this policy. Should we pull this one and think about it? That might be the... Okay, yeah, I think it is trying to carry out real change here, not just trying what we are doing. So Commissioner Fritz moves, and I'll second that we pull item P23 for separate consideration. Take a vote on that, please. Aye. Aye. Aye. All right, thanks.
 So, yeah, so drive-thrus, parking, this one, those are all going to be considered separately. So for P89, call 9A. Commissioner Novick and I had talked about amended language, but that one was not recognized. So let's just clarify. When we have a package like this, even if staff is recommending no change, are we saying that we accept changes?
 recommendation or that we accept the amendment this I think this is a staff error here what I should have written is as amended through your further yeah because the item on page 49 of this packet is the actual print the text of your further amendment to that and I forgot to reference it in this in this description
 So 49 is? 49 of today's agenda packet. Yeah, so that includes the policies that we were just talking about. And so goal 9A, I think, is what you were talking about. And then Commissioner Fritz, you had accepted or had proposed an amendment to the language there that's right below it from your memo on April 13th. Right. Okay.
 So I think what you want to do is just make it clear that you're deciding to incorporate that second version, not the first version. I'm not sure what everybody else has. I assume we all have the same language, which has been significantly amended. It says the city achieves the standard of zero traffic-related fatalities and serious injuries. This is achieved through engineering, education, enforcement, and evaluation.
 Although the word equity was supposed to be added before engineering. Correct. It is added in that. One second. Okay.
 So that's the modification. So that's what we're... Yeah, the second box is the one that says item four from Fritz's memo dated April 13th is, I believe, the most recent version. Right. So just to be your picture question, where there's an amendment on the table and staff recommends no change, if we vote aye on the motion to accept, am I voting to accept the amendment or am I voting to accept staff recommendation? The amendment. Okay. Okay.
 that's helpful thank you and and staff has supports the revised version just for the record this is a helpful clarification before we get too much yeah so that will be the standard and the standard should be that whenever I have encountered an item that has been amended them I should have noted it in the motion itself but I failed to do that in this case so that's part of the confusion this is why we're starting with these instead of some of the heavy hitters
 all right so any concerns about the rest of those give me a minute okay so having pulled p23 and added a word or changed a word in p24 let's take a vote then 96 as well and hold 96 as well thank you um let's take a vote please on the rest of that package as revised
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now I move to adopt the economic policy amendments list. Carla, please read the description.
 This includes the following policy amendments, P43, as amended in Item 2 of the Mayor's April 11 Memo, P44, 50, 51, 52, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, and 84. This also includes changes to Policy 6.6, as noted in Item 5 of the Mayor's April 11 Memo. Okay, is there a second? Second.
 As a housekeeping measure, I just want to note that, similar to the last one, starting on page 51 is the printout of these individual policies in the 51 of your packet today. Okay. For that package. You know, I understand the objective, Dan, in your amendment in P44 about providing adequate land supply to accommodate a full spectrum of grocery stores. Yes.
 don't want to change this. I just want to note it. I think I've had some conversations recently with some folks from the grocery industry, and it's just like some things are going to have to change for this policy to be realized, namely the size of sites that they think they have to have. Because I don't think, regardless of policy, that they're going to be available. Seven-acre sites for grocery stores are –
 are not going to be made available by city policy or anything else. So, I mean, it's a challenge. So are we setting ourselves up for something like providing enough industrial lands that since we're not expanding the urban growth boundary, we may not have the capacity to provide? Well, I would say not because it says provide adequate land supply to accommodate a full spectrum of grocery stores
 That does not necessarily, I mean, it's good that we get some of this in the record. That does not necessarily mean that the development format of past grocery stores is required in order to develop a full spectrum of grocery stores. Right. That's why staff supported this language, is we felt like the policy was good. In practice, it may be in different formats in the future. Yeah.
 There's a number of different grocery stores that are now going several stories with parking underneath and all those kinds of things. Yeah. If you look at the stadium, Fred Meyer is kind of an extreme example. You know, there's a new format grocery store. It's still a full spectrum of, I mean, it's still at that end of the spectrum of large, you know, one-stop shopping grocery stores, but it's not the same format as Mr. Meyer had in mind when it was first built. Good. That's helpful. Thank you.
 All right. Anything else in this package that needs attention? If not, then let's take a vote, please, on this package. Saltsman? Aye. Novick? I want to specifically call out my support for strengthening our carbon emissions policy by specifically referencing the role buildings and transportation attribute to our city's carbon emissions. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Yeah, I'm happy with the carbon provisions here very much so. Aye. Okay. Moving forward. Okay.
 Okay, I move to adopt the employment map amendments list. Carla, would you please read that description?
 This includes MAP amendments B14, B15, B17, B22, M31, M36, M37, M38, M52, M53, M59, M64, M67, and M68.
 As it says here, this bundle does not include M33 or 34, which is Riverside and Broadmoor, S9, which is 122nd's Kmart site, S16, which is Lewis and Clark College, F72, which is Rossi Farm, M47, which is on Northwest 29th, all of which have been pulled for individual consideration. I also withdrew M49 for the PepsiCo site in my April 28th memo, so that's also not included.
 So look through this and see what is included, but it's not those because we'll be talking about those individually. In the back of your document, it starts on page 55 if you want to see the specific items. Yes, please, 55, okay. I will note that there's a couple of items in this package that does increase the employment capacity. The ESCO site and the post office site both allow for more intense employment development.
 So that will help when we get to some of the other questions. Right. Right. Yeah, and the Adidas campus as well, I think. This goes in here. Yeah, that's significant. That's right. What have we done with the post office site with respect to the EOS? This item refers to the post office near Rossi Farm at 122nd. Right. I'm talking about the EOS.
 The big post office. The big post office is part of the central city plan, so we have not changed land use on that site with this comprehensive plan. That would be taken through. No, no, I know we haven't changed land use. It's probably CX already, right? But I'm thinking about the economic opportunities analysis. I guess it doesn't change the land inventory, but it might change the yield in terms of jobs, right? Yeah.
 And it might just change the location of jobs. Yeah. We have so much capacity in the central city for employment uses, it's tied more to the forecast than the land supply. Okay. Yeah. Good. I think that that may not be an abstraction much longer. Any day now, I think. Okay. Let's see. Just a question on M67. Okay.
 4609 to 4615 Northeast Hoyt. It's retained the multi-dwelling zone on this hospital-owned residential property rather than the new institutional campus. Can you just tell me the reason for that? That was at the request of the hospital. It's in residential use and would be more easily managed as a residentially zoned property. Thank you.
 okay okay all right any other concerns uh about this package everybody had time to look through the list i don't remember the columb b-15 multi-dwelling 2000 to industrial sanctuary this is a small property that's union pacific property next to the railroad and it was zoned residential but it's cut off from the residential neighborhood it's it's a tiny fragment okay
 All right. No wonder this was non-controversial. That makes sense. I don't think it was ever going to have apartments built there. I think we only gained 1,000 square feet of industrial land with that change, though. Okay. All right. Anyone unready to proceed on this? Then let's vote, please. I'm sorry? Second. I don't think there was a second, but thank you. Thank you for keeping track, Catherine. Thank you. Okay. Let's take a vote, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick.
 I particularly want to call out my support for M37, which extends the campus institution designation to the National College of Natural Medicine in Southwest, with the support of the neighborhood. Aye. Prince. Aye. Niels. Aye. Okay. Now let's move to the map. I move to adopt the mixed-use map amendments list. Carla, would you please read that description?
 This includes MAP Amendments B1, B2, as corrected in Item 9 of the Mayor's April 28 Memo,
 N11, S15, M19, M22, M23, M24, B24, M26, M27, M28, M29, B34, B37, M39, M40, M43, M44, M46, M48, M50, M54, M55, F50,
 55, M57, M61, F62, M65, M69, M70, and M76. Okay, there's a lot in this one. Second. Second, thank you. Specifics start on page 59 of the same document. Okay.
 i guess i did want to point out just for anyone watching these proceedings at home that this is not the first time you're skimming through these and that you have had a lot of time and your staff has spent countless hours with our staff reviewing each one of these items and so just in case it
 Looks that way. It is absolutely not that way. I have never been in a hearing like this where there's so much quiet time where we're all reading diligently. And I appreciate you saying that, Susan, because for me now, I've got all my staff's recommendation. I'm looking at every single one to make sure that we try to get it right. As was noted earlier, it's possible that we will find that we need to go back and revisit that.
 The Mayor's favorite, measure twice and cut once, I think is good. Right, right. It's always a good idea. So I want to call out M70. Yeah, I was just looking at that. Right. And that's Hayden Island. And this is where the staff recommendation is to change from mixed-use dispersed to mixed-use neighborhood, which implements a corresponding policy amendment in Figures 3.1 and 3.3.
 Staff's recommendation is to support with the caveat that a secondary bridge across the access to the island is added to the unconstrained portion of the TSP list. We will do that, the transportation system plan list, we do that in a separate amendment, right? We did have testimony yesterday from Hayden Island residents concerned about that. And I understand that there is an errata from the mayor to specify that that would be to East Hayden Island residents.
 And we also want to put in the record to explore the possibility of it being transit, pedestrians and bikes only. But that would happen in the next design phase.
 I agree with all that. Yeah, that was good testimony, and the point is access to the island, not one more way to get in the queue to go north on I-5. Correct. And also that it, although the Hayden Island plan identified a bridge to West Hayden Island, that was when both the Columbia River crossing and the terminal were being considered. And so when HUDs ever are available for this, we'll have to go back and revisit the Hayden Island plan as well.
 I disagreed with some of the testimony that we heard on this issue, but maybe that's a fairly minor disagreement, which is about the intensity of development. But as a mixed-use neighborhood, this allows potentially five-story buildings, which to me for the scenario of redevelopment in that strip mall portion of East Hayden Island is appropriate.
 And in the East Hayden Island plan originally, we didn't have that neighborhood designation yet, but what was described in there pretty much matches it, honestly, that level of development in that mix. I would also note that staff's concern about access is also related to emergency access. That's one of the biggest issues for new development out there. So in terms of exploring what modes are considered in the future, we should include emergency access.
 Yes, so as we heard in another presentation yesterday, a pedestrian and bicycle bridge can also accommodate emergency access. That is possible. Okay, any other concerns about this package? Anyone need more time to look through? There's a lot in this one, I think. Yeah, I'm satisfied with this package. I think it's good. Ready? Okay, then let's take a vote, please, on this package. Thank you.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. May I interrupt the proceedings for a brief and somewhat subdued celebration of the improved revenue forecast? Yes. Okay.
 Yeah, there is a slightly improved revenue forecast. Not the humongous Saltzman bump that we were hoping for? No, the Saltzman rule is this is a La Nina year instead of an El Nino year. Yeah, so I don't have the numbers in my head, but it's a modest improvement in the ongoing and almost no improvement in the one time, mainly because Josh Harwood pretty much nailed it the first time.
 So it's not that economic conditions have degraded. It's that, you know, he was fairly aggressive in his previous forecast, and he was about aggressive enough. So it makes our task – it doesn't make our task any harder, but it doesn't make it a lot easier. But, yeah, it's still a good forecast, you know, and we all remember budgets that were nowhere near this well supported. So good situation. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move on to the next item, which is number 12. I move to adopt the residential map amendments list. Carla, would you please read that description? Okay.
 This includes map amendments B4, M21, B23, N24, B25, M25, N25, M30, M32, B42, M51, M60, M62, M63, F68, B70, F71, B71, B72, M75, B78, F81, B72, M73, M62, M62, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63, M63,
 B-86, B-88, B-91, B-93, B-94, B-119, B-120, and B-121. Yeah, and again, there's a lot here, so let's take a few minutes to look through. Important to note that we've had a lot of testimony on some other proposed amendments, which this bundle does not include, namely S-12, which is 17th and Ensley.
 N14, which is 6141 Canyon Court, 518, which is 4335 Southwest Humphrey, N15, which is 822 Southeast 15th, S21, which is a large area of Buckman, S22, which is 1910 Southeast Stark, M45 and 71, which were like the 60th Avenue, M58, which is Southwest Maine and St. Clair, M74, which is East Moreland,
 B-92, which is southwest 25th. So a lot of those have had a lot of public input. Those are going to be considered individually. Is there a second? Second. Okay, let's take a look. I'd like to just comment on a couple of these amendments that I'm supporting. This M-75, which is changing the single-dwelling 2.5 zoning within East Moreland to single-dwelling 5,000 square foot zoning.
 That's on Woods, Duck and Chavez. And the reason I'm supporting that is because nearby we had a land use case where it wasn't feasible or reasonable to put the 2.5 density and that kind of called into question that area.
 E88, which is in Moreland Lane in East Moreland again, and that is being proposed for down zoning from single dwelling 5,000 to single dwelling 7,000. These two specific sites are where staff's analysis shows that the down zoning is appropriate and will better manage both traffic and development in the area and result in better development there.
 And throughout the plan, there was various downzonings for hazards. There was downzonings for better neighborhood safety.
 balance and with really good rationale that's supported and documentation for that support beyond whether neighbors would like a different zone or not. And so that's why I'm supporting these two particular changes in the zoning, and I won't be supporting the more widespread down zoning that some have been requesting.
 Of course, others' vote on this doesn't prejudge what their vote on the next, on the pulled items might be. Okay, we can all rest easy. The Terwilliger Plaza amendment is in here. Yeah. Tough crowd. You know, we could have probably saved ourselves some trouble because there's this boilerplate language in the staff analysis box that says, you know, East Burnside is expected to be over capacity at this location and...
 2035 during the PM peak. We could have just put one box in at the beginning that said all streets are expected to be over capacity in 2035. Right. So, yeah. But it's important to note that that caveat is in place in many cases, but that is not driving our decision making, and that's very good. Places that are designed for street capacity are not good places.
 I would add also that sometimes that note appears where you're down-designating, and so you're arguably making it a little better. Yeah, in some cases. Okay, this package looks good to me. Anyone else have questions, concerns, or need a little more time? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Fultzman? Aye. Novick? Really appreciate staff's work on this. Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay.
 Okay. Now we're going to move to the transportation system plan. I move to adopt the TSP project list amendments. Carla, please read the description.
 This includes amendments from Commissioner Novick and the Mayor listed on pages 100 through 110 of the March 18th Amendment Report as well as the TSP errata on page 111. This also includes the clarification noted in item 10 of the Mayor's April 28 memo clarifying that the Hayden Island Bridge is
 is to the commercial area on East Hayden Island, not to the port's West Hayden Island property. Okay, is there a second? Second. I'm not sure that I have your memo of today, though, Mayor. Yeah, I'm looking for the back...
 material on this section Eric it's not in your packet so I'm sorry that you have to go back to the 18th document okay the it's a large set of spreadsheets at the back of the document starting on page what starting on page 100 of our Commissioner Novick's amendments to the transportation project list and then your own amendments are on page 110 okay
 It's a good thing Commissioner Fish isn't here to note the typeface. That's good. I'm glad we're taking that out of there. We're taking out extending the streetcar from OMSI Station to Moody via the Telecom Bridge. It's done. The number of the changes were because we finished the project. But this all starts on page 100. I don't have a page 100. It's in other 100 of this one.
 Okay. Got it.
 So anything else noteworthy here, Eric, that you might want to point out? There were a couple themes here. One theme you already noted, which is to remove projects that are completed. I think we're also removing the bridge itself now that it's done. There are a couple projects in residential areas that were removed because of lack of local support as we were fine-tuning.
 And then another category was there were a few projects that were broken into smaller pieces so that an earlier phase could be built earlier and get more done quicker. Now, the Northeast 7th Avenue neighborhood greenway is here, right, in this list. So it's 9th. Right, 7th slash 9th. We got a lot of testimony about that.
 I had some questions about that so I'm not sure if I'm ready to take action on that one I'd like some clarification because it's got ninth in as a project as well as seventh as a project or do you want to help us out with that I can try so um so there's both a project in the TSP list related to seventh and ninth and then at Planning Commission right now is the
 incorporating the bike master plan into the comprehensive plan so there's been some testimony that I think is both related to the classifications of seventh and ninth that are at is actually a planning commission right now as well as concerns or questions about how we'll actually build the facility on seventh and ninth that's how I've interpreted the the testimony and others can
 Let me know if they have had that same. So we put in the 7th and 9th as a project in the TSP because of a variety of reasons. And then, again, we are making changes to the classifications in the next stage of the transportation system plan that's at planning commission. What generally we've talked about and I believe have briefed some people with is that when we actually design and build the 7th and 9th,
 You know, there will be a lot of decisions being made about exactly what that looks like, where it goes, how wide things are, where striping is. And there's a public process and a public involvement component of that design. And so I believe that we have decided related to what the planning commission is to leave it as is in the classification description, which I believe is the 9th.
 Well, there's two different projects listed. There's one that's listed just for 9th, and then there's one that's listed for 7th and 9th. Right. And so I think we've left that in to have that flexibility for when we actually get any funding to be able to decide where that goes. Okay.
 So we're officially not deciding now? That is my understanding, right. I haven't been that involved in the planning process. When do we officially decide that? I believe when the gas tax passes and we have gas tax money to actually build the project. Typically at the project description stage at this level.
 The project doesn't necessarily need to pick exactly what street it's on. Sometimes projects are whole corridors that have their own planning process to figure out their final alignment. Similar to the 20s and 50s and 70s bikeway, I think it's a similar conversation that we had, and that's the same when the bike master plan was.
 developed in 2010 about looking at 7th and 9th as a corridor. So I think that's why we put it in the project list as both. And then we're looking at actually classifying one at a higher level. But again, design can be decided. I mean, the classification is important in terms of its design, but it will not be the only dictation as to how it's built and how it's designed. Courtney, the...
 The project on 40116, which is where I think we have most of the testimony, the project name is Northeast 7th, 9th, which seems to leave it open. And the project description is design and implement a neighborhood greenway, which seems to leave it open. But the project location description says 7th Avenue from Whiteler to Sumner Street and up 9th Avenue, Sumner to Holman, which makes it sound like we're deciding exactly how it runs.
 Or am I misunderstanding? I think it's giving a generalized description as to where it could go on either street. But then there's 2122, which is just 9th. Excuse me.
 I don't know if I do either. Sorry. I'm just trying to find the exact language. I don't have it in front of me. Should we maybe pull this for later? That's fine with us. I mean, we've been briefing a variety of people about it, and there's people much more versed in the design and the decision-making about 7th and 9th than I am. Yeah. I don't think we need to pre-design the project here, but I do want to make sure that I understand where we've –
 where we positioned what possibilities we positioned it for that's fine yeah based on the testimony so commissioner fritz moves and i'll second pulling that one out of the package two two oh one two two and four oh one one yes both of those thank you okay we'll call to pull those two items out as for separate consideration they can be together when they come hi
 Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. And then there are several items on the Sullivan-Schultz trail, and Brad Perkins testified yesterday that we never actually put it on the map. Is that correct, or are we adding it to the map now? No.
 The project list doesn't change the map on the zoning map in terms of development of view requirements. It's just a funding list. So the separate action of classifying and putting the little stars on the zoning map that signify a trail is still at the Planning Commission. So it's coming. Yeah. So we know we're getting there. And he's been at that commission too. Got it. Good. Thank you. Thank you.
 commissioner fritz did you want to add the language to the mayor's hayden island bridge description to explore the feasibility of transit and bicycle emphasis please okay is that a friendly amendment and add that language
 Slightly off topic, but Steve, I assume the wonderful Sullivan's Gulch Bridge project that was at Council yesterday is already accommodated in the list in the map? That's a darn good question. Have we quickly added that to this revised list? No.
 I believe that that is in our proposal that's at Planning Commission right now in terms of adding those classifications, but we can confirm that, and if that's something you'd want to hold off until May 11th to talk about, we can have clarification. I believe the answer is yes, but… Let's just check. Okay, we can check. Yeah, and a reminder that these are just the amendments to the list. Right, so it's already there. It's fine. And I believe it's there, but we'll double check. Yeah, I'm assuming that it's already there, but…
 We're that far down the road to designing it. Yeah, I think it's been there for a while, actually. Yeah, we'll confirm. Yeah. I think it's just a fantastic project. Okay. Anyone have any more questions or items to pull or need some more time to look through this? I think I'm good. All right. Then let's take a vote, please, on that package. Falter. Aye. Novick. Aye. Ritz. Aye. Hales. Okay. Okay.
 Now, we're going to move into this list of individual items, right? Is that where we go next, Eric? Correct. Item number 14. Yeah, so you're moving now from the bundles into the individual items. And so those policies as we go, or the map descriptions, are just printed right under each item. Okay, so it's just a matter of I move amendment number 14. Is that it? I think these are just the language as they existed when they were pulled. So I think the commissioner who wanted to pull these should probably –
 Oh, I see. So they were pulled out. They were pulled out. So the commissioner who pulled it should probably offer what the interest is, and there should be some discussion of how you're changing it. Commissioner Novick, then you have the floor to talk about item number 14, which is the prioritization.
 Well, first of all, I'd like to thank my colleagues, especially Commissioner Fish for working with me and the disability elder rights communities to move the ADA language to a separate policy where it fits better. There's one amendment I'd like to make, actually, to this, which is in the fourth and final bullet point on the next second page, there's a language that says –
 Rationale is provided if modes lower in the hierarchy are prioritized and the words policy-based were there, and I'd like to restore them. So I'd like to move to amend this to restore the words policy-based in that fourth bullet point. Okay, I'll second that. Anybody know why they were removed? Was that just – Just a typo. Yeah. Just in the process of working on everything. Okay.
 Things got crossed off, got added. What would be a non-policy-based draft? Agreed, but we got a number of comments that people want to make sure we said policy-basis in there. A non-policy-based would be engineering or something. Engineering or we made it up, I guess. I don't know. Yeah. Okay. All right. So let's take a vote on that amendment, please. Okay.
 Bultzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Prince? I appreciate the discussion with Commissioner Novick and have become convinced that the prioritization in the audit list is correct. Aye. Nails? Aye. Okay. So I think what we've always done so far is add back the word policy-based, I think. But anything else that we need to change in this? I like it. Okay. So then...
 Then let's take a vote, please, on Policy 9.6 as printed and further amended today. Gosselin. Aye. Novick. Woo-hoo. Aye. Aye. Hales. Aye. Good work. All right. Policy 8.3, Commissioner Fritz. Aye.
 So this one is about commercial uses and I want to further amend it. I wanted to add language that said restrict the size of signage in the right-of-way, not commercial signage. I wanted to delete commercial because obviously we can't discriminate based on content. But this is billboards and large moving image signs, Mayor. MR. Yeah. No, they're not always in the right-of-way, of course, but that's where this policy applies, right?
 That's a really good point. Maybe we just have to say this policy. This policy is in the public facilities chapter in the right-of-way section. So we may need to have it somewhere else as well. Yeah. Okay. But you'd like to remove the word commercial? Right. And have the amendment state restrict the size of signage in the right-of-way. I'll accept that as a friendly amendment. So that actually is very helpful because one of the prerequisites
 perpetrators of bad performance on this issue is the city of Portland with some signs that we happen to own at the Rose Quarter so I'm glad I'm glad you mentioned that that will make them contrary to policy which is a good start at getting rid of them
 Without wanting to put you in an awkward position, would I properly understand that BPS staff would still, even after the deletion of the word commercial, oppose this amendment or recommend against this amendment? I think our initial reaction was there is a whole separate sign code that's outside of the land use code, but the biggest concern was stepping on the commercial constitutional issue. Thank you. We're taking out the word commercial, so.
 Further discussion about 8.43 as amended with the removal of that one word. Then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Thank you. Elves? Aye. Okay. Number 16 is a couple of changes requested for emphasis on air quality. So there's a recommended change to policy 4.36.8.
 regarding diesel emissions that said diesel emissions encourage best practices to reduce diesel emissions and related impacts when considering land use in public facilities that will increase truck or train traffic, and added language after that saying advocate for state legislation to accelerate replacement of older diesel engines.
 And then Policy 7.5, Air Quality, which said, improve or support efforts to improve air quality through plans and investments, including reducing exposure to air toxics, criteria pollutants, and urban heat island effects. Consider the impacts of air quality on the health of all Portlanders. A new language added that says, coordinate with the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality to incorporate up-to-date air quality information and best practices into planning and investment decisions. Okay. Thank you.
 So, any comments, questions about this? I think this is one where there aren't, as far as I know, not further amendments to this language, but it had been pulled to be able to discuss. Very timely. Probably won't be a short-term phenomenon, even though it's very timely right now. Okay, so do we take these as separate votes here on these two? Okay.
 or just take amendment 16 as a package so i'll move amendment 16 as a package second further discussion let's take a vote please saltzman no thank you an enthusiastic guy right so obviously all of this is based on citizen input and there are multiple places where citizens have made a huge difference i particularly want to call out tamar derrida and the bro city park neighborhood association being one of several who are absolutely outstanding as part of this process i
 that is true okay item 17 which was p33 protect defining features I was trying to enhance the language here that said it originally said protect defining features protected enhanced defining places and features of centers and corridors including landmarks natural features historic and cultural resources through application of zoning incentive programs and regulatory tools
 So this was trying to give us more leverage to maintain the built environment where there are historic or cultural or natural elements that we want to save. So any further questions or discussion about that? I would just like staff to explain how this then would get implemented, say, in Multnomah Village. How does this language help you in crafting centers and corridors and others that are still unique and respect the history?
 Thank you for the question. Yeah, this is playing out within the mixed-use zoning map discussion at the Planning Commission right now. And there's a proposal on the table to use a three-story zone rather than the middle-density four- or five-story zone in some of the oldest areas.
 corridors or oldest sort of old towns, if you will, of some of our corridors where you have an older, usually continuous storefront character and where there's a concern about the scale of new development interrupting that scale. And so we've
 applied that and it's under discussion at the at the Planning Commission right now so in Multnomah Village for example the The CM one three-story zone was used in that core Main Street And then the CM to the middle scale zone is used sort of on either end of that so you have sort of the old town and then an Opportunity area for newer growth on either side and that's a a forum discussion that's happening with the Planning Commission. Thank you. I
 Yeah. It's also by adding the incentive programs there. There's an opportunity for public-private partnerships that I think in many places throughout the code here, we've sort of identified those areas and opportunities. Okay. Further discussion? Is there a second to that motion? Second. Further discussion? Roll call, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Aye.
 I particularly appreciate your staff, Mayor, and mine working together with staff to get to this, which I think does get to what Multnomah and other neighborhoods were really concerned about. Aye. Ayes. Yeah, as it gets implemented through the map and the code, this is really important, and I think it will do a lot for the character of those neighborhood main streets. Aye. Okay. Okay.
 number 18 uh campus off-site impacts commissioner novick you want to talk about this one yes thank you mayor colleagues i offered this amendment to a policy governing the new campus institution designation for concerns about how we will implement efforts to minimize off-site impacts of development especially through new requirements by using transportation management tools also known as tdm
 as we grow tdm will be increasingly important not just for large institutions and campuses but also in mixed use zones because these tools encourage people to walk bike take transit and carpool when possible rather than driving reducing parking and traffic congestion i know pbot has been working to develop policies to include in the tsp with respect to dm we're monitoring the development of this policy we need to strike the right balance to ensure the policy benefits development and matches our values as a city and i appreciate bbs's pbot staff for their work in this policy
 Second, okay, it's moving seconded further discussion about this change to policy 6.5 7 roll call, please Thank You commission no big guy Okay Number 19, which is a individual map amendment to
 COMMISSIONER MAY. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KINZER. COMMISSIONER KIN
 We removed them for individual consideration. Now we're getting to the individual consideration. Oh, okay. But if you want to have that. I construed that to me in the 11th. If you want to have that consideration on the 11th, you're free to do that. So part of the issue is the 11th, you'll look at the last page 76 and 77 in the document, and we have 25 items about. And many of them, if you think a lot of those will go fast,
 Um, because you've already discussed them pretty thoroughly. Then we can add more on, um,
 Some of those are going to have a robust discussion, I think. Yeah, okay. I thought I'd toss that out. You can pass over any of these if you'd like to. Yeah, I mean, if there's something, yeah, and I think I may practice this myself, but if there's one or more in here where you just want some more time or still would like to delay it to the 11th or otherwise, don't hold back because you've got to be comfortable with proceeding on these. Yes.
 this particular one or any of my colleagues undecided as to how they vote on it I sort of you want to hold this one then Dan or I'll ask the sponsor what's what's your preference well I actually
 Actually, I think I was going to back off on this one myself and defer to BPS. I thought that it was appropriate to have a discussion about land that's zoned R20 because R20 is a rather unusual designation. And I think that it's reasonable always to question whether anything should be in an R20 zone in an urban area. And given that there was a request for this change, I thought it was worth having a council discussion. But now that...
 the idea has been floated and bps staff still thinks that this is not an appropriate amendment i was willing to withdraw it um however i also thought that i was uh that if i were still for it i'd be you know overwhelmed so commissioner saltzman wants to think about it further i wouldn't mind that well i i had some of the same thoughts that commissioner nova gave you know an r20 in a in the middle of the city even this is on the western edge of the city it's still very much an urbanized area
 And I guess I disagree that it's got poor transit access. I mean, I think testimony showed it's not very far from a bus line, nor from Westside Max, for that matter. And, you know, the services weren't there. So I just felt, you know, I feel most of the opposition to this really comes from people don't want other people living near them with their cars and keeping it hard for them to get from point A to point B. So I guess I'm inclined to think this is our 20th in the city.
 In close proximity to services, it just doesn't make sense. So the request is to go to R5, right? So this would be dividable into, I don't know how big it was, but some number of R5 lots. The question is, if that's the case, then we should look at the whole area. We should not be just looking at one lot. Well, I don't know why we're not. Talk about that, please. I mean, there's not that much undeveloped. Well, that's not true. I don't know if there's a lot of R20 up there. I don't know that close to R20.
 That close to 26 or to skyline, I'm not sure how much R20 there is, but help us out with this, guys. The zoning pattern on the screen shows the site in black, and there's a big – pretty much all of 61st to the north is R20 for some distance. Okay.
 And it's fairly steep and hilly, and I think that's the rationale. That's also an area that was outside the city limits, but within our zoning jurisdiction. So our comp plan applies, but it's yet to be annexed along 61st, and so that's partly why the R20 is there still. This is a weird situation because there's very large multifamily just to the west, right? Correct. Accessed by the same street.
 granted it's not directly on transit, but it's a pretty easy bike ride from there to the zoo stop. Not to mention I think there is bus service at Skyline. Yeah, we heard testimony there was bus service on Skyline. So I guess... And it's pretty flat compared to the property to the north, relatively speaking, the R20s. Right. Right, this one was flatter. Yeah.
 There's an air photo. There's a water tank across the street. Right. Is that our water tank or someone else's? I believe it's ours. There's also a school about a block to the east. This is a site photo. There's a pretty large retaining wall that separates this site from the Sunset Highway.
 It actually fronts on a different street. It fronts on the only feasible really frontage is 61st. Oh, I see, because it's elevated up on top of that wall. Yeah. But as the testimony pointed out, there are sidewalks on the street below. Yeah, so I guess I'm still inclined to support this. I think I am too. I'm not. Okay.
 Well, Steve, what do you think? Otherwise, we might have to delay this one. It may be a hung jury here. Since it's controversial, maybe it would be good for Commissioner Fisch to delay it. I've gone back and forth on it, so I don't mind another couple weeks to go back and forth. All right, let's pull this one off. So Commissioner Fritz moves, and I'll second that we pull this one out for individual consideration.
 What do we have to do when we have to do that? Because it's not in a package. So we'll just delay this one. We'll set this one over. OK, let's move on to number 20. We just went about four blocks to the east from our last site. And this is on a forested slope opposite the zoo, essentially. It's got access off of Humphrey. It's a site that's had a number of development proposals over the years.
 none of which are currently active, I believe. The surrounding sites, the zoo obviously is zoned open space. The surrounding land is mostly in the R20 category, again, in this case because of the slope. There's also, I think, a staff concern here about land hazards because it's a pretty steep slope with some history of landslides that go out onto the highway. So this was a property owner request, right? Right. Okay.
 And the request was to keep it at R10? Right. This was within an area of recommended down designations from R10 to R20 due to slope hazards and related issues. Okay.
 This is sort of the inverse of the centers and corridors strategy is to also try and reduce density on some of the most constrained and difficult to develop on sites. So those recommendations, concerns about the slopes being raised by the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability or another bureau? Yeah, we did an analysis that looked at landslide history and access issues with emergency services and with slopes and landslide hazard and
 mapped areas that were far from centers and corridors that had these constraints and came up with a package of down designations, again, with the larger idea of relieving density pressure on these harder-to-serve locations. There's some areas in outer southeast, south of Foster. There's some areas south of Long Tryon Creek.
 that were subject to this similar treatment and then a small area on the back side of council crest which is really steep coming above hillsdale that was also this was this approach was taken so there's about a dozen areas of 20 to 50 properties each where we we're essentially taking the density down a notch due to do these hazard concerns
 Well, I haven't been down the street to look at this one, but I assume that it's hugely steep. It goes all the way down to the freeway. But the only development scenario that's even practicable would be to build another house next to the house that's there on Humphrey, right? There's a house on Humphrey that must be 4335. Yeah, there's a house there. There have been PUD proposals on this site for 15 to 20 lots in the past, and that's, I think, the –
 The interest of the applicant on this. And how big is the site? That is a good question. Yeah, it's pretty big. It is big. I don't have the figure in front of me. So the Bureau of Emergency Management worked with us on this, just so you know that. Oh, okay. Right. That they were the ones that helped us work through all the technical issues. So your recommendation is keep the down zoning because...
 Do the down zoning. Do the down zoning. Keep the down zoning proposal, which takes it from R10 to R20. And that basically says we're done there. That house is there, but there won't be more, right?
 Even with R20, there are more houses allowed. As you said, it's a pretty big site. It's a big enough parcel that they could divide it. They could still divide it into probably even more than two, but it wouldn't be as many houses. Oh, all right. Yeah. One more house or so there, properly engineered, wouldn't probably be the end of the world. Okay.
 Eight or 10 or 15 is a crazy idea in my opinion, not having done the geotechnical analysis, but having seen this from the highway. So I appreciate it. I did put this forward at the request of the property owner, but I appreciate the analysis by Emergency Management and BPS, so I'm comfortable with the recommendation of the Bureau. Okay. Anyone else not ready to vote on this one? Okay, let's take a vote, please, then, on Amendment 20. Saltzman.
 My voting no, you're voting yes, right which is it your retain? Oh no, so retaining 10,000 would be going against the staff record. Yes So the amendment was to to undo the down designation So you'd want to vote no if you want to leave the staff recommendation and yes if you want to adopt our tens of got it Okay, so no no, no, no
 That's a nice change. No. It fails. No. Maybe the first unanimous no vote on this council. I don't remember nothing. I don't know if we've ever done that before. All right. So let's go to 21, 17th and Sherritt. This one is a couple properties in the –
 vicinity of 17th and Sherritt that were proposed to essentially widen the mixed-use designation at a node there. It was – you had a lot of testimony about this amendment, so that's why we recommended considering it individually. There was a – quite a few neighbors testified against it as well as the Neighborhood Association. Testified against it.
 The specific areas are essentially there is a mixed-use corridor on 17th already, and this would take that mixed-use zoning another half block on both sides of that node. There's not really any point in having mixed-use zoning if you don't have a frontage. Well, it does have a frontage, right? I think the intent was to develop a –
 A more significant node here that went beyond just the immediate frontage, it is the short distance from the orange line on the right side of the map. Where we were able to expand these nodes to make the sites actually more flexibly developable, we were looking for that opportunity of when you have the mixed use or some of these more intense zones,
 squeezed in you have less ability to design around the site and have a site that fits in building that fits in better then there's no transition between the mixed-use and that Lord the single-family part of this part of this area is vacant right
 I mean, there's a vacant parcel at 17th and Sherritt that's already in excuse. Yeah, just so you can see, there's an existing building on the west side, and then you can see on this photo at the left side, there's part of a vacant lot there that goes back that distance. So I think it is related to making that, as Joe said, the site more feasibly developed under one zone. You did get testimony from the neighbors on the –
 budding single-family lots concerned about shade and impact to their gardens right so if we don't adopt the amendment then the pattern would be mixed use neighborhood to the same depth along that whole portion of 17th right right and what parcels that are
 highlighted in the rectangles would be what designation? They would remain as R2. R2. Okay. So the pattern of mixed use on 17th and step down with R2 to the adjacent single family would be maintained if we do not approve the amendment. And staff's recommendation is which? We recommended support for this due to the proximity of the orange line and the
 feasibility of having a more coherent node here because it is in the control of one property owner where there's a potential for a coherent development plan? A good example to think about, although it's slightly different, is the mixed use building at 11th, Northeast 11th in Broadway, where it's residential taller along Broadway, transitions down to townhouses, parking in the middle. Part of
 which is a very successful transition. Part of what makes it that, though, is the uniform zoning across the whole site so things could be shifted around. It was simply a move like that. I'm not really sure, Eric, but given our new mixed-use code, what's the scale difference between R2 in the back and what we might be putting in the mixed-use in the front? Okay.
 The R2 allows 45-foot-high development, and the mixed use is limited to 45. I mean, the reality, though, is the adjacent property owners are a little bit lower than that. Right. So that's why we went for the larger node. The physical kind of transition would be the same. The R2.5, which is the orange color on the map, is 35-foot-high. Okay.
 Steve, do you have some thoughts about this one? Well, I used to live at 17th and the Halem, and I'm very bitter about the fact, although I like living where I live, I'm bitter about the fact that I'm not able to use the new Orange Line, and I think as many people as possible should be able to, so I support the amendment. Yeah, I guess I'm still sort of rethinking the question of what the practical effect of this is going to be. You've got to...
 fairly fully developed and i guess i hadn't realized this was like long strips on either side of 17th um with what 10 12 parcels involved right i think i'd like a little more time on this one let's can we hold this one over let's hold this one over for um okay m47 number 22 um
 Trying to remember this one. So this is up behind Montgomery Park. Oh, right. And where Nikolai and Wardway come in. There's a section that's zoned employment that's south of Nikolai starting to go up the slope towards the residential area. And there's a registration problem on my map here. Okay.
 The red box should be over on top of the crosshatch box and the whole box the whole dotted box should be Should slide. Yeah to the left This was the question of of the back portion of that property if you look at it as if you look at the Nikolai frontage as being the front the back portion fronts on to Wilson right? Yeah, so the original amendment is
 This has two layers. The original amendment was to add the solid square, the cross-hatch square on Wilson, which is in this photograph I'm looking east on Wilson towards Montgomery Park, and the site was to the left, and then there's existing townhouse development to the right. Yep. And so it would be this site here that would – the proposal was to change that from employment to R2. Okay.
 The further variant on that, which I believe came from Commissioner Novick, was to extend that and change the larger dotted square to EX to provide a larger transition. And the concern raised by staff was that EX allows housing, and so we were concerned about the erosion of the buffer between the residential and the
 heavy industrial zone to the north, and Nikolai is a heavy freight street at that location. But that idea is not before us in this amendment, right? You both are before you in this amendment, so you have to decide if you want to do one or both or something else. Oh, all right. So there's the original amendment and the further amendment in the box below it. Yeah, I'm...
 I don't think housing fronting Nikolai to me doesn't make sense. Housing fronting Wilson makes sense, right? I got that right from your standpoint, staff? Yeah, we supported the change to the one parcel facing Wilson. But leaving it, so the, well, it's in the, is it in the industrial sanctuary on the Nikolai portion? Yeah, all of it's industrial sanctuary, yeah.
 I do think we need to be very careful about industrial lands and employment lands here. My concern was that, I mean, this land has been underutilized for years and years and years. And the developer, the potential developer here has worked closely with the Northwest District Association, which supports the changes in the amendments.
 And I know that there's a concern about if there's industrial uses next to residential, then at some point the residents complain and say they want the industrial uses to go away. But they don't have an absolute right to do that. I would think that we can make sure that the new residential users will know that there's nearby industrial uses that they're expected to put up with. I don't think that we should leave a piece of land unsold.
 Undeveloped forever because of concern about that possible tension, which I think it'd be diffused just by telling people hey look for an industrial area This is a picture that on the screen now Just looking from Nikolai to the right is the site is the lower portion of the site right? Yeah, I guess I don't remember the testimony about the about the Nikolai frontage I remember the testimony about the Wilson Camille you got some thoughts on this you can come up. Sorry I
 he's done a lot of work on this camille tremor policy advisor for the record camille tremor policy advisor for the record so we did not receive opposition to this actually the northwest neighborhood association supported this both pieces both pieces so um i had i have not received any testimony against
 so what's the impact on a gals like industrial sanctuary and what's the impact on the end on the employment lands numbers yeah I guess while you're thinking about this so I guess if I'm you know I'm not I'm not as clued in on the second piece of this proposal as I should be but
 So the original proposal regarded Wilson. I got that. And then the second proposal was to change the designation to EX in the remainder of the parcel along Nikolai. But it doesn't quite make it all the way to the R5 proposal.
 That's the mistake that I pointed out earlier. Everything between 29th and this was supposed to be circled there. There's a registration problem in my map making here. So it's this section.
 Nid yw'n cynyddu ar draws y gwartheg y cwrwyd. Nid yn y cyflwyniad sydd ar hyn o bryd. Ie. Felly byddwch yn bwysig yn cymryd y cyfan yma o'r cwrwyd ar y gwartheg i Nicolae, i'r ardal R5 ac os yw hynny wedi'i gyfrifo, bydd hynny'n mynd o IH neu beth bynnag, nawr, beth yw'r cwrwyd nawr, i EX, iawn? Mae'n IH nawr, rwy'n credu. Ydy hynny'n iawn?
 mae'n dweud bod yn gweithio yn gwahanol mae gennym ni ddim, dyna beth mae'r gweithwyr bwydol wedi'i gofyn ac mae gennym ni ddim gyd-dysgu at hynny, ie, diolch mae'n gweithio yn gwahanol yn y prifysgol, pg, felly beth yw'r gwahaniaeth rhwng ei fod yn gweithio yn gwahanol ac yn bod yn gweithio yn e-x
 Felly, y pethau sy'n gwneud hynny yw, beth yw'r gwahaniaeth? Mae'r gwahaniaeth yn ymwneud â chyflawniadau mwyaf. Mae'r newydd EG yn ddim yn gwerthu cyflawniadau, ac mae'r cyflawniadau yn fwy amrywiol oherwydd ei fod yn ystod y sefydliad. Felly, ie, rwy'n credu mai'r cwestiwn yw beth yr hoffwn ei weld yma, iawn? Rwy'n deall bod y gweithiwr arfer yn hoffi mwy o gyfle, ond o safbwynt cynllunio amser hir,
 ar un ochr o'r leddwr byddwn i'n dweud nad yw'r parcellau hynny'n bwysig i'r sanctuaeth industriol mae'r sanctuaeth industriol wir yn dechrau ar y llall arall o Nikolai ac yn mynd am lawer rydych chi'n gwybod o ran datblygu diwylliant am fawr ar y llaw ar y llaw mae cael cyflog ar draws y stryd o diwylliant sy'n anodd yn lles yn gweld holl y cyflawniadau gyda'r SGO dros y blynyddoedd felly rydych chi'n gwybod rwy'n ceisio meddwl hyn yn llaw sy'n bob amser yn anodd mewn cyfarfod cyngor ond
 Felly beth ydym ni eisiau gweld yno? Ydym ni eisiau gweld gwasanaeth? Pwy fydd y gwasanaeth honno'n gweithio, gan fod yna ddim llawer o ffrindiau yn y ffordd o gyflogwyr ynghylch Nicolae?
 Mae'n edrych fel bod Tom Armstrong wedi cael ateb i mi. Tom Armstrong, gyda BPS. Dwi ddim yn cael ateb glir, ond byddaf yn dweud bod y fosg bach, yr un sy'n ymwybodol â Wilson, yn gyffredinol yn dda gyda hynny oherwydd ei fod yn dim ond ymlaen. Mae'n leoliad ymwneud â'r cyfnod. Gallwn weld hynny.
 Yn ymwneud â chyfartal diwylliannol ar gyfer y stwff sy'n cynnwys Nicolae, dwi ddim yn cael ystyried beth mae hynny'n ei olygu ar gyfer cyfartal diwylliannol. Mae'n debyg nad yw'n hynny oherwydd mae'n cael ei ddatblygu fel adeilad diwylliannol. Nid ydym yn cyfrifo arno o ran y llinellau llan i'w adeiladu ar gyfer defnyddio arfer y dyfodol, ond mae'n cefnogi cyfartal diwylliannol o amrywiaeth. Rwy'n credu y byddwch yn dod yn ôl at gwestiwn y Prif Weinidog
 beth yw'r ddau o Nikolai i fod yn ei fodd? Ac rwy'n credu mai un o'r rhesymau ein bod ni'n fwy ymddiriedol o'r, o leiaf y peth bach, mynd i'r canolfan, rydym yn nerfus am mwy o ganolfan yn ymraeol i'r Sancwari Ddynol,
 But there's a lot of housing right there anyway, and that's the same sort of debate question you face across the street for the Montgomery Park piece as to whether it should be employment or EX mixed use. Yeah, to me that's the easier call. I mean, there's no guarantee that it will be done well, but there are two- to three-story townhouses across Wilson from this site, so obviously whoever builds housing on the smaller site is going to design it the way that it is.
 opens towards the neighborhood, puts its back to whatever it is behind it. But I'm still just thinking, wondering out loud about whatever is behind it. I mean, you go further down St. Helens Road, you know, you've got giant warehouses and industrial stuff to the north, you know, in the heart of the industrial sanctuary. And then you've got these little workshoppy industrial businesses on, you know, on the south side of the roadway.
 On this particular site, there are some fairly low-value buildings with what appear to be relatively marginal businesses in them. So, again, I'm trying to think through what do we want to see there. I'm pretty sure I don't want to see retail, but –
 Well, see, that's one of the issues with the EX. It's a wide open zone and allows a lot. And I think in general, we were trying to be conservative with the change from away from industrial or at least employment land.
 So this kind of space could be maker space. I was going to say, could this potentially be small-scale maker space in the future? Absolutely. So we're struggling with that in the central east side, but maybe that won't be the only place, you know, we hope that won't be the only place in the city where small-scale maker space is possible.
 Right. And, you know, and there's things we really are interested in having places where businesses that find it either increasingly inconvenient or too expensive to stay in the central east side can find a viable location in the city. And we're trying to do that in Gateway. And this could be one of those as well. So what's the best zone for that? It's mixed employment.
 Which is what it is. See, what we're really doing, and even in the EG, which is the mixed employment, we're tightening it up so that it's clearly an employment zone. That's the move we're trying to make citywide to, once again, be as conservative as we can. Where we're going to put that zone, we want to try to preserve it for employment uses. Thank you.
 I understand that Commissioner Fish has an interest in this as well, and given that we don't have a unanimity on this, I'd suggest that we put it away. Yeah, let's hold this one as well. But, yeah, I think I feel a little more comfortable with where I am on it, but let's hold this one until Commissioner Fish is back and we can.
 And while you're thinking about that between now and the next meeting, think about a little bit the residential piece here, the things that Tamara DeRitter were trying to put forward. One of the ways you would enact that kind of policy is looking at this being a big diesel sort of fluton area and putting housing right on it is kind of going against that policy. What do you mean on Nikolai? Right. Yeah.
 So I'm just trying to give a real example of what she was talking about. Yeah. Yeah, no, we'll vote when we vote. But my feeling is that keeping this as maker space on the Nikolai side and allowing the housing on the Wilson side, I think that's, to me, where I'm likely to end up. But we can hold this until May 11th and decide it then, if we're not unanimous about that. Okay. We'll hold it until the 11th.
 Okay. If these are the non-controversial amendments... God help us. Okay, 2815 Southwest Barber.
 If I might speak to this, the latest on this, this is, of course, the site where Under Armour is currently leasing. They're not the property owner next to Dunaway Park. And they're currently under construction with an approved design review, and they don't have plans right now to do any more. We heard testimony that they'd like to be able to do one more story. We looked into the height that they would need for one more story, and they would need an extra two feet of what –
 from the CM1, the neighborhood commercial. And Eric informed me yesterday that that height is adjustable. And even in the new zone, it's adjustable up to 10%.
 I believe that my amendment still gets under armor what they want and is more reflective of the fact that it's not in the downtown core and that three more stories would tower over the park and make it look like the park belongs to the adjacent park. To make sure I understood you, a mixed-use neighborhood would allow them to add a story? Yes, with a two-foot adjustment.
 Ah, they'd have to get an adjustment. They'd have to get an adjustment. Okay, but that's possible. Yes. That's adjustable. It is adjustable. How do you get an extra story with only two feet of height? They've already got capacity. They're not building to the full capacity of what they have now. So they're not building to 45 feet now. They're building to whatever it would be. 36 or something. Yeah. So all they need is 47, and this is my understanding.
 So I haven't talked to them. Do you think that's anathema to their plans, or is that acceptable to their plans? I haven't, unfortunately. I didn't know this was coming up today. I had a chance to connect with them. But my understanding is that that's what they need. They're not planning to add three or four stories, besides which it's not their property anyway. Well, they're in demolition now and in the permit process now. Right. They're not planning to do it as part of this project. Okay. Okay.
 They're not planning to do it as part of this project. They were just looking to the future. What they're doing now is going to happen before this plan goes into effect. So we're talking about potential later additions. They're preserving next phase or capacity to be able to do this, but –
 I don't know what their reaction would be to this specific proposal. We can hold it over if you want so that I can check with them. This was at the request of the Neighborhood Association and pointing out that it is kind of a dispersed parcel. All the other parcels nearby it are not given this designation. I guess I would look beyond the current lessee, too. I mean, this is a 20-year plan. I think it's noted this is going to be hopefully on the southwest or on a high-capacity transit line, potentially.
 and so i think that a higher density uh zoning for the long term is appropriate here i agree well we may we may have three votes to to proceed on this one i mean this one i think we should go ahead i think you're going to get out it's my birthday you can't do this to use the birthday one i can't play that over so if i could just check with them because it
 I think it's, as the Parks Commissioner, I think it would be really detrimental to light and air and shade on the park. I think there would be significant opposition from Tobolica Plaza. So if those of you who were concerned earlier about Tobolica Plaza, I think that they would be very concerned about the change to the neighborhood. And I don't know that we're going to get high-capacity transit there in the next...
 20 years it'd be nice well let's let's hold it the 11th give you the chance to have that thank you there we go we won't outvote you on your birthday but we might still outvote you i hear that all right um i thought i found such a good solution though no that might be it might be and you're right and it is important to note that um you know this is a redevelopment project with a tenant
 you know, I'm happy about the tenant, but they're a tenant. The Under Armour is a tenant. So their plans and the future of the building aren't necessarily the same thing. Well, even more so, look at the whole area. Let's not spot zone that particular one. Right. If it's appropriate for that, then why is it not appropriate for others? Yeah, yeah. There we are. Okay. Yeah, of course, it's a weird site. It's surrounded by open space on one side. Yeah. Okay. All right. We'll get back to that one. Let's go on to 24. Thank you for bringing the map up.
 Southeast Henry Street, 5401 Southeast Henry. So this was one that came up through the supplemental memos. It wasn't in our initial amendment report, but it was introduced later. It was basically at the dead-end street. There's concern by the neighbors about public safety access, so they want to keep the zoning at 5401.
 Or they want to go keep it at R5. Right. They're asking to you amend the plan. It's currently R2.5. The reason this came up is this is one of the areas that's subject to whether or not the
 Zoning, which is currently R5, should be bumped up to the current R2.5 comp plan designation. So it's a place where the comp plan has 2.5 and the zoning is lower. And the Planning Commission is debating the zoning question, but the comp plan is currently at 2.5. And as you said, the neighbors brought up the issue of it being a dead end. Staff did go out to the site with the Fire Bureau, and there is a –
 There is a fire hydrant at the beginning of the street. It's not in this picture, and the street is fully improved. So the emergency folks didn't have a concern about the R2.5 here, but we did get testimony expressing concern about the lack of dead end. There's not a cul-de-sac at the end of the street. Just a dead end. It's a dead end. Can you go back to the zoning map for me for a second? Sure.
 The parcels involved are all those parcels? The ones surrounded by the dark line, yeah. So the requested amendment would take those parcels back to the R5, which is this lighter color. They're now R2.5? They're currently comp plan R2.5 and zoned R5. So they're currently zoned R5, but there's a longer-term 2.5 comp plan designation.
 The larger lot to the east is, I believe, a church. You can see it in the photograph there. There's a large, older, one-story apartment complex. At the beginning of the street, right. Occupying much of the north side of the street. Yeah, the north side of the street.
 Would that become non-conforming if we make it five? No, that apartment would remain R2. Yeah. So it's really just the rest of the lot. Another factor that was pointed out is that several of the lots are already flag lots, so the redevelopment potential on those lots would be limited anyway because they're already limited access.
 Yeah, so the whole street's pretty fully developed, right? Yeah. I found the testimony very compelling. Yeah. I support the amendment. Yeah, I think I do, too. Okay. Are we ready to vote on this one? Yep. Roll call, please, on 24. Phillipsman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Some of these are easy. 25. Oh, yeah. This is Main and Sinclair. So this is the historic buildings. Okay.
 currently being used as offices, right? Yeah, Deborah Stein is probably better qualified to describe this situation for you. St. Clair properties. So this is the... There have been some offices located in these structures for a long time. They were previously approved through a revocable permit, and my recollection is that the...
 The provision about continuation of those permits is not... The rules have been changed about how to continue those permits.
 offices. So we were first looking at a way to continue to allow those offices in the historic structure, but the R5 does not allow those. So if the uses were to be dormant, they wouldn't be able to be revived. So we were trying to look at a way to allow them, but with a code change. But I think our current proposal here is
 that we would just support the testimony, which was favoring retention of the R5, and let the uses continue as they can. If they go away, then they go away. Plenty of time to work on the code change, but less danger of losing the structures. Right. So while we were trying to be creative, I think that the testimony against that was concerned that the buildings might be overused
 redeveloped, and that was not our intent at all. We wanted to preserve the structures. So I think keeping the R5 is the best way to do that at this point. Okay. So the office uses can continue as long as they continue uninterrupted? Is that what you're saying? That's my understanding. Yeah, they're nonconforming uses. They've been nonconforming uses for a long time. If they keep operating, they're fine. If they go away and there's a lull, then they wouldn't be able to be revived. For more than two years, right? Isn't that the – I think it's –
 three now and we are even talking about continuing to five. So I think there's still a possibility. So one law firm could go away for three years before you lose your... If they were vacant, right. Right. So one law firm or whoever it is could move out in six months or a year and a half later somebody else could move in and you still get to keep using the house as an office. But the overwhelming testimony was to keep it at our five including the property owner. So we said okay. Okay. Possible that the economics of...
 them reverting to residential would be favorable at some point too. Yeah, and that's not the hope. The hope is just that these are great old buildings and we don't want to lose them. Right. Okay, any questions about this one? This one might be easy too. Okay, roll call please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Nails? Aye. Okay, number 26, which is several properties on property.
 Southwest 25th. Yeah, let me explain this one. The...
 This is, again, one of the areas where staff had recommended some down designation from R10 to R20, and that's on the map on the screen, the cross-hatched area. And originally, the square up here on 25th was part of that, and there were only these four parcels that were being down designated on 25th. And we had some compelling testimony that, again,
 We hadn't realized that these had been subdivided already when we initially proposed a down designation on 25th. So an earlier staff amendment pulled the down designation off of this square and kept it only in the shaded areas. The –
 You got testimony more recently from this property owner wanting to also revert to R10, and the difference is that they actually have been R20 all along. So it's a little bit of apples and oranges, but they piggybacked on to the fact that we were amending right here already. So this southern property here is the question. So the northern one is already done?
 No, the northern one is the amendment that staff put forward. The further amendment is to add the southern property to that amendment.
 list so both of those are incorporated in this amendment no not yet the only the northern one is the amendment as written okay so one oh four oh four six and four eight are up there yeah and you got a request to add 105 hundred to that amendment essentially which has not yet been done but that's the request the isn't it harm to doing that in your opinion staff would recommend it against because
 It's kind of in the middle of a longer forested buffer that was down-designated kind of as a corridor. It connects the park to the left with a corridor that's more wooded to the right. So staff does not support changing that parcel. Is it undeveloped? It has one house on it in the picture, but the property includes a lot of the wooded area to the right.
 So what's the development potential, a flag lot or something? It would be dividable into two, I think, with R10 but not with R20. Okay, but again, the amendment before us is the northern parcel, right? The amendment before you, if you just vote on the amendment without any further amendment, it's just that square to the north. And I had been interested in the southern parcel, but now you've explained it, I can see your rationale. Okay. Okay.
 Are we comfortable with voting on this one? So vote without any reference to further amendments. Right. So if we vote for it as printed, we deal with the northern parcel. Yeah. Okay. Roll call on that. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Okay. 27, the first of a couple of Portland nursery properties. So I'd like to actually refer this one to the 11th. Okay.
 Yeah, good call. All right. And 28, Lewis and Clark College. I thought you said we were doing the non-controversial ones today. We're starting to get into the hard ones. We've sort of run out of those. We've drifted into some controversial territory. They wanted to warm us up. Yeah, it's working. Okay. Well, I don't know if it matters, but as the sponsor of this, I would basically vote against it, having heard the testimony and
 sort of become more aware of exactly where this parcel was. I think I thought it was somewhere else on the other side of Boone's Ferry, so I don't support this amendment that I brought forward. So you can just withdraw it, right? Yeah, ma'am. You can either withdraw it or you can all vote right now. Why don't we vote, or do you not want to vote? I'll be happy to withdraw it. All right. He withdraws it. 29. Thank you, Commissioner Suss. Yes, thank you. 29, Southwest Gibbs.
 so this is a oh yeah an amendment that has two parts it's um one part was to change this from um mixed use dispersed to mixed-use neighborhood and the other was to extend it to add the little tail that goes up the street a little bit further on gibbs this is the commercial zone node essentially beyond ohsu on on the hill it
 That's what it would look like with the amendment in place. This portion right here is currently, I think, R1, so this amendment would change that little section to R1, and it would change this larger section from the dispersed mixed use to the neighborhood mixed use. So the difference being that –
 density and scale of development, the neighborhood would allow the four-story mixed use without restriction on size of retail, and the dispersed would allow only the lower-scale mixed use. The property is currently developed, right? It's got something on it. There is, yeah, there is something there. What's the Homestead Neighborhoods Association's position on these?
 They're against these. One of their concerns was the potential for the commercial zone, the more intense commercial zone to be too big. Well, also that somebody could build commercial parking in those zones. Oh, right. And they could, right? Unless we were to do some sort of amendment to the plan district. We could. There is a plan district here, so we could make a special provision to not allow that here if that was the only concern.
 So you're supporting this amendment and PPS we initially support the amendment That part of the logic of this is that there could it would allow more needed housing and commercial services up on top of the hill so Allowing that their community to be a little more self-sufficient. It's hard to get up and down there Yeah, I share that perspective. I guess if there's some way to deal with the neighborhoods concern about the commercial parking we like to do that as well, but
 I do think this area needs more services and more housing. Can we just change the housing then? Why do you want the whole thing mixed use? All but this tail is already mixed use. So is already, you mean in the proposed plan? Yeah. It's being changed to mixed use. And the current zoning is commercial as well. It's CM. CM. And what's the... CS, I think.
 The new area is currently R2 and would go to the mixed-use here. And that came in as testimony at the request of the property owner, I believe. It would extend for that whole block all the way up to 12th? Right. It would take one more block on the north side. And, Eric, how does the current CS compare with the two designations we're talking about, dispersed and neighborhood mixed-use? Yes.
 Let me just confirm what the current is if I check them. Right now there's kind of an older apartment building on one corner and then a vacant lot in the house, right? That's what's there today on the back of this or some more apartments. So it's an interesting mixture up there, mostly multifamily, right, in those mixed-use zones.
 so currently um and this this is the zoning map proposal i'm looking at so it does not yet reflect any of these amendments so if you didn't act on this amendment this is kind of what it looks like and it is currently um currently storefront commercial in that area and it would go to cm1 as currently proposed at the by the staff and the neighborhood supported that right
 Anton, Bevereline was here, as I recall. I believe so. What they don't support is the additional extension and then the upgrading, which would allow us to consider applying a CM2 zone there. Thoughts about this one? Are you still ready on this one? I'm not sure. It's very constrained up there. Yeah. Well, do you think the original, this, as we see it here, is that right? I think that's right. Not go farther? Right. See how that works out. Yeah. Okay.
 Okay, so we could take action on this amendment because this amendment would just extend it in that tail. No, actually there's two pieces to this. Right now the amendment both extends and upgrades it, so you might have to modify the amendment to clarify that if you only want to do one aspect of that.
 So just to clarify, Eric, the upgrade is, which part's the upgrade? The whole thing, the whole polygon is going to neighborhood mixed use, which is the medium-scale mixed use instead of the small scale. And then it's also being extended in geography with that tail. So you can, the current amendment, the way it's worded, does both of those things. And the difference between the two is basically scale of development. And the amount of commercial use.
 but you know the reason we did south waterfront was because it was recognized that the hill is really constrained that adding a lot more people up there was probably not feasible the more the more commercial properties you put up there the harder it is for each of them to make it go a bit yeah i think so okay do people feel comfortable about voting on this one okay let's take a vote then please
 so again i'm not sure what the right yes or no is here if i'm if i'm yes supporting the consensus of the discussion here yes would be to adopt the amendment to extend the geography of this mixed use and upgrade it and no would be to leave it as is which would be dispersed uh dispersed mixed use and would have the lower scale zoning most likely okay no no i'm going to defer to staff on this one and vote yes no fails no okay
 All right. Let's move on to number 30. Number 30 was on the memo from Commissioner Fish dated April 12th. It was a series of BES properties, and his staff expressed an okay for you all to consider this amendment today because it's a fairly straightforward correction to correct some open space designations on BES property. He introduced it as the BES commissioner.
 So you should turn to the Commissioner Fish amendment memo on – it has a table on it. So you'll – it looks like – Is that in the packet? It's in a – you should have a pile of the amendment memos on your table. The April 12th memo, it looks like this. It has a series of site numbers and addresses and changes. Yep. Sounds good. Thank you.
 We're fine with these. We're fine with all these, most of them going to OS. Okay. Any further discussion on number 30? So we're looking at this 84th, right? No, no, no. This is the previous one. Okay. We're still on number 30, which are all these VES properties. Lost track. Basically, this is cleanup and correcting some VES properties. Okay. Roll call on that, please. Folksman? Aye. No vote. Aye. Aye.
 Ritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, now we're to the parcel on 84th, which is number 31, parcels. So the original amendment here was this blue parcel in the middle of the screen, and
 if i can get my cursor back but you can see it and that was to change from to r2 because it's got an existing 10 plex on the site and so this was a non-conforming density minor cleanup issue but we discovered that there's this one parcel outlined in red that is on the same street next door and
 if you look at this next screen is a shot from google and the the street doesn't actually go through and this red parcel is sort of an isolated parcel it's the last thing that you can get to on that street so the rest of the street is r2 except for that parcel and the property owner came forward and said doesn't it make sense for this last parcel on the street instead of being an isolated
 r2.5 how about r2 there this is a photo of the beginning of the street you actually can't get down on um very easily down the street yet because it's it's gravel and uh google doesn't go down there but the site is essentially beyond the the house you see at the back of this picture so staff supports this as a fairly minor cleanup to just round off that
 blue on the map and not leave an isolated one parcel with unique zoning on that street. That's vacant, right? It's vacant, yeah. In between the apartments and the houses. It's the same ownership, too. Eric, is this the issue where the property owner named Stan Warnock said that he thought that there was an additional piece of property that he wanted added to this amendment, R251426? Yeah.
 Yeah, so the property in red here that I've circled is the added property. Oh, okay. I thought there was another tiny piece, that this is R251427, and Mr. Warnock was identifying a tiny little .06-acre parcel adjacent to the east side of the property. That's what the red – That is the red. Okay. All right. And then the –
 just a different number okay any concerns about this one let's take a vote please on amendment 31 item 31. saltzman aye novic aye fritz aye hale aye okay number 32 which is f61 50th hawthorne this was an area um
 At the end of Hawthorne, where we had suggested that we taper down the density after most of the traffic and the bus turns right on 50th there, and so you have sort of a separated street, and it gets to be a smaller-scale street, more residentially oriented beyond 50th.
 And originally, the civic corridor, which is a fairly dense designation, had extended all the way up to that end. And the amendment suggests pulling it back so that at the very end there, after you pass 50th, would go down to a neighborhood scale. So that's the amendment. And then I believe Commissioner Fritz had raised a question about whether that should be the geography of this amendment or whether it should include, you
 the additional two parcels all the way to 50th. Right. That was my intent. And then also to direct you to use CM1 as the zone? Which is what we've currently proposed. Okay. So as written, this amendment just covers what the black box is showing, and so we probably should make a note that you're essentially further amending it to be to 50th. So 50th is right here.
 So you'd carry that CM1 all the way down to 50th? Right. So this parcel here would shift and this one here. And this one here is already developed, so there's not much impact. It's got a two-story mixed-use building on it. It looks like everything between there and 50th is developed. Right. They're developed, so there probably wouldn't be a change from other than you might discourage redevelopment of those sites, which in this case is probably okay. Yeah. Okay. Questions, concerns? Yeah.
 let's take a vote on that one then please helps me hi no thanks hi prince hi hails all right well done that's it that's it that was our list for today hey we saved the hard ones for next time yeah all right well you gave us a little bit of a workout today all right thank you very much we will uh carry forward the ones we carried forward and take up the rest of the agenda on the 11th and we're adjourned great well done everybody thank you this was easy everybody be doing it
 We do it more often than every 25 years. Okay. Yeah. Yeah.