You ready? Nick is not here, but I believe Amanda is. So we're going to go ahead and get started and do communications and then we'll worry about Cora. Oh, there she is. Good morning. Good morning. Ready? Okay. Good morning. Welcome to the April 27th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Yes.
 Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Commissioner Fish is away on city business. Welcome, everyone. We are here for the morning session. We have some time-certain items and some folks signed up for communications.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, please let our clerk know, and she'll make sure you get a chance to speak on that item. We typically allow three minutes for testimony. It doesn't look like that will be difficult this morning. If you agree with someone's point of view and want to indicate that, feel free to give them a wave of the hand or a thumbs up. If you disagree...
 A polite hand gesture to the contrary is okay, but we ask that we not make demonstrations or applause for our fellow citizens so that they get a chance to speak, whether they're in the majority or the minority. We make exceptions for students visiting dignitaries and such, so if you're one of those, you might get a round of applause. Welcome. And...
 We have some items on the consent calendar that have been pulled to the regular calendar. Let me announce those right out of the gate here. One is 405 and the other is 411. Any other items to be pulled over to the regular calendar from consent? Okay. With that, let's take item 398, please.
 Request of John Middleton to address Council regarding impact of Portland Development Commission increased project and small business supports Come on up, please John Middleton
 4924. Oh, you don't have to give us your address. Thank you. I'm here to speak in support of the ongoing funding for the INCREASE project, a cohort-based small business expansion program run by the PDC. I've been a part of direct transport in Portland, greater Portland area, for 18 years, and I was tasked with taking that over and expanding it. When the owner retired, I was a part of the PDC,
 And we are a very successful business. But then I participated in the SBA Emerging Leaders Program, which is essentially the same program, just a different name.
 Really kind of opened my eyes, gave me a lot of good insight into how to run a business, how to make it successful. And since then, I took that class. I grew us by $1.3 million that next year. I've expanded to the Seattle marketplace, and so we're doing that as well.
 It was something that I found invaluable, and hopefully they've got 10 people in the program right now, and I actually went and spoke to them prior to the meeting or them getting started. It's just a really good program, particularly for the small business owner like myself and others. It really kind of gives us a chance to –
 I guess just move forward. And it's basically an MBA in a really compressed time. And the people that I took the class with, we're still in touch. We get together every three or four months. And it's been two years now. It's super helpful. I strongly recommend it. And particularly being a person of color myself, I was excited to see that that class was focused on
 minorities, women, people of color, because I do believe we all need a leg up and a help sometimes. And this is something that was particularly helpful to me. So I hope that you'll understand that there are more entrepreneurs in Portland that can make great strides with their business if they're given an opportunity to support our opportunity and support. So
 I hit three minutes. That's great. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Can you tell us what your business, Direct Transport, is? We are a same-day on-demand delivery service focusing on less-than-load deliveries, so anything in a box truck down to a car. Okay. That's great. How would somebody get in touch with you if they're interested in using your services? Just call Direct Transport and look us up online or call 503-783-2600. Thank you. Thanks, guys. Thank you very much.
 Okay, let's take 399, please. Request of Christina Albo to address council regarding restorative justice in schools. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Christina Albon. I'm the Director of Restorative Justice with Resolutions Northwest. I would like to request that I give my time today to a principal at a school with one of the schools we have worked with, Dan Kimbrough. Welcome. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Dan Kimbrough, and I'm the principal of H.B. Lee Middle School.
 in the Reynolds School District. It's a school that is very diverse. It's made up of students who speak over 30 different languages in their homes. And I came today to share the purpose of restorative justice in schools and a little bit of the benefit that we have seen for our students, staff, and community members. So I thank you for the support and wish to ask for that to be ongoing support.
 I became acquainted with restorative practices through Resolutions Northwest two years ago when I took a team of teachers to a two-day training. And we've been working as a school to implement more restorative practices across the building, not just when students find themselves in trouble, but to provide a more inclusive and equitable environment in all of the classrooms. Some of the reasons for these initiatives are to reduce the number of out-of-school suspensions.
 to focus on repairing relationships in order to serve the educational needs of our students, to reduce the disparities between discipline or exclusionary outcomes based on a student's background, to build our capacity to prevent discipline issues in the school and in the classroom,
 and so that the skills and mindsets of our teachers and staff might develop in such a way that we can address the root causes of conflict and therefore minimize disciplinary incidents overall. Resolutions Northwest has been an important partner for us in this work. They have helped us to support individual teachers and students in implementing community circles in their classrooms, as well as through training and workshops for our entire staff.
 Beyond these school-wide strategies, we're also working with higher-level student management issues to provide reentry procedures for students who are excluded through either suspension or expulsion, and to inform our practice with a trauma lens, knowing the background and difficulties that some of our students have faced.
 uh it's a major shift not just for our students and staff but also for our community i wanted to share an email that i received last night at 4 45 as i was kind of preparing these remarks it says hi mr kimbrough so and so our dhs caseworker shared with me a letter you sent regarding this student's behavior success last week i so appreciate your efforts regarding positive communication as well as all the team time planning and cooperation you have used to keep her in school and to support her teachers
 The village approach is a powerful one for her on a day-to-day basis, but to me it seems it also gives her an enormous message that these faceless institutions that feel impersonal and hostile are not. Thank you very much. A question without obviously naming particulars or names. I assume you've seen situations where if you hadn't had this set of tools, you would have had to rely on the police bureau?
 absolutely one of the fundamental i assistant chief day and some other folks from the bureau here so i guess that's from our standpoint trying to understand how school resource officers work with schools um theory is but a question for you is is that working out in practice that there are incidents and problems that would end up even if it's a non-emergency call
 Having to bring in the police bureau, but you're able to resolve them in another way Absolutely, and we have brought in the police for incidents that required their notification But then we were able to follow up and solve those problems without juvenile justice or additional community resources. Yeah. Yeah, that's great That's good to hear that. That's how it works in your school and others. So thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much Thank you very much for your time Okay, number 400, please
 Request of Mark Francis to address council regarding standardizing sidewalk and intersection barriers for visually impaired people. Francis? Oh, okay. Give him a hand there. Okay. All right. Okay, perfect. There you go. How are you? Good. Thank you. I've got some handouts that will kind of get those from you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 First of all, thank you again for letting me come and talk to you. This is the second time that I've been here with this issue. And I didn't hear from anybody after the first time, and I was here in December. So I wasn't sure what was going on regarding my request to have barricades standardized and protected.
 and also to deal with the noise at intersections. And I kind of don't want to be here. I mean, I'd rather be at work or that. And I would hope that this problem would just kind of go away, but it seems like every time I travel around in Portland and turn a corner, there's a barricade or there's...
 a noisy intersection and so it really has an impact on my travels but and if it was just my travels I'd just suck it up and say that's you know what the way life is but I work at the Oregon Commission for the Blind and a lot of our people that go through our center in southeast Portland they're just learning to travel independently and then so
 when barricades aren't standardized or when there's a ton of noise at intersections,
 it really has an impact on their lifestyle because it's very difficult to travel around when you've got good mobility skills. But if you throw in the fact that you don't have that much experience, it makes it even tougher. And so I just feel compelled for those people to try and make it a little bit easier because learning to travel independently without vision is very difficult and it's very stressful.
 If I can help take some of the stress, you know, from them, you know, that's what I want to do. And so, you know, I feel really, you know, compelled to bring this issue before you. And our rehab center is in southeast Portland on 12th and Washington. And one of the big things that's happening around there is that St. Francis is –
 they're making a development for low-cost housing and that. And so the whole block there is, it's under construction. And so there's a lot of loud noise. And a lot of our clients cross 11th and 12th and also on Washington there. And a lot of times it's very difficult for them to hear the cross traffic. And if you can't hear the cross traffic, it's too dangerous to cross. I mean, it's...
 It is. And so, you know, this problem needs to be addressed. And I think that I've tried to point out some solutions that would be very economical, you know, and it would be.
 It would give us the same accommodations that other individuals of Portland enjoy. I'd like the same access to the streets and intersections and the safe crossing the streets that other people enjoy. I'd like other people with vision to have the same access. So if you guys have any questions, I'd be happy to...
 Yeah, this is very helpful. We appreciate you raising the importance of this issue. And I don't know, actually, if our Commission on Disabilities has looked at some of these suggestions yet or not, but that's something I think we could make sure that happens. And I know there are bureaus involved as well. And, Mr. Francis, I'm so sorry we haven't gotten back to you because I remember you coming here before, and these are issues that –
 we should discuss with PBOT. And if you wouldn't mind today going to my office, which is the office just to the left as you leave the room, and talk to Laura Hansen or Erica Nebel, and we'll see if we can follow up with you. I mean, just off the top of my head, I think that the noise issue might be really difficult because obviously construction causes noise. Well, you know, I understand, and I don't expect for them to shut down, but I'm
 One of the proposals that I made is that if we could ask the people doing constructions, if they could have a lookout, and when they see a pedestrian having difficulties, you know, they could help them. And I know that...
 A lot of companies are already doing that. I mean, I've been around construction sites and I've had trouble. And, you know, someone comes out and, you know, does that. But it's not on a consistent basis. And so I think that if construction companies were asked, you know, to have a look out there, I don't see this as where –
 you need to have legislation for it. I mean, most of the time, construction companies and that, they'd be willing to do that. I mean, I don't see that, you know, they need to be forced to do this by law. And, you know, the first step I'd like to see taken is just a letter to them asking to be aware, you know, making them aware of the problem and asking them to appoint someone as a lookout to, you know,
 Look out for intersections. And I know that there's been city crews, you know, vacuuming out drains or whatever. And, you know, they could do the same thing. I don't think that there needs to be legislation for this problem. And if you want to look at some examples of barricades, I think there's some up on –
 On Columbia Street, I think it's Columbia, like between 4th and 5th or 6th, somewhere around there, there are wonderful barricades. And I think contractors would love them because they just snap together and you can reuse them over and over again. So set-up time, tear-down time, and reusability, I think would really be an economical advantage for them to do that. So, you know, I understand that, you know,
 people and companies, you know, they need to make money in that. And so I'm trying to keep the solutions as economical as possible. And I think that if people can be asked to do things before they're told to do things, well, I just think that, you know, they're going to do it maybe more willingly. Or if, you know, when they do it, you know, it's going to be – I think it will be –
 That's kind of what I'm trying to work for. Yeah, I mean, it's certainly something we bring up with folks during the permitting process, I would think. So thank you very much. You've really done a good job raising this. I think part of the challenge, it doesn't mean we can't do a better job. Part of the challenge is there's just so much construction going on and quite a few companies haven't necessarily worked.
 in this particular urban environment before. So there is a communication need there, as you pointed out, for us to make sure everybody knows what the goals are here. So I think there's an opportunity for us to follow up, and we will. There's also a public education component. And, Mr. Francis, I really appreciate you speaking here today. Twenty-five years ago when I was young and foolish, I was crossing downtown and went against the light and was stopped by a police officer on a motorcycle who explained –
 that the reason that one doesn't do that is because people who can't see or children may not know that I'm running across the intersection and that it wasn't safe to do so. So since then, I have made a point of not jaywalking. And I think you're raising the issue of the noisy intersections with something that I hadn't really thought about before. And yet you're absolutely right that people who can't see rely on that sense to know when and where to cross and that we all need to be more mindful of that.
 So thank you very much for being here. Thanks for coming. And if you'd like, Mr. Cohen can give you a hand in getting to Commissioner Novick's office on your way while you're here. Okay. I would appreciate that very much. And thank you guys again. Thank you. Thanks for coming. You're welcome. I'm over here on your right-hand side. All right. So let's move to the consent calendar, please. Again, there are two items that are being pulled over to the regular calendar, 405 and 411. Unless there's any other changes, let's take a vote, please, on the remainder of the consent calendar.
 Saltzman aye Novick aye Fritz aye Hales aye okay let's move to time certain item 401 adopt the fiscal year 2015-16 spring supplemental budget and make other budget related changes all right Andrew Scott and his team are here we have some amendments before us good morning good morning how are you
 I'll get started while Jessica passes the amendments out. Good morning. We're here today to talk about the spring budget monitoring process. You did have a work session last week. I apologize for having missed it, but I did watch it. It seemed like it went very well in record time. So I may not be invited back, so you can continue to have 20-minute bump work sessions.
 I'm going to walk today through the proposed bump that's on the table, and then as the Mayor mentioned, there are some amendments being passed out to that as well. I'm just going to walk through some of the high-level issues and some of the specific packages just to lay the groundwork. So again, spring budget monitoring process is where bureaus come forward with budget adjustments, and they come forward with year-end projections. Okay.
 At a big picture, just focusing first on the general fund, prior to the bump, we had $1.1 million of unrestricted contingency in the general fund and $6.5 million of compensation set aside. The proposed bump that is before you today would use about $400,000 of the general fund contingency, leaving $700,000 remaining, and would use about $6 million of the compensation set aside, leaving about half a million dollars remaining. Okay.
 In addition to those changes, the supplemental budget also sets aside in a policy reserve $1.7 million for expenses related to the Columbia River Levy project. I think you are all familiar with that project. This is the city's share of the next phase project.
 of that study. There was a request in 16-17 as well, and we've had some discussion whether to debt finance or cash finance, but there was enough available in contingency to set that aside, carry it over, and use that $1.7 million in next year's budget. So that's in there as well. And finally, as a technical issue, but just to note, $345,000 is set aside to fund a true-up in the general fund overhead model. This is something we do every spring bump as we go back through the overhead model, so as we balance in 16-17.
 I would direct your attention now to Exhibit 4, which is the General Fund Reconciliation Report, which we usually go through when we talk about the bump, and it's the easiest way to, again, walk through the specifics of the general fund changes that I just talked about at a very high level.
 And I'll go pretty quickly, but feel free to stop me and ask if you have any specific questions about what's in here. In terms of the compensation set-aside, as I mentioned, $6 million is being allocated. The four bureaus that requested it, Police, Fire, the Bureau of Emergency Communications, and Parks,
 all came forward with compensation-satisfied requests. They all are granted with the exception of $215,000 for parks because the Bureau had realigned that out of personal services into external materials and services, and I think that's going to be one of the amendments you're going to consider today is potentially adding that $215,000 back in.
 And as I mentioned, there's $500,000, a little more than that, remaining after these amendments, after these adjustments. And I do want to note there is still some risk with fire retirement payouts and overtime costs. In the overexpenditure ordinance, we're going to be keeping a close eye on that just to make sure that they're able to live within that budget. But, again, that half million dollars may be needed depending on the number of retirements we see out of the fire bureau. Thank you.
 Moving on to the midyear reductions, we don't always have these in the spring bump, but it's nice when we do because it adds some general fund back in. There is a small amount there dealing with some tenant improvement reimbursements that are coming from the facilities fund over to the general fund. There was Bureau of Emergency Communications underspending from fiscal year 2014-15. They returned this in the spring bump.
 There's $519,000 of general fund cash transfers for the debt payments related to the new fuel stations. So, again, you approved the fuel stations out at the Sears Center and actually elsewhere in the city as well. We just haven't issued the debt this year. And so although the ongoing funding is still in there, the fuel stations project is still moving forward, we just didn't need the money this year, so we're returning it to the general fund.
 In addition to that, $519,000 of general fund, $570,000 is flowing back to non-general fund bureaus, their share of those fuel stations as well. And then finally, just a little bit under $800,000 is being returned to the general fund. You allocated that money in the fall supplemental budget for tenant improvements at the Jerome Sears facility, but those aren't going to be completed this year, and we sort of were a little bit on hold in terms of figuring out what the overall plan for that facility is. So that's coming back to the general fund as well.
 In terms of the new requests, there are $415,000 of new requests, and that doesn't include the $900,000 that you'll see in there for parks arbitration costs. Council set that money aside in the fall bump. We were waiting to see what the costs are, and in fact, they are at least the $900,000, so the full amount's being allocated to parks.
 The other $415,000 is broken down across a number of bureaus. $25,000 is going to the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for a sustainable industries assessment per our agreement with the C40 Climate Leadership Group. You'll notice that another part of that request was around coordination for the smart cities technologies, and that is not currently included in the bump. There's $40,000 going to Planning and Sustainability for the work on the Inclusionary Housing Code,
 The City Hall security packages there from the Office of Management and Finance, those are being funded in the 16-17 budget, which is why they're not showing up here in the spring bump. Currently is not included $50,000 for the B Corp program, but I understand that may also be an amendment that you're going to consider today.
 There's $156,000 for the Arbitration Award, another $65,000 in Fire and Rescue, another $65,000 for the Housing Bureau for work on the inclusionary housing policy. I mentioned the parks policy.
 $900,000. There's a $100,000 request for expanded ranger coverage in the summer. It's currently not included. Again, I think that's another amendment that you'll be considering. $75,000 to support the Saturday youth basketball program and the Portland Public Schools costs related to their janitors. And again, our feeling was that the Parks Bureau had the ability to absorb that in the current year. There's a technical adjustment for the Police Bureau, $33,000 for the fair wage adjustment that they didn't get in the fall bump.
 And then Council's already approved the $25,000 for the Oregon Nikkei endowment, so we're pulling that out of contingency. And $40,000 for work on the Springwater Corridor, I think related again to the State of Oregon Solutions effort there. And then finally a $31,000 appropriation for air toxics study, which I think came from Commissioner Novick's office and involves Portland State University.
 Are there any questions about the new requests before we move on? Then just very quickly for the rest of the general fund, $5.2 million of program carryovers are included here. And all requests that came from bureaus for program carryovers were included with the exception of $130,000 in planning and sustainability for the Smart Cities Initiative. They both requested new funding and carryover, and so the request for new funding was not included here.
 There was $417,000 for Housing Bureau contracted funds, which I think they're going to get encumbered, and so does not need to be carried over because they'll carry it over through an encumbrance of their contracts. $158,000 for the Portland Development Commission Small Business Working Capital, which again, they believe, PDC believes they'll be able to encumber those funds before the end of the year.
 $49,000 of unspent innovation fund dollars. And because that's supported with an ongoing appropriation every year, that remainder is going to fall to balance. And then finally, a small portion of the Office of Neighborhood Involvement's request for noise program carryover funding. And then the very last section on technical adjustments. Again, those are mostly technical, so there's not very much to focus on.
 But one of the things that you'll see here is the Innovation Fund Awards of $479,000 just being moved out of special appropriations into the bureaus where they were granted.
 And then let me just talk very briefly about some non-general fund changes, both positions and other major items that are happening in the BOM. The Bureau of Development Services is requesting and receiving position authority for 23 1⁄2 new positions. Again, as their workload and fees continue to increase, they're increasing the size of their workforce. We will just note, and I think it's something to talk about as part of next year's budget as well, BDS is rapidly increasing.
 approaching the point where they were sort of before the downturn. And I just think it's important that we, you know, and BDS knows this, and we talk to them as well, keep an eye on that overall staffing level because there will be another downturn. And, again, sort of what the optimum size for that bureau is, it very much is a boom and bust cycle. But they are adding 23-and-a-half positions in this bump. We have the business continuity plan so that we know whether we need to add or subtract. Yeah.
 The Housing Bureau is requesting one position for the inclusionary housing policy work. OMF is adding one position. Parks is converting three limited term positions to regular and also adding a position and finally Planning and Sustainability is converting a non-general fund position from limited term to regular for the recap project.
 And then just a couple of large non-general fund items. The Bureau of Environmental Services, their revenue and expense projections are such that the Bureau is budgeting an increase to their rate stabilization fund of about $24.5 million. The Fire, Police, Disability, and Retirement Board is approving a $2.6 million transfer in order to pay for a $2.6 million legal settlement fund.
 And finally, there's an overall increase in charges for services in the city of about $32.5 million, 19 of which is recognition of service development charges in the Parks Bureau and the Bureau of Environmental Services. So, again, SDCs continue to go up at a very rapid rate, and bureaus are making those budget changes in the bump. With that, I'll take questions on what was filed, and then I think there are some amendments that you have to consider as well. Any questions for Andrew or Jessica on the proposal as it came to us?
 Okay. So then let's take up amendments proposals. I think we have at least two, maybe three packages. Um,
 i have a package of three which i think has been distributed which is first funding some increased positions in the police bureau funded by fees for public records requests totaling 54 152 these positions are needed because of the increased time and effort associated with records management
 And then $75,000 in unrestricted contingency to the Portland Development Commission for our B Corps initiative. This will be held in the program carryover set aside for the allocation into the 2016-17 budget. And there's an updated Exhibits 1 through 5 that reflect this change. So I would like to propose those amendments. Second. And then we have amendments from Commissioner Fish. Second.
 to increase expenses in the Water Bureau Fund 602 by $35,000 for maintenance and operations of the Dodge Park and other hydro parks. This is a cash transfer from the general fund unrestricted contingency that will be carried over into the water fund for expenses in the next year's budget in 16-17. And again, updated exhibits reflect that change.
 This amendment's prompted by our interpretation of a recent court decision that says essentially that general fund dollars need to pay for the operation of these facilities, not water fund dollars. So I would propose Commissioner Fish's amendment. Second. Thank you. And then Commissioner Fritz, do you want to walk through yours? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. The $215,000 to parks for the teen service program from the comp set aside, and they're coming with, I believe, your support. And then $100,000 to parks for six park rangers from April through September, so that's what we did last year. And with the understanding that most or all of that service is going to be on the spring water corridor. Second that. Thank you.
 And then Commissioner Sussman, I don't think you have any. Or do you? Commissioner Novick?
 Do you have any other amendments? I don't think so. I think those covered all the ones that I know about, Andrew, right? Those are the ones I'm aware of, yes. Okay. So all those amendments are before us. I want to thank our staff, see if there's anyone who wants to testify on the amendments and on the spring bump as now proposed to be amended. Anyone want to speak? We have three people signed up. Okay. Please come on up. Joe Walsh, John Middleton, and Robert West. Come on up.
 My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Are you going to limit me to the amendments? No. Okay. It is our understanding that you are now moving $65 million. You are also adding 27 jobs, 27.5. I'm not sure what the .5 job is. It must be a little job. But you are adding 27 jobs.
 And you're moving $65 million, and you're allowed 15 minutes for this item. We are against this supplemental. Because we don't feel that the people of Portland either understand what's going on. So when the mayor says, hey, I took all these jobs from the city. I lowered all these jobs. Now you're putting back 27, and nobody even talks about it. 27 jobs is how much money?
 It could be $100,000 each with benefits. It's a lot of money. You guys throw around figures of $5 million here, $3 million here, $65 million there, and then you just do it, and it's supplemental. This is adding to the budget. I mean, you guys are almost comedians.
 When you sit up there and you do this stuff, and then you do amendments, and you do it under an emergency clause, so nobody's got anything to say about it except today. We can't look at the amendments. We can't study them. We can't figure out. The people that are watching this today cannot write in and say, no, I don't want you to do this until I understand where that $65 million is going to go.
 And I know it goes to the fire department. And I know it goes to the cops. But we would like to know that. How much? And why are you doing 27 jobs? When you brag all the time about how many jobs you eliminated. Can't have it both ways there, Mayor. You can't eliminate jobs and then add jobs here because it balances out. And you can tell me about the 200 jobs, but it's your word. And I don't believe anything you ever say.
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. I'm totally against them charging for police records, which was one of the things that was on there. As far as the police records and stuff, that should be given to the public for free. Those are public records. Yes.
 And just because someone walks into the police department, they need some police report, and you don't have got the $10 or, I guess, $15 or whatever you're going to raise it to. They don't get it. That's wrong. It might be someone that's on disability or something like that that needs a police report for a civil case or something like that, and they can't get it because they don't have the money. Okay.
 I think that, and number two, I think all victims of crime should be able to get the police reports for free. They shouldn't have to be charged for it and stuff like that. That's, that's my personal opinion. As far as adding more jobs to the police department, Mary, you've cut a lot of police positions. Police are constantly saying that they're stressed out and I know I add a
 But I want, and as far as adding anything to traffic, I think before we pay a penny more to traffic, we need to ask the state. Because when the officers write the tickets, that money goes to the state. It doesn't go to the city of Portland. So we need to ask the state to help us with supporting our traffic division.
 And that's what I got to say. Thank you. Good morning. Yes. My name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Watchdog Communications, PDX. One of the concerns I have is that 100,000 of public schools, janitors, I don't think we need to be funding the janitors at public schools. Another issue I have is on the Dodge Park maintenance fund. Again, I really think we need to sell Dodge Park.
 and not utilize that for entertainment purposes for the city employees. I'd like that to be looked at real close on what is the purpose to hold Dodge Park in the Water Bureau. I don't see any purpose at all, except for entertainment purposes. I'd like to have that appraised and sold and to go back into either a general fund or back to the Water Bureau itself. Again, on adding any more jobs to BDS, I absolutely disagree with that.
 Again, I'm having concerns on BDS raising more fees to developers. I want to have these fees dropped. I want to have more incentives to the developers. And I want to see these 23 jobs cut, not put into place. Again, due to the market conditions currently, I feel that we will not need them in the next year. I think our market is beginning to cool off at a very rapid pace, and
 A lot of developers from other states are looking very close that even if they want to put money into the Portland market anymore, if we continue to increase more fees to the developers, they will only put their money in other states. If we do not offer them the incentives right now and understand that the market is pulling off, their ability to get certain amounts of money is getting very interesting at this time. They will put their money into other states.
 So, again, I do not want any more BDS employees hired, and I want fees to begin to drop to developers. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak? Okay. Then it's time, please, to take a vote on the amended ordinance. Do the amendments first? I'm sorry. We have to adopt the amendments first and then vote on the ordinance. Thank you. We put them on the table, but we didn't adopt them. So a vote on the amendments as a package. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 I think Commissioner Fish's amendment's a little dodgy, but I'll still vote aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, now on the ordinance as amended, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 So I first want to thank the mayor for including $31,250 in this budget for Portland State University to research the dispersion of heavy metals in Portland soil and air. There will be an announcement this afternoon about this project, which is a partnership between the city, county, and PSU. And I think that we've had...
 A lot of concern about Portland's air quality in the past couple of months, but a lot of citizens have been following this issue and raising concerns for years to the city, county, and legislature. This collaboration with PSU is an opportunity to grow our shared knowledge base about air and soil pollution in Portland. We need the information to better understand the problem so we can figure out solutions, and I'm pleased that we're able to partner in this effort. Hi. Prince. Prince.
 well thank you mayor for this proposal and also for agreeing to fund the rangers and for your leadership on addressing concerns on the spring water corridor and elsewhere for issues affecting neighborhoods this is a very responsible budget amendment of 3.88 million the 27 jobs are 23 in bureau development services and foreign police and those especially in development services are paid for by the increased construction that's happening and
 I'm still trying to catch up on that. I appreciate that. I particularly want to note that our internal materials and services have decreased by $2.2 million in the costs, primarily as a result of the lower cost of fuel leading to decreases in fleet interagency agreements. So the low cost of gas is certainly benefiting the taxpayers of Portland in being able to put more money into other services, and I appreciate that.
 appreciative of this and also looking to your big budget being proposed in the near future, of which this is cleaning up this year's budget to prepare for next. Thank you. Aye.
 Well, I want to thank the council for making sure that we do the right things at the right measure of effort and cost in this budget. So I think it's been a successful collaboration on the council to manage the city's finances. I want to thank Andrew and Jessica for managing this process from our independent budget office, which, of course, is the source of the statistics that I cite, like how many city employees there are.
 I think after this change, there's still about 150 less than there were six years ago, but you can check my math and you will. But this has been a good process. I appreciate the fact that we are putting more effort into the management of the Springwater Corridor. That's an urgent community need. Actually, through the Oregon Solutions process or the Oregon collaboration through the state, other local governments are now stepping up and helping us with that work. So I actually talked with Clackamas County yesterday, and they're going to be contributing –
 people and dollars to make that a successful multi jurisdictional effort because of course the spring water is not just in Portland it's also in Clackamas County and in Gresham and in unincorporated areas so that's another case where this kind of adjustment over the course of the year lets us do our work better so thank you all for a job well done hi okay let's move on please to item 402
 accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer good morning good morning commissioner and mayors um i'm jen clodius senior management analyst with the office of management and finance and staff support for the technology oversight committee with me today i am delighted to say our three of your representatives uh ken neubauer at the end
 is commissioner fish fish's representative josh smith's mitchell is commissioner novick's uh representative diana garcia is commissioner fritz's uh representative the other two representatives who couldn't be here today are wilf pinfold and mike lynch we're here to present the technology oversight committee's quarterly report for january through march
 We're going to project some dashboards for each project. Each dashboard contains information from the TOC and from the Quality Assurance Representative. And Josh and Ken are going to discuss the projects, and Diana is going to give updates for what's happened since March. Ken has had more than his fair share of this, so he has volunteered me to do the majority of the reading here. We're going to start with the Information Technology Advancement Project.
 This is for the Bureau of Development Services. The project description in general, this project is a paperless permit and case management process and allows complete online access to the permitting and case review services.
 Project deliverables include digitization and online access of historical permits and property information, implementation of an updated permit and case review information management system, online case and permit application and review services, mobile online access for the field staff, and implementation of an automated queuing system, which is quite a mouthful to get all of that out.
 This overall status right now from our viewpoint is that this project does continue to have concerns around the project's duration, its budget and scope, the overall performance of the project. And while there have been small steps, it's a very large project that is challenging because of its size and scope.
 There were a few major accomplishments this quarter. Sprint 2 is on schedule, an attempt to move towards a more agile methodology for developing the software. And the project docs implementation, which is a component of the overall project, is expected to go live in the spring. Vendor contract is under work right now and is scheduled to be complete by the 13th of June.
 So upcoming milestones, there is a plan to rebase the project, and Diana will talk about that a little bit more. And it is a large amount of work that remains. That's our biggest concern. We'll put that that way. Go ahead. Diana.
 So with our April meeting, again, we heard updates on just the continuing to work with the vendor on the Sprint they're currently in and progressing against the plan that they have for that Sprint.
 and we continue to hear that there's progress being made incrementally against that plan or against the plan. I think we've all voiced the concern we have over the size and how big we are, how this project is in deploying as one large unit, but we'll continue to monitor and stay abreast of kind of how the project is going. I think those are the big nuggets that I have. Ken, anything to add for today? Okay.
 I would say that they do seem to have a viable schedule now when they anticipate delivering the majority of the components, which is something we haven't seen, haven't had confidence in what they've delivered. So the schedule that they're proposing right now looks more viable than what they've had in the past. Has the schedule been reset? Is there now? No.
 an understanding of the new deliverables? I don't think it's an official reset. I think it's their proposed schedule that they made available to us to look at what they're planning to do. I think the baseline that they're setting for June will firm that up.
 So then in the next report, we may see things go from red to green because we'll be starting the timeline over again or not? I don't know I'd be that optimistic. I would hope that we might move to at least yellow at that point. But if we're starting the timeline over again, surely we wouldn't necessarily – I'm hoping we're setting up a realistic timeline so you could start with it.
 If you're starting at zero, then it would be green. I think it will be very dependent on the negotiation, the conversations they have with the vendor and how things progress and how that Revious Line project plan comes out. Until we really see that and understand what the plan is, it's hard for us to say we believe it will improve to a yellow or a green. I see. So it's one of those things that we can't predict how it will go until we see what things are.
 So you'd give it provisionally a yellow to start off with, and then potentially if they were able to meet that in the next quarter, then it might give you more confidence. Got it. Thank you. Can I just add one more little bit? Paul Rothi did an excellent job doing an architectural overview for the Technology Oversight Committee, and in the three years we've followed along this project. Of course, it's a pretty long project. Okay.
 That was the first time we had really dug into just how complex it was, and I think that really helps with us being able to evaluate it. And we've stated that we'd really like to see more of that as part of the way we interact in the future because it makes a big difference in us being able to give a valid assessment. Thanks.
 The next project I will discuss is actually going quite well. The Versadex computer-aided dispatch system is operated by the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Communications and is used by public safety agencies throughout Multnomah County to connect the community and emergency service responders. It's past due for a lifecycle replacement to the system's underlying hardware. The VCAT hardware refresh project updates that system's hardware in a manner that meets the
 Bureau's business requirements and also the Bureau of Technology Services support requirements. And it also, more importantly, aligns with the vendor's recommended technical specifications. That's changed over time, and they're pulling that more into alignment. This project has been on track since the start and has stayed that way. Major accomplishments this past quarter, development and production environments are completed and tested.
 The schedule was revised to build remaining environments in parallel, which was a smart move. Training environment is complete. Disaster recovery, failover test in progress, and then the trailer environment build in progress completed.
 The plan is still for a full go-live by May 11th, and they seem to be on track for that. The only concern that we had is the relatively short schedule, but this is a pretty straightforward project in terms of how they've structured it and how they're working with the vendors. So we've been impressed with it overall.
 And then the update from our March to April meetings was that they actually completed all the environments. So they actually ended up completing ahead of what they had, I think, originally planned. And so their May 11th go-live is on track, and everyone's pretty confident that it will go live. So I think we're pretty pleased at how well this project went and how well things kind of came through and were executed. So it was a good note.
 I think the only other thing I wanted to add from our last April meeting is we did receive an update, the 90-day report on the PCI project. And it was really good for us to hear that you guys got the attestations of compliance for that project. I think that we were very pleased.
 kind of pleased how the progress went at the later half of that project and the leadership that was provided to make that project successful. So just wanted to give an update that it was a good thing to see. Did you say attestations? Attestation. Yeah, what does that mean? It's the certification that you guys are PCI compliant from your, yeah, from the financial institutions. From your financial institutions. Okay, thanks.
 questions comments concerns okay any others on this one doesn't look like it that's it just two projects this time this time yes there are several coming yes thank you all very much we really appreciate your effort and diligence because there's real money and real functionality involved here so it's really important that we look carefully at how we're doing so thank you for your outside eyes on that quite those questions
 Thank you. And I have to say, this has been the most reassuring of these reports that I've heard since I've been here. Thank you all very much. Does anyone want to testify on this item? I show one person signed up, Joshua Mitchell. Oh, actually, no, that's just me not understanding. Okay. All right. Then can I have a motion to accept the report, please? Move adoption. Second. Discussion? Let's take a vote, please. Accept the report. Saltzman?
 Well, I want to thank the committee and particularly the new members, Ms. Garcia and Mr. Mitchell. And so thank you very much for your service. And Ken Niebauer for your ongoing service and dedication. Thank you very much. Aye. No, thank you. Again, thank you so much for all the time you put into this and for your expertise. You're more than this, but you're a very important security blanket. Aye. Fritz?
 Well, thank you also to the Bureau of Development Services. I think you've had maybe four or five commissioners in charge over the course of this project. So each of us has worked with you in bringing it forward, and I'm glad to see that it is starting to move and that we will have a reset sometime over the summer. Thank you also to the committee members, particularly Ms. Garcia for agreeing to be mine. And thank you.
 Thanks to Commissioner Saltzman for bringing this committee together. Commissioner Novick, I need to commend you on the, again, fantastic service of the folks at the Bureau of Emergency Communications and the wise choice that we made in choosing that company in this essential service of the dispatch computer. Bye.
 Good work. Thank you all very much. Aye. Okay if there's no objection I'd like to take one item out of order because we've got somebody here who's going to have to leave and that is to take item 413 from the regular calendar next and then we'll move to the items that we pulled in the rest of the regular calendar. So could you read item 413 please?
 Accept and appropriate an additional $30,000 from Oregon Impact for the 2016 Dewey Traffic Safety and High Visibility Enforcement Program for sworn personnel overtime. Okay. Sergeant Barnum, come on up, please. Morning, Mr. Mayor. Councilman. Morning.
 Brent Barnum with the Traffic Division, Portland Police Bureau. This is just the ongoing grant that we've had over the last probably 15 years from Oregon Impact. This is additional monies. The reason why we're requesting this this year so far, we've had 219 arrests for driving under the influence of alcohol, 16 arrests for driving under the influence of drugs.
 to include the marijuana impairment. We've been working the grant for about four months now. We've got a substantial amount of money left, but the additional money certainly will be helpful so that we can complete the remaining five months of the grant. To date, so far, we are a little over half as much ahead of where we were last year. Last year, we arrested 420 people under the Oregon Impact Grant, so we're a little...
 ahead of the game. This is good and bad. One, that we're getting drivers off the road, but bad in the sense that there's an uptick in impaired driving. A big part of this uptick, and I've talked to my colleagues at the state police, has been marijuana impaired driving with the new legalization law. So we're adding more
 drug recognition officers within our division to help combat this problem a little bit more. But this also stays inconsistent and in line with the City of Portland, PBOT, and the Police Bureau's partnership with Vision Zero. So this is certainly money well spent. And I certainly won't forget that I'm not trying to tax our people either. So we do this in such a format where I think it's been proven now through the increase over the years
 with the amount of arrests, but we are keeping our people well-rested, and we are actually doing effective police work out there, keeping in mind everybody's concerns. Thank you. Good report. Thank you very much. I appreciate that recognition and the thoughtfulness. My understanding from talking with Chief O'Day is that officers need to be specifically trained for recognizing marijuana impairment, and that unless they are, they're not going to
 it's more difficult to make arrests on that. Is that correct? Well, there is additional training, which certainly helps with testifying in court. Myself personally, with about 23 years of traffic division experience,
 I'm not a drug recognition officer, but I'm more than capable and comfortable making a drug arrest. And then in order to add additional evidence onto the case, there can be a drug recognition officer that can be brought in. It basically just puts another nail on the box so that we can make the case super solid. It doesn't mean the case goes away just because I'm not a drug recognition officer.
 But the additional training does require resources to be able to get more offices to happen. And I'm hopeful to be providing some of that to you in the not-too-distant future. Thank you very much for your work. Thank you. Other questions for Sergeant Barnett? Just a question. We hear a lot, so much about opioid epidemics in every state, every city in this nation. Is there such a thing as opiate-impaired driving? Oh, absolutely. Prescription drugs is a big part of the...
 the impairment as well. And, of course, we've seen that for years and years and years. But traditionally, the high volume of arrests come from alcohol-related impairment as well as now marijuana-related impairment. But it doesn't preclude prescription drug cases from time to time where we do have an impaired driver that either, one, gets in a crash or, two, just gets stopped because of their driving behaviors or patterns. Thank you.
 So you're trained to recognize the distinction between alcohol and opioid? Yeah, absolutely. And the drug recognition program, there's also what they might consider a little lesser training, which is called ARIDE, Advanced Sobriety Impairment Training, which can allow just a SFST, a regular trained DUI expert –
 grab a little bit of extra training so that they can then recognize and be that buffer. Do we call in a drug recognition expert, or is this something that I can continue on myself? It's kind of like being a junior DRE, so to speak, but you don't have the full credentials. But it does allow you to have this additional training. And these trainings are also given to basic police academy students. Thanks. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Thank you. Then let's take a vote, please. It's an emergency ordinance. Saltzman? Thank you. Aye. Novick? Aye. Prince? Thank you for this very thorough report and for your work.
 Anything else? Portlanders are losing their lives to suicide, gang violence, and traffic deaths. And in each case, the Portland Police Bureau is responding with focused effort and specialized training. And this is just one more example of that, and it makes a difference. And it's tragic what we've seen in terms of traffic deaths, and the number of them that always, this year, last year, any other year, involve people that are under the influence. So really important work. Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Mayor, I just saw this morning that our police officer saved somebody who was planning to jump off the 205 overpass. And so, again, thank you very much for all of your work in very many different realms. Thank you. Thanks, Sergeant. Okay, let's return then to our other time certain item and then move on to the rest of the agenda. 403, please. Okay.
 I accept report on the RX Play program review and evaluation. Mr. Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Portland Parks and Recreation is engaged in delivering innovative programs to the Portland community. Today we bring you a report on one of those programs, RX Play.
 We have staff from the Oregon Public Health Institute who wrote the report, as well as representatives from Intertwine, a local nonprofit entity that is exploring ways to extend and expand Portland's RxPlay model with us here today. Portland Parks and Recreation and key partners formed the RxPlay program in 2009. RxPlay is an innovative response to chronic preventable health conditions often caused by childhood obesity.
 The program partners with health care providers who write youth patients prescriptions for recreation courses at Portland Parks and Recreation facilities. The Bureau's budget request this year includes a one-time package to continue this program and transition into a long-term funding model. Portland Parks and Rec Director Mike Abbate will share details about the program and introduce our guests.
 Thank you, Commissioner, Mayor. My name is Mike Abate, Director of Portland Parks and Recreation. I'm joined today by Jean Reister of Kaiser Permanente, who's now retired, and shortly, Tammy Arnold, who's the Director of the Youth Obesity Clinic at Kaiser Permanente, will join. Also, in a moment, Portland Parks and Recreation Outreach Worker Adolfo Cuellar will come and share some of his results. Thank you.
 Our tagline is Healthy Parks, Healthy Portland, and today I'm pleased to present an innovative way that we are helping to achieve this vision. It's called RxPlay. RxPlay.
 As the health and well-being of our children are impacted daily by the environment in which they live, learn, and play, the use of parks and other recreation spaces as a healthy venue is important to consider in a comprehensive view of childhood and family obesity prevention. Nationally, we're seeing increasing commitment by parks agencies and health providers to look at synergistic ways that the two can work together to help prevent childhood obesity.
 Our Bureau is committed to maximizing opportunities for our parks to positively impact public health. And our current strategic plan includes the following goals. One, expand active recreation opportunities by partnering with the public health community. And secondly, to contribute to improved health outcomes for youth through increased physical activity and improved nutrition.
 Today's presentation is a report to Council on findings gleaned from a survey that was made possible by a 2015 Innovation Fund grant. We greatly appreciate the Council's support of that grant and of the RxPLAY program. RxPLAY is a program that builds upon the role that parks play in the health of our community. It provides a tremendous opportunity for us to continue building strong partnerships with our friends in the health community.
 And it's a collaboration which a licensed health practitioner writes prescriptions for children ages 6 to 12 to increase physical activity, send those prescriptions with family permission, of course, to a Portland Parks and Recreation outreach worker,
 who then connects with the family in what we call a warm handoff and invites them to come to a community center and find out more about the child's interests, what kind of activities they'd be involved in, and then present to them what options Portland Parks and Recreation has. We offer scholarships for low-income families that cover the registration fees. Portland Parks and Recreation, in partnership with Oregon Recreation and Parks Department, Kaiser Permanente, Multnomah County, and others,
 grew this program from a tiny kernel starting in 2009. And through that effort, we've learned it is essential to invest in skilled outreach efforts and reducing financial barriers to participation. So those are some of the ahas that we've learned, that outreach to the families is absolutely critical to success. Thank you.
 It's a mutually beneficial relationship between our agency and our health care providers. We use existing community investments in parks and recreation facilities to address a significant community problem through a partnership. And we gain new customers, create new habits in our youth, and often that's from communities that may not have engaged Portland Parks and Recreation in the past.
 Health care providers gain a bridge to real activities in the local community. They're able to go beyond simply encouraging physical activity to actually connecting children and their families to real solutions to combat chronic disease and promote wellness. And community-based interventions are more cost-effective and culturally specific. In the process, patients and their families become more connected to their communities, reducing social isolation and increasing civic engagement.
 And the exciting thing about RxPlay is that it really plays to our strengths and utilizes existing community assets, our recreation center, our pools, our playgrounds, our trails.
 It's funded through the end of June, thanks to that innovation fund grant that I mentioned, June of this year. The grant also funded the report that we're asking you to accept today. The report documents the lessons learned and highlights those practices that lead to success in helping kids get active and engaged through a partnership between health care providers, youth, and families.
 And as Commissioner Fritz noted, we're requesting a one-time budget support package for RX Play in our 2017-18 budget. And I'm pleased to have the opportunity to share this information with you today and believe that this unique partnership could move into the future.
 So, I'm joined today, as I mentioned, by one of the originators of RxPLAY, Jean Ristrom. And although she's moved on from her role that she was playing when RxPLAY was started in 2009, you'll see that the project has been a labor of love and a commitment to a vision about the synergy of parks, wellness, and healthcare. So Jean. Jean Ristrom, RxPLAY, Thank you. Thank you so much for this opportunity to be here, to all of you who have been helping with this project as well.
 My name, as we said, is Jean Reistrom. I am retired from Kaiser Permanente, and I was the co-originator of RxPlay along with Terry Bergersen from the state of Oregon's Parks and Recreation Department.
 RxPLAY at its heart is a collaboration. That's the thing I want to really emphasize. It bridges the gap between what clinicians always do, which is to give advice about healthy activity and what we offer in our recreation systems. But it's so hard for people to make the behavior change if they're not already availing themselves of those services and facilities. It's so hard for them to get there. So in this collaboration, the idea is the clinicians continue to give the advice.
 The recreation program continues to make available their programs and activities, and we're bridging the gap for people. We're helping them by passing information from one organization to the other, and then that organization reaches out to the patient and hopefully smooths the pathway for them to actually effect change. So that warm handoff is really integral to how this works.
 There are lots of other park prescription programs nationwide. That has actually been happening since we started RxPlay. When we started, there were a very small number. Now there are lots and lots of them around the country. One of the differences between those programs and RxPlay is that this one is a collaboration program.
 Many of those start out, they're in health care or they're in recreation, and then they try to attract partners on the other side. This one from the beginning with Terry and myself is absolutely a collaboration. Thank you.
 And it's a collaboration not only between recreation and healthcare, but it's also a collaboration within each of those groups because, as Director Abate said, we have several healthcare partners, and we actually have another recreation partner as well. So this is a community-wide effort where we try to bring in as many people as possible.
 So, OHSU, the Multnomah County School-Based Health Clinics, Legacy, Providence is just getting started. We have many healthcare partners, not just Kaiser Permanente. Key considerations here, that collaboration and the coordination is very important to making this work. So one of the things that happens at the end of the process where the clinician writes the prescription and it's sent to Parks and Rec, Parks and Rec makes the outreach call,
 Then the person from Parks and Rec, Adolfo, from whom you'll hear, makes an outreach call back to the clinician and lets them know what happened. That turns out to be really important because then the clinicians know what's going on with their patient. They know how to reinforce those messages. They have faith that the program's working, et cetera. So feedback and coordination between the programs is important. Thank you.
 This program also, as was referenced before, was designed to speak to those who are disadvantaged already. The people who already know about Parks and Recreation, that's great. But the people who don't know that that's their program and it's there for them, those are the ones that we most want to reach.
 Offering those low or no-cost activities and being able to do that until behavior is changed, because behavior change takes a while, is really important. Another important aspect of what we were able to do with the grant.
 The last thing, perhaps the most pivotal of all, is the dedicated staffing. Having somebody in the Parks and Rec system who is specially trained and experienced, who is bilingual, you'll hear all that from Adolfo. Those are really important things, not to mention being very, very enthusiastic.
 So, there's kudos to many people for making this happen. Teri and I were the co-originators, but it would have gone nowhere without a whole lot of people's help. And I particularly want to call out Sue Glenn, who has moved on from Portland Parks, but who was a wonderful support to this program.
 There are sister programs growing around the state of Oregon due to RxPlay, and that is not relevant, of course, but it's a point of pride nonetheless. So Seaside is doing something that came out of this when I talked with Providence. Grants Pass called me to talk about could they set up an RxPlay program. There's one that's under study in Wilsonville, and then, of course, Bend is looking at – has actually been doing an RxPlay program for a long time and is looking at –
 making it more stable. There's a strategic planning process, which was happening parallel to the study that we're talking about today. The strategic planning process was underwritten by Kaiser Permanente, and it was undertaken by Oregon's Public Health Institute. I'm sorry. I've gotten myself confused. That is the report we're talking about today. The strategic planning process was underwritten by Kaiser Permanente, and...
 And it was the Intertwine Alliance that is working on that. So we are looking to expand the program. We're looking to expand it geographically, add more partners, and expand the age range of people that we can serve under the program. So I'm now going to move to the report itself. Over 100 clinicians have written prescriptions and over –
 800 kids have had prescriptions over the history of the program. There are about 20 incoming prescriptions to Portland Parks per month in 2015. About 40% or more are filled. In other words, of the prescriptions that are written, those kids actually end up signing up for a program. And at least 30% of those are then signing up for an additional activity after that one has ended.
 And then I just want to part with the concluding paragraph from the executive summary from that report, funded by the grant through OPHI. Over the past four years, the Portland Parks and Rec RxPlay program has facilitated hundreds of conversations between health care providers, youth, and parents about the importance of physical activity and improving health. Thanks to RxPlay, recreation centers have become important health improvement resources for these youth.
 their families, and their health care providers. RxPlay's impact is not limited to physical activity. It has also introduced community members to Portland Parks and Rec, as was already mentioned. Many participants had never engaged with Portland Parks before RxPlay, but the program's strong partnership and health care providers, successful outreach strategy, and scholarships brought them recreation-centered doors for the first time.
 This evaluation shows that Portland Parks staff and other RxPlace stakeholders have worked to create a solid foundation of partnerships, data collection, and client engagement for the program and provide recommendations for how to build on these successes in the future. With that, let me introduce Tammy. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. My name is Tammy Telestis-Arnold, and I am a registered nurse with Kaiser Permanente. I was hired in 2012 to pilot a pediatric obesity clinic targeting our highest-risk patients
 who are considered severely obese and or that have health-related comorbidities like insulin resistance, prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, PCOS, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and psychological disorders related to polycystic ovary syndrome. Okay.
 We know that obesity continues to be an epidemic in this country, and without interventions, it will not get better on its own. As a health care provider, I see on a daily basis the effects that lack of exercise and diet choice has on our families. In a clinic environment, we are very limited with the resources that are available to our pediatric population. We are unable to directly offer exercise programming, and the resources are very few for many families on a fixed income.
 A majority of the families that I work with are low income. Income in and of itself creates many barriers for families, the obvious barrier being that they can't come up with the funds to put their kids in organized sports or participate in community recreational programs.
 These families struggle just to put food on the table. Many have two and three jobs and try to make ends meet, which means that they have significant barriers. It's not uncommon for these children to come from single-family homes with additional stress on their families. While RxPLAY can't remove all the barriers, it is a much-needed bridge that helps fill the gap for many of the families that I refer to the program.
 By providing a warm handoff, outreach from PPNR, Portland Parks and Rec, helps to provide some of that stress off the busy parent to find the time to connect with those resources. By offering low-cost and no-cost programming, it helps to remove the barrier of financial access.
 I have personally helped to connect hundreds of children to exercise programs at Portland Parks and Rec. Our families that utilize the program appreciate the experience, they enjoy it, and they love the resources that are available to them. The program is an asset not only to the patients but to the medical community as it gives us a tool that we would not otherwise have. Again, resources for children are so limited, which for me highlights the need for more resources, not less.
 the health and wellness of our children are at stake. And I'd just like to share a really quick little story about one of the patients that I got to refer to this program. She was on the upper end of the spectrum with regards to age. And she came from a single-family parent. Mom was out of work, and they don't work.
 they didn't have access to a car. So, you know, we tried to problem solve around these issues because that's kind of what I do is help them figure out how not only to give them the resource, but how to get to that resource. Mom was extremely motivated. Child was above the 99th percentile, which meant that she was severely obese. And she felt kind of stigmatized about participating in anything in the school, let alone exercising. She felt very uncomfortable in her body.
 We made the resource connection with Portland Parks. She was very excited. She wanted to make change. Mom was very excited. They wanted to make change. We got them on the bus. They went over off Cherry Park, participated.
 to the full extent that they were able. And I'm happy to report that she lost about 15 pounds and grew about 2 to 3 inches over the year, year and a half. Made a significant change in this young lady's life. And not only that, her mother was so inspired that she started walking while the daughter was in the swim class.
 and they actually participated together as a family in the color run. So it was a real win-win situation for the whole entire family. The other thing that I'd like to share with you is –
 as I talk about my experience, it's also some of the experiences of some of our other clinicians and providers. We actually did an in-house survey of over 20 providers to find out what they thought of the RxPlay program. And overall, I'm very happy to say that they were extremely supportive of the program. They felt that it met the needs of our patients and that it was easy to fit into the practice for the most part. It helps promote health. Financial barriers are minimized and the process is easy for both
 both the family and the clinician. These are direct words from some of our clinicians. Eighty percent of the clinicians felt that the program provided significant benefit and that they felt that the program was excellent and it was one of the best prescriptions that they have ever had the opportunity to write. The biggest issues for the clinicians are the program footprint, which is the service area. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we had Portland Parks and Rec
 for not only this area, but that's the problem. I personally live out in East County, and our resources are even more limited, and the food deserts are greater, and the needs are greater, specifically in the Rockwood area. So it makes it difficult.
 Streamlining the process would be of benefits. Barriers identified by families include the ability to make time for participation, the cost or the concern about the cost, transportation, and just being out of their comfort zone. So those were some of the things that were noted by the providers. But they greatly appreciated hearing back from Portland Parks on the prescriptions that they sent out. They would love to have even more data, because that's kind of what we do in healthcare. The more data, the better, right?
 as well as the efficiency of the program. So some of the examples that they provide, one of our providers said that, I've seen several children with elevated BMI whose families struggle to incorporate activity into their routines. The RxPlay classes and activities gave them the support and the structure to change, resulting in increased confidence in both children and patients as weight loss occurred.
 You know, I think as parents, we all want the best for our children. We want them to be healthy. We want them to be happy. But sometimes our desires and our abilities don't always match up.
 But when it comes to programs like RxPlay, they help fill in that gap. They connect our families with the resources and the community recreation that we need. We have to, as leaders in our community, help our children not only thrive for themselves, but for our community and for our nation. I hope that you will consider allowing this program to continue. Thank you.
 Thank you. One of the things that we have learned since 2009 is a critical part of the program is that we're calling it the warm handoff. It's actually having dedicated staff that can –
 reach out to families who have received these prescriptions and invite them in a caring and compassionate way. And I have joining me is Adolfo Cuellar, who has been our outreach specialist, and asked him to make a few remarks. Hello. Good morning. I'm here today. I didn't write too much because…
 Honestly, I mean, so to speak, I guess we all really live this, but I was the one making the outreach calls. And so I had the opportunity to speak with the families and it's completely changed my life. And it's changed who I am and the way that I go about speaking with people in general. RxPlay.
 basically made me a more understanding person regarding the human experience. When I first started RxPlay, I didn't really understand what the influence would be because I had a bigger picture idea. I realized that health has more to do with diet and with our daily life activities than it does with any kind of quick remedy. And so I started making these calls and I realized that this was affecting actual families. And these families were
 amazed at the opportunity to take their child to a Taekwondo class or a swimming class that they had no idea about previously. And that these centers are across the city and they had no clue whatsoever. And so, Rocio is a really great, really great example of the effect of RxPlay. Unfortunately, she wanted to be here today but she couldn't because she's working. And so, Rocio had two children in RxPlay. One was a little bit older girl, thin, very, very nervous and shy.
 And she would stand behind Rocio when they would come up to the front desk. At this point, her child reached 14, so is no longer in RxPlay, but is still taking music lessons and swimming lessons, has completed all of the courses at this point. And is actually, she herself came up to the front desk and asked if there's any way that she can get into our lifeguard classes, although she's not old enough, which is fantastic. I mean, that is a complete turnaround. Yeah.
 At one point, Rocio called me and she asked me what she should do because her child was being bullied. And I realized that I'm now the only connection that Rocio even has to the city as far as she's concerned. She could have come up to the front desk. She could have called the police. But she didn't feel as trusted in that scenario. And so RxPlay at that point, or at least my role, left the realm of even health care.
 And it just gave a connection to somebody who typically wouldn't have that connection whatsoever, wouldn't even know about community centers, provided that connection to some help of some sort for a scenario where she didn't know what else to do. So I'm really thankful for RxPlay for the effect that it's had on my life and, of course, for the effects that it's had on countless families' lives. Rocio's fully Spanish-speaking. Maybe I should mention that. And on a bigger scale,
 I think we can all notice the influence that naturopathic medicine is having on health care and on insurance and stuff like that. And we also see the recent attention that Kaiser's put on to preventative health care. And so on the note of what Gene was saying as far as other parks prescription programs happening, just kind of popping up all over the country ever since this one came up, I put a call into San Francisco recently and realized that there's an association specifically for parks,
 prescription programs. And so they're having conference calls once a month kind of talking about where this is going and how they can get it there quicker. And that really helped me see that Portland has a chance to truly be a leader in this whole movement by pushing RxPlay forward. Thanks. Thank you, Adolfo. You know, this program, as we mentioned, started in 2009, and I'd be remiss if I didn't give a shout out to Lisa Turple.
 Lisa is the staff person who began this working with Jean and with state parks. And over her career, her 30-year career, she transformed the organization through policies and systems that promoted professionalism, equality, equity, and access. And most of all, reflected her understanding of how important recreation was and could be in the lives of young people.
 After her retirement in 2010, the program continued under the leadership of Sue Glenn and Danielle Solomon, who's in the audience today. I want to recognize their amazing work. And it's a dedication and commitment of our park staff who have been willing to collaborate with others to make this possible. It represents both the strengths and weaknesses of our strategic goals.
 It's a passion for innovation exploration, but it challenges us with meeting current service levels while we try to retool for the future.
 We believe that RxPlay has great potential to continue working with Kaiser and Intertwine and other health care providers in the region to establish a workable and supportable model that can be sustainable financially long term. I mentioned that the budget request, our budget, includes a proposal to continue the funding at $120,000. And that request is just for the funds needed for people like Adolfo, the outreach workers, and actual scholarships that we provide the young people.
 We believe that the next year offers this opportunity to firmly establish the linkage between health care, cost reduction, and access. And so thank you. I'd like to invite Tammy and Gene to join. We'll pull up another chair, and we'd be happy to answer any questions that you have. Great. Thank you all. Great presentation. Questions for the team? Thank you.
 I don't know that we have any, actually. You may be off the hook. Oh, you have no questions? Okay. Great presentation. Thank you. Yeah, you did a great job. Great presentation. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else want to speak on this item before we take action? No one else signed up. Huh? No one else signed up. All right. Then please, let's take a motion to adopt the report. So moved. Second. Roll call, please. Saltzman? Saltzman?
 Well, thank you for a great report, and it's really nice to see that this connection between our health care providers and our parks and recreation departments are really connecting. And I guess it's not so unique. There seems to be quite a few programs now that are doing this RxPlay or prescription play, but it's really a connection long overdue. And so it sounds like a lot of young people are on a path to it.
 more healthy and successful lives as a result of this connection. So I'm very pleased to support it. And thanks for the OPHI validation of this program. Hi. Novick.
 I think one of Portland's goals should be to be the healthiest city in America. And this is a tremendous program which is both improving people's lives and saving money for all of us because all of us are in the same health insurance pool. So the healthier everybody is, then the better the –
 bottom line for governments and families and businesses. And so, and that's good for the economy because money that we're not spending on unnecessary healthcare is money to be invested in other things. So that's my critical technical reaction, but also the stories are phenomenal and it's magnificent that this program is making a real difference in real kids' lives. Thank you, aye.
 Healthy parks, healthy Portland. Thank you to our health care partners and our parks staff for this report and for the program. I thank Commissioner Fish, who was in charge when it started in 2009, and former director Zari Stantner. And again, it's a great testimony to the memory of Lisa Turpel.
 I'm struck by our park staff, Adolfo Cuellar, starting off with what a difference it's made to him. And that's the case for many of our park staff, that the work that we do, we love and we care about the community. We get as much coming to work each day as we do give to those in the community. That's partly why we do the work that we do.
 And it's important work, and we need to figure out how to continue to fund it. So the budget request we have is for a one-time funding. We are hoping that as we continue looking at health care funding, the coordinated care organizations, being able to prove that this has results, you know, the reduction in obesity, the increase in health, that's health care dollars saved. And so we are looking to all of our health care partners, including the Oregon Public Health,
 Public Health Institute, Kaiser Permanente, the OHSU, Doernbecher, the National College of Natural Medicine, and others, and the Intertwined Alliance to help us figure out how do we get this on a sustainable funding? Because it's clear today that this is...
 the right thing to do and it's the right direction to go and we need to expand it, as was mentioned, to many more families citywide and figure out how to pay for that. And of course, it always comes down to how are we going to pay for it. I thank Gene Reistrom, Tammy Arnold, and Adolfo Cuellar for
 presenting today and our wonderful Park staff Eileen Argentina Matthew Calhoun and Danielle Solomon as well as Lisa and many others who we just recognize that this is the right thing to do and as a retired registered nurse it brings joy to my heart thank you
 This is a great program and thanks for a great report. We have to keep looking for ways to get upstream in the lives of our kids to change the outcomes. And as the Commissioner in charge of the Police Bureau, who's haunted every night by calls from my Bureau about gang violence, I know if we have healthy, connected kids that are getting a great education and access to recreation, that there will be less of those calls someday in the future.
 We don't know exactly how those positive pathways all work out, but we know that they do, and you do, and that's why you do this work.
 So it's a very great validation to hear how it's working in people's lives and in our employees' lives. Finally, I just want to say to Kaiser, you know, there are some corporations that have slogans and don't do anything. And then there's Kaiser that talks about healthy people and thriving. And then you step up as a partner in a program like this or on Sunday Parkways or on funding the Unity Center. And I just want to commend your organization. Thank you.
 for being there as a partner to get to the outcomes that we all want. So Kaiser deserves our thanks for being a partner and for backing your slogan with real effort, real money, real commitment. And that's noticed and appreciated. Thank you. Aye. Thank you all. Great work.
 All right, let's move on to our two pulled items, please. From the regular calendar, we have 405. Yes, we do have Christine here. Okay, 405. Except bid of Moore Excavation, Inc. for the Colwood Golf Course Phase 2 redevelopment for $1,945,819. Okay.
 chris yeah mary pulled this simply because of the size of the contract and it looks like a good contract but i just wanted christine moody their chief procurement office to be able to explain it to us thank you it was erroneously on the consent calendar so thank you for pulling it thank you mayor commissioners christine moody procurement services we have before you the procurement report recommending a contract award to more excavation the engineers estimate on this project was 2m
 On February 18, 2016, five bids were received, and more excavation is the low bidder at $1,945,819, which is 2.5% under the engineer's estimate.
 The city identified six divisions of work for potential minority women in emerging small business subcontracting opportunities. The MWESB subcontracting participation on this project is at 29.73%, with work being performed in landscaping, surveying, drilling, and traffic sign installation. I will turn this back over to council if you have any questions. Thank you. Questions for Christine. It doesn't look like there are any. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, a motion to accept the report, please. I'm going to tell them. Roll call.
 Novic? Aye. Fritz? Well, thank you, Chief Procurement Officer, Chief Christine Moody. I'm really pleased to see over a quarter of a million dollars going to minority and women emerging small business subcontractors. It's just a quick overview of the project itself. We have currently completed the phase one improvements to Colwood to convert the golf course from 18 to 9 holes, and the phase two developments, which will be made through this
 include improvements to the right-of-way frontage, decommissioning existing septic tanks, redeveloping the existing parking lot, installing new pedestrian connections, and constructing a new outdoor gathering area and driving range facility. Colleagues, I'm pleased to tell you that also the clubhouse at Colwood is already becoming a vibrant community center and being very well used for things other than golf.
 So it's really a testament to the work of this council to invest in coal wood and put it into even more community use. Thank you for that. This is a continuing raining down of good things from a wonderful...
 that came along from the Trust for Public Lands a while back to make this acquisition to create a site where additional industrial development could happen, and it's led to great things for the neighborhood, and it also opened the door to resolve a 25-year problem of where the post office should go. So it's a winner on every level, and it's great that the progress continues. Aye. Okay, 412, please. I'm sorry, no, 411. 411.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to provide survey and research related services for a term of three years for an amount not to exceed $150,000. This was pulled. Mr. Lightning pulled this. I think he left. Okay. Then let's take a vote, please. It's a non-emergency. It moves to second reading. Okay. Now we can move, please, to item 412.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for mobile data computer replacement laptops for the Portland Police Bureau. Good morning. Good morning. Speaking of new equipment. Good morning. Morning. I'm Lieutenant Andrew Shearer with the Portland Police Bureau. I'm here on behalf of Assistant Chief Bob Day today. He unfortunately had to step away for another urgent meeting.
 Our reason for being here today is to request to begin the process to authorize a competitive solicitation for replacement of our mobile data computer replacement laptops. There's approximately 350 mobile data laptops that are due. The warranty is due to expire in 2017. There is no extended warranty that can be purchased. So we're looking for permission to begin the process to identify what the replacement product will be and start to cost that product. So this will cue us up to make...
 purchase but not necessarily execute on that purchase correct
 with a computer, just because it's off warranty doesn't mean it doesn't work. So, I mean, obviously we might get more functionality out of new units as well. I don't want to mean that we just limp along. Potentially. And I brought my colleagues here along to answer some of those more technical questions as far as the lifespan for those computers and what that might be. Will the new ones – I mean, that's a question I don't know and should. That is, will the new units not only be in warranty but –
 substantially better, because that seems to be what typically happens with technology. Not always. Good morning. Mark Elwood. I manage the police IT division for BTS. Yes, we're all aware of Moore's Law, that things double every year and a half, and the same thing happens with these. But in addition to that, we're looking to examine other kinds of devices and other solutions to still be...
 a Microsoft-based platform, but there are tablets now as well as laptops, and we want to take a good look at what the alternatives are for if they're more useful or more affordable or more portable, whatever it is. What was the original year of the ones that we're now using?
 2013, but the original generation of those were from 2008. Yeah, yeah, okay. That's a long time in that world. This is two generations of the same devices so far. Yeah, okay. So this will happen in 2017, that fiscal year. Mayor, I just wanted to say one thing. Chad Loveland said,
 With the last iteration, we saw quite a large break rate toward the end of the warranty period. The very first time we went through this, we saw about a .07 break rate, which is very low. So just in anticipation of our experience from the last go-around, we want to be prepared for this one. Yeah, sure. In addition to that, we have a limited number of spares because we wanted to be fiscally responsible during the last go-around.
 So if those things start breaking on us, we're going to be, our folks are going to be in trouble pretty quick. Other questions? I hope you're including in this elucidation trying to use more hands-free and talking equipment.
 astonished at the complexity of the mobile units in the police cars and as we know even using a cell phone can be distracting. I would hope that the new models would be more talking to and voice commands rather than needing to look at the screen all the time.
 We've actually gone through three requirement sessions. We have a user group, a technical group, a mounting group, safety committee, all that. And we published an RFI for a vendor fair for May 3rd. So we're going to talk with the vendors about these types of things specifically. And then with that information, we're going to wrap up the requirements, of which I'll make sure that that's on there.
 Yeah, I realize that offices who've been using them for 20, 30 years, they're very used to doing that. And still, I'm sure there's some safety improvements that we could get to. So I'm really excited to see this procurement going out. I did have a question about the substitute, though. Okay. We do have a substitute, which I can move. Do you want to ask? I'll move the substitute, second it. So, yes, please. Thank you. Thank you.
 In it, you've deleted item 6, which says funding will be from the $341,616 remaining in the MDC replacement fund and the Bureau's general fund appropriation. Why was that deleted? Yes.
 I can't answer that. I know after talking to Catherine Ryland, she said there is money left in the replacement account, but there was a decision made by BTS apparently in the 13-14 budget not to fund the replacement costs. Does that answer your question? I just want to make sure that you're not going to be coming with a $2 million ask or such like from the general fund that this is going to be covered in the replacement fund.
 There will be an ask in the 17-18 budget cycle. We are going to be looking internally to see where we can minimize what that ask is, but there will be an ask in the 17-18 budget cycle. Just a reminder that the life cycle replacement program went away in the year that we did the last replacement, so there is no new life cycle replacement.
 cycle replacement so there there is some money I just still in the replacement fund but it's not enough and that money will be used for this but there's just not enough maybe that's I didn't hadn't seen that Christian I think maybe we should check but I think the meaning of that is we will still use the three hundred and forty one thousand six hundred sixteen dollars if they're assuming that they're there
 but that's not all the funding that will be required ultimately for purchase. So, Mayor, as the Police Commissioner, I assume you will look into that because all the other bureaus are required to pay into replacement so that when our computers have reached end of life, there is the money set aside. And I think that the Police Bureau should be no different. Yeah, I will look into that. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Yeah. So, um...
 We're estimating about $2 million to replace 350 units. That's based on historical figures, so we won't know the actual estimate until about May after the RFP responses are received. Yeah, I don't have a calculator in front of me, but that seems to say that we're talking about maybe $4,000 to $5,000 a unit. Is that? Yeah, because these – I mean, I realize they have to be rugged and durable, but that seems a lot – you know, if you look in the laptop market today, there's –
 You can get a lot for $5,000. Yeah, and that's one of the things that we want to assess during this evaluation. If there's something out there that may be semi-rugged, it would be less costing. As a matter of fact, in one of the requirement sessions, our users have indicated that they would be okay with semi-rugged devices. So that's a requirement of ours.
 In addition to that, one thing to note is it's not just the computer devices. There's mounting hardware. There's keyboards. There's office software, things like that that also have to be included. This includes all the software on the mounting? Okay. Okay. Thanks. Questions for the team? Thank you all very much. Thank you. Anyone want to speak on this item? Yes. Mr. Robert West would like to speak. Come on up. Yes. My name is Robert West with Film the Police 911.
 And I wanted to bring up that the cost of those laptops that they're trying to get, whether they're hard or not, is very expensive. And the police department still has laptops that work. It's not a thing that they don't work anymore or anything like that. They do work. There's no reason to buy a whole bunch of new ones. And then what are we going to do with the old ones?
 You know, you got perfectly good computers that you're either going to have disposed or destroyed or whatever. I just don't see any reason buying brand new computers at that price. When you could probably come up with a way of putting them in a protective shield in a police car, a metal protective shield, and put a Windows...
 or, you know, put a computer in there, a regular computer. I see officers taking the computers out of the cars there once in a while, and I don't see why they have to take the computers out of the car when the computers should be mounted in the cars. I also see the officers going... They'll be driving up the street as they're doing this, you know, and...
 I think that's a safety hazard, but what can I do about it? It's not until they hit a child or a lady crossing with a child or something like that, some disaster happens, then maybe change can happen. And also the fact that Portland Police will be going to digital pretty soon as far as their radios go. How will that affect their new computers? Will they need to buy new computers for these radios and stuff?
 Will the new hardware that they have to get with these digitals work with the computers, or will they have, you know? So there's a lot of questions. I think the police ought to go back, look at, they're going to be getting digital pretty soon. Will it work with the computers they're getting? Is there cheaper ones to get and stuff like that? Can they use a regular laptop?
 They don't need military-grade computers in their patrol cars. They just have some kind of aluminum or metal protection on the back, something to hold it there. We're not in Iraq. We're not...
 They're not in Iraq. They're not in Afghanistan. We don't need to worry about mines and bombs going off and stuff. Thank you. Thanks very much. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. So are we ready to take action on the substitute ordinance? Let's take a vote, please. Heltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Let's see what our options are. Thank you. Aye. Okay. I'm going to have to go on that.
 Do we have to accept the substitute? We already moved the substitute. So it was not an amendment. It was a substitute. So we're okay. Okay. Let's move on to 414. I'm sorry. I was thinking that was the vote on accepting the substitute, and now we need to vote on the substitute. Okay. I thought we already had. Sorry. Let's do that. Let's take a vote on the substitute ordinance then. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. 414, please.
 amend utility license law to include direct access electric services and establish minimum penalties for certain violations. Good morning, Ms. Henry. Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. The purpose of this ordinance is to make direct access electric and gas services subject to the utility license code. So energy suppliers operate throughout Oregon and in Portland.
 Energy suppliers provide wholesale service to business customers, bypassing local utilities. For example, in Portland, it might be PGE, PPNL, and Northwest Natural. So business customers buy directly from alternative suppliers rather than the local utility, and the option of receiving this service directly from suppliers is called direct access.
 These direct access suppliers are not currently subject to the utility license law. Thus, revenues associated with their sales are not captured through utility license fees. Industry experts predict that the market share of energy suppliers will likely increase in the future.
 In terms of the process that we used for this, we sent out notice in January to all of the utility licensees, as well as those energy suppliers that we are aware of in Portland. I have worked with the two energy suppliers that we are aware of,
 of Noble America Energy Solutions and Shell Energy since January and answered their questions. You know, can this be passed through? When will this be taking effect? The effective date of this is...
 July 1st, 2016. I will say that normally when you deal with companies, they're not thrilled with being taxed, but the representatives of these two companies have been just great and complementary of the process in the sense that we're giving them so much time to prepare for this. And I
 In Hillsboro and Prineville, they've been doing this for several years. The other small tweak we're making is to the penalties, where we're establishing a minimum penalty of $500 or 2% of the utility's gross revenues, mostly for administrative efficiencies. We don't actually use this portion of the code that much. We endeavor to get everybody to pay what they're supposed to do and follow the law from the very beginning.
 And I wanted to thank Danny Grady and Michael Armstrong of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability who helped me with the estimates. And I'm happy to answer any questions. Because I like hearing the numbers, what are the estimates for the revenue for this? Well, we think on the high end it could be a million dollars annually in general fund revenue. But because all the information is proprietary, we won't know until we know. Thank you very much for that. Do you happen to know whether the budget office has factored that into their forecast for next year?
 I don't know, but I definitely provided all the information to them. Once again, the Office for Community Technology is really proving its worth, and you as its leader, I very much appreciate this work. Thank you. Thank you. Are any of these direct access providers providing renewable energy? I don't know the answer to that, but I can check with my colleague in planning and sustainability. They might have a better idea. But I actually, since now I have this great relationship with these two companies, I can ask them directly. Okay.
 I'd like to know okay. I'll follow up all right. Thank you Any anyone want to speak on this item? I did not have a sign-up sheet Not it has second reading. Thank you very much The man said a million here and a million there and eventually you've got real money Okay, for 15
 Authorize the Bureau of Environmental Services to execute easements with Tualatin Hills Park and Recreation District as part of the Southwest 86th Avenue Pump Station and Apprentices Project number E09051 and Fano Basin Pressure Line System Upgrade Project number E10599. Good morning. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and City Commissioners.
 For the record, my name is Scott Gibson. I'm with the Bureau of Environmental Services, and with me today is Debbie Castleton. And this item is asking for authorization to enter into easement agreements with Tualatin Hills Parks and Rec. One of the easements is associated with the 2% set aside for art on the project, and the other easement is in order to facilitate construction on the force main manway removals. Thank you.
 Let's see. So the reason why I brought Debbie is she could give us a summary of where we are on the art. She's been our face in the public for the last five years on the phantom pump stations, and I'd turn it over to her to give you a short summary of what we're doing.
 Thank you. It's nice to be in front of you with my actual job. Thank you. We have been working with the public in the southwest area and the Fano Basin area near the pump station for several years. We have a citizen advisory committee out there.
 and that includes Tualatin Hills staff and members of the public that live in the area surrounding the pump station and we selected working with Regional Arts and Culture Council working with Peggy Condellan who's the art manager for this to emerging artists because it was a very small budget
 Most of the pump station is underground, so we only do the 2% for art for above-ground structures. So the two emerging artists that we selected are David Beckelheid and Christina Conant. And...
 They actually, David lived in the area growing up, so he was very familiar with the area. The site proposed is outside of the BES property, where the Southwest 8th Avenue pump station is built, on the east side. And it's on THPRD's property right off the trail about two feet.
 It's about 120 feet in length and ranging. The art is actually ranging from one to two feet, so it's not a safety hazard. It'll be interactive to the public, and it's a sculpture. And it references the... They did a lot of research on this and worked with the public, referencing the elevation lines of the topography of the area as well as the course of Fano Creek. There will be also...
 in consultation with THPRD, the native edible plants along the fence line so the public can actually interact with that. And that references the native people of the Tualatin tribes over there and the first settlers who began farming in the area. So the artists were very conscientious of the history of the area and working with the public over there. And
 the selection committee worked with the local residents and we also met with the public with the artists to portray where we wanted to have it on site and they mocked up a
 cardboard version of the art a little bit of it so they could see actually where we were proposing it and asked for public comment which we received in the mail or by email and that was last May so almost a year now and we received I'd say 98% positive support and support for the work with the one person who just hates us in general
 So we've received good support, and I think everybody's excited, and I liked having the actual public involvement piece, working with the public on the art and the selection of the artists. We went through, I think, 100 resumes and proposals for the art. And since it's such a small budget, we had this such passionate group of young artists involved
 that are really emerging, which is great. And this item is here before it's an emergency that will help us facilitate coordination. We have to have the easements approved by Tualatin Hills Parks Board as well. And it's a no-cost easement. The reason why we're here is it requires mutual indemnification clauses. And that's it. We're going to answer any questions. Great. Thank you. Questions? Okay. What's the budget for the ARC? It was $30,000. Oh, $30,000. Okay.
 great thank you both very much thank you anyone want to speak on this item it is an emergency ordinance so we will take a vote please saltzman thank you hi novick thank you hi great work hi hi thank you okay 416.
 I authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the cured in-place pipe southeast rehabilitation project number E10682 for $2,260,000. Okay. Could you give him a hand with the PowerPoint connection there? Yeah, thank you.
 I noticed you have eight minutes, not five, not ten, but eight minutes. That's very precise. We'll make sure we hit the eight minutes. Thank you very much. As you know, we're here to ask permission for a construction contract. With me today is Colleen Harreld. Colleen Harreld is the project manager for this effort. She has a very short presentation. Thank you.
 On the project, it's similar to those that you've seen, and I'll turn it over to her. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Colleen Herold. With me is Scott Gibson. We're here today to ask for authorization to approve an ordinance to advertise the $2.3 million CIP Southeast Sewer Rehabilitation Contract.
 This project is part of the BES's Phase II large-scale sewer rehabilitation program, which is approved in our current capital improvement budget. Just a recap of our large scale. There was a Phase I that occurred and is complete and through construction. There is also a Phase III in pre-design currently, and it's a line item which indicates that these activities require a continuous reinvestment and that the Bureau is planning for these activities.
 Currently on this slide is the entire program shown in purple. This map has 23 neighborhood project areas outlined, and the project follows the system needs and targets, the worst of the worst pipe in the city. Our project today, the CIPP Southeast project, is shown in green, and I'll talk to you a little bit about it on the next slide and why it looks so different. This project is located in Tabor Powell, California,
 and also has pipe brought in from East Moreland, a project that was not able to be done in that contract. And this project is, most of the time our projects use neighborhood boundaries and are on the neighborhood scale. This project was compiled with pipe that is defined by the construction method. We're going to cure and place this pipe, and I couldn't stick to the neighborhood boundaries that the program did.
 The next slide indicates just some pipe defects of the pipe that we're going to rehabilitate. It's highly deteriorated pipe. It has root intrusion, the usual broken pipe, ruts, and nests. And we're replacing and rehabilitating the sewer mains. Excuse me. We're rehabilitating the sewer mains. Some of the laterals will be reconstructed, and the manholes will be rehabbed.
 This will protect against public health, property, and the environment. This will protect public health, property, and environment, increase sewer system capacity and reliability, and reduce the risk of sewer releases to homes and businesses. This rehabilitation method is completely trenchless. This is what we're doing with the mainline sewer pipe. It's a flexible liner that fits inside the existing main. It is...
 like a sock being pulled into the pipe. It has a hollow tube inside,
 It is pressurized by air to that existing pipe. Heat is added. It's cured in place and forms a rigid, smooth surface. In this picture, these are stock photos, again, from our website. We work with Institut Forum and Michaels. They're two global companies, but they have a very local presence for our work, and we work very closely with them to achieve cured-in-place pipes.
 The cost savings of cured-in-place pipe versus open cut can be one-third of the construction cost. It defers pipe replacement up to 60 years. This is a very new technology, actually. It's 40 years old, so hopefully it adds even longer service life to our pipe, and time will tell. The community impact, this is a...
 This has very little community impact because we're lining that sewer through the manholes. As the main line gets larger, sometimes we do have to remove the cones of the manholes, but it's very non-invasive.
 As you see in this photo, one of the detriments of this is that it has an off-gas that contains chemical styrene. People who live and work near a COPP repair project can sometimes smell this chemical odor. The odor is from that resin liner installed inside the pipe.
 The odor dissipates quickly, especially if it's windy and the air is moving, once the installation process is complete. The amount of airborne styrene the repair process produces is not a human health risk. Our project overview, some statistics about this project. This is a fairly small project for our large diameter program. It's 29 pipe. It's 1.1 miles of length.
 It runs from 8-inch diameter to 36-inch diameter pipe. Much of the pipe, 93% of the pipe is 90 years old, which is amazing that we can cure in place 90-year-old pipes still. It has 95 residential streets, five major streets. 17 are located in the northeast with the rest in the southeast. Thank you.
 And the public impact, I want you to know some key items. The Workner Creston Elementary School is a 10-inch pipe. We try to do work around schools on the off-season when it's out of session.
 Our night work and noise variances, we have eight locations in our noise variance on this project. And those are, the cure times can be long, so they have to continue into the nighttime hours when they're doing the installation. They're a very short duration, in and out in a week. Okay.
 When the night work is necessary or required, we will use this variance respectfully. And we'll only use it to allow work to proceed past 6 p.m. because you cannot stop once you start curing. You can't say we'll pick up in the morning. You must keep the heat going and the temperatures to maintain that cure time. Again, one item of...
 key issue is we have a sewer that has a manhole in i-84 in the westbound far westbound lane the upstream manhole is also located in providence hospital of course in their back road so we've been working closely with the hospital and with odot to do a taper and lane closure and working with the hospital to minimize noise and light pollution for the hospital location and again um
 We can't stop, so we're going to try and do this over a Saturday night to a Sunday morning and make it very low impact. We have an incredibly talented and efficient public outreach group that we work very closely with. They do outreach for us to residences, businesses, neighborhood associations, business associations, schools, of course, TriMet. And then, again, they've helped me with the communication with Providence Hospital and ODOT on this project. Thank you.
 Finally, our budget and schedule. This is a $2.3 million project. It has a high level of confidence at this point. We will advertise, award and begin work in the fall of this year and the construction duration will be eight months or less. And if there are no more questions, Scott has something additional to speak with you about.
 So the CIPP technology in these diameters is not something that has an abundance of contractors involved.
 Colleen mentioned there are two major players in our market. That's in situ form and Michael's. Furthermore, since there's not a lot of digging, the sub opportunities are limited. So our experience has been that this CIPP work has a reduced level of participation opportunities for MWESB. So when Christine comes back to talk to you about our results, I want to give you a heads up that we're doing our best to
 across the program to make sure we're making opportunities and we're doing our outreach. This is one where I personally have some concern about whether or not we'll be able to meet our targets because of the type of work. We do have traffic handling, and we do have some other smaller opportunities, concrete cutting, et cetera. But two of our main opportunities are paving.
 And the other one is trucking. And with the trenchless technology in these packages, we don't have those two opportunities. So we would expect to see a slightly lower percentage on this than we do across the rest of the program. I just wanted to let you all know that that's where I think we're heading. We're doing our best to manage it.
 And that's all I have to say about that. I very much appreciate you being mindful and upfront of those challenges. And maybe instead you could tell us, or as well as when you come back with whoever gets the contract, you could let us know what the company is doing to diversify its own workforce and encouraging the Oregon Women's Trace Women and others to apply for apprenticeships and such.
 I'll do that. I'll talk to Christine about that. Well received if they would be willing to do that. I have one question. You had mentioned that the styrene is not hazardous to humans. Is there any data that it might be hazardous to smaller beings, such as domestic animals, birds, bugs? Yes.
 I don't know the answer to that. I assume that the non-invasive, non-environmental issues extend that far, but I can't answer that. I will research it for you, though. If you could just let me know. You've done such a good job, it sounds like, of notifying neighbors. Being upfront, you're going to notify whenever you're going to use the noise variance and such. I think people would understand if they were asked to keep their domestic animals inside for the day or something like that. Sure.
 sure it's great if necessary and if it's not then we need to know because we'll be getting the calls of why is this smell and is it hurting my dog thank you thank you thank you thanks very much okay anyone want to speak on this item if not it passes the second reading okay 417.
 Accept contract with Civil Works Northwest, Inc. for the construction of the Union Pacific Railroad East Portland Connection Water Systems Adjustment Project as complete, release retainage, and authorize final payment. Good morning, Ms. Elliott.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. I'm Teresa Elliott, Chief Engineer of Portland Water Bureau. So this is a project where we installed a 12-inch main replaced in an 1890 project.
 I'm sorry, a 108-year-old pipe. I forgot to do the math to see what year that is. Over in southeast Portland off of southeast 2nd. And Resolution 36430 required us to do a post-project evaluation on any project that's over $500,000. We've done that. We estimated the project when we started construction to be $660,000.
 All total, the project came in at $562,000 and some change. And that is 15% underneath the engineer's estimate. We have 72% of the subcontracting dollars were used for MWA ESB participation, or 14% of the total contract price.
 The work is complete. They've done all of the work according to the contract compliance as necessary, and we recommend that you accept the project as complete and authorize final payment. Okay. Thank you. Questions for Teresa? Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then I need a motion, please, to accept the report. So moved. Second. We'll call. No, thank you. Great. Thank you for the report. Aye.
 Thanks very much, Theresa. Aye. Okay, 418. Revise ordinance to update engineer's estimate, issue a competitive solicitation, authorize contract, and provide payment for the Road 10 project. Okay. Welcome back. I thought it would be easier to just stay up here. Again, I'm Theresa Elliott, Chief Engineer, Portland Water Bureau. Thank you.
 Last year we brought to you an ordinance to do some road work up in the watershed for our Road 10 project. That was Ordinance 187133, and we had an engineer's estimate of $889,000.
 Because of the time constraints of when we can do work up in the watershed, we were only able to do a portion of that work. And so we pulled a portion of that out and have combined it with this second project and are updating the project cost estimate. So we're updating the engineer's estimate to $1.9 million and asking for your authorization to do solicit bids for competitive project projects.
 Up to $129,000? It's $189,000. Yeah, okay. That's a big change. Yes, it is. And it includes, so originally it was 1.5 miles, and now it is 3.5 miles. All right. Any other questions about this item? Anyone want to speak on this item? No.
 Okay, then this is a non-emergency ordinance. Pass the second reading. Thank you very much. And let's move on to 419. Authorize the purchase of a capital project management software system not to exceed $825,000. Your continued role as Water Bureau designated hitter. Yes. How about this one?
 So this project is to authorize purchasing a project management system that we can use during construction. In the last five years, we've been piloting a project management system on our large reservoir projects, each valuing over $30 million, and concluded in 2015 that we've been annually saving about $100,000 per project per year.
 per year in reduced staff time by having this computerized project management system. We would like to continue using a computerized system because it provides us a lot of efficiencies and a reduction in paperwork and is more sustainable. So we've been talking to BTS and have gone through their processes for
 using an alternative software system. We've done their hosting analysis and the SAP review, and then we went through the Technology Oversight Committee review to decide whether or not it would fall in under their review or whether it would be one of those that had low impact and was exempt. The Bureau directors have looked at it and have said, yes, it has low impact and is exempt from the,
 technical oversight committee review. And BTS has endorsed moving forward with getting this as an alternative project. What we're proposing is to get a web-hosted system that we can share interactively with our project team on multiple projects and be more efficient with that project.
 Cost of this is we're asking for a five-year service contract, and over five years it's $825,000. And we have funds in the 2015-16 budget for implementing it, and then we're asking it in the next five years in our annual budgets as well. So this will be in your capital budget, or this is just in the – yeah, it's not really a capital item. I don't believe it's in the capital. Okay.
 I think it's in our base. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Questions? Was she saying a little more about the cooperative procurement method? Yeah. The cooperative, for what I know of the cooperative procurement method, it is anytime we have a
 Any intergovernment agency has contracts that we can go as the city. If we don't have something in-house that we can tag on to, we can go to one of those other agencies and tag on to or piggyback on to their contracts and negotiate the terms for our specific work as a task order. And that's what we're trying to do.
 And then after – so we've talked to procurement and have gotten their authorization to do a cooperative agreement process, and then they're going to come forward with a report to council on what contract we actually go with. So maybe before next week I could get some more information on that because –
 My understanding was that it doesn't come back to council. Oh my my understanding is it was it did but I will find out Right $825,000 it's a fairly major amendment to any previous contract So I just like to know before this second reading about next week Sure, I haven't I'm not familiar with that. I'll get more information. Thank you any other questions. I
 Yeah, I apologize. I stepped out, but I walked back in. As you said, it was somehow determined that this was exempt
 from our technology oversight committee who made that determination um the the policy on the technical oversight committee says that the um uh direct the bureau administrators from bts omf and the bureau that's requesting it in this case the water bureau review the um the initial intake form for the technical oversight committee and they did and it's a seven page questionnaire
 they go through and decide that it is a low impact and as a low impact it's not under the technical council's um review thanks low impact means low potential for failure uh no it has a low impact on bts staffing is what i understand and because it's web bait it's a web-based program that is hosted by another company outside of the city there's no impact on this city for staffing
 That's my understanding of it. That's not our criteria. Yeah, that's right. That isn't necessarily a sure thing. Then I'll get more information before that, too. Thank you. Yeah, that would be helpful. I appreciate raising that concern. Just because the procurement method is different doesn't mean that the danger level is less. Just because BTS isn't going to have much to do with it doesn't mean that it's – Right, right. Yes. Good cash commissions. I'll get more information. See other projects for examples. Okay. Thank you, Tina. Okay. Other questions for Teresa? Okay.
 Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it comes back next week in second reading with your follow-up, please. Now let's move on to 420. Amend contracts with JOIN, Home Forward, Northwest Pilot Project, and Transition Projects to add $842,500 in rent assistance for people experiencing homelessness. Thank you, Mayor. In March of this year, the City Council amended the fiscal year plan
 2015-16 budget to fund several actions intended to address the housing emergency that City Council declared in October of 2015. This included over $1 million of funds for the Housing Bureau to contract with existing non-profit organizations to provide additional short-term rent assistance and client assistance. These funds are
 will rapidly expand our providers' resource capacity to assist with permanent housing placement for people experiencing homelessness and eviction prevention for people at imminent risk of becoming homeless.
 The Portland Housing Bureau has already obligated a significant portion of this to our nonprofit service providers under current contracting authority. The ordinance before us now authorizes the Portland Housing Bureau to dedicate the remainder of this $1 million to fund four high-performing organizations, nonprofits, including Join, Home Forward, Northwest Pilot Project, and Transition Projects for immediate use.
 These funds are a critical component of our safety net, and they will go towards supporting permanent housing placement for more than 150 people currently experiencing homelessness and preventing more than 125 others from becoming homeless. Thank you, and I urge your support. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? Yeah, Mr. Robert West. Okay, come on up. You can come up too. Come on up.
 Yes, I'm all for... My name is Robert West. I'm with Film the Police 911, and I deal with the homeless a lot. And I'm all for a program to house the homeless. The thing is, I would like to... It seems like joining all these organizations have received a lot of money in the last year, and I'd actually like to see where that money's going to. How, you know, is it going to actually house...
 150 homeless or is it going to go into some director's pocket? Thanks. So this is money that's going out the door through those organizations to actual rent assistance to people that need it. So most of the money is actually going directly to pay rent for people that are vulnerable to becoming homeless. Okay. That's what I want to make sure. Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on up. Hello, City Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Crystal Elinsky. Okay.
 Regarding this item, I noticed there was mention of the emergency declaration from October 2015, and yet the city council hasn't yet voted on that, so it's still a proposal. And as I've testified before, it has no teeth, and now it looks like it's getting us in trouble, which is no surprise because...
 Well, when it was announced, I testified that many, many people were suddenly getting those things that were claimed to be. The aim was to get rid of, like, raising the rent suddenly $200 or 35%, 50%, 100%. A lot of these people just in regular old rentals, many in subsidized housing, many, many.
 way too many, and that happens to be a couple of these organizations you just claimed as good organizations. What was the term you used that they're proven? Well, from my experience, and you know I've been here for years, and I talked with you, Dan Saltzman, and then before you was Nick Fish in housing, I would say Northwest Pilot Project is...
 works. I just don't have direct proof of that because I'm not yet elderly. But those other organizations, and I speak for 10,000 at this point, that there is just so many, there are so many issues going on. So what Robert asked earlier, it would be really good to see this in detail and to get involved with this. It's already looks like it's going to be passed, all this money, but then why reference, if you guys still haven't voted on
 this, this emergency of how it's going to actually fit in regular city policy and what's going to happen when it goes over to the Multnomah County. If you've got, if you're not allowed to talk about a current lawsuit, why would you even mention it? The housing bureau gets money handed to it and budget all the time. And there's been emergencies before, but not on this level. So I think it's time that we look at this.
 in depth and finish it, it looks like a sort of half-ass job that's going on political. As far as the last item, I just want to say it's interesting that the big pipe, the one they just built, keeps flowing over even though they promised it would exponentially every year. We keep getting more and more pollution in our rivers. And then an earlier item I wanted to speak on was about the Colwood Golf Course. I testified about that before. And there's no
 What we destroyed there with the habitat as a golf course, we could have improved everything by simply saying stop it with the herbicides and pesticides, but we paid staff members in Amanda Fritz's office to work on a project to get a little claim of land
 For the Columbia Slough Project, and now the rest is suddenly zoned over to industrial? A golf course? When we had a complete bypass for our ecosystem. Yes. Thank you. Sorry, I can't make it to your city hall as a regular citizen, but I represent. Thank you. Crystal, you're done. Thanks. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Okay, then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Britt?
 Well, thank you, Mayor, for your leadership on this and Commissioner Saltzman for getting the money out the door to those folks who need it. It's been interesting to me to be out in the community where candidates are talking about what they would do to fix our problems. And indeed, we have the plan with the Home for Everyone and with the Coordinating Committee and we're implementing it quietly. I hope we can get the message out to folks about what we're doing and why. Thank you.
 I and thank you. This is making a big difference and With yesterday's news of a ranking that we don't want to be number one in that housing Costs in Portland went up faster than any other city in the country This is obviously much needed. Hi. Okay. Let's take the next item, please 421
 Support transportation investment generating economic recovery grant application to seek funds to design and construct Outer Powell Boulevard Transportation Safety Project Segment 2 and 3 from Southeast 116th Avenue to 162nd Avenue in substantial conformance with the 2012 Outer Powell Boulevard Conceptual Design Plan. Appreciate it.
 Actually, Art, do you think that we should do both of these at once? Because it's rather connected. Please go ahead, 422. 422, amend transportation system development charge capital improvement project list.
 Please. Colleagues, I'm pleased to introduce these items today. We've identified exciting upcoming opportunities to move forward with four important transportation projects. The Outer Pell Transportation Safety Project, David Douglas Safe Routes to School, Sullivan's Crossing, and the Southwest Barber Safety Projects.
 We're talking about adding these projects to the SDC list, which will allow us to be fiscally smart with the transportation SDCs and leverage them to gain a significant amount of additional funds while implementing critical safety improvements around the city.
 We are very hopeful that we might actually be able to get a federal TIGER grant to help with the Outer Pell Transportation Safety Project, which the East Portland Action Plan has identified for years as the highest priority in East Portland. And we're happy to be collaborating with ODOT on that and one other project. And Kelly Brooks from ODOT is here and will be able to speak more about our partnership in a few minutes.
 We know we have a very full agenda today, so we've asked staff to keep this pretty brief. There's a lot of community support for all four of these projects, but we've kept invited testimony to just three people out of respect for everyone's time. And we'll ask everybody to talk really fast. Now here are Pierce and Mark Lear who will provide additional information about these two items. Good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you, Commissioner and Mayor. Really pleased to be here. This is something that we've been actually working on for a number of months, trying to find opportunities to expand SDC funds, to work with leveraging partnerships, both with the community groups as well as with other institutions. And I think we've come up with a package of opportunity investments that really allow us to be most ready to leverage outside grant sources
 and deliver some really exciting projects that community members have asked for for quite a while. So with me today is Mark Lear. He leads up the resources team for PBOT, and I manage the policy planning and projects group. We also have some staff in the audience who have been diligently putting all these pieces together. Specifically, I think Shoshana Cohen deserves a shout-out. Thank you, Shoshana. She's chased a lot of details in making all this come together.
 So, around the SDC process, so the last time that we updated the SDC list was 2007. So the list is now quite dated in terms of responding to immediate needs.
 We are about to update a much more robust full update to the list in 2017. And so we have this opportunity area to add some projects that we think we can get out the door and leverage now with SDC balances that we have on hand. So there's really strong support, we believe, for SDC.
 making these investments and making these projects move forward and really can't expand these SDCs without partnership funds. One of the challenges we have as an agency with changes in how federal funding has come is we don't have the same match funding that we used to to be able to get these projects out the door. Specifically, the Tiger opportunity and the opportunity to partner with ODOT on getting Outer PAL moving ahead was the spark that really brought this conversation to you and to the council. Thank you.
 So what we have for you today is a proposal to add four projects to the current transportation SDC list. And as Commissioner mentioned, that's Outer Powell, David Douglas, Sullivan's Crossing, and Southwest Barber. And we're able to do this within the overall SDC program, not changing anything related to SDC rates or anything that the contributors would experience. Thank you.
 We are having to bump some older projects off the list. Yeah, and I'll touch on those individually with the project. So here's a map of sort of geographically where those four projects are. We tried to make sure that we were being conscious of geography. A lot of emphasis, of course, on East Portland and the need to make sure that we're expanding SDCs in East Portland.
 So the first project, Outer PAL Transportation Safety Project, this is taking Outer PAL from suburban, if not rural, type of typology into being an urban street that can provide safety and comfort for a whole variety of users.
 April Bertelsen's here. She has a pretty remarkable stack of support letters that are coming in from a whole variety of directions in support specifically of this work and of the TIGER grant. So we really feel like we are in a good place relative to the TIGER grant, both competitive within Oregon and also competitive nationally for this.
 So the cost estimate overall is $50 million. What we are proposing to contribute is somewhere in the range of $9 to $11 million to help fulfill that overall package. They're asking for a $15 million TIGER grant together, ODOT and we will be asking for.
 This contribution would be coming from savings from Southeast Barbara Welch and Southeast Foster Road 136 to Jenny. And so we believe those are good projects to remove some of the eligibility from in order to make this contribution possible. Thank you.
 The next project is David Douglas' Safe Routes to School. This is a whole network of connections that help provide safer and more comfortable access to David Douglas. We've talked extensively with the school groups there and believe that this is specifically a very exciting project, and there's a letter of support specifically from them and this project as well.
 We're using paper to demonstrate support today rather than people. Total cost estimate for this project is $8 million, and what we're proposing is that we would contribute roughly half of that amount through the SDC program and be pursuing regional flexible funds in the upcoming round for the remaining funds. Thank you.
 And the savings from this would come from Gateway Regional Center, which would still have plenty of eligibility for additional Gateway investment projects ongoing. Sullivan's Crossing is a relatively new idea, but it's one that has garnered pretty tremendous support. And so this is David Alangi, who's the head of our Bridges and Structures Group. And so they've done a feasibility study of the Sullivan's Crossing bridge project.
 And so I have that technical report for your review today. But this is a great opportunity. It connects along 7th Avenue between the Lloyd District and the Central East Side. This is an area where there is tremendous growth happening, particularly in residential growth in the Lloyd District. But we don't have proper infrastructure to respond to that growth and that increased travel demand. And we believe this bridge infrastructure will relieve pressure that might come on 12th Avenue and conflicting with freight movements or on MLK and Grand Avenue.
 Total cost estimate for this bridge is $13 million, and we're projecting that we would pursue around $11 million from the SDC program and pursue additional funds, perhaps either from regional flexible funds or Portland Development Commission has a URA on both sides of this bridge, so it seems like a ripe opportunity to collaborate with PDC on supporting development in those districts.
 And we would be using savings from Burnside Couch East, which is a completed project, and Burnside Couch West, which is a radically sort of revamped scope compared to what was in the SDC list for that.
 Next project is Barber Safety Improvements. This is a project I think you've heard extensively about in terms of requests for improvements along the bridge structures along that section and also at the intersection of Capitol Highway. And so this is a result of an ODOT road safety audit is coming up with a proposed design. And this would be what we would be proposing out of the $4 million cost is that we would be able to meet our goal
 ODOT roughly halfway in terms of our contribution towards the project as we got further on to that and hopefully work together with them to find the rest of the funds for that.
 So that's the overall package that we have for you today. We have a couple invited testimony, but we have heard pretty remarkable support for this. We did meet with Sweeney last week, and Sweeney passed a resolution supporting the funds being allocated for Southwest Barber but aren't able to be here today, but they pass on their support to you. So happy to answer any questions or thoughts on this. Questions now or maybe after your invited testimony, so please. Thanks.
 And our three invited guests are Kelly Brooks from ODOT, Ken Marks, East Portland safety activist, and Wade Lang, American Assets Trust and the Lloyd District. Come on up. Good afternoon. Kelly, I think you're on first. Okay. All right.
 Hello, Mayor Hales, Commissioners. Thank you so much for having me today. ODOT and PBOT, as you just heard, are in the final stages of preparing a TIGER grant, a $15.5 million request to fund safety and livability improvements to Outer Powell. While many of you have heard the statistics of Powell many times, I think it probably
 It's important to restate some of them so we understand why it's so critical. The segment of PAL that we are discussing between 116th and 162nd,
 experience is a crash rate that's three times what we see on similar arterials across the state. Between 2009 and 2014, there were 24 reported collisions, 24 of those involved pedestrians, six of those were cyclists, and two pedestrians in a one-year time frame between 2013 and 2014, I believe, did not survive those crashes.
 And while ODOT has made significant safety investments along Powell over the years, Tiger actually provides us an opportunity to do something truly transformative here and to add the continuous multimodal improvements like sidewalks that are really going to help folks in the community access school, work, and entertainment options. The importance of today's proposed action to contribute system development charge funds to this project in Barber really cannot be overstated.
 With your help, we believe we're going to be able to complete not one, but two full segments of the Outer Powell concept plan. Stated another way, your contribution here today is helping leverage what is a $50 million project in East Portland. With your help, we're also showing our friends in Washington that this project has sizable and committed state and local match, which is really going to help us compete well.
 With your help, we're also showing the people of Portland that ODOT and the city can work together to seize opportunities to bring federal dollars home to the people that we serve. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for your consideration of this request. I'd also like to thank my colleagues at PBOT for our partnership on both this grant application and the road safety audit work that we did on Barber. Multiple city staff have contributed countless hours and resources towards both of those efforts.
 and the partnership that we've forged is going to make both the project stronger and, frankly, in the instance of the Tiger application, that will be stronger and more competitive as well. I know that you have a lot of other folks to listen to today, so I'm going to keep my remarks short, but thank you so much for the opportunity to be here and for working with us. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Who would like to go next? Thank you.
 I will. Good afternoon, Mayor Hills and commissioners. My name is Cam Marks. I live in East Portland off of Powell Boulevard.
 As Commissioner Novick said, I am a transportation activist in East Portland. Some of the groups that I'm on are the POW Division Steering Committee for the Bus Rapid Transit, the POW Safety Project, Outer POW Safety Project, Citizens Advisory Committee, and
 And I was also on the Midway Neighborhood Street Plan Advisory Committee. I wish to speak in favor of the proposal for the TIGER grant and for the SDC additions to the SDC list.
 As you know, Powell Boulevard is the top priority for East Portland Action Plan and other East Portland transportation activists. This plan will go far in making Powell a neighborhood street and transfer it into a safe place for people to do their actual transit and business. Thank you.
 The other projects on the SDC list that would be added are also very high priority projects for East Portland activists, including parts of the 4M. These projects are close to many of the schools in the David Douglas School District and will significantly improve access for the school children in that area to schools.
 I urge you to strongly urge you to approve the Tiger and the SDC transportation list additions. Thank you. Thank you, Ken. Thanks very much. Good afternoon. Hi, Mayor, Commissioners. Hello. My name is Wade Lang, and I'm Vice President, Regional Manager for American Assets Trust in the Lloyd District. I'm also a member of GoLloyd, the Lloyd Transportation Management Board, the board
 Lloyd Enhanced Service District Board, the Lloyd Eco-District Board, the Holiday Park Partnership Board, and the Portland Streetcar Board. I've been working in the Lloyd District for 19 years. I'm here today to voice my support for adding the Sullivan's Crossing project to the amended 2007 Capital Improvement Project list.
 Providing a safe and efficient option for bicycles and pedestrians to move between the Lloyd District and destinations south and through the Central East Side Industrial District and destinations north has become increasingly important as both the Lloyd District and the Central East Side experience accelerated growth. The crossing will also leverage investment in bicycle infrastructure along Northeast 7th Avenue and create a continuous bike corridor from Alberta Street into the Central East Side and beyond.
 Sullivan's Crossing will serve to pull bicycles off Grand and MLK, both highly traveled automobile and truck routes not sufficiently designed or maintained for bike safety. It will also serve to move pedestrians and bicyclists away from the 12th Street Bridge, which even with its redesign is challenging for bikes and pedestrians to cross safely. Sullivan's Crossing will also become a most important link between east side, north, and south neighborhoods in the event of an earthquake.
 Designed to allow for passage of emergency vehicles, it could become the only safe option for first responders. Sullivan's Crossing has been a high priority for the Lloyd neighborhood for many years and will be a beneficial link to both districts as we continue to support and promote alternative transportation options for those living in Lloyd as well as those just passing through.
 And the members of the Lloyd District would like to thank our Pearson PBOT staff for their time, guidance, and energy in bringing us a step closer to our goal of a much safer north-south bicycle route through the east side of Portland. And as an aside, having spent the first 19 years of my life in growing up on 136th and Powell, these other two projects, David Douglas and the Powell safety, I absolutely support that. Any improvements there are going to be a benefit to the neighbors that live there.
 Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. Thank you all. Questions? Thank you. Okay. Do we have any others that are here to speak on this? Mr. Westliff. Okay. And then any other questions for our staff? What's the point about the bridge accommodating emergency vehicles so that they will be able to accommodate fire engines, fire trucks, ambulances, all that? This is David Olungi, City of Portland Bureau of Transportation bridge engineer.
 We did design the bridge to be both an active bridge in its everyday use by having sidewalks for pedestrians on the outsides and two bike lanes at the center for a curb-to-curb width of 12 feet. And in the event of emergency, we designed the bridge so it could carry a fire truck within that curb-to-curb width of 12 feet across the gulch. When most likely some of the other bridges that are local nearby would have failed, this bridge would have been code compliant and could carry those emergency vehicles across.
 So it's an emergency facility. Width-wise, I mean, I don't want to tell you you're the engineer, but it'll accommodate the load too. Absolutely. It's ironic that when you design a pedestrian bridge that's long, the weight of all the people stacked on that bridge is actually substantially higher than using it for traffic, even fire trucks. It's ironic. Same thing with the Tilikum crossing. Yes. Thanks. Thank you. Other questions?
 Okay, then let's please act on the first of these two items of the resolution. 421. Helpsman? Novick? Fritz? Commissioner Novick and Director Treat and Bureau staff, this is really a stark moment. It's...
 wonderful that once again the city is saying we don't care who owns these roads, they are dangerous and they need to be fixed. And I really appreciate your dedication to saving lives and working on transportation challenges which have eluded us for decades, and particularly the staff, many of whom have been working on this for decades too, must be very grateful to your leadership.
 I want to particularly call out the Be It Further Resolved, the last one in this resolution that says, the City Council gratefully acknowledges the excellent work and dedication of the members of the East Portland Action Plan, East Portland Land Use and Transportation Committee, Outer Powell Community Advisory Group, and other community members who helped shape the planning for Outer Powell Boulevard as well as others.
 in the efforts to fund and build it as a project. And I know that that also accounts for the Southwest Neighborhoods groups and others. This is truly a community partnership, including government agencies as well as the community. And I applaud you. Aye. Nails.
 Well, I'm going to refuse a little bit about this because I think this is great work. I think both of these items before us this morning are great work. I had the privilege of spending the last week with the Secretary of Transportation and his staff and for our signature tiger project to be this one.
 is exactly what the Secretary is looking for from communities. So I think we can make a strong case, and I'll be happy to help Commissioner in Charge of Transportation to continue to make that case to the administration, that this is exactly what a Secretary of Transportation who just wrote a wonderful piece about what it means to be cut off from community by past transportation decisions.
 powell boulevard being a textbook example of that this is perfect and long awaited and so i'm really happy that this is a priority that we have the community that's worked so hard for this idea and not only behind it but seeing some forward motion great work aye and 422.
 Well, actually, that's going to pass the second reading, right? Right. So let's just take a moment because I want to comment on 422 as well, and others might like to say something while we've got these folks here that have worked on this package. Well, I'll start then. I'll just say these are great projects. All four of them are really great projects and seem like a great use of our system development charges to improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists and motorists, too, and provide safety.
 between north and south of Portland. So, great. It's an opportunity to reflect on the fact that although all of this new development brings a lot of strain, it does also bring systems development charges, which we can use for high-priority projects which have been looking for funding for a long time. So I really appreciate the staff looking through the list of SDC projects and looking through the list of projects that hadn't yet been designated and realizing that these high-priority projects
 can and should be designated for SDC money. And I really appreciate the input of all of our community partners and our governmental partners. Thank you, Kelly. Thank you, Wade. Thank you, Kim. And this is, I mean, cross your fingers about the Tiger Grant, but we're very hopeful, and thank you all very much. Thank you.
 well commissioner anything to add well sometimes when there's not a whole bunch of community members here you worry that people don't know about it but i do see representatives of the community here and i know that i would have heard about it in this instance if the community wasn't happy with this so again i commend the new uh portland bureau of transportation and your increased awareness of outreach to all communities in all parts of the city is a crucial part of what we did together and you're seeing the results and thank you very much
 Well, let me just add some comments about a couple of these. One, this work on Outer Powell, this work on Barber, and something that I'm spending a large amount of my time on, which is the comprehensive plan. All of us are, but I work directly with the Planning Bureau on that.
 I mean, it really is time to take up again the questions of when should we be taking jurisdiction of some of these state highways, and I know that's a concern to you, Commissioner Novick, and of interest to ODOT. And it's important that we be talking about that now while we're doing this work. When is the appropriate turning point?
 for us to take jurisdiction of those current state facilities that should become former state facilities. And it's a topic that we need to discuss while we're working on the plan because of the intensity that we're planning for in terms of land use along some of those streets.
 So I just wanted to flag that. With respect to this Sullivan's Crossing, again, reflecting a little bit on the trip, having ridden on a cold, blustery Portland-style day over a bridge that closed a critical gap in the bike system in Copenhagen with the secretary, again, you can see the value of this kind of a gap-closer approach.
 project and that obviously there's some designs in front of us that are elegant and we've learned with the Tilikum crossing and with the Columbia River crossing that designs of public works that are beautiful
 get public support and those that are generic slabs have a harder time if I can generalize from those experiences so this is a there are a couple of really attractive designs including the one on the cover here that I think will make this a signature project for the city as well as something of great use
 Then the other reason I want to pile on about this project is I've also been spending a lot of time with the Central Eastside Industrial Council and with recently the Urban Land Institute who came here to study CEID and to say how do we keep this a viable small manufacturing district for makers. Well one way is to cure the transportation problem for the workers there, many of whom want to get there by bike.
 You look at the small makers there like Spool Town or Schwedt, their workforce do not need to park cars. There's a parking problem in the central east side, yes, but there's also a bike access and safety problem. And so giving this kind of connection from the workforce to the north and the work sites to the south across Solomon's Gulch is going to have a very salutary effect on the viability
 of the Central East Side as a small-scale manufacturing district, which is exactly what we're all planning for. So I'm a table pounder about this one. Great work. Look forward to riding across it real soon. MR. Mayor, I forgot to mention something, which is that David Olongue is being stolen from PIVA by another bureau. One of your bureaus, in fact. And I'm very bitter about that. MR. Sorry. We're still here, though. Thank you all. Great work. Great work. Look forward to more.
 okay I think we're gonna try to take 423 and 424 maybe 425 before we break and is it all right Commissioner Fritz to save 26 and 27 till after the break yep okay that's what we will plan to do 426 427 and 428 will be added to our afternoon at the beginning of our afternoon calendar at 2 p.m. but we'll take the other items first and start with 423 please
 Did you want to both thread together? Do you want to do those two street vacations together? Yes, please. Okay, 423, 424, please. 423, vacate portions of North Portsmouth Avenue, North Manhattan Avenue, North Monteith Avenue, North Warren Street, North Strong Street, and two...
 unnamed alleys on the University of Portland campus, subject to certain conditions and reservations. And 424, vacate portions of North Van Houten Court, North McKenna Avenue, and three unnamed alleys on the University of Portland campus, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Novick. Lance Lindahl, take it away. Thank you, Commissioner. Commissioner.
 uh lance lindahl pibot right-of-way acquisition uh before you today is a proposal to vacate a number of different streets and alleyways on the university of portland campus located in north portland this is one of the more complex street vacation proposals that we've received at pbot so what we've done is we've broken it up into two separate ordinances item number 424
 vacates portions of North Manhattan Court, North McKenna Avenue, and three unnamed alleys. These rights-of-ways are currently unimproved, and all the vacated areas will revert back to the university upon completion of the vacation. There are only minor conditions of approval for these areas, and this puts us in place to have the vacation wrapped up and recorded pretty quickly.
 item number 423 vacates north portsmouth van houten and monteith avenues as well as portions of warrant and strong streets and two unnamed alleys these streets are currently improved and serve both university students and area residents traveling on foot by bike and by motor vehicle the conditions for these areas are more complex it will take a bit of time to address
 Several of these street areas will refer back to properties that are not owned by the university. However, I've been in contact with all the adjacent property owners, and those people receiving property back all are in support of this vacation. Let's see. Also, there will be emergency vehicle access easements retained over this second set of streets so that Fire Bureau can maintain access to the existing and future campus facilities in this area.
 One of the top concerns I heard from members of the public in this street vacation was a concern that access between Willamette Boulevard and the Willamette River be retained. And I can confidently say today that that access will be retained. Public streets will be kept, and there's plans in place to improve those.
 a part of the street vacation process was to work with the planning office inside the parks bureau to look at future pedestrian excuse me pedestrian bicyclist access down to the river and there's definitely a identification of that as a need moving forward at this point i'd like to introduce mr james kuffner he's the vice president of community relations and special projects at the university of portland
 Thank you, Lance. How are you? I'm fine. Mayor Hales, commissioners, thank you very much for this opportunity to be here. Jim Kuffner, University of Portland, 5000 North Willamette Boulevard, Berlin, Oregon, 97203. In the year 2000, the Portland City Council approved the University of Portland expansion across North Portsmouth for the first time in our history.
 Since then, the University has built four residence halls, a new recreation and wellness center, created two outdoor play fields, and as you may already know, our building a fifth residence hall, the first under our new master plan, on the corner of Willamette Boulevard and Portsmouth, located in the Willamette frontage zone. The package of street vacations that you have before you have been carefully vetted at the University and with our neighborhood association.
 Everything contained in our current vacation request was envisioned and approved in our 2012 master plan. Your favorable consideration of the PBOT staff report and recommendation will allow the university to continue its impressive record of success in North Portland and the city and help us achieve the long-term campus development vision embodied in our 2012 master plan.
 And finally, your support of the PBOT report will validate the incredible cooperation and working partnership UP established with its neighborhood association, University Park Neighborhood Association, in developing and presenting the university's 2012 master plan, which received unanimous approval from the city and was adopted without opposition. So for that, I want to thank you.
 I might also say that we had achieved a unanimous vote from your Portland, your Commission on Portland Planning and Sustainability last July. Our UPNA neighborhood stood shoulder to shoulder with us in support of it, and I want to publicly reach out and thank the Neighborhood Association for their continued work. I don't think we could have come as far as we did without their support. Also, I just might add that this is a vision that,
 that is yet to be played out okay there's a number of years before we would ever fully utilize those vacated areas it's a street grid that we use right now it's internal to the campus it's used all the time there's only a few neighbors
 properties that are not university-owned. We remain open, working with them whenever they are ready or motivated. We would certainly consider acquiring their properties. But in the meantime, we try our best to work with them. We understand it's not perfect, but we really do the best that we can. So we appreciate your support of this. It's been very important to us getting to this point. And I want to thank Lance for advancing it here and Commissioner for bringing it to the council. Thank you.
 thank you both questions thank you very much anyone else want to speak on these items uh they're going to have someone back there we do i'm sorry come on up i didn't hear you so come on up please welcome thank you we've been sitting so long i didn't know if my legs were thank you for waiting mayor hills and city commissioners thank you for hearing us today uh we've written a few remarks we'd like to read please
 My name is Doug Mercer, and I oppose the vacating of streets proposed. My wife and I live on Warren Street, one block from the proposed vacating. Our address is 5815 North Warren. Our family built our home in 1948 and has lived there ever since. We have raised three kids there as well. Our next-door neighbor, Spencer Heine, and his family have been our neighbor all these years.
 My wife and I have both served for many years on the University Park Neighborhood Association Board and have voiced concerns for years about the parking problems in our neighborhood, which have gotten worse every year. A few years ago, the university replaced the parking under their multi-block row house student housing on Warren Street, and they replaced it with university services offices.
 This not only eliminated parking for students, but also brought in more staff who park up and down our street in the neighborhood as well. The university is now building even more multi-story dorms at the corner of Portsmouth and Willamette Boulevard as well, without additional parking about three blocks from our home. This will bring even more cars parking in the neighborhood streets.
 The parking lot of the university built this year below the bluff, many blocks from the university, is too far away for students and staff to use, and it is always vacant. I sent a photo to Lance that maybe you've been able to access of the empty parking lot two days ago. We have to parallel park in front of our house every day, and we are lucky to find a place to park. Please see the attached photos taken April 25th on Warren Street on our block.
 If the proposed streets are vacated, parking could be further eliminated. That is, parking that's already parking on those streets that are vacated could be eliminated. Pushing all the more parking onto our street and into the neighborhood. We need the City of Portland to keep jurisdiction of these streets so they can enforce traffic and parking regulations. If the streets are vacated, McKenna Street could become the only access to our block on Warren Street.
 McKenna is very narrow, only 12 feet 9 inches wide. And as they said earlier, a fire truck is 12 feet wide. If a car parks on McKenna or a traffic jam occurs, emergency vehicles would not be able to get to our homes and street. Fire trucks and ambulances could be delayed by life-threatening minutes. We have had many bluff fires that threatened our homes, where fire trucks have had to respond on Warren and McKenna streets.
 In 2001 and 2002, five alarm bluff fires nearly burned down many homes up and down Warren, McKenna, Lambert Lane, and threatened the university itself. In conclusion, my family and I oppose the proposed street vacation and ask that Portland retain jurisdiction of the streets to maintain traffic and parking regulations for the peace and safety of our neighborhood.
 We would also recommend that the university build parking on its campus that does not further extend into the neighborhood. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you. Thanks. Good afternoon. Welcome. Yes. Good afternoon. My name is Spencer Heine, and I live about a half a block from Monteith Avenue, and Monteith is one of the avenues to be vacated.
 After reading the notice of street vacation posted in my neighborhood this month of April 2016, I have concerns. As a 50-year resident living near the University of Portland, auto traffic and parking have become so congested on streets in my neighborhood during the University of Portland academic school year and University of Portland special events. By vacating certain streets, as in the university's notice,
 I believe the auto traffic and parking will only become all the worse for my neighborhood. Where will all this traffic and parking, where will all of this traffic go? Currently, my mail carrier frequently has difficulty finding adequate parking to deliver the mail. He uses some of the streets in the vacation notice. Closing off these streets that are part of his daily route will only make an existing bad traffic situation all the worse for him.
 There are neighbors that drive to and from work and use the existing Monteith Avenue in their commute. University of Portland students and employees also use Monteith Avenue to travel and park daily. First responder vehicles may find it challenging to answer their calls with inadequate street entry or exit.
 The weekly recycling vehicles also use some of these streets proposed for vacation and would find it very difficult to back their vehicles out around the corner of Warren Street and McKenna Avenue if Monteith is vacated. I am here today to voice my concerns. I am totally against closing or vacating any streets, alleys, or avenues in my neighborhood. These streets were established before the University of Portland or I existed."
 These streets and avenues were put here for a purpose, to allow people in my neighborhood to travel and commute easily, without some alternative plan to alleviate the traffic congestion and that congestion being caused by the University of Portland. Vacating streets and alleys is absolutely ridiculous.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Welcome. Tom Karwacki, Vice Chair of the University Park Neighborhood Association, Chair of the Land Use Committee, and Chair when this master plan was done. The University Park Neighborhood Association strongly supports the vacation and has for the last four years voted, including times when Stacey Mercer was a board member and it was a unanimous board vote.
 We've also testified before the PSC on this. The individuals who just spoke do not live, they're not adjacent, they're not involved in the specifics of these vacations. And so they're nearby, but not part of it. And so that's kind of an important element there, specifically.
 We felt that the university actually would improve the safety and pedestrian safety because of the improvements that the city can't afford for those streets can be done by the city, by the university, and that will help pedestrians and the vehicles. I might note that even though they're not part of it, it's a public street where the Mercer's have their house. The university has actually put in two no parking places in front of their house.
 So, yes, they parallel park. I guess that's the only way you're supposed to do on a street. But they actually have their own private parking spaces, which is kind of unusual on a public street. So I just want to note that there has been accommodations by the university, and we think that it would be a good thing to expeditiously and quickly follow and pass these ordinances and process the street vacations as fast as possible.
 i have a question maybe it's it's mostly for staff but maybe tom get you to comment on it as well as as well as the others if you want and that is um as i understand it that the property to the north of monteith is not university property right that's if i got that right two properties with that in other words monteith runs north and south i'm sorry so to the west given
 So the question was? Well, where does the university's property holdings end under the master plan? Right. Master plan boundaries. Goes all the way around, goes further out? Yes. All the way out to McKenna or beyond? Right. Right. Okay.
 So the master plan actually incorporates including a property that the university doesn't control, including the Baxter McCormick property, which goes all the way to the railroad cut, includes all of these streets. There was a cutout within the master plan that I think your two houses were specifically exempted out, and there's provisions that to the extent that whenever they decide to transfer their property, the heights limits are increased. Okay.
 So our houses are not in the master plan. I mean, they can't build there yet. Right. You own the property. And what it is is that the master plan covers all of the properties that were involved, including the Baxter and McCormick. They're not subject to it. But not subject to it until the university controls it. Okay. That's it.
 And that's part of the institutional map that you'll be seeing in front of the comp plan, too. Okay. I just needed that refresher. I was actually here in 2000, but it took a little bit of jogging of my memory to get all that back. Thank you. All right. Thank you all very much. Are there others that want to speak on these items? Thank you. Okay. Then these are going to both. I do actually have a question. Go ahead, sir. Please, Mayor. Come on back, please, Lance. All right.
 I neglected to bring my current copy of the current comprehensive plan with me, but from recollection, streets should be vacated or may be vacated if there's no current transportation use for them. We just heard testimony about a project
 Post office vehicles, garbage trucks, recycling and others using these streets and also about parking on the streets. Can you comment on the current and from the aerial pictures that we were given, it's obvious they are used for parking. So I want to know, first of all, about through traffic or reversing traffic using them. And then secondly, about parking.
 So the first concern about current transportation uses, we follow the standard street vacation protocol. This is one that was petitioner-initiated. So it went through the full review process with the city both before and after the actual petition was sent out for signatures. And included in that list is transportation development review as well as transportation planning. And they did review the plans for this area and found the vacation to be consistent with formally adopted plans.
 That's not my question. It's currently being used for transportation purposes. So why should the city give up the public right-of-way when it's currently being used?
 With campuses like colleges and universities and hospitals, there's a long history in the city of allowing those streets to be transferred over to the private entity for maintenance. And, you know, assuming that they meet the various conditions that are acquired by the city. And how would post office trucks and garbage trucks then manage to serve homes outside of the campus? Yeah.
 the streets by the homes that the people testified from today are going to remain open and public right-of-way some of the secondary access and access to the east will be changing but all the streets that are improved and paved now are going to remain open to traffic
 And in the future, as the university comes in with different development proposals, they'll have to meet the city requirements at that time for addressing changes to the transportation system. Okay. And maybe, Mr. Coffner, if I could have you come back up as well. Stay where you are there, Lance. Thank you. What are the plans for parking in particular? Because from the aerial photographs that we were given, obviously these streets to be vacated are currently heavily used for parking. Yes.
 First of all, it'll be, as Lance indicated, those streets, that grid will remain open for as long as I can see into the foreseeable future. When we ever do decide if these are vacated to consolidate in any way, we would have to present a plan that would provide continued access for that. Looking long, long term, I'm thinking that.
 There's a possibility that all of these properties would be 100% ownership to the university. So services provided would be then internal to the campus. And we certainly accommodate now. We will continue to accommodate in the future post office vehicles, garbage trucks, et cetera. With regard to parking, we have a very significant and strenuous condition of approval in our master plan known as Condition Y.
 Don't ask me why. Condition Y requires that the university maintain at all times a sufficient level of parking to accommodate the full-time undergraduate enrollment on the campus, as well as special events that exceed 4,000.
 We have consistently complied with that request. Now, I'll be very candid with you and say that there's probably a faculty member or two who have a 9 o'clock class, and they show up at 845, and they want to find a parking place right by Buckley Center. It's probably not going to happen, but we'll have one for you in the Gulch or maybe over on the slope lot or behind the tennis center, but it'll be there. Okay, so these street ones that you see are included in our parking inventory.
 There's probably upwards of 400 parking spaces that are on public rights of way right now. PBOT under the formula has allowed us for years to include those in our parking inventory. So right now we're operating with a surplus of about 98 spaces. I know it is tight and there's no question it's tight where Mr. Mercer and Mr. Heine live.
 this morning on our way down here tom karaki and i drove in front of mr mercer's house and sure enough the two painted spaces were vacant they're they're there they're pretty much private and most of the people who come there every day probably recognize that okay and we realized that that was an accommodation we made which trying to work with them we we know that they're that's a
 they're one small property left with a large entity but you know we're an institution with a heart we really try to deal with these problems as best as we can we have been blessed with our support of our overall neighbor over 250 neighbors you know have signed off on support of our master plan in the vacation process so while it's true we can't be perfect everybody we're sure trying we appreciate your support on this this is really really important to us thank you very much thank you other questions
 Okay, thank you both very much. These are going to pass to second reading next week. May I just make some comments before you? I just want to thank everybody who came. Certainly the concerns that the neighbors raised are some of the questions that I was going to ask about current uses, parking and such. I am convinced from not only staff's response, but also Mr. Kufnitz and also the University Park Neighborhood Association, that there is a collaborative relationship going on
 I think if this was a private developer coming in to ask for a vacation ahead of time, I would be much more skeptical. And but given that we have the master plan, given that the relationship between the community and the university that they work so hard, both sides I think work really hard to continue to further, I'm going to have confidence that in fact for the foreseeable future there won't be anything different happening.
 on the ground and then when things are going to be different that the university will be sure to work with the neighborhoods. But I very much appreciate you raising your concern. When we have public right-of-way, we shouldn't be giving it up just because somebody asks. We should be very careful before we do that. And so I think that you have all been very careful, and I appreciate that. Yeah, thank you. I think it's really hard for universities in a neighborhood to grow, and this master plan is an attempt to make that as,
 feasible as possible for the university while being as mindful as possible of the neighbors. And it's not possible maybe to achieve perfection, but an awful lot of good work has gone into this over the years. So we appreciate that. I hope everyone will continue to work on being good neighbors.
 Aye. I know we're not voting. We're passing the second reading. We're not planning to vote for it. Okay. Let's move on to take second reading action on S425, and then we will break until 2. Is that a substitute? Is that why it's S? Yes. Okay. I don't think I have the substitute, so maybe we should wait until 2 o'clock.
 That was in your packet. I believe. Why don't we, it's just a second reading. Let's save it until then, and then I'll put it in my packet. So let's just, we will recess until 2 p.m., and at which point we'll come back for 425, 426, 427, 428. That's a very good guess of Rachel to be done at 1245. Yeah, she's good. She's really good. Very impressive. Thank you.
 and welcome to the April 27th afternoon meeting of the Portland City Council would you please call the roll welcome everybody we have a few items left over from our morning calendar that we're going to try to swiftly deal with here and then get to the afternoon things that you showed up for so first we have item s 425 that's a second reading
 So let's take a vote on that, please. Abandon intergovernmental agreement with Metro for development of a preferred alternative package, locally preferred alternative and draft environmental impact statement for the Southwest Corridor Plan. Roll call, please. Novick. Here. I'm sorry. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay. And then let's read 426, 427, 428 together, please.
 426, authorize a contract with Opus Architecture LLP for design and construction administration services for new construction and renovations of the Mount Tabor and Delta Park Urban Forestry Yard maintenance facilities and a bicycle pedestrian path adjacent to Mount Tabor Yard for a total not to exceed amount of $980,000.
 427, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the St. John's Community Center roof and HVAC replacement project. 428, authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the Selwood Park pool building.
 bathhouse roof replacement and seismic upgrade project for an estimated $585,000. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. In 2014, the Portland community voted to support a measure to fix our parks bond measure to issue up to $68 million in general obligation bonds to pay for the most urgent capital repairs and improvements needed for existing parks facilities. Excuse me.
 These contracts are all procurement authorizations needed for parks replacement bond funded projects. Item 426 will advance maintenance facility improvements at the Mount Tabor Yard and at the Urban Forestry Delta Park Yard. Collectively, these facilities house nearly 200 Portland Parks and Recreation staff who are responsible for maintaining the park system across the city.
 The bond-funded work identified for both maintenance facilities is intended to correct the most severe safety and code-related issues and will improve the working conditions for parks maintenance staff. I don't know if any of you remember the photographs we showed during the bond measure campaign,
 need to add my particular thanks to the staff who've been working in the appalling conditions, and I'm glad we're finally able to correct them. Item 427 will advance roof and HVAC system improvements at the St. John's Community Center. Both of these systems are more than 20 years beyond their expected useful lives. Again, thanks to the maintenance staff for keeping them going.
 These improvements will also increase the building's energy efficiency, reduce maintenance and operating costs, and provide for a more comfortable environment for our community users. And similarly, item 428 will facilitate roof improvements to the 86-year-old Selwood Park Pool bathhouse. The current wood shingle roof is original from the 1929 construction and is far past its usual life. In fact, the community had to put a canopy over their ice cream stand even though it wasn't.
 necessary because of the weather to stop the bits from falling off of the roof into the ice cream. So this is obviously we are dealing with the worst of the worst in the parks bond. We still have many projects which are not going to be able to be funded and so that's an ongoing challenge which we've been working to address. In the meantime we are very grateful to have this funding so that we can start addressing the worst of the worst.
 I am happy to introduce Portland Parks and Recreation Bond Program Manager, Mary Ann Kesson, who will give us a little more information about these projects. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, members of the council.
 Commissioner Fritz did such a good introduction that I think I'll skip over these first few slides that just talk about the context of the bond itself and how important it is that traditionally we funded the park system with bonds I if you remember there are seven focus areas and the projects were here to talk to you today have to do with two of those this most important one dealing with protecting workers the the it's a professional and technical services contract
 that we're asking you to approve today. It went through a competitive bidding process in order to select OPSIS architects. Our workers, as Commissioner Fritz said, are working in much less than ideal situations. These are former horse barns and other just whatever you can throw together to keep things more or less ideal.
 and mostly less out of the rain. The contract that we're bringing to you today, because there are so many permit and other logistical issues, we are not expecting to complete this contract until spring of 2019. Our minority women in small business utilization rate on this particular contract is 27%.
 Just quickly for a little bit of context, on the right is Mount Tabor Yard. That is south of what most people think of as the park itself.
 And we're doing just the very first step of the master plan that was before you in 2008. It's the first building that will be that oval that's on the right side. In addition, we are going to fold in a project that is funded with system development charge
 funds. That's a very, very important pedestrian and bicycle connection so that the South Tabor neighborhood can get to Mount Tabor Park without having to walk through the trucks and backhoes and everything else that is happening in the yard. So that'll be part of that project as well. On the left side is, again, the first phase of improvements at the Urban Forestry Headquarters in Delta Park.
 and just a few more of our glamorous photos of the working conditions. This will not only improve worker conditions, it will improve security. It will get some of that equipment that we have to store out in the rain so we'll have longer shelf life for those kind of things and deal with a lot of safety issues.
 The second category is this restroom and other urgent needs, a lot of building type of improvements there. The St. John's Community Center has actually what is involved, seven roofs altogether. It's 17,000 square foot of roof materials put on it various times over the years. And there are five...
 heating and ventilating systems on the roof that we're going to deal with at the same time this we anticipate going to bid in early may with construction beginning as soon as july selwood bath house had some pictures of those shingles we have certainly got our use out of those it's uh that wonderful old old growth shingle i don't think you could get 85 years out of it these days but um we did get our money's worth but it's time to move on
 On this one, we're timing it so that it does not begin until after the pool season, but we'd like to get somebody under contract as soon as possible. We are very cognizant of the fact that this kind of work can generate wonderful construction jobs, so we're going above and beyond trying to get as much, again, minority women business-owned jobs.
 utilization as we can. So we're doing a number of different special outreach events. We had one that we had Nate McCoy with the Minority Contractors Association organized for us last week. We're also going to have a special table set up at an event next week at Awami so that we can get the word out about these contracts. We know that it's a busy season, and we want to make sure they know what attractive work it is.
 With that, I'm ready to answer any questions. Okay. Good presentation. Thank you. Any questions for Mary Ann? Thank you very much. Is there anyone here that wants to speak on these items? Okay. Then two of them we need to vote on today because they're emergency ordinances. That's 426 and 427. 426, please.
 Seltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Riggs? Well, thank you very much to Mary Ann Kasson for leading this work, to other staff in the Bureau, Susan Miamber, Marlo Medelin, Connie Johnson, and to Patty Howard, who has now retired from my staff but put a lot of work into passing the bond measure. And I want to particularly thank Portland voters who passed it with 74%, which is the highest that a bond measure has ever passed in parks, and also Pooja Bhatt, who's currently my parks liaison. Aye.
 Well, thank you, Commissioner Fritz and the Bureau, for just systematically delivering on the promise to put these parks in better condition. So it's just a pleasure for us to see these projects coming through and to see you getting local firms involved in doing the work and in being able to see the before. In some cases, pretty appalling before. Look forward to seeing the after real soon. Thank you. Aye. And 427. Aye.
 Saltzman aye Novick aye Ritz aye Hales aye and then 428 passes the second reading next week and now we can move on please to 429.
 Adopt a new comprehensive plan for the city of Portland, Oregon. So let's welcome Eric up and then remind folks that we're taking testimony today from those who signed up to speak on April 20th, but who weren't able to testify. So we'll continue to accept written testimony until 5 p.m. on April 27th via email or traditional mail or online through Portland Maps. Eric. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. Just a quick reminder about what you're here to talk about today. We're focused on getting further feedback on possible amendments to the PSC recommended comp plan, which was published in a report on March 18th. And commissioners have also subsequently published several additional amendments through memos, which are posted on the BPS project website. And we're also going to be publishing a report on the BPS project website,
 Today's hearing, as you mentioned, continued from April 20th. This is the third of several hearings devoted to the potential amendments. Testimony on the related item, the supported documents to the comp plan, finished up last week, and so we're not taking testimony on that tonight. So there's just one item today. Okay.
 I also want to remind you about a few next steps. Tomorrow, April 28th, will be your first meeting to start discussing and voting on the amendments that you've put forward. And May 11th is the second of those meetings.
 At the conclusion of the May 11th session, we will hopefully have a council amended plan ready for final adoption. And at that point, staff will go back and prepare the appropriate substitute ordinance and findings and come back to you for right now what's on June 9th and then a second reading and final vote on June 15th. Great. Thank you. Questions for staff? Thank you.
 all right then let's move directly to uh continuing the testimony and again we have a sign-up sheet of those who were signed up to speak on april 20th we hope most of them and therefore you were able to be here today so we'll take them in order so far i believe we have about 28 right now okay and the first three please come on up are number 40 45 and 47 steve kilduff kurt hugo and brad perkins
 And they will be followed by 48, 49, and 50, Matt Hogan, Dominique Araya, and Brian Richardson. Okay. And then I guess I have a few more things I need to put in the record. I want to acknowledge receipt of an additional bundle of testimony that was collected through the online map between April 15th and today. And that's also being added to the record of this proceeding. Welcome and take it away.
 Ladies and gentlemen, the Portland City Council. My name is Steve Kilduff, and I have lived at 3735 Southeast Lambert Street for 15 years. My house is within the area under consideration of Amendment M74, and I'm here to address the amendment to the comprehensive plan. Allowing rezoning to R7 west of 36th Street,
 will put ever-increasing pressure on the property east of 36th Street to be divided into smaller parcels. I therefore recommend that the zoning change not be made. These houses east of 36th Street are some of the most affordable houses in the area. To illustrate this point, in the last two weeks, I personally have received unsolicited letters from seven development companies asking if I'd sell them my house.
 These companies know they can buy my house, demolish it, and replace it with one or two new, more expensive houses. If Eastmoreland Proper is designated R7, the pressure to demolish houses east of Eastmoreland
 36 will only increase. There will be more new houses built, but they will be all more expensive than the ones that were replaced. It's also likely that the demolition of houses in Eastmoreland proper will continue, with the only change being that the new structures will be larger and more expensive still. A couple of examples, former Senator Maureen Neuberger's house in Eastmoreland was demolished because it didn't fulfill the desires of today's homebuyers.
 Only a couple of years ago, current Senator Ron Wyden bought a large house in Eastmoreland that replaced a much smaller house that sat on the same lot. In each case, the neighbors were not thrilled with the change. If a profit can be made by demolishing an existing structure to replace by a newer home, it will happen. Zoning won't change that reality. I think we all can agree the market value will determine what will happen to the existing structures in this area.
 Changing Eastmoreland property zoning will only increase the pressure on houses east of Southeast 36th to be destroyed and their lots split. Existing houses will continue to be demolished in Eastmoreland. Construction after destruction will continue. Having been a U.S. history teacher and a principal in Oregon's secondary schools for over 30 years, I have every confidence in the system of government that exists in our wonderful city. I hope that the decision made concerning this zoning question will be made in favor of the middle-income earners
 in our region. I hope that your decision will allow more of the modest homes that now exist in my neighborhood to continue to exist as long as possible and not be even more quickly destroyed. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. That's a really good point that the zone – that's why we're doing a comprehensive plan is that the zoning in one place does affect what happens adjacent to it. Thank you for coming in to say that. Yeah, help us with that, though. I mean, if the goal is in places like East Morrowind or Ladd's Edition or Buckman or a wonderful little pocket north of I-84 called Euclid Heights, if the goal is to try to preserve those historic structures –
 And if what we've been hearing is that if the underlying zoning is typically a fraction of the average lot size, what that fraction might be, that's what creates this.
 It exacerbates the demolition pressure. You're right. There are going to be situations in which there's going to be one-for-one replacement, where a house is demolished and replaced with a new house. And there are regulations about that, and we have a project underway to look at the building envelope size of what the new house might be. So that will probably put more of a damper on that. But some of that's going to continue to happen. I take your point. But if the community's goal is to reduce that damage,
 that hemorrhaging What would you have us do with the property east of 36? I guess if the issue is the Historic value of the area and I'm not disagreeing Eastmoreland is gorgeous It's basically a historic district without without a normal designate and help the individual homeowner get it designated That's gonna that's gonna slow down the developer because he's gonna say I can't get in I'm not gonna get in the middle of that so
 So if you can help the individual homeowner designate their property historically, I think you slow it all down. And you don't put pressure on everybody because my house was built in 1950. The electricity, it cost $350 to wire that house in 1950. I don't know. It's a great old house, but it's not going to be historic. My neighbor on one side is being taken down. A neighbor on the other side just sold their house for $450,000. I can't figure it out.
 But if the issue is history, then let's promote history. I taught history. So let's promote it, and let's help these people say, is your house got significance? Let's keep it. If it doesn't, it's going to get in the way because the rooms are small, the heating system is inadequate. There's going to be a lot of reasons why somebody is going to come in and take it down rather than try and reclimate it. Yeah, okay, I see. Thank you. That's helpful. Okay. Yeah.
 Welcome. Thank you, guys. You bet. Thank you. I appreciate what you all do. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners. My name is Kurt Hugo, and I'm here to testify against Amendment 73, which is the citywide ban on drive-thrus. I am a franchisee with Dutch Bros Coffee, and we, of course, are a drive-thru coffee company. I have been a franchisee with Dutch Bros for over 13 years. I have six locations. And over that 13-year period of time,
 I have served approximately 6 million cups of coffee or transactions.
 We have not had one single pedestrian automobile accident in that period of time. The amendment addresses the safety concerns of pedestrians interacting with cars. But the combination of pedestrians going to the walk-up window or even the drive-through window as needed with cars coming through the drive-through lane does not create any more unsafe situation than any parking lot, whether it be a parking garage, a parking lot at the grocery store, the TriMet stops, or a MAX station.
 In addition, many of the drive-thrus in the area are locally owned. Because we have smaller building designs and models, locally owned business operators tend to start in those drive-thru models as opposed to large company-owned locations.
 In addition, many of our customers are customers with disabilities, moms with kids in the cars, or other people who just don't have the time or the effort to, the ability to get out of the car, and we are serving those needs. Wow, that was quick. Okay, you've got more time. The fact that we're actually able to maximize density due to the lack of need for large parking lots and the ability to utilize underused parking lots.
 So, again, we've, we actually, we, the reason that we have so many cars in line is because that's what the customers want. The customers need and want drive-thrus. We don't generate additional trips to our stores. Our customers are pass-through traffic drivers.
 destination stores, which generate more trips, are actually more of the sit-down model. If you get rid of the drive-thrus, you're not going to decrease the dependence on automobile usage because we're pass-through customers. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Mayor Hales, commissioners, Brad Perkins, Sullivan's Gulch Trail Committee founder. I'm in support of getting the Sullivan's Gulch Trail on the comprehensive plan map.
 When the council passed the Sullivan's Gulf Trail concept plan in July 2012, the SGT committee thought it was put on the map. So over the past four years, we have had a trail plan with no significance or enforcement powers when dealing with nearby developers.
 Not only do we need safe routes to schools, but safe routes to work, homes, stores, recreation, etc. Better yet, live or work in a building built above the safe route. For safer routes, side street greenways and off-street trails are the best. Any greenway on the street with vehicle speeds over 25 miles per hour are dangerous. Commissioner Steve Milvitt?
 As head of the Seated Transportation Department for three years, I believe you don't practice what you preach about supporting safe routes. Bike SAR, Roger Geller, and Right-of-Way Director, Kurt Kruder, have approved bike lanes throughout the city, but no support for SGD Trail. The City of Portland, ODOT, and a driver are now facing a $3.6 million lawsuit filed last Wednesday by cyclist Martin Greenaw's
 family because his death was caused by a poorly designed bike lane that stopped under the 42nd Avenue viaduct on Lombard, forcing bicyclists to divert into the right lane of 45-mile-per-hour traffic. The suit accuses both the State and City failing to take action to improve the road for bicyclists when they knew of the problem for over a year.
 The fatality occurred four months ago on December 12th, and still nothing has occurred to improve the problem. And also, Commissioner Novick, last Wednesday you were asked by Commissioner Fish about testimony about the Sullivan's Gulch Trail, about engineering money, and no engineering money actually has been raised. And there's an email in there from your staff that addresses some money that went to Sullivan's Gulch Trail, and it wasn't.
 those four items have not been allocated for money. And there's a plan in there, too, as far as what we suggest as to how it should be funded. We're not just coming and blowing steam. We actually have a plan, and we'd like to have the city support, and private money that we want to raise is part of that plan. Thank you very much for your time. Next three are Matt Hogan, Dominic Anaya, and Brian Richardson.
 and they'll be followed by Michael Robinson, Gabe Adolph, and Ron Ebersole, 51, 55, and 56. Okay, welcome. Welcome. My name is Matthew Hogan, and I'm here to oppose Amendment M-42. My home on North Gantenbein, which I've lived in for 22 years, is part of a block of five homes, all built between 1900 and 1910, that would be upzoned from R-1 to CM-2 by this act of spot zoning.
 Under the original comprehensive plan, North Fremont was to remain residentially zoned R1. This was in keeping with the findings of the Portland System Transportation Plan from 2007, which clearly designated North Fremont as a local street. According to the plan's findings, North Fremont should not have new commercial development, claiming the increased vehicle count is too big for what is designated as a local street.
 M-42 directly contradicts these findings and was added to the comprehensive plan as a result of the testimony in January by a lone neighborhood property owner and developer. He testified in front of this council that the proposal shared wide neighborhood support by submitting a petition that was utterly fraudulent. There were 20 properties listed on the petition. Four of those were for addresses that did not even exist.
 For 17 effective properties in M42, there were only two signatures. One of these property owners testified at their neighborhood association meeting that he did not sign the petition despite having been enlisted as done so, and the second reported that the petition was presented to him as being anti-commercial development on Fremont, and that is why he signed. Three other residents have reached out to us to say that even though their names were on the petition, they did not sign for it.
 In an utter lack of transparency, a large property at 311 North Ivy, which is owned by the petitioner, was signed for instead by a member of the North Northeast Business Association who is not even a resident of the neighborhood. To date, we have not encountered a single property owner in the proposed zone that supports this amendment, while gathering over 370 signatures on a legitimate opposition petition.
 It is disheartening that such a fraudulent document was not vetted by the city and presented to us by a city planner as proving neighborhood support for this proposal. This was the first step in a negligent process that had followed this amendment at every turn. Us longtime residents of this neighborhood are all for increased density that will focus on providing low-income housing. The current zoning R1 already provides for this, and there's no reason to change it. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Dominic Anaya, and I am just one more voice in the neighborhood in opposition of Amendment M-42.
 This is a small residential neighborhood that is already bookended between two major areas of development, North Mississippi Avenue and the Vancouver Williams Corridor, with over 1,000 living units and 50,000 square feet of retail space that have yet to be filled.
 People have already talked to you about the traffic complaints, which I can't stress enough. I don't want to repeat all the concerns, so let me just add the concern of subsidized housing units that
 that are at risk because of this rezoning. There are several units of subsidized housing in Elroy Gardens that are right in the rezoning area that I feel may be lost by any new development that would come in. And at a time when homelessness and affordable housing are such concerns, I would hate to see even more residents of this rich and diverse neighborhood displaced.
 So I don't want to drone on when you've already heard a number of voices about this, but I worry that this potential rezoning could erode an already challenged neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you both. Welcome. Thank you.
 My name is Brian Richardson. I am testifying in support of Commissioner Novick's Amendment 2, an amendment dated April 12th, to previous amendments S-21 and S-22 that would result in maintaining existing single-family R-5 and R-2.5 zoning in the areas between Southeast 26th and 30th Avenues and Belmont and Stark Streets.
 The changes proposed by the comprehensive plan to multifamily R1 and R2 are very specific to this 4x4 block area, while leaving surrounding areas of southeast Portland with nearly identical housing stock unchanged. We would have all of our single-family homes convert to R2 or R1, which I have included as information in the packet I gave you earlier.
 Many of us seem to agree on the need for middle density housing, but we should face these challenges and changes together throughout inner southeast Portland and the rest of the city. Rental housing in my neighborhood is actually relatively affordable due to our mix of single family homes, duplexes, triplexes, and small apartment buildings. So rather than bringing more density to our tiny area with the potential for 45 foot tall, four story apartment buildings next to or replacing single family homes,
 We should instead bring our mixed mosaic model to nearby residential neighborhoods. My area is not appropriate for the proposed density increases. We're certainly not a commercial center. We don't have any grocery stores, unless you count Plaid Pantry. Stark Street to the north is not a commercial corridor in the way that Burnside or Hawthorne are. It's largely residential and doesn't have a bus line. Belmont to the south is also notably undeveloped and residential through this section.
 the sunnyside neighborhood association opposes the changes to our zoning as do my neighbors i've spoken to we aren't afraid of growth or density both of which already exist in our neighborhood we know the city is changing however we feel like we're being singled out for large changes to our neighborhood
 while not asking the rest of the area to chip in. I ask for your support in maintaining the existing single-family zoning in my area, while working on more fair and forward-thinking policies on middle-density housing that include more neighborhoods. Thank you very much. Thank you. That's very helpful. One of the striking things about your submittal here is the age of those houses. Right. Some of the oldest in that part of the state. Yeah, they're almost all built between the late 1800s and early 1900s. Thank you.
 Thank you all. Next three are Michael Robinson, Gabe Adolph and Ron Ebersole and they'll be followed by 58, 59 and 61, Dana Krawcheck, Tamara DeRidder and Samuel Pastrick. Good afternoon. Go ahead. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor, members of council. My name is Mike Robinson. I'm here on behalf of Providence Health and Services which operates Portland Providence Medical Center.
 So I've given you a letter today, and I just wanted to make three points for your consideration. First of all, we appreciate the MAP Amendment. That's MAP Amendment M67. That keeps an existing small multifamily residential project as a conforming use by not changing it to the Campus Institution 2 zone, and we think that's helpful. It actually supports your goal of affordable housing improvement.
 Secondly, we appreciate the policy amendment to policy 6.457. I think that encourages collaboration between the neighbor groups and Providence. We think that's a good model. It helps us develop better plans. And frankly, having open lines of communication with our neighbors is a good thing. I don't think it's ever resulted in a bad outcome for Providence or the neighbors.
 And lastly, we'd like you to keep thinking about how we can make the transportation demand management policies work. We've suggested one policy amendment in our letter dated January 7th. Rather than submitting more amendments, we would encourage you to take another look at that.
 And as you go forward with the land use regulations, we'll have some more thoughts for how to make TDM majors most efficient for big campus institutions like Providence. So we thank you for your time, and we especially want to thank staff for the time they've taken to work with us on this. Great. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Gabe Adolph. I live on Northeast 8th Avenue between Knott and Brzee, and I'm testifying to urge you to oppose TSP Amendment 40116, which would designate Northeast 7th Avenue as a greenway and would result in traffic diverters being installed at several points along 7th Avenue.
 According to Transportation Bureau estimates from two years ago, 5,500 cars a day travel on Northeast 7th Avenue. The Greenway designation requires 1,500. This means 4,000 cars a day will be diverted. This could dramatically increase traffic on nearby streets, which from 8th through 14th are all single lane and about half as wide as 7th. They're also home to many families and kids who, like mine, walk and bike to nearby schools, such as Irvington.
 PBOT has said the proposed diverters would direct cars to Martin Luther King Boulevard, but those of us who live near the construction site at Northeast Russell and 7th know firsthand how determined drivers are to avoid Martin Luther King. When 7th is closed to construction, even with detour signs at the ends of our block, we still get dangerous levels of cut-through traffic. 7th Avenue does need safety improvements, but not at the expense of nearby streets.
 I urge the council to make Northeast 9th Avenue the greenway, which was the plan prior to Amendment 40116. A 9th Avenue greenway improves access to beautiful Irving Park. North of the park, it gives riders a straight shot all the way to Woodlawn. And best of all, it already has the low level of traffic to accommodate a greenway, so it doesn't push dangerous levels of traffic onto adjacent streets.
 Finally, I know that Seventh Avenue Greenway supporters have cited support by neighborhood associations and the BTA. I think these groups have done a great job listening to the people who live on Seventh and actually a very poor job listening to the folks who live on adjacent streets. On my street alone, we collected about 80 signatures of neighbors who oppose a greenway with traffic diverters on Seventh, and that included the signatures.
 The Albina Head Start and Director Ron Herndon also opposed the Greenway on 7th, as do many residents of the side streets between Martin Luther King and 7th near Irving Park because it would limit access to their streets. Thank you for your time. Thank you. I've got to look at this again, and I'll do this later, but help me out, and that is if it were 9th, as you've suggested, and if it has to be 7th going through the Lloyd District, where do you make the transition? Okay.
 You know, I didn't get a lot – we didn't get a lot of details about what happened south of Broadway. We had – PBOT had held a meeting, and they gave us the handout that I gave you. Yeah. But they kept the discussion pretty focused on between Broadway and Alberta, and so we did –
 they didn't show us the plan for what happens. I'll quiz them about that because obviously we just had a presentation this morning about this, you know, amazing new bridge that we'll be building. We hope right over the Banfield at seventh. So, you know, that pretty much dictates where it's going to be at that point. So we're not on seventh North of Broadway. You're going to get there. So I'll, I'll take that up with them. Thank you. My name is Ron Ebersole. I'm a high noon, uh,
 board member and the land use chair for high noon i'd like to talk on amendments p25 and m70 and basically we'd like to say great idea on restoring the neighborhood center for p25 we think it'd be more consistent with the character of the island but it needs a lot of actual work we'd also like to suggest that in order to help make it a better neighborhood center that we see the extension of the light rail
 out to Hayden Island. This has been a real thorn over the years that it stopped at Expo. We also say that at this point in time, the Hayden Island plan needs to be significantly updated or redone. It's still based around a former CRC concept, has some real problems with
 and needs to be reflective of where we are right now. And so we'd like to see that be redone. We'd also like to see the height limits reset to the previous 45 feet before the Hayden Island plan. And there's four parcels with 75 to 120-foot heights that would be real inconsistent with the idea of a neighborhood center and with the general character of the island.
 Finally, we think the local auto bridge to Hayden Island is a bad idea, primarily because it would essentially turn Hayden Island into an on-ramp to I-5 for truck traffic in that area coming from Marine Drive, and it would also form an alternate route for heavy truck traffic.
 And if you look at all the areas and the way that works, and I used to do a lot of commuting from downtown in the evening, essentially everybody is looking for a way. And that seems to be a bad idea. I'd like to see some additional work. But instead, we would prefer to have the light rail extended and add pedestrian and bicycle. Okay. Thank you very much.
 And when we talk about an arterial bridge, it could indeed be, as some of the other ones that we've been discussing, an arterial bridge with light rail.
 transit and bikes and pets and not necessarily other things. So just there's an errata in the Mayor and my proposal for putting the arterial bridge in the constrained list, and that is to specify that it's to East Hayden Island from the Expo Center. It's not the one that's in the Hayden Island plan that would conform with the now not going to happen terminal on West Hayden Island. Yeah. We understand that it's that.
 You know, it's not all set, but we're trying to get our words in now. Yeah, no, it's good. That's helpful. Appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next three are Dana Krawcheck, Tamara DeRitter, and Samuel Pastrick. And then we're going to take 77, Susan Lindsay, 62, Gretchen Hollins, and 64, Mike Connors. You got slides there, Tamara? Yeah. Carla, I'll give you a hand with our slides.
 somewhat arcane AV system back why don't we let Dana go unless you have a V as well and then we'll catch up to Tamara go ahead old-school just words Mary Hales members of the City Council Dana Krafchick I'm here on behalf of Broadmoor golf course and testifying in favor of amendment m33 we provided written testimony and I just provided another copy
 this golf course has been owned by this family for over 100 years they have no intent to redevelop at any point in the future but this comp plan amendment process provided the opportunity that for the next generation
 if and when they decide to develop some industrial land that it's actually feasible to develop and has flat land that could be desirable to industrial developers, while also maintaining and preserving the highest quality resources on site. There's been a lot of attention paid to this amendment recently. As you consider this amendment, I want to make sure you keep a few facts and issues in mind.
 The comp plan designation will not allow industrial zoning tomorrow, next week, next year. You'd still have to rezone the property, which is a very robust public process where appropriate mitigation measures could be imposed. This is just a comp plan designation. It does not change the existing environmental overlay zone, the CRP overlay zone, which was recently updated as part of the Airport Futures Land.
 A portion of the area that we're proposing for industrial comp plan designation does not have a CRP overlay, which means that in this airport futures update, there were not high enough quality resources on that sort of interior area to be designated with protection. This is really perceived as a potential swap with the Riverside designation.
 This is 42 acres, roughly, on Broadmoor for roughly 86 acres at Riverside. We have not seen a comparative analysis that says that Broadmoor is somehow superior from an ecological perspective. In the EC analysis in support of airport futures, they were ranked equivalently.
 As a layperson, I see 80 trees at Broadmoor and 764 at Riverside. Riverside's provided testimony about wildlife corridor opportunities that Riverside provides. I encourage you to take a close look at comparatively the benefits and the values. The rest is in my testimony. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Okay. Thank you. Tamara, are you all set? Yes. My name is Tamara DeRitter. I am chairman for the Rose City Park Neighborhood Association. But first I would like to represent myself as a professional land use planner. And I am requesting that it's my obligation to inform you that ethically the –
 The Oregon land use laws are broken when it comes to air quality. The planning form that we are using in the comprehensive plan places the most disadvantaged population in high-density residential right next to high-volume toxic corridors. I am requesting to include two of the DEQ modeling maps. One is for diesel, and the other one is for benzene.
 Both of these illustrate the combustion that happens along our high-density corridors, and currently there is no mitigation as was promised by the Planning and Sustainability Commission in 2009 with the Portland Plan. They decided not to reverse the planning form at that point in time, but to mitigate for the toxicity. Okay.
 Currently, there's no language in the plan that deals with the toxicity mitigation, and what I provide is mitigation through vegetation, design, construction materials, as well as indoor ventilation.
 So that's my first testimony. Okay. Thank you. The second is on behalf of the Royal City Park Neighborhood Association, we are recommending a transportation system plan blue ribbon committee to be formed to vet the plan and the TSP's implementation assumptions to reduce the single occupancy vehicles to 25% of all trips by 2045. The success of this plan hinges on the reduction of the traffic volume.
 Transportation demand management is an unproven methodology at the scale being proposed, which is the entire city. We strongly urge you to get this implementation correct, right, in this plan, because we are dependent on its success for our communities and our children. And last is the Euclid Heights should be downzoned to R5 because it contains numerous steep slopes and should not be downzoned.
 designated R2.5. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Sam Pastrick, and I'm here today with the Citizens Utility Board of Oregon in opposition of amendments P11, P68, and P85. While the city's comprehensive plan is at its core a land use plan, it's also so much more than that. That's to say, ensuring neighborhood and urban vitality relies on so much more than just solving land use issues.
 The comp plan is also a framework to inform innovative decision making for the benefit of city residents over the long term and in policy arenas once thought to have less to do with land use and much more to do with, well, transportation, for instance. The connection is now a given, but that wasn't always the case.
 Ubiquitous broadband access and fair and transparent inclusion in the digital world has become essential to daily life. Connecting disparate communities with disparate services requires clear and pioneering policy around transportation. The same idea is now true for open data and digital inclusion. Therefore, tying land use to open data and digital inclusion is, in our opinion, akin to tying land use to transportation. Specifically, while private utilities, Internet service, and technology companies provide communication services and facilities to poor earners,
 The city does regulate some aspects of those services, such as the siting of those facilities. And through past broadband adoption plans is now the deep resolution that's the digital equity action plan. The city has displayed a pretty strong track record of promoting fair and affordable access to emerging technology and communication services for all Portland residents.
 More specifically, by removing key language from policy 2.11 around open data and also from policies 8.117 and 8.118 around broadband adoption and encouraging regulatory investments in technology and communications infrastructure, neither the city's comp plan, at least as it concerns digital inclusion, nor the deep resolution carry really the needed teeth in our opinion.
 We can't precisely know what Portland will look like in 10 or 20 years, but I would argue it's a safe bet that the Internet and data-driven decision-making will play a pretty feature role in building healthier, more vibrant, and equitable communities. Knowing this, you all have an opportunity later this month to either lead the charge or bring up the rear on open data and digital inclusion policy, and that's why CUB opposes amendments P11, P68, and P85. Thank you. Have you submitted that letter in writing, too? No, but I will. Would you?
 Would you please? Yes. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. The next three are Susan Lindsay, Gretchen Hollins, and Mike Connors. And they'll be followed by – sorry, is Mike Wessling testifying? Yeah. Okay, then thank you. 65, 66, and 67, Mike Wessling, Mia Reback, and Rick Michelson will be next. Welcome. Good afternoon, Susan. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 Susan Lindsay. And I'm here to – I'm just going to read my notes because it's going to be tough. I'm here to urge support for amendments S-20, S-21, and S-22. And we're very grateful that those were entered in as amendments. There were many, many zoning changes that were proposed for the Buckman neighborhood. And these are the only three that we stepped up to say, you know, not here. Okay.
 And there was a reason for that. S21 and S22 are in the area that already had extensive work and approval for a National Historic Register. And I believe you've got a letter there from the Landmarks Commission sort of supporting that, too, that it remain R5.
 The Buckman neighborhood is the oldest Eastside neighborhood in the city of Portland. And back in the 1970s, there was an effort to kind of mow down many of the houses and put in apartment buildings. And so what you see now is kind of a hodgepodge of remaining historic houses because activists came forward to stop that. And there's a lot of apartment buildings, too.
 So we would like to retain the zoning there for S21 and S22. For S20, that's kind of our bridge area. That's between 15th and 19th on Belmont and Morrison, and there's a lot of upzoning that's taking place along Belmont and Morrison all over the place. But there we'd like to maintain it the same because actually there's some comments, one little comment from BPS about that area. Yeah.
 It's all commercial, and in fact, it's not at all. There's many, many residences in there, and it remains a place of affordable housing options, and we hope that it can change, and then when it develops out, it'll be able to develop in situations that are not just studio apartments. That's what we're seeing going in. We're seeing going in very small, 400-square-foot studio apartments that are running for between $1,300 and $1,400 a month.
 And when we've pushed back on developers and said, no, it's R1, we want you to build up the R1, we've seen some townhouses and families be able to move into the area. And that S20 area is that bridge between Colonel Summers Park and our school, so we ask for it to remain the same. Thank you.
 Finally, in my last one second, I'm going to oppose P45 for two reasons. One, that there's a lack of, and nobody really knows about it, there hasn't been a full discussion on it. And second of all, Buckman's sort of already doing middle housing, which is kind of a great concept and we think it should be applied more.
 There are wonderful close-in neighborhoods, Laurel, Herston, Grant Park, and Irvington, and Selwood, and the inner northwest and southwest hills. That concept might be applied to have walkable neighborhoods and give more options to people that are more affordable. Thank you. I don't understand why you're opposing the amendment because it says let's do that. What's that? I don't understand why you would be opposing the middle density housing amendment.
 Thank you. So the reason we're opposing it, we're not opposing it. We're opposing it going in right now because we believe there really hasn't been any process around it. And what we were shown, the map that we were shown by planning, by the planning department, details that really essentially where it goes into is in the Buckman and a portion of the –
 of the Sunnyside neighborhood. So just to clarify, having the policy and the comprehensive plan then allows us to have the discussion thereafter about what is it, where is it, how is it done. It's not that putting this policy in means it's going to happen everywhere tomorrow. But I think what we are intending is that yes, Buckman is a great neighborhood and let's look at it
 are there other neighborhoods who could benefit from having a mixture of different kinds of housing? Exactly, because we're sort of already doing it. We're already doing middle housing. Yeah, that's why it's in there. But see right here, I mean that I didn't get that, and I'm glad you're explaining it to me, but I have to tell you, nobody gets it. Right, I get that. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying it's a bad concept. I think we need to talk about it more. We just have bad input saying let's do this, and so we're putting the –
 the concept in the comprehensive plan so that then we can discuss what is it, where is it, how does it? Okay, so you're not imposing it then? No. All right. Well, thank you. Again, nobody understands. Right. But I think, again, it's probably time for my comprehensive plan speech, which I make once in a while, and that is that the comprehensive plan is the broad policy direction, and it gets implemented by the zoning code and by administrative rules and by building permits. So it's a hierarchy. And unless, strictly speaking, unless there's something in the comprehensive plan that references,
 a policy, we shouldn't be doing zoning code. We shouldn't be doing anything in the city that's land use related without having that policy in the comprehensive plan. So that's the reason that in response to community input during the process, council thought this is something we should definitely be looking into because, as you say, it's already happening in Buckman and other places. Let's see if
 Let's explore whether it should happen elsewhere. If it's a good idea in one place, it's a good idea everywhere. And we should be looking at it. And we will. But, yeah, I think her point is very important. That is, if we don't build the foundation for that concept in the comp plan, then it's pretty hard to build the rest.
 I appreciate you bringing up the concern because there's several things in there that people are like, what does this mean? And we're like, we don't know what it means yet. That's why we have the broad policy, and then we'll have a follow-up. You know, we work to read just about everything we can in addition to doing our full-time jobs. And we know you're in the same position. So I'm just letting you know that I think this is something that needs a lot more conversation citywide. On that, I definitely agree. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you. I'm Gretchen Hollins, representing the Sylvan Highlands Neighborhood Association, opposing Amendment N-14. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for speaking directly with some of our neighbors on this issue. That's appreciated. We in the Sylvan Highlands Neighborhood Association do not feel that luxury condominium developers are underrepresented in Portland. Okay.
 Amendment N-14 changes the zoning for a single property at 6141 Southwest Canyon Court so the owner can build 11 luxury condominiums. This spot zoning ignores neighborhood input and doesn't seem like a good use of the opportunity that the comprehensive plan provides. Thank you for the setup, Commissioner Fritz.
 fraud. Your planning staff agree with us and do not support this amendment and the staff did not support a previous zone request change made by the property owner last summer to be included in the comprehensive plan. We were here in December supporting the August draft of the plan and all of the changes it made for our area. This is the only amendment that we don't agree with.
 Last week, neighbors testified against this zone, and the Sylvan Highlands Neighborhood Association is also opposed to this amendment. We respectfully request that the amendment be rejected and that the property owner be directed to use the regular zone change process. Thank you. Thank you.
 Welcome. Good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Mike Connors. I'm here on behalf of Space Age Fuel, here to testify in opposition to Amendment P32, as well as the mixed-use designation proposals for my client's property. Space Age Fuel is a local company that operates numerous gas service stations around the city, four of which the city is proposing to redesignate and rezone to mixed-use.
 Back in November of 2015, we submitted comments requesting that the City Council delay adoption of the comprehensive plan amendments because you can't adopt mixed-use designations without knowing what the mixed-use standards are going to be, and those mixed-use standards are coming in the mixed-use zone project, which is just now being considered by the Planning and Sustainability Commission.
 Part of our concern was potential impacts on or restrictions on gas service stations or more broadly drive-through facilities of which a gas service station is under that umbrella. And our fears have been realized. The mixed-use zoning code amendments that have been published thus far show restrictions prohibiting these uses in CM1, CM2, CM3 zones.
 CM1, it's outright prohibited, no real redevelopment opportunity. CM2, CM3 allows for some redevelopment opportunity, but for a gas service station, it's just not going to practically work or allow for redevelopment. Amendment P32 seems to be either an extension or an impetus to.
 for those code amendments because it essentially limits drive-through facilities in corridor and center areas. We're concerned about it because this obviously is going to have significant impacts on my clients' existing uses as well as a redevelopment opportunity. The ability to redevelop a former gas station into a different kind of use is far more challenging than any other kind of use.
 And one of the stated objectives of this whole process was to avoid or minimize adversely impacting existing uses or property values. This is going to do both for my client. So they're very concerned as a result of that. They're in opposition to P32 as well as the mixed-use designations based on what we've seen of the mixed-use standards draft that's been published.
 I'll read your letter, obviously, but have you suggested what designation you want? Well, retain it, just pull it out of the mixed-use area. In other words, in the letter, we've identified some of the issues that we see with those designations in that area. For instance, one particular area is three properties that are designated as part of a civic corridor area and other properties. But quite frankly, Mayor, my client was not –
 concerned or objecting to the concept of any kind of mixed-use designation, so long as that designation, the standards that come with it, don't impact their business. As it exists. Correct. Yeah. No, I think we probably share that objective, but we'll look at your letter. I mean, I would assume the scenario we want for –
 for older gas stations would be to be able to have them be nonconforming uses until such time and then have the zoning designation to be generous enough in terms of redevelopment intensity to make it financially possible to deal with possible contamination on the site and still build something. I mean, I think that's what we were aiming for with this effort. So, in other words –
 keep selling gas for as long as the family wants to but then one of these days you know it's a half an acre or whatever it is it's right on a main street we want there to be enough development upside so that it's possible to do the mixed use thing when the owner wants to do it and i thought that's where we were with those designations so that's why we we really need to know what you think it should be designated
 Well, in terms of designations, it's maintaining the existing designations. In other words, not amending and incorporating it into the mixed-use designation concepts is what we're asking. I mean, but that's most of the commercial property in the city, one way or another, is getting redesignated. Well, if you look at the maps for these particular properties, they're actually in outlier areas. They're either grouped in with...
 one or two other properties or on the, or they're on the outskirts of the area where the city is proposing to change it to mixed use designation. So for those properties, if you look at them on the map, it's perfectly appropriate to keep them where they are. And we've explained that,
 uh the reasons for that but the real issue mayor is i guess we take we have a different uh read or interpretation of the mixed use standards they don't i believe do what you're believing that they do all right well that's that bears checking on my part but you've also given us the addresses and that helps so we can check that with respect to the map so good all right thank you very much thank you all thank you both the next three are mike wessling mia rebak and rick michelson
 and they'll be followed by 68, 70, and 72, Joe Daniels, Jeff Giesler, and Carol McCarthy. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon. My name is Mike Westling, and I'm speaking today as a homeowner in the Concordia neighborhood and as a representative of the Portland City Club. The City Club recently published a set of affordable housing recommendations that includes revising Portland's zoning code and zoning map to allow for more missing middle housing types in the city's residential neighborhoods.
 In many ways, proximity has become the equivalent of opportunity in our city. The closer you are to good schools, active parks, and well-paying jobs, the greater your chances for success. As such, the discussion about affordable housing can't just be about how much housing we have, but where that housing is located. Recent research shows that kids from poor families who lived in mixed-income neighborhoods do better in school and earn more money over their lifetimes than kids who live in neighborhoods of concentrated poverty.
 At the same time, kids from more affluent families acquire social and emotional skills like curiosity, collaboration, and empathy that help them succeed later in life. The benefits extend to the entire region, allowing a diversity of housing types in our neighborhoods will promote affordability, make our community more walkable, and reduce carbon emissions.
 And by reducing the need for people to commute long distances from places where housing costs less, mixed-income neighborhoods can reduce traffic congestion and improve movement of freight throughout the region. And the best part about revising the zoning code is that unlike the vast majority of other affordable housing solutions, it doesn't cost a dime. Not to say that we don't need those other solutions as well.
 I'm encouraged by the proposed amendment P45, specifically calling for enabling and encouraging the development of middle housing. It's a good start, specifying areas within a quarter mile of designated centers and within the inner ring of the central city. But if those areas are the limit of where we are encouraging more diverse housing options, then we are falling short of our responsibility to
 to make Portland accessible for people of all incomes. Middle housing, in its many different shapes and forms, has an important role in making all of our neighborhoods more accessible and helping to build vibrant centers and corridors for the future.
 Thankfully, there are ongoing parallel efforts to examine adjusting the zoning code to allow for additional flavors of middle housing, including a BPS study to adjust zoning near parks, the work of the residential infill project, and overlay zones that would allow for a greater variety of housing types in R5 zones. And just lastly, all of these, in addition to those efforts, I recommend that you take a look at the proposal from the Concordia Neighborhood Association to create a new
 to create a new overlay zone that will allow for any R5 residential property to have multiple units, as long as it otherwise conforms to the building envelope and setback provisions of its specific zoning designation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Rick, welcome. Good afternoon. I'm Rick Michelson, and I'm here first to thank Mayor Hales and Commissioner Novick for sponsoring this.
 Amendment M65, which would allow my property at North Ivy and Williams to be zoned CM3 instead of RH. So it would match the rest of the properties around it and allow ground floor retail. I think that's a good move to complete that district. But what I really want to talk today about is middle housing. I spent a long time supporting infill housing in residential neighborhoods. I've done a number of projects myself. And I think it's the right way to go to increase the amount of housing we have.
 When we were on the Planning Commission, we did a couple of steps. One is we eliminated the parking requirement, which would make these smaller projects possible. We also allowed courtyard housing as an idea, although it hasn't worked out very well. I think it's time to take the next step, and I think the next step is to probably change the way we measure density in those middle zones from units per acre to FAR.
 I have a site in northwest Portland where I'm doing a little condo project, and to maximize the profit or make a profit on it, I have to maximize the building envelope. So I'm going to be putting 6,000, 2,000 square foot units on that site. If we measured by FAR instead, I would probably do 8,000 to 12,000 square foot units or even smaller. But because the number of units is really what controls, it drives people to build the biggest, most expensive units possible.
 I think that's an easy change. I think it should be made as part of the next step of doing this process. Thank you. That's an interesting suggestion. Thank you. Welcome, Mia. Thank you. My name is Mia Reback, and I am here today to speak on behalf of 350 PDX, the Center for Sustainable Economy, and the Climate Action Coalition to support amendments P43 and P56 to add policies to reduce carbon emissions and limit fossil fuel distribution in the Comprehensive Plan.
 Last November, Portland set itself apart as a climate leader by passing the nation's strongest and most comprehensive ban on fossil fuels, and thank you all for voting yes to support that policy. And thank you all for your commitment to implementing it in the strongest way possible, and we think that syncing that policy in the comprehensive plan is a great way to do so. While the challenge of addressing climate change is great, we think that there are also great opportunities and gains that we can have from the transformation that this crisis demands of us.
 We think this is exemplified in Policy 6.6 in the plan, a low-carbon economy. But we think we can do more with this policy to set the stage for our renewable energy future by amending the policy to a low-carbon and renewable energy economy and list the production of renewable energy as an employment opportunity associated with this policy.
 350 PDX is working for climate justice and to ensure that those who have been historically left out of the fossil fuel economy are the first to benefit during this transition to the renewable energy and post-fossil fuel era. This is just one of many reasons that we're supporting the Anti-Displacement Coalition and their support on amendments and measures including opposing down zones and high opportunity neighborhoods.
 We're committed to addressing the housing crisis and ensuring that our green city is affordable for all Portlanders.
 I'd like to close by thanking Mayor Hales for proposing these amendments and Michael Armstrong and others at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability for their work on policies to reduce carbon emissions, limit fossil fuel infrastructure, reduce local demand for fossil fuels, and build a robust clean energy economy in Portland. We previously submitted written testimony on behalf of 350 PDX and the Center for Sustainable Economy in support of these amendments prepared by former Corvallis land use planner Patricia Weber.
 Thank you all for your time, and please vote yes on P43 and P56. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Next three are Joe Daniels, Jeff Giesler, and Carol McCarthy, and they'll be followed by 74, 75, and 76, Rick Johnson, Tim Ramos, and Amy Greenstead. Good afternoon. Welcome. Good afternoon.
 I'm Jeff Geisler, chairman for Hayden Island, and thank you, Mayor Hales and commissioners, for having so much patience to deal with this huge problem called a resolution to so many problems. I'll run through this really quickly because two minutes goes by fast, but we are against M70 on Hayden Island, the high noon. We do not want any auto land bridge to Hayden Island. We never saw a viable bridge plan through the CRC.
 We'd like you to remove this amendment for any auto connector bridge to the island. However, High Noon may offer support for a Tilikum-style bridge, light rail, pedestrian, bicycle. And in conjunction with that, we are accepting P25, which designates us as a community center, a neighborhood center. And if we had a light rail bridge that came in, landed on Lottery Row,
 Eliminates our problem there. We get a 45-foot limitation on new construction, so we would have more housing, and we would get our community neighborhood center back instead of lottery row. The neighborhood center is quite large, and that would allow for more housing up to a 45-foot level. We also are interested in saying yes on P19 and P16, which kind of interconnects all the neighborhood centers that you're suggesting.
 uh we're no on p32 uh we appreciate our drive-throughs and we like our starbucks
 We're now on P81, the trail which was proposed to go around the island, which would be 30 feet wide. That's going to bring us to the fact that we are for P48 to preserve the manufactured home community. But that trail would basically jeopardize 112 mobile homes.
 And eventually, because that is a large number of their income, it would probably affect the other 460 homes in that park. Thank you very much. Thank you. I think the only Starbucks that I know of on Hayden Island requires that you park at the Safeway and walk in. No, no, there's one over there. There's one with a drive-thru? Yeah. Okay, I didn't know about that.
 i may i correct you when i go to is in the safe way so there's actually three drive-throughs over there okay thank you yes please am i yes oh my name is carol mccarthy i'm here to urge you to keep the record open for the city council amendments beyond today amendment p45 is on the agenda for tonight's sweeney board meeting closing the record today will not allow the outcome of a sweeney vote on p45 to become part of the record
 The vote tonight will be taken at the earliest possible time given the March 18th rollout of the City Council amendments. For the vote outcome to be omitted from the record is inconsistent with provisions of the current comp plan, city code, and goal 1. The use of the phrase, quote, where appropriate, quote, in P45 to specify where middle density housing would be allowed is not defined.
 It leaves us at the mercy of possible corrupting forces from advisory committees stacked with people who may have financial interests that stand in direct opposition to protecting the character and livability of our neighborhoods. The planners should have been more transparent and applied multi-dwelling zones, quote, where appropriate through the map app at the outset of the 2035 comp plan update to allow for citizen involvement.
 P45 is inconsistent with Metro's 2040 plan, as quoted below. Neighborhoods remain largely the same under the 2040 growth concept. Some redevelopment can occur to better use vacant land or underused buildings. New neighborhoods are likely to have smaller single-family lots, mixed uses...
 and a mix of housing types, such as row houses and accessory dwelling units. The growth concept distinguishes between slightly more compact inner neighborhoods and the slightly larger lots and fewer street connections of outer neighborhoods. It continues, if you live in an established neighborhood...
 Whether in the heart of Portland or in Gresham or Beaverton, your neighborhood should continue to look and function like it does now. Protecting existing neighborhoods is the most important aspect of the 2040 growth concept. Middle-density housing is promoted as affordable, but the amendment language offers no guarantees that it will be affordable. It could have the opposite unintended consequence of increasing housing costs in our neighborhoods. Please vote against P45. Thank you.
 In terms of keeping the record open, you're asking that we keep the opportunity for written testimony open until? If we vote tonight, it might take us a week to get the letter in, you know, another week. I'll see how much frowning I'm getting from staff, but we'll figure that out. Thank you. Thank you. Always call us. You know I'm going to laugh about. I'm Joe Daniels. I am privileged and pleasured and graced to be part of the Selwood neighborhood.
 We live in a 115-year-old house. I am not that old, but it's really nice to have the benefit of that. So one of the amendments in this front view is M as in Mary 35, which has to do with adding some houses there. And really what I like to do is use that more as an example of the bigger picture and focus on, since there's only a couple minutes, not the planning part so much as sustainability.
 And one of the things that I'm concerned is someone who's been around the neighborhood for a while, not 115 years, is where are these pieces coming in? Understandably, there needs to be change. There needs to be higher density. But how are they coming in? So in the case of certain retail or drive-thru situations, it makes sense to say we've got corners. Let's leverage that. Let's use this in a way that's beneficial. Thank you.
 But in the case of these properties that are being proposed that might go from single-family residences to the apartments, they're almost all around a major busy intersection in the first place. So it's harder to say this is really going to work out.
 to go from maybe 10 people living in 1,200, 5,000 square feet to 80 people because that's also going to bring in 40 cars. And it's getting tougher and tougher just to walk through that neighborhood and try to do things in that way. The other thing I'd like to point out relative to sustainability is I think in my lifestyle as someone who's in his mid-50s now, normal is what you're used to.
 So there's been a big push on everyone will walk and go to Max. Oh, they'll do something. I beg to differ. I,
 I came from the Bay Area. What I noticed there was everyone drove their car, and when they weren't able to do that, they drove it somewhere else and further and further and further away. So I and we, my family, think, yes, there does need to be a change and a different density, but these specific pieces and where they're clustered are going to more likely lead to an amazing increase in the bottleneck of what's occurring there.
 And from the bigger picture point of view, the thought I would like to leave you with is a question. I think the BPS is doing a great job. I think you all have been doing a very good job. I work with international standards myself. This is part of it. You've got to see the bigger picture. Hence my question.
 singularly and collectively and again all these amendments and what folks want to do and what you all want to do and how the city is going to go forward are these things the overall plans specific amendments the type of things that you yourselves would like to see in your neighborhoods and that you're promoting there on the streets where you live and where we're all going to interact with each other thank you for your time thank you thanks very much thank you all
 Next three are Rick Johnson, Tim Ramos, and Amy Greenstatt. And they'll be followed by 81, 82, and 83, Angela Zahara, Catherine Hampton, and Gary Minazewski. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Go ahead, please. I'm Nancy Oberschmidt, and I'm standing in for Rick Johnson. Both of us are neighbors of the Buckman Community Association. Thank you.
 We support the following amendments, P20, 21, 39, 42, 44, and P53. We also support these amendments, S20, which...
 Eliminates the proposed comprehensive plan change 62, which changed the zones in blocks 16 through 19 along Belmont and Morrison from R1 and R2.5 to mixed use. There's many properties with truly residential uses. Changing this zone would encourage demolition and erect a wall essentially through the heart of our neighborhood.
 We are supporting S21, elimination of proposed comprehensive plan changes. Number 348, changing the zoning of a six-and-a-half block area from R5 to R2.5. This area of 63 lots has 11 three- to five-unit multifamily structures, five six- to 12-unit properties, and redevelopment would result in a loss of density.
 13 single-family houses on lots larger than 32,000 square feet are also at risk of teardown, since the minimum lot size on R2.5 is 1,600 square feet, and the mayor's memo listed six properties in this category.
 We suggest that allowing an ADU on a lot with a duplex to increase density rather than the proposal of allowing density up to R1 standards on lots with structures less than 75 years old. We support S22, elimination of proposed comprehensive plan change 92.
 changing zoning on a half-block area to R1. These properties, a 10-unit apartment building, Housing Authority of Portland, a duplex, and a quadruplex provide affordable housing. Changing the zoning would encourage teardowns and construction of more expensive housing with a net loss of units. Thank you. You covered a lot there. You can leave us a copy of that.
 Would you please? I will. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't get it. The essential, it's all in there. Oh, I'm sorry. You were in control of those different policies. Oh, great. Okay. Very helpful. There it is. All right. Thank you.
 Tim, good afternoon. Thank you. Mayor Hales, members of the Commission, Tim Ramos for your record here today on behalf of Dr. Rizzoli, testifying in favor of Commissioner Novick's amendment N-14, which is a shift from a suburban-style zone, large lot zone, to R-5, a single-family zone, contrary to an earlier characterization, not a multifamily zone.
 The effect would be to allow a net additional nine single-family houses to be constructed on a parcel which is roughly the size of one and a half blocks, one and a half typical blocks in the city of Portland. It's a site located three minutes walk from a transit station and, of course, three minutes from all of the amenities in Sylvan.
 The historical context may be important to you. There was a time when Sylvan long ago was a part of the city of Portland, and then in 1914, our Supreme Court ordered that it be removed. And for the next 70 years, that area was developed under a county, rural, suburban paradigm, resulting in lot sizes of roughly a half acre to five acres. Okay.
 In more recent history, some of the neighbors got together, worked with the city, got the area re-annexed. And I can tell you from being one of the people who knocked on doors and canvas for annexation that one of the concerns was that Multnomah County never really engaged in community-level planning. And there was recognition then that within a five-minute walk of a transit station and all those at Sullivan Retail,
 there was a tremendous amount of redevelopable land and that it needed to be looked at through the lens of modern land use planning. Dr. Rizzoli's property is a remnant. It is an artifact of that old suburban-style zoning. So his request that some additional single-family development be allowed there at a site three minutes' walk from a transit station seems to be not unreasonable given modern planning principles.
 The service consideration comment that you've received in the record argues that we need to fear traffic congestion in 2035. The traffic study says we're talking about nine additional peak hour trips, weighing that minimal impact against the opportunity to leverage our investment in rail and bus infrastructure there. It seems to me that's not a difficult judgment. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good afternoon.
 My name is Amy Greenstadt. I'm a resident of Northeast 8th Avenue between Knott and Brzee, and I'm testifying to oppose Amendment TSP-40166, which is to turn 7th Avenue, Northeast 7th Avenue, into a greenway, which is an alteration of the original plan, which is to make Northeast 9th Avenue a greenway. Okay.
 My reason is that the city defines neighborhood greenways as, quote, residential streets with low volumes of auto traffic and low speeds where bicycles and pedestrians are given priority, and further explains the character of these streets as, quote,
 Vehicles should travel 20 miles per hour or less. There should be a daily average of approximately 1,000 cars per day, with the upper limit set at 2,000 cars. Northeast Seventh Avenue is inappropriate for this type of use. It's a two-lane street, which was designed from the beginning, as far as I can tell, as a neighborhood artery that now accommodates at least 5,500 cars daily.
 So to turn it into a greenway would mean to shunt about 4,000 cars a day or more onto neighboring streets, which are one lane. And there's nothing in the current plan to explain where those cars were going to go. And people who live on the neighboring streets, we've seen there's been construction on 7th. And we've seen that when that construction blocks off 7th, we get cars speeding down our streets, right?
 My cat was killed by one of those cars. People's kids are walking down the street. It feels very dangerous. And we don't see any evidence that there's any plan to deal with that situation.
 Ninth Avenue, on the other hand, is exactly the kind of street that should be turned into a greenway. And so we support the plan as originally conceived to turn Ninth Avenue into a greenway. We do agree that Seventh Avenue has too much traffic on it and we think that there should be traffic calming measures implemented on Seventh Avenue to help the residents there. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 The next three are Angela Zahara, Catherine Hampton, and Gary Minazewski, and they'll be followed by 88, 90, and 91, Evan Heapman, Andrew Neiman, and Fawn Aberson. Good afternoon. Who would like to go first? Who's ready? Thank you.
 She's looking at me. Okay. You're ready. Gary Miniszewski. I'm here to summarize testimony that I gave, I submitted last week. And that material had attachments. This material does not. So if you can. All right. All right.
 I'm here to talk about middle housing or moderate density housing and affordability. I'm also here to talk a little bit about solar. In February 2nd, 2016 memo to you, Mayor Hales, from Planner Engstrom, five options were suggested to the mayor for council consideration.
 I recommend that the first two approaches be further pursued. Those are re-evaluate zoning in the inner southeast Portland area and evaluate R2.5 comp plan areas not yet zoned R2.5.
 In addition, and that staff report is attached to my testimony, in addition I recommend that the Council have planning staff further evaluate the potential for additional land area to be designated R1, R2 and R2.5, designating more vacant and or undeveloped, underdeveloped
 underdeveloped land as R1, R2, or R2.5 is a more legally viable process than hastily changing the comp plan and zoning code to allow for additional density middle housing in fully developed single-family residential neighborhoods.
 Providing opportunities for low-cost housing is not a simple matter of supply-demand economics. Providing more residential units than the projected need will barely reduce the cost of those units. The private real estate market – and Mayor Hales, you know this very well –
 determines the mix quality and cost of what gets built. The City Council needs to develop a 21st century mix of economic inducements, incentives, and requirements to engage the housing industry in providing for affordable housing.
 Lastly, I request, and this is my personal request to protect my own investment in solar panels, I request that the City Council develop a policy protecting existing homeowners' right to sunlight.
 The policy and implementing codes should affect all forms of new housing in moderate and low-density residential zones, the existing zones. And when I mean sunlight, I mean not only for solar panels, which everybody likes to talk about, but for yards and for windows, as we had to do as planners yesterday.
 in New York way back when in tenement houses. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. I really appreciate this process, and this process is actually one of the many things that I really like about Portland. I think we do this really well. However, I'm here. Put your name back in the record, too. Pardon me? Put your name back in the record, too. Oh, sorry. Angela Zahava. I live in Selwyn. Okay.
 It's a very hot neighborhood. It's gentrifying at lightning speed. I mean, it's actually, we can't really even absorb how fast things are happening in Selwood as residents. And I'm here to talk about displacement. I'm very concerned about displacement. People quite literally being thrown on the sidewalk in this gold rush that's happening in Selwood. It's incredibly dangerous.
 fast the way it's developing and people are just pushing through, uh, things before anybody even knows what's happening. Um, and I feel like when we, uh,
 finalize this process, it's going to unleash a new tsunami of displacement. And that's what I'm concerned about. I don't think the council has on their radar screen what I would call underhousing. So you have the huge amount of homeless, of course, but then there's, I think, a huge number of people, I don't know how many, but in my own personal acquaintance, which is actually quite small, um,
 a lot of people are under housed. And so they're not on the radar screen of being homeless.
 Because they're in a temporary of substandard or transitional or couch surfing or living in a garage or having to move 45 minutes away from work and school and community and so forth. There's just, it's constant. Just this morning, I opened my email and a friend called me saying her daughter, who's a single parent of two kids, is desperately seeking a place because she's been no cause evicted.
 So I brought my friend here, and she will talk further about this. Thank you. Welcome. Hello. I'm Catherine Hampton, and I am homeless. Come September, I will turn 70. I'm in the Selwood-Morland neighborhood. I was living in a six-unit apartment building where we were all evicted, including a couple who lived directly above me with a brand-new infant son. I've been known to sleep in Selwood Park.
 In the doorway on Milwaukee Avenue, here and there, wherever. There is no housing. I was told by my worker at the disability office, I have my stuff in storage in a storage unit. I was told just to get rid of my stuff, unload it, because there is no place and isn't going to be one for a very long time. And I've met other...
 people who are also seniors that are homeless on the street. Not all of us out there are into the drug scene, are alcoholics, but we are definitely homeless. I've met veterans. I met one in a wheelchair, shot up in Afghanistan who can't even get the medical help he needs, and he's homeless in a wheelchair.
 Something is terribly wrong in the States. Thank you for being here. I hope you – Oh, and this is my little friend here. He's always with me. This is Benny O'Malley. Hi there, guy. Well, thank you for coming, and I hope that you've stopped by my office to let our folks know who you are and how to get a hold of you.
 upstairs. Actually, Mary Ann, I had a question of Ms. Hampton. Yes, I have actually seen you at QFC. Didn't lie with you. What happened to your apartment? Was it torn down or turned into a condo? No, it was 1414 Southeast Lambert. We were all evicted, given a little paint job, and everybody moved new people in and quadrupled the rent, of course. In fact, it
 The people that bought it are from Vietnam and not even Americans. They came knocking at my door, oh, just a few days of my eviction notice, wanting my birth date and Social Security number, probably for nefarious reasons. I didn't give it to them. Okay, but the building is still there. It's still there, 1414 Southeast Lambert. They just moved all the tenants out and raised the rent substantially. Quadrupled it.
 Thank you. Thanks for being here. Yeah, I think it's important for people to know that 20% of the people living outside are 55 or over. Oh, yes. It's not fun. Like I said, I'll be turning 70.
 Thank you. Thanks for coming down. Do stop by my office and let Zach or one of those folks know how to get a hold of you. Thank you. Thank you. Just an antidotal thing. Take a look at the moderate housing on 165th and Gleason in Gresham. Metro Habitat is doing that. Yes. And I helped them get it through the city of Gresham planning process, but I'm also helping to build it now. Good. That's a nice project. I've been there. Looks great. All right. Yeah. Thank you.
 Okay, let's take the next three, please. Our 88, 90, 91, Evan Heitman, Andrew Neiman, and Fawn Aberson. And then the last person I show is Jennifer Gommersall. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Evan Heitman. I'm testifying in favor of TSP Amendment 40116. This is the amendment that recommends a greenway on Northeast 7th from Broadway to Sumner. You've heard testimony on the issue from several people. I'd like to focus specifically...
 on Y7 is the best alignment for a bikeway. In Portland, we make it really easy to get around by car. If you're driving a car, you're trying to find the highway, all you have to do is go towards it, you'll find some big signs, and it points you in the right direction. If you want instead to ride a bike, the situation is different. You have to know which streets are suitable, which streets are not, which intersections have traffic lights, which do not, and whether the streets you're on will connect through the next neighborhood.
 We have great bike maps to help with this, but my contention is that if you need a map to use the system, the system is not good enough. If we're serious about our mode share goals, we need to make bicycling as easy and approachable as we make driving today. And I believe that obvious, straightforward, and easy-to-follow bikeways are a huge part of that. All this is to say that a greenway on Northeast 7th would be a great bikeway for one simple reason. It doesn't take a map to understand. It's straight and direct all the way from I-84 to somewhere.
 Like other successful bikeways in our city, it's parallel to a major auto arterial, and it's easy to find and follow. The only problem with 7th today is that it's dominated by auto traffic. We need a robust greenway treatment for this street to reach its potential as an accessible bikeway connecting inner northeast neighborhoods to the central city. And it's projects like this that we must embrace if we want to see 30% of commute trips made by bike by 2030. The alternative alignment would require a two-block detour around the edge of Irving Park.
 We don't ask drivers to find their way around a park in the middle of their trips. Why should we ask the same of people who want to use a bike? Thanks for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Thanks. My name is Andrew Nierman. I am the land use chair for the King Neighborhood Association, also a small business owner. And I'm also here to testify in favor of the TSP Amendment 40116, which would designate Northeast 7th Avenue as a major city bikeway.
 I'd like to start out by saying that this is a chance to do something world-class on a budget. It's not often that the best option is also the cheapest by half. The bike plan for 2030 was adopted six years ago. Mode split, as you all know, the goal is 25% for bikes. That's only 14 years from now. And if we're going to live up to our aspirations, I think the time is now to make some bold moves. There's really no contest between 7th and 9th in terms of route quality.
 The concerns about traffic spillover are certainly legitimate, but none of us want to see the adjacent streets get spillover traffic. And that's a design issue to be dealt with at a later phase. The reasons why Seventh or Better have already been listed by many people, but it's flat air, it's a straight shot. There are existing signal crossings, and there's existing infrastructure in the Lloyd District.
 And as the mayor mentioned, the bridge going in, you're going to see a flood of bicyclists on 7th. It's one thing to draw a line on a map. It's another thing to do with reality. And I think we should serve bicyclists where they are. And I think that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. You're welcome.
 Greetings, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, thank you for your time today. My name is Fawn Albertson, and I've come here today representing the North Northeast Business Association as the outreach coordinator. But I'm also a longtime resident in northeast Portland, and I've been a longtime employee at several small businesses in northeast, including the Local Lounge and Queen of Sheba International Foods.
 I'm here today to testify in support of the comp plan for the M42, which would change the zoning on North Fremont. Um,
 As somebody who has worked in the community for six years, having conversations with many small business owners, I'm excited about this, particularly because I think it really fits well with the five-year plan that the City did for wealth creation for disadvantaged and minority communities. Thank you so much for that five-year plan as well.
 In particular, I'm speaking on behalf of Alan Gevery-Hewitts, who is one of the business owners that will be affected by this change, and he will be allowed to develop a mixed-use property of both residence and commercial. And I will say that that's an area that already is changing.
 very well populated with really cute, quaint businesses. There's the Grand Central Brinkley next to Boise Elliott. There's Spin Laundry. There's the Second Story, which does amazing technology work, and a couple of yoga studios. And then on the other end of it is obviously New Seasons across the street and food carts.
 So I think letting Alam, who's already been developing in northeast Portland for 30-plus years as a business owner, has done some great projects. Plus, he's very cognizant of bringing the ethnic and minority communities as business owners, something that that area needs very much. And so I'm excited to see Alam. And I also know that Alam donated –
 the use of the Boise Elliott Community Garden for years and years. And I think in his new development, he wants to play on that. And there are many great examples, such as what the Lindemann Feed Store did as a satellite store over at Deakam called Deakam Street Doorways. Have you guys been there?
 So I think what Alan really sees as his vision is the long-term vision that he had as a resident and business owner there, but still keeping the really quaint micro-cobbler community involved. He's not looking for a mini-mart. He's not looking for something, if you know anything about this business owner.
 he's going to bring something organic and great, just like he's been continuing to bring. And this is going to be the best first step, well, maybe not the first step, but one step in the direction of creating wealth for communities of color and disadvantaged. And I think he should be allowed to do it, and I think he could send a trend for many other minority property owners there as well. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all very much.
 The last two I show are Jennifer Gommersall and Elam Gibrahiwot. Come on up, please. And I noticed some other folks came in. If you did sign up previously to testify on the 20th and you weren't called or you weren't able to be called then, you're on the list and we can add you on to the end here. So, Jennifer, go ahead, please, or whoever would like to go first. Why don't you go ahead? Good afternoon, Mayor Helm and commissioners. Thank you for allowing me to speak today. Thank you.
 For those who don't know me, my name is Alam Gavriyot. I am the owner of Queenie Sheba International Foods that has been on MLK for almost 25 years. I have been in the neighborhood for over 30 years. And when I came to this neighborhood, I came as a refugee. And whereas I'm so blatant and despair, I saw great potential in the neighborhood. I have come to love as much today.
 As the day I moved in, I have built in the neighborhood my home and my business. I am not an investor into the neighborhood looking to take. I am vested in my home and always seeking to give back to the community I love.
 Over the duration of my time in the neighborhood, I have acquired a variety of property, all which I have improved and are used to impact the lives of others in a positive way. As a restaurateur, I have employed anywhere from 6 to 15 employees.
 at a time always families of their own who live in our neighborhood my longest employee has been with me 23 years and our shortest employee has been with me for 10 years as a property owner i have
 dilapidated buildings into attractive, thriving, and culturally influenced mixed-use spaces. A good example is the Russell Street, the corner of Russell and Rodney, that brought in the crowd, which we see today. As a homeowner in the neighborhood, I have contributed by maintaining and improving my properties in a way that improves overall neighborhood livability.
 For over 20 years, I have donated the use of my land to be used as a Boise Elliott Community Garden. I have made all the use building Ivy Street that has been serving the community for over 20 years as a community center.
 And I am not an investor that really trying to sell the neighborhood. I am dreaming the neighborhood to look good and serve the need of our community. And that's the best proximity to be developed, to be improved, and we see the best future of our community.
 Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to talk. Thank you very much. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. I'm Jennifer Gomer-Sall. I've lived in Portland for a long time, lived in the Pearl before it was the Pearl, 25 years. But I came today to thank you and especially the mayor for sponsoring the amendment M58 that's going to save the houses on Main Street.
 And I had a whole thing prepared about the underrepresented group of historic districts, but I've agreed to be hijacked by a bunch of teenagers. That I had the unfortunate job of having in my car for a couple hours trip. Starting in the beginning, we went by the house. There was a metal building that was being torn down on a Saturday morning, which started a discussion.
 which started a bunch of questions, and I ended up having to go through private property rights and how things are done for planning and question after question way more than my caffeination level was going to handle. Right.
 So that very spirited, and they wanted to come testify, but by then they had an exam and then it was closed. So I agreed to offer for your consideration three points that they wanted me to suggest. First one, it's...
 It seemed to them that Portland is great now because the people who have lived here in the past and currently, the voters, the taxpayers, the community, the neighbors, etc., and that it's being torn down for the benefit of people not yet here or the value is being taken from neighborhoods or transferred to developers not benefiting the whole city and all its current people. Okay.
 That's one thought. The second thought they wanted me is, why is constant growth good? Will there ever be a point where enough is enough, or will we continue to overcrowd it until no one wants to live here anymore? And then we tore down all the interesting houses and buildings for nothing. And then the third point they wanted me to offer for your consideration was,
 If we take all the industrial land for housing all the new people that are coming up here, won't we have more homeless? Because no industry-type jobs like welders that pay well for people who are different learners – I can't tell what schools – I went to a Portland school – for people who are different learners –
 So they didn't go to a regular type college but still want to support a family. They won't have anywhere to work. So they wanted you to consider those things when you're deciding as they pointed out their future because we'll all be dead which I also wasn't quite ready for and they were just really frustrated because it was that metal building and it was just being torn down and I
 I had an hour and a half in the car with them, and they're not related to me, so I couldn't just say, hit your sister or something. So those were the three things. Consider that it was built by people who are here and not wreck it for people who aren't here or were expecting. And the growth thing was hard for me to answer because I have an MBA. I could get into the economics and all that, but...
 They kind of had a point. You know, when do we just say Portland's closed now? And how would we say that? Well, I know it was quite the discussion. Well, thanks for being there for their teachable moment. I hope. But anyways, and they were all under 16. So, you know, there was a lot of civics going on as well. You did well. Thank you for representing them. What a perfect way to end.
 our multiple hours and months of testimony. Thank you very much. Tell them that we will consider their advice. Okay. Thanks for bringing their wisdom here, and keep good luck with that discussion. More caffeine next time. Yeah. Walter, we got your letter, so thank you very much. Did you need to speak to it, or should we just put it in the record? Okay.
 I don't think he was signed. He wasn't signed up. I'd be happy to speak to you, but I wasn't on the list. Okay. Well, we've got it, and you're always clear with us. So I think we've got to let those wonderful teenagers have the last word. Okay. So, therefore, we are going to close verbal testimony. And then the question is, how long do you want to keep the record open to accommodate any requests for late-breaking written testimony? Okay.
 There is a certain amount of symmetry in that last testimony. When we started this process a number of years ago, one of the first workshop questions we asked is, where is everyone going to be and what are they going to be doing in 2035? And a big section of the room looked pretty grim. One advice I guess we have from the staff is,
 Tomorrow we're planning at 2 o'clock to begin deliberation on a number of the amendments, and we would suggest that it's probably not good to have the record open while you're doing that amendment because you'll start to get play-by-play information.
 testimony which can be a little bit challenging to deal with it may be easier for you to have a static keep the record open until then and ask them of neighborhood to communicate their their discussion and recommendations from tonight yeah we thought maybe noon tomorrow was a reasonable deadline and okay with everybody that's not good all right let's do that but would someone please not we're not taking any more verbal testimony
 Or written at that point. Correct. And we're just leaving the e-mail and written letters, and we'd leave our MAP application online on until noon tomorrow. Yeah, that sounds fine. I think all around, if someone would please let them know so that she can get back to us based on their discussion tonight. Okay. Anything else, Eric, that you need for us to do at this point? We'll see you tomorrow. We're going to close the hearing, keep the record open until noon tomorrow, and we'll begin discussion on amendments tomorrow afternoon. Thank you very much.
 milestone yeah congratulations quite the process