All right, good afternoon everybody. This is the April 29th afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here.
 Here. Brits. Here. Wheeler. Here. So we are privileged today is Bring Your Kid to Work Day at the City of Portland. And we extended an invitation for our great employees to bring their kids here in the chamber. We have lots of kids. Could all the kids raise your hand today? Look how many kids we have here. All right. Thank you for being here.
 So we're privileged to have you here, kids, and a lot of the things that we decide up here today will impact you for many years to come. So we're really excited to see you here, and maybe you'll be inspired to be the next mayor, maybe sooner rather than later. So welcome. The first item, please.
 Item 426, the Intertwine Alliance Summit. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. This week, Portland is hosting international and local urbanists for conversations about how to build cities that are in harmony with the environment. We actually have a different way of saying that here locally. We call it nature in the city. Okay.
 Yesterday, our host organizations presented a workshop of best thinking about adapting to climate change, integrating nature in the urban environment, and incorporating green infrastructure in urban design. I got it in, Mike. Urban green infrastructure. As part of yesterday's schedule, the delegation visited a number of local sites to see this work in practice, including Crystal Springs, where we recently welcomed spawning salmon back for the first time
 in our lifetime. And also this week, our esteemed guests from around the world are planning an international symposium on the nature of cities and discussed how to highlight the great work of our region.
 Portland is home to a number of leading voices in this field, three of whom are here to tell us more. And this afternoon, we welcome Mike Houck, the director of the Urban Green Spaces Institute. Mike, if you would come forward. Mike Wetter, the director of the Intertwined Alliance. Welcome, Mike. And David Maddox, director of the Nature of Cities Institute.
 who's joining us from New York City. I also want to acknowledge that Bob Salinger is with us here this afternoon. I want to point out, I think this is the first time where we've had a majority commissioner of people testifying in short-sleeved shirts, which makes me wonder, is it sunny outside? I haven't been out yet today. It is. A little bit. Good. Good. Excellent. Thank you. Gentlemen, welcome. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, the reason we're here is that some five or six months ago, David Maddox gave me a call. We were on a conference call. I serve on the board of the Nature of Cities, saying that he wanted to have a planning meeting to plan this conference in 2018. And, of course, not surprising to any of you, I said it must be in Portland, Oregon, and here we are. Okay.
 We have a fabulous group of international – I'll mention, however briefly, my ultimate hope was to have the 2018 international gathering in Portland or certainly in the Emerald Corridor or what we know as Cascadia, Vancouver, Seattle, Portland. We lost two people immediately to the new travel restrictions, one of whom was from –
 who happened to have traveled, unfortunately for us, to Iran the year before and was denied admission. So I'm guessing, in fact, one of our participants said not in the U.S. in 2018. So I'm hoping...
 Among the cities we're considering, perhaps Vancouver might win out. I actually just want to comment and congratulate your staff and you for having such spectacular staff. On the planning committee, Caitlin Lovell from the Bureau of Environmental Services and Toby Query.
 the Bureau of Environmental Services participated in a day-and-a-half session to try to figure out what we would do in 2018. On the Westmoreland trip, we had Rhonda Fast from Bureau of Environmental Services and Emily Roth from the Bureau of Parks and Recreation. And I have to say that the internationals in particular and some of the local people were totally blown away by the dedication of the staff and their knowledge.
 I helped lead a tour of the central city looking at green infrastructure, active transportation. Amy Chomowitz from Bureau of Environmental Services and Greg Raisman from PBOT both
 help plan the trip. And they spent quite a lot of time when we put together a very quality trip. Mark Raggett from the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Sarah Harple from the Portland Development Commission, joined us actually in two places. One was the post office, the Broadway project. We stopped at PNCA to give the internationals and the rest of us a little information about that effort. And the other was the PNCA.
 And then we wound up at the red at the very end to look at the green loop project. Mike Abate met us at Tanner Springs. As you know, he's director of Portland Parks and Recreation, but he was a professional landscape architect when they designed Tanner Springs Park.
 with Herbert Dreisaitl from Germany. And finally, Nathan Howard of the mayor's staff joined us on the entire trip and had very important things to say regarding the climate strategies that the mayor and the council have been pursuing. So I just wanted to point out that those staff people really helped pull this whole thing off and had huge accolades from our international guests.
 Let Mr. Wetter say a few words. Thank you, Mike. I'm Mike Wetter. I'm the Executive Director of the Intercontinental Alliance, which is a coalition at this point of 165 public, private, and nonprofit organizations working to integrate nature into the Portland region. And there actually were an additional couple of reasons why this summit was held here in addition to that Mike said it needed to be. The additional reasons were that, for one thing, Portland, of course, is known for the way that we've connected communities
 the urban with the natural. It's one of the things we're known for in providing visionary leadership. And I just wanted to say that on the tour yesterday, the internationals did get to view the exhibit on the Green Loop at the Red, and it's another example, I think, of the kind of visionary leadership that the city is providing and that you all are providing to the city.
 That kind of idea really is transforming cities, and people are interested in coming here and seeing how we do that because we are leading in that realm. The other reason that Portland was ideal is because in addition to connecting the urban with nature, we also are known for how we connect with each other, how we connect across professions, how we're connecting across the geography of the metropolitan region.
 and how we're bridging racial divides. We are doing that in a way here that allowed us to receive the international delegation as a community. So yesterday afternoon after the field trips, we had one of our Intertwine Alliance summits at the zoo where members of the community, I think we had almost 200 people there,
 heard from the international presentations, and then sat at tables of 10 or so and just shared professionally across disciplines and at this particular summit across geographical divides that were global. So one of the things we did this morning is we, as of Tuesday morning, we had 165 organizations in the Intertwin Alliance, including the City of Portland, of course, Bureau of Environmental Services and Parks, and we had a meeting with the Intertwin Alliance
 As of today, we've got more than 180 because we made the internationals honorary members of the Intertwine Alliance, which means that the Intertwine Alliance now has a global footprint. So I think we'll be hopefully leading this kind of work in Mumbai and Toronto and Seoul and many other cities across the planet. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm David Maddox. I'm from the nature of cities. I lead the nature of cities. I live in New York, and I think I speak for all of the 22 internationals that have come here. It is a great honor to come to Portland, partly because many of the things that you do in Portland exemplify the kinds of values and ideas that we talk about at the nature of cities. One of the things that we want to emphasize in the idea that it's the nature of cities, not the nature in cities, because we think of the way we build cities as being collaborative,
 Green, but it's the idea of character of cities, of the action word. It's the character of cities we want to build through participation, green activities, and progressive ideas around the idea of city building. I think I speak for, we are, the nature of cities is 600...
 contributors of all different types, because we think of cities as collaborative, much like Portland has been active in. We are artists, activists, architects, ecologists, sociologists, engineers, designers. We had 22 people from our group here speaking this week, talking among each other, and also interacting with the folks from Portland to talk about how we can share ideas together.
 hear about what Portland's doing, talk about what we're doing around other places of the world, and also figure out how we can share more of these ideas among cities around the world, from Portland beyond Portland,
 beyond back to Portland. We have a couple of people here that I want to introduce that are part of our network who were here. We have a bunch of urbanists. These exemplify the diversity of types we had here and in the whole Nature of Cities network. Chantal Van Ham is a program officer at IUCN, the International Union for the Conservation of Nature in Brussels. Nina Marie Lister is a planner, a professor in
 Cecilia Herzog is a landscape architect in Rio de Janeiro. P.K. Das is an architect and activist in Mumbai. Katrine Klossens is an artist in Cape Town. Patrick Leiden is an environmental artist in Seoul.
 And Francois Mancebo is a planner and ecologist and professor in Paris. These are the kinds of different voices that we try to bring together to talk about the idea of city building from a very diverse point of view with greenness at the center. And one of the reasons we're moved and honored to be here in Portland is that Portland has historically been so diverse.
 in the front of these kinds of ideas of integrating different points of view that can make cities more resilient, more sustainable, but very...
 but very importantly, more livable and just at the same time. So thank you very much for hosting us here. And they're here to push us to be even better. Great. I'd also like to say that we were gloriously supported, very generously supported by certainly the Intertwine and the Urban Green Spaces Initiative, but also the Bullitt Foundation and the Nature Conservancy here in town have been very supportive of our work here, including also the PSU's Indigenous Studies Program and the Institute for Sustainable Solutions. So thank you to all of them. And Robert?
 Robert is here, actually, from ISS. Hey, Robert. There he is. Oh, yeah. There he is, Mr. Liberty. Thank you so much. Thank you. David, I have a question. David Bragdon, our former Metro president, moved to New York City. Is he part of the work you're doing in New York? He's a good friend. Yeah. In fact, eight, nine years ago, I was here for –
 a Land Trust Alliance rally, and I saw David and Mike Houck speaking on a panel, and I went to talk to both of them. Later on, I invited Bragdon to be a keynote speaker for a conference I was leading, so I'm sorry to have had a hand in stealing David Bragdon from you from Portland to New York. And so, in fact, he's been thriving, especially recently. He started his new transit center, and, in fact, Nature of Cities recently got a grant from him.
 So he's a good friend and very much part of the kinds of things we're talking about. And David Ragdon would be the kind of person who you would think is outside the realm of greenness, green nature in cities. And that's why it's important to think of the nature of cities. He's interested in transportation, but he's interested, like Portland, in an integrated view of all of these different parts of a city working together.
 And I would add to that that David Maddox and I and David Bragdon were at David Bragdon's new location, the Transit Center, presenting to parks officials and others in New York City about the possibility of starting an intertwined alliance in New York City.
 If that takes off, we'll be in touch with you, Commissioner Fish. I know your roots there. We should be so lucky to have an intertwined alliance kind of organization in New York City. And I think I'd probably speak for all the visitors internationally. We would all feel lucky to have an intertwined alliance in those cities. Mike, do we have time for a photograph with everybody and my colleagues? Yes, we do. Yes, absolutely. Sure. Where would you like it? Mike? I'll let them sit. Okay, thank you.
 I wanted to see your glasses. How are you? Good. You got everybody in? Yes, I did. Do you want them? Why don't you stand here? Are we all in? Yes, you're all in.
 Thank you. Thank you all for being here. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks for being here. It's been a pleasure. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. I didn't see you. I didn't see you. Nick, it's magnetic. You didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it. I didn't bring it.
 And just a reminder, the next item, of course, is the update to the city of Portland and Multnomah County Climate Action Plan. There was one other item on today's agenda, which is formalizing through resolution the goal of attaining...
 100% renewable energy. We are definitely going forward with that, just to be clear. But we are taking that back to my office so we can better coordinate the release of that with the county. So it's still going to happen, but it's not on today's agenda, just so people know. Item 428. Carla, the next item, please. 427, accept the City of Portland and Multnomah County Climate Action Plan 2017 Progress Report.
 Very good. Good afternoon. So, good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. Susan Anderson, Director of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. So, we're here to provide you with an update on the Climate Action Plan, and a lot has been happening in the past two years, and with two new members on the City Council, we thought it would be a good idea to give you a little bit of a review. As a reminder, from this slide here, you can see, Zoom,
 We've been at this for a really long time. So we developed the first climate action plan in 1993, and Commissioners Lindbergh and Earl Blumenauer were sitting in their chairs at that time. They were champions. And the picture on the left is the actual floppy disk that I used to write the original plan on. Susan, what chairs did they sit in? I believe... So they're here? It was that one right there. We did... The same chair? Well, it's a bit...
 I'll continue to make things up, don't worry. So we did an update in 2001 under Commissioner Saltzman, another update in 2009, and then a whole new plan in 2015.
 The new plan has all the traditional sections of energy efficiency, renewable energy, looking at more efficient transportation and more. But the new plan also includes sections on climate adaptation and preparation. What do we do when things start to change? And a special focus on ensuring equity for
 that it's woven throughout the plan and that all Portlanders have an opportunity to benefit from the impacts of the plan. So this plan recently won the C40 recognition as the best climate action plan in the world, not something that most people care about right now, but for us and people who are doing the work, it's quite an honor and the work, a lot of it goes to thanks to Michael and his team. Thank you.
 So what's happened since then? A lot of great work has happened, and it's not just been a plan that's sitting on a shelf somewhere. It's being implemented by government, by businesses, by individual residents in the way that they live their everyday lives. So total carbon emissions are now down 21% since we began tracking back in 1990. At the same time, total emissions for the entire U.S. are up 8%, so we're clearly heading in a different direction.
 Our local and statewide and utility policies and actions and investments have really made a difference. Some people, when you look at this slide, initially said, well, the reason the emissions went down is because of the recession. So we began to really pick the numbers apart and look at all of the indicators related to jobs and population and how did those interact with emissions here.
 And what we found is that from 1990 to 2014, population increased by 33%, jobs increased by 25%, but total emissions are down 21%. So more people, more jobs.
 but significantly fewer emissions. And there's a lot of reasons for that. The things that you would normally think of, energy efficiency, both in new construction and making improvements in things that are already built, more solar, more wind energy, less coal in terms of generation of electricity, more people getting out of their cars, and all of our cars becoming more efficient. So the list kind of goes on, but...
 Even with this good news, I think we should continue to be very, very humble because we only look really good today.
 because the bar is so low for the rest of the United States and really for many parts of the world. So when you look at where we need to go, it's an 80% reduction by 2050. You realize that we have an enormous amount of work ahead of us to reach our goal.
 The Climate Action Plan has a very specific roadmap with very specific actions, and though it is difficult, we very much believe that it is very doable. And not only doable, but we believe that it's possible to save a lot of money along the way for business, for government, for residents.
 And we've shown that not only does it save money, but it will also very much be an opportunity for people to make a lot of money by selling sustainable products and technologies and services that we've begun to use here and are now selling to the rest of the world. And when Kimberly Random comes up, she'll talk probably a little bit about some of the businesses that are making –
 and selling products. The green economy sector now includes in the metro area 47,000 jobs. It's responsible for $750 million in exports to Canada, to Mexico, Japan, China, and other places, and $10 billion in domestic sales. So this is a significant part of our economy now.
 In the beginning, we were doing this to do the right thing here in Portland, and it's grown into an economic sector that is part of the engine really for Portland. So even if some people in D.C. don't believe that it's real, I think we've once again got local proof that.
 prosperity and environmental quality really do go hand in hand. So I just want to thank all of you who are sitting in these chairs now. It's been a long road, and we need to continue this work. I'm very happy to have the strong support of the mayor in terms of climate change being an issue that you really care about and that you've all really cared about. And I'm going to turn it over to Michael to give you some highlights of some of the things that have been going on the past two years. Thanks. Thanks.
 Thank you. Thanks, Susan. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm Michael Armstrong with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Before I dive into the highlights, I want to make sure you are all aware that a key engine behind all of our climate planning work is my colleague, Michelle Krim, who can't be here this afternoon. I want you to know how much credit she deserves, and I want her to know that we are thinking of her even though she can't be with us today. And she's really a tremendous part of our climate planning work.
 So the slide in front of you gives the overall picture. You know, the 2015 Climate Action Plan includes these 171 actions at a really broad strokes level. A lot is on track. So by and large, we are moving forward with the big things that Council laid out for us to take on in 2015. I will share a couple of quick highlights and then point to a few things that we still really need to dig into if we're going to make progress on. So over the last few years,
 I'll go through these pretty quickly, but there's a long list of big initiatives that have come through city council. A couple years ago, we had a requirement come to council that was to ensure that large commercial buildings benchmark their energy use and compare themselves to national averages. The second year of reports came into us last week, so going down to buildings 20,000 square feet and up. By and large, they are complying and learning things through that process, and like so much...
 of the climate work we do. This happens in partnership with Portland General Electric, with Pacific Corp, Northwest Natural, the Energy Trust of Oregon. Everybody's got a part to play to make this commercial energy performance benchmarking effort succeed. Later this year, we'll have the first report on how those buildings are doing, so that will become public this fall.
 Late last year, first you had done commercial energy performance. Late last year, we brought to you a proposal around single-family homes so that when people buy homes or when they are looking at homes for sale, they have the ability to compare the expected energy use across a different range of houses. This proposal will now take effect January 1st of 2018. We are busily working to get all the rules in place, make sure that the assessors who can provide these scores are trained, available,
 that all of the mechanics of the system are ready to go. We're making progress on that. You'll see some pieces come through council that need your consideration over the next few months, but this is moving forward as well. So this should begin to make a difference in helping consumers see the impacts and kind of variation across different houses of how well they perform on energy.
 We're also trying to put tools in place to help building owners, building managers who want to improve the energy performance of their buildings.
 There's a new program that was developed together by Multnomah County and the Portland Development Commission, again in partnership with others, that makes financing readily available to commercial building owners who need access to capital in order to make the improvements. Then they're able to pay it back through an arrangement that involves the property tax levy. So this program is now in place. We're starting to get some buildings go through it. We want the performance. We also want to have the tools that make it easy for building owners to do this.
 Another major policy that came through city council in actually each of the last two years was around restricting the expansion of large-scale fossil fuel infrastructure. The zoning code that's now in place prevents adding large-scale new tanks right along the river where they present all kinds of hazards in addition to steering our economy toward fossil fuels. So that's now in place, and that is quite a milestone both regionally and nationally. Thank you.
 Buildings are one very large chunk of our carbon emissions. The other very large chunk is transportation. I'm pleased that Leah Treat is here from the Bureau of Transportation, and she'll be able to share her observations with you shortly. Bike Share obviously launched recently, provides a new affordable opportunity to get around town, and I think we're seeing good numbers for usage of that, and hopefully that's a system that can expand over time to serve more parts of the community.
 Housing, another important piece of this. You're all extremely familiar with these details. The legislature finally, upon long work by you and your colleagues, removed the prohibition against inclusionary housing at the local level. You were able to move forward last year with new requirements. Those will now begin to take effect and will help us steer and make sure that affordable housing happens where it's in proximity to
 neighborhoods that are walkable, that are well-connected by transit and other options. So this, too, is an important part of how we grow in ways that reduce carbon emissions but also provide quality of life and affordability for all of our residents. The comprehensive plan is now in place. These are the foundations that often don't even get a mention in climate action plans, but they're fundamental to our plan.
 policies going forward. We don't get to our long-term carbon reduction goals if we're not successful at integrating land use and transportation planning. It's something Portland has done for decades now, better than almost any city anywhere, and it continues to be fundamental to our work going forward. So this is really key. We also have brand new initiatives, things that didn't exist anywhere and still don't exist anywhere except in Portland. Last year, we had a lot of
 City Council put in place a new requirement that a house that is more than 100 years old that is slated for demolition must be taken apart by hand and the valuable pieces of that house salvaged for reuse. And so this has got a whole range of benefits from reusing materials so that we're not having to source virgin materials as those are reused to –
 improving the neighborhood air quality when instead of houses being bulldozed in a cloud of dust, if we're lucky, and all sorts of other pollutants if we're not, instead of that cloud of dust, you get something that's taken apart by hand much more carefully, much more safely. So this requirement's been in place almost six months now. We actually will be back to you next month with an update on how that's going and some possible tweaks to that program. Thank you.
 No climate plan presentation is complete without featuring the Tilikum Crossing. This is such a fantastic, you know, both symbol and, you know, functional piece of infrastructure that shows where we need to go. And because it's there, it shows where we are going. So the largest...
 Carfree Bridge in North America. It's both carrying people in ways that help meet our climate goals. It's also kind of future-proofed in terms of being built to withstand the expectation that we're going to have more varied river levels in the future as we get more intense rain events. Those coincide with higher sea levels and the tidal influence on the Willamette. We need to be prepared. This bridge was engineered to be prepared for that. So really fantastic in many, many respects.
 Many programs that we roll out are oriented around putting resources in the hands of our residents and businesses so they can save money at home in their businesses. The Fix-It Fairs are one example of that. This is a photo from one of the three fairs that we run each year. We get about 1,500 residents. We try to hold these fairs where they're accessible to communities that historically have not had access to resources, and so that's helping provide both...
 information and access to incentives around energy efficiency, but also water conservation, transportation options, a whole host of home-based efficiency opportunities for residents.
 A couple more here. Recycling and composting. We will also be back to you next month with a proposal for solid waste rates going forward. This composting program that allows us to put our food in with our yard debris, and that's now picked up weekly. Garbage picked up every other week. That program and policy change took effect in 2011, so five years in now. The rates that we bring back to you to recommend...
 or next year will be lower than the rates at the time this program took effect in 2012.
 2011. And so that's because residents are doing a fantastic job. They are using the program. The more food we get out of the garbage and into the compost, the lower the rates go. And the haulers have really been tremendous partners in this. They find efficiencies. Those then flow back into lower rates for residents. So this change has helped us achieve a recycling rate of on the order of 65%.
 between recycling and composting. It's among the highest in the country. That's something that each of us has the opportunity to do at home and at work. So we're seeing good results there. In the community, in the long run, we don't get this done without community partners, and there are so many all around the city. This is the Malden Court Community Orchard.
 In Lentz, this was first acquired by the Bureau of Environmental Services and was able to be converted into a community orchard through long work by multiple city bureaus, by really dedicated community participants, by neighbors, by families. And this orchard had its grand opening last year, 150 people out there in the pouring rain,
 to celebrate something really terrific. So fantastic use of resources where we have them, getting them in the hands of people who can use them. So we just heard from the Intertwine Alliance. I don't need to reiterate all of the tremendous work that's gone on there. PES, parks, many, many community partners. Intertwine is chief among them. We've gotten 200 acres cleared of invasive species.
 working at adding to the tree canopy across the city, planting trees at schools, involving 700 students and teachers, lots of great work. This serves us well both for absorbing carbon out of the air, carbon dioxide, but also helping cool the city, manage our rainfall, manage our stormwater, clean the water as it flows. So really tremendous benefits all around from bringing nature into the city. One of those benefits is indeed helping keep the city cool. We are already seeing...
 hotter heat waves in the summer. We are trying to improve our understanding of where our most vulnerable residents live, so people who don't have access to air conditioning, people who have higher rates of asthma, people who may not be able to get to or be comfortable going to a library or another place where you have access to air conditioning. So we're measuring that, and this is a very nice partnership with Portland State University, which is doing some really groundbreaking national research, you know,
 taking measurements as you move foot by foot, meter by meter across the city to understand what the conditions of development are that lead to hot spots and cool spots so that as we continue to develop, we can be designing that development to make sure that the neighborhoods stay cool. So this is great work. This will take a long time to achieve, but as we go, we need to be making the right decisions. So PSU has been a great partner on this.
 Another change over the last two years, there is now a 10 cent local gas tax. Anyone who pays attention to transportation finance knows that we are using less gasoline in Portland than we did even 20 years ago, despite all the population growth.
 It's a product of all of these efforts to help make it easy to get around the city without relying on the car. Good for carbon. It's good for air quality. It's good for public health. It's good for pocketbooks. It's bad for revenue to maintain that same transportation system. This obviously was an important step in the right direction. There's clearly more work to be done for us to both maintain our system and make the investments we need for this to be a functional transportation system for everyone. Thank you.
 A couple notes on the city's own operations. Walking the Talk is a critical piece of this. We continue to make investments in almost every single bureau that are reducing our energy use, improving our on-site renewable power generation. That's solar electricity from biogas at the wastewater treatment plant. It's very exciting. New energy.
 project that's underway to use biogas in the wastewater treatment plant as a transportation fuel. Your environmental services is, you know, again, really pioneering a fantastic effort there. We also have the, um, very nuts and bolts changes like converting all the streetlights to LED, um, bulbs, the largest energy efficiency project in the city's history. Um,
 This is really good for the taxpayers. It's really good for carbon emissions. So really good, steady progress by almost all city bureaus. You see it also in fleet. City fleet now has 130 or across all city vehicles. We have 130 electric vehicles. Some of those plug-in hybrids, more than half of them fully battery electric vehicles. We have a new electric vehicle strategy that was adopted at the end of 2016, a
 A big focus of that is making sure we have access to charging throughout the city and particularly in multifamily properties where, you know, if you own your own house and you've got a garage, it's pretty clear what your option is to charge. If you're a renter or you don't have or live in a multifamily property, it's not obvious what your options are. That's a barrier. We need to address it. So we're working on that. Okay. And then finally, you know, all this stuff happens in partnership. I,
 I've spent a long time talking about partnerships. One in particular I want to note is work we've done together with Portland State University, where PSU put its own resources toward funding interns to work with community-based organizations in Portland to
 who are working to carry out their priorities from within the Climate Action Plan. So PSU funded 10 interns with different organizations around the city as a cohort, so they were able to support them. Really fantastic piece of a larger partnership between the city and PSU around climate action. So great work there. We are also working very closely with
 the Cully neighborhood, which is doing a community energy action plan, VOS, which is doing a climate and environmental justice plan, the Portland African American Leadership Forum, also doing an environmental justice and climate action plan. We want to support those community efforts. They're leading them. We want to support in any way we can. So exciting work around community action. Okay. There are a couple of challenges, and...
 Some of these have to do with detailed policy things like in Oregon we have a statewide building code. The energy performance in it has not been strengthened in a number of years now. We used to be a leader in this area. We have fallen well behind California, Washington, other states. We need the state to move forward on strengthening the building code. That's something we can express to them and we are expressing to them.
 One area where we've got challenges, I mentioned funding for transportation improvements. That's a long-term challenge. We need to keep working on that. And then certainly we have challenges in terms of new direction coming out of the federal government. And some of that is kind of really grand energy policy things. And a lot of attention to things like the Clean Power Plan, the things that I think we'll see changing.
 us locally are maybe less visible in the big conversations, but they're things like the feds either reversing or certainly not advancing things like appliance efficiency standards. They actually end up making an enormous difference to household budgets, to business expenses, things like fuel efficiency standards for vehicles. Those are very likely to be relaxed. That's just...
 bad for our economy as well as bad for our carbon emissions. And even things like the Energy Star label that helps people identify what's an efficient appliance, that entire program is proposed for elimination in at least the initial budget proposal. So those could be really significant challenges for us going forward. We'll see how they play out. In terms of next steps, truly we only get this done if we continue to work more closely than ever with the county, with PDC, with PBOT, Portland State.
 community organizations. We want to work closely with the utilities, which are really taking some great steps forward in terms of supporting state legislation to continue to add renewables to their power portfolio. We need that trend to continue and, if anything, to accelerate. So we want to work with them on that. We need to deliver on our kind of integrated goals of climate, of equity, of affordability in big development projects like the Broadway Corridor, the area surrounding the post office redevelopment,
 even in our own Portland building reconstruction, making sure we are doing what we can as we can. So with that, I've mentioned a couple things that will come back to council, so you'll see more on that soon. We do have a number of our community partners here with us today that we'd like to invite to give you brief testimony as well.
 I think we're happy to answer questions now. We'll perhaps hear from them. Why don't we hear from them, and then we'll hold questions for the end. Great. Okay. Very good. So I believe, and I didn't get to see Chair Kifuri here. All right. She may not be here. Okay. When she gets here. When she gets here. Very good. I hope she'll join us. So we have Kimberly Branham with PDC, Leah Treat with PBOT,
 And then Vivian Satterfield with Opal and Robert Liberty with Portland State University. Maybe they can come up in sequence. Thank you. Very good. Bring your own chair. Good problem solving. They've been nicely done. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Sure, great. Good afternoon. Again, Leah Treat, Portland Bureau of Transportation. So the Climate Action Plan is a multi-bureau effort, as you've heard, not only to plan but also on implementation. And so we're pleased to have the opportunity to join BPS, PDC, and community partners talking about our efforts and successes and work ahead. Thank you.
 So for transportation, reducing carbon emissions means making it safe and convenient to walk, bike, and take transit. And it also means that we need to be working to reduce our own impact on the infrastructure system. So, for example, the LED retrofits that Michael mentioned are an important component that we are contributing to.
 So along with the LED conversions, also just bookmark that say that the savings that we have generated from converting the LED city-wide have been significant enough that we have been able to take those savings and reinvest it into doing more of LED conversions. So it wasn't originally conceived that we were going to be able to do the ornamental lights in the central city, and we've saved enough money that we're now converting those too. Okay.
 So we're continuing to reinvest in reducing our impact. But we've also made significant investments in pedestrian and bicycle infrastructure since 2012. We've invested $46 million over the past several years. We've installed seven miles of new sidewalks in East Portland. We've built 80 miles of neighborhood greenways, and we have another 43 miles funded. We've built 20 miles of buffered bicycle lanes, and we have another 10 miles funded.
 And we've built three and a half miles of protected bicycle lanes, not including Better NATO. And we have another eight miles funded. And we also are working on the development of a Portland-specific protected bicycle lane design guide that's going to facilitate faster development of cycle tracks in the future.
 In 2015, we completed 32 projects to improve crossings in our bike network, and we also have completed the streetcar loop, and we have seen growing ridership on our streetcar system. And, of course, as Michael pointed out, the Tilikum crossing, we partnered significantly on the financial investment there.
 We also are investing money in Safe Routes to School. Safe Routes to School has increased walking and biking to Portland schools by 35% since 2006. The participating schools in our system have a school trip commute rate of 43% active trips to school, which is well above the national average.
 And Michael also mentioned Biketown, our bike share system that we launched in July of 2016. Last year, 38,000 people rode Biketown, taking 162,000 trips. Our survey data that we have collected shows that 26% of users have reported using an auto less, and that 62% of our local users are reporting biking more since joining the program.
 So these investments are paying off, and we're making progress on making it easier for people to get around without relying on a car. And we're seeing an increasing percentage of people taking trips by walking, biking, or rolling, and also in transit. And we're also seeing the numbers of miles driven per person declining, and this is happening while our population is growing.
 We also are seeing this in our carbon numbers, too. Our transportation emissions are now 5% below the 1990 levels and 14% below peak levels in 2002. Okay.
 but there's still more work ahead we have a lot of work to make transit more convenient a lot of work for walking and bicycling to be safe and convenient we still need more sidewalks we need safer bicycling routes and we really need to strengthen our partnership with tri-met so we can get expansion of transit service
 And we know that safe streets are what will incentivize people to choose low-carbon ways of getting around. So we need to provide safe streets for everyone, that streets where all Portlanders, from the oldest to the youngest, including all physical abilities, can get around.
 can move safely, and we need to protect the most vulnerable and teach one another to live and travel together. And I believe education and awareness are a critical component of that as well, and we also need to be enforcing safe behaviors on our streets. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 good afternoon mayor commissioners i'm kimberly branham executive director at the portland development commission and so it's really a great opportunity to be here today to talk about the partnership and i'd like to begin by appreciating the collaborative approach that susan and her team michael and michelle consistently show we feel like it is true partnership and that there's within that partnership a lot of um you know innovation that comes through that so we appreciate that consistent approach
 As Susan mentioned, at a time when cities around the world are faced with this sort of either-or of prioritizing economic growth or the environment, Portland has really shown that lowering carbon and growing the economy are not mutually exclusive. In fact, the part of the story that is often not told is that for Portland, our progressive climate policies are inextricably linked to our economic growth.
 PDC has been working with the Mayor's Office and the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability to participate in a C40 program.
 Climate Leadership Group data pilot with New York City, Vancouver, B.C., London, Singapore, Oslo, and Copenhagen to quantify our respective low-carbon economies. And the findings revealed through this pilot are unequivocally positive for Portland. What they found is that the low-carbon sector is a large and globally competitive employer. It's well-balanced across subsectors within our economy and is a net exporter.
 So the analysis clearly shows that there really is no either or choice when it comes to climate policy and the economy. Portland's climate leadership has created one of its largest sectors. We anticipate – or it looks as though almost 10 percent of our city's economy is related to –
 Our climate leadership. So you have businesses like Columbia Green, who is a green roof technology producer. Vestas, which has its North American headquarter here and is one of the largest producers of wind energy. You have urban mobility technology solutions such as Movil, which just opened up its new headquarters in Old Town Chinatown.
 These businesses really focus on creating solutions from urban mobility through alternative energy and are creating fabulous living wage jobs. So much of our economic development work concentrates on the growth and success of this sector.
 In the past few years, PDC We Build Green Cities partnership has established local Portland firms as the go-to experts in high-performance, energy-efficient development. One example is the success of Kashiwa Noha Smart City near Tokyo, which is Japan's first LEED-ND platinum project, which relied on a team of Portland companies for its master planning process, including woman-owned Place Studio and ZGF.
 On a local level, we're really proud of our recent launch of Property Fit Program, which was mentioned before, and our support of Drive Oregon and the electric vehicle industry here.
 We've also established within PDC a corporate connections initiative in partnership with Oregon Best, which promotes local innovators and energy technology and connects them to corporate investors. So energy storage systems, for example, received investment from a Canadian VC firm just at the last year event.
 We're working on many fronts to help the city achieve its climate action goals, and we are ever mindful of the importance of ensuring that all of Portland's residents and communities benefit from this economic expansion. So, for example, the prime contractors that are performing on the Property Fit Program must hold the federal designation of being a DBE certified or minority in women's housing.
 certified firm. So we look forward to our continued effort with each of you and our local partners on climate action that has equity and economic benefits at its core. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm the Deputy Director. I'm happy to be here today. I help serve as a member of the Climate Action Plan Equity and Work Group. Is it not on? There we go. Yes, I can start over.
 Hi, good afternoon. I'm Vivian Satterfield. I'm the Deputy Director of Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. And I served as a member of the Climate Action Plan Equity Workgroup, actually starting in summer of 2013. So a lot of work has gone into this, some of the groups that I worked alongside in the
 In that equity work group included Apano, my colleagues at the Coalition of Communities of Color, Wisdom of the Elders, the now folded Upstream Public Health, but now revived again. And I think there may be another group as well. I'm sorry if I've forgotten who they are specifically because...
 2013 was a few years ago. So there's been a lot of work by a lot of dedicated individuals since that time, and so this progress report is really just an important check-in to keep us accountable to the goals that we set from that time. And I especially want to call out some of the great staff who really helped shepherd a lot of the actions through and really helped build my understanding around actionable items that we could include in the Climate Action Plan. I especially want to call out Desiree Williams-Rajee, Michelle Krim, and other staff
 who really helped build our capacity in this realm and really responded to our questions when we wanted to actually perform some of that processes. So this plan, as you know, is really ambitious, but I think it's one that we recognize must be achieved, especially in this political time and moment.
 So our region has shown that we can plan and plan and plan for a vision of this equitable, healthful future. We've committed in this plan to achieve a future in which, echoing Director of PDC here, a future in which economic growth and people's health and the health of our environment are not mutually exclusive.
 So the plan must be activated with leadership, yes, from you all on this council and from our elected leaders at the county. And I'm especially excited about the announcement that our state senator, Merkley, had today about his 100 by 50 plan and also the impending city and county resolution as well. I think those are really important action items that are coming down. I also want to recognize that leadership also needs to come from our communities.
 So, in fact, we already have tremendous leadership in our communities when it comes to climate issues. Frontline communities have long asserted that food security, transportation access, immigration, housing security, and police militarism are all climate justice issues.
 So there's an opportunity here to take the lead from these communities. And I'm a perpetual organizer, so of course I brought flyers. This Saturday, we're rallying and marching as part of the People's Climate Movement. And we're really calling for a just transition from an extractive, exploitative economy to that of a regenerative one. We're also very fortunate to currently have the support and endorsement of the Bureau of Planning Sustainability for this march as well.
 I have to get on a soapbox because I have the microphone. Climate change is only a symptom of a much deeper crisis that is happening worldwide. The ecological crisis, economic crisis, and the crisis of empire. And these crises come from a current dominant economy, and it's a system that only works for a few, which relies on exploitation, extraction of resources, and a concentration of wealth and power.
 We must create a system that works for everyone, based on cooperation, regenerative processes, and governed by deep democracy.
 So we have and will continue to show up to defend the content of this plan through its actual adoption. Our communities and ones that OPAL works with very closely are immigrants, refugees, low-income folks, people of color, youth, elders, and those with disabilities. We're currently being targeted in this day and age, and we really have the most at stake. But frontline communities must be engaged in the development and implementation of climate change-related policies first.
 The burden should not be placed on community groups to provide the research and best practices and policy precedents for these measures. If we're going to meet these lofty goals as set forth in the Climate Action Plan, we must add capacity in that arena. So in order to meet many of the goals that are being outlined, we must recognize that the investment must be significant and must be upfront. And that's going to cost money. It's real money.
 So we should expect to see dedicated resources in our city budget that really prioritizes the actions that are in this plan. We should expect to see these resources being made first and available first for organizing, for education, and for engagement of our communities. So I think this is a really critical time to be looking both at the climate action plan and also looking, of course, in discussing the city budget priorities. We'll be hoping to engage and hopefully see you all on Saturday as well.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks for your hard work. Good afternoon. I'm Robert Liberty. I'm the director of the Institute for Sustainable Solutions at Portland State University. President Vivald sends his regrets that he couldn't be here today to testify on behalf of PSU. He's in Japan studying, among other things, preparation for recovery from major subduction earthquakes.
 I'm here to applaud and celebrate your progress so far in implementing a very ambitious and multi-sided climate action plan and encourage you to maintain that momentum and leadership. It's very important nationally.
 for us to do so in the face of very retrograde policies at the national government level, policies, by the way, which I think will not endure for very long. And in the meantime, it's up to communities like Portland to demonstrate leadership, innovation, and the kind of partnerships that you are seeing celebrated today.
 I think there are grounds for optimism for even achieving your more ambitious goals, including one that you'll be considering soon on having purely renewable energy sources. Why do I think that? Well, because technological change is making solar and wind power competitive with fossil fuels in many parts of the United States right now.
 And battery storage, which is critical for things, for a place that's going to be dependent on intermittent renewable energy sources, is going to rapidly approach a place that also makes it competitive. So we have opportunities in this region both because of a legacy of hydropower and a commitment to policy change around energy conservation renewables to implement a policy that I think would have been inconceivable a few years ago.
 PSU has been and wants to continue to be a partner with you on the Climate Action Plan, both its strengthening and its implementation. Our university has its own Climate Action Plan, and we have our own update. And it may or may not be familiar to you, but one of the sets of objectives in the Climate Action Plan is to have 80% of total energy from local renewable sources by 2030 and to have carbon neutrality by 2040. Okay.
 That is not going to be easy for us. We have a legacy of older buildings, but we do think it is achievable. That's one aspect of our commitment to you as a partner, which is as a large institution with largest employers in the city. But the second is as a research institution, as a place that has as its motto, let knowledge serve the city.
 We have 120 faculty members affiliated with the Institute for Sustainable Solutions. Their work is on practical, applied solutions to the challenges of sustainability, and front and center is climate change.
 We have a multiplicity of projects underway with your city bureaus, certainly BPS, but also BES, and I think transportation, parks, many others. And we will expect those to grow over the coming years.
 and that your contribution actually enriches the scholarship and student experience at the university. So it's beneficial all around, and it reinforces what I think is one of the defining characteristics of our region and our city and one of our real riches, which are the citizens who are active, engaged, and knowledgeable. No matter what their background is, there's an amazing number of people here who have a depth of knowledge about these policy issues and how to be implemented. Thank you.
 And I want to mention that it's been a pleasure to begin working with Commissioner Udaly around an accessory dwelling unit project, which is going like gangbusters, I have to say. I feel like I'm supposed to be facilitating mostly running behind this 30 or 40 people that span the spectrum from architects to bankers to developers and people working for advocacy for seniors in affordable housing. So you'll hear more about that in the future. But I want to
 Celebrate what you've accomplished and urge you on and know that you have a partner with you all the way through at Portland State University.
 Thank you. Robert, can I just make one observation? I'm finishing a book called Lion of the Senate that someone recommended I read as an antidote to the times we live in. And the important part about this book is it covers the period from the passage of the contract with America and the Republican takeover in the House and then looks forward two years. And it was just after the
 the 1994 election that Ted Kennedy decided he wanted to focus on lifting the minimum wage and expanding health care for all Americans. And the conventional wisdom was that with the House and the Senate having gone flipped and with a sea change in politics, that that wasn't possible anymore.
 Two years later, he got an increase in the minimum wage, and he got a major reform of health care. So to your point that some of the headwinds we're seeing may be temporary, I suggest this book, Lion of the Senate, as kind of a reassuring reminder that there's nothing inevitable about the hand that history deals you. It's great to have a lion in the Senate instead of lion in the Senate, which we also have. Thank you. Thank you. We appreciate your testimony.
 Why don't we see if there's any public testimony before we go to council discussion. Is there anyone signed up? We have one person, Bob Proctor. Very good. Come on up, sir. Thank you. I was hoping for some more targets here. It's only me. No worries. Press that gray button.
 Is the green light on there? Yeah, it is. Okay, good. If you could just state your name for the record. Oh, there he is on brighter. My name is Robert Proctor. I live in southeast Portland. And before I give my comments, I think I need to preface it from where I'm coming from. I started working on solar energy in the late 70s when I was working on my master's at Purdue University.
 my doctorate research was in a different subject matter, but on conservation. I worked for Bonneville Power for 20 years. First thing I did was do the economic analysis of what is now the energy component of the building code in the four Northwest states. I went into teaching, went back to the,
 Public Utility Commission here in the state working on a under federal money on smart grid policy for Oregon and also demand response policy. So I think that it's I think it's that's kind of important because of what I'm going to say. With regard to the section in the in the document on page three is.
 SB 1547 does not mandate coal plant closure. You will not find anything in that statute which requires...
 either PGE or Pacific or to close any of their coal plants. Now, we know that Boardman would be closing theirs, but that was negotiated in 2010. And so they were going to close that, they were going to switch to biomass, and they have not made a decision on that yet. Let me just say, I'm an independent energy economist, and I'm not looking for any money. PGE is proposing some additional renewables as a result of 1547.
 Pacific Corps plants are meeting the higher RPS with renewable energy certificates. Now, renewable energy certificates are these things that have value that people buy and sell, but they're not electrons from renewable energy necessarily in this region, let alone this state, let alone this city. Okay.
 So there's – and so, for example, you can buy a REC from a Virginia utility who has a wind farm and use that here to meet your renewables requirement under state statute. That's the implication of that. So that the – so Pacific Corps primarily is not going to be building very much in the way of –
 renewables in Oregon, in Portland, in Multnomah County to meet its requirements under 1547 as of right now. I just had a journal article published last month that goes into 1547 and its limitations and what it doesn't do.
 And, for example – Excuse me, Carlos, since we only have one person signed up, why don't we give him two more minutes to get through his points, sir, so he doesn't have to rush. Thank you. Thanks. So right now Pacific Corps is planning on operating at least 15 of its coal plants into the 2040 timeframe. And the details of that are in my journal article.
 So I think that's, you know, this is not just wordsmithing in the document. This is huge. This is fundamental. It's the footing that everything dealing with the electric sector rests on because of the passage of 1547. Moving on to the section 2030 objectives beginning on page 16.
 Item number one, building and energy on page 16. Goal is to use renewables to meet 50% of the energy used in all buildings with 10% produced in Multnomah County. There needs to be some clarification there, and I don't want to take the time here to go into that. I would like to be able to work behind the scenes with appropriate staff.
 But I think the bottom line is that whatever we do with contracts and law and renewable energy certificates and so forth, that doesn't determine how electricity flows. Electricity flows like water. It goes the path of least resistance. Physics determines electricity flows, not what we do institutionally. And that's really hard to keep separate, but it's crucial. Okay.
 So carbon price, so I'd say that, so there needs to, because of what I just said, the building and energy goal on page 16, I don't know how that's going to be, I don't see how that's going to be met. Carbon pricing 1H on page 20 says it's in progress. I don't know where that progress is in the state of Oregon. Okay.
 There was an SB 1574 last year that died in committee, which was cap and trade, not carbon pricing. So I don't know anything that's been happening in this state anywhere on that issue. Quickly, the last thing, electricity supply, item 3A on page 22, also in progress, should be noted as only starting.
 because of what I just said, 1547 did not require coal plant closures and it does not require them to be phased out by 2025, as the plan currently says.
 And I already noted the fact that Pacific Corps is going to be running their coal plants, 15 out of about 30 coal plants into the 2040s. Very good. Thank you, sir. And I've tried, I've had some dialogue with Nathan.
 And I've tried to, I don't know how we can better, how he and I could better connect on some of this stuff to see. Yeah, we'd be happy to connect you. I can't see if Kristen is still hiding. They're very good. You could email us a speech, but don't start directly connecting. Yeah, we've been emailing back and forth, face-to-face. Right, with the planning and sustainability staff as well. Very good, okay. Thank you very much. Yeah, thank you, sir. We appreciate your testimony. Thank you.
 Susan, could you come back up? Hello again. Commissioner Fish. Yeah, two questions. One is, so last year I sold my house, and we were dutifully doing composting along with all the other recycling that the city requires. I'm now in an apartment building, and there is no composting. And so the other day, my son and daughter said, what's up with that? And...
 What is our thinking in terms of some kind of transition to the multifamily context? Well, Michael, we've been working on it because the problem is there's no yard debris. And so the easy answer is it's messier. So we have to come up with a system. Because now, you know, when you dump it into the grass and everything else soaks it up, and there's this much food waste and there's this much yard debris. And so for an apartment building, it's not like that. Yeah, so...
 apartment buildings, multifamily properties, arrange their own
 garbage recycling composting collection and so it's it's possible for the building manager to arrange to have the food scraps picked up there are you should know this number and i don't but i think it's a hundred and some multifamily properties that do have food scrap collection but it is at the discretion of the property owner we are working on this right now one of the challenges with multifamily is that there are so many different building typologies from the five plex that's
 not that different from single row houses, to the big tower. And you need a really different approach for...
 depending on the building typology, but our current regulations treat it all the same. And so we're trying to dig into, okay, we've got 100 and some properties who already do this. What can we learn about the ones who are doing it that will let us then standardize this for different building types? We're working on it. So that makes perfect sense. If you want to do it, we will be there to help your property managers set it up. As always, you're one step ahead of us. Thank you.
 Patty was mentioning to me the other day that we have a 13-year-old at home that needs a public service project.
 And actually, I thought this would be a very interesting thing for a young person in our building to investigate and then kind of figure out what's possible and maybe present it to the landlord. So if you could point me to where on the website I can direct my son, and then he'll do some research. And my guess is that there are a lot of young people in the city that might be encouraged to work on sort of thinking about how their building could participate and along the way learn something about the Climate Action Plan.
 voluntarily or involuntarily learn about it. But I think Patty thinks this would be a good learning experience for our son. And the second thing I wanted to ask you is, now that I live in a very dense urban area in Goose Hollow, I'm more aware of the leaf blowers, particularly because they operate at odd hours and they're incredibly noisy. And my recollection is once upon a time you said that they're also big polluters. Yes.
 Where do we stand with these gas-powered leaf blowers in the context of our climate action plan? So leaf blowers are big polluters in terms of air pollution. So in terms of public health impacts, they're not big polluters in terms of carbon dioxide emissions. So from a climate action plan perspective, it's not something that's going to feature prominently. From a public health, air quality, and also nuisance perspective, there's certainly an opportunity there.
 We looked into this some years ago, and I'm trying to recall where it led us. Could you send me whatever you had, Ben? I will see what I can find. Because the three things that jump out at me is, one, is people use them at all hours. And when they're outside of the normal hours that you're allowed to make noise, they're really noisy. I mean, they're shockingly noisy, and they reverberate off all the windows. Number two, they're very inefficient. Right.
 I mean, I have people, neighbors who use them to like to move three leafs that are actually pinned down because they're in water. And it's like, really, this is this is why we need this piece of equipment. And three, if if, as you say, they're big polluters, I wonder whether at some point we consider whether they're necessary in our city.
 They're truly one of the worst inventions ever. It was sort of the 80s version of the cell phone, just something that never should have happened to modern society. And you didn't even... That was a good rant, but you forgot the one where you have one set of people blowing the leaves this way and then a completely different set of people blowing the leaves back this way.
 And then it just sort of, it's the same pile of leaves all fall going back and forth. And Leah's not speaking up yet, but eventually it just gets dumped in the street for her to pick up anyway. Well, my favorite is my wife and I get coffee around the corner from where we live every morning and there's a guy who works in this complex who comes out with a leaf blower and blows us while we're sitting there. Blows us. And so what happens is you get this dust storm of dirt and other debris and it's like, is this really necessary?
 Anyway, I'd like to know more about it. And with that, quickly turning to Commissioner Udaly on a different subject, no doubt. I have a few questions. The first one is, I know Audubon Society expressed some concerns about...
 our conversion to LED lights and the particular type of light we chose in combination with the non-recessed fixtures. So I'm wondering if as we're moving forward, are we making different choices? And the concern was that the brightness could potentially impact animal, plant, and human life or health.
 So I can, sorry, I'll get you some more detailed follow-up information, but we have received a lot of inquiries and complaints and concern over the LED conversions because they are brighter. Yeah. They are pointed more directionally down. There's actually less light going up, but they are so bright pointing down that they are perceived as causing light pollution. Yes. And so we're not looking at changing light.
 types of bulbs that we're using. No. Okay. And we have also can go out just FYI if people complain and don't like if it's too bright for their neighborhood we can go out and make adjustments and dim them as well and we have done that too but I will send you some more follow-up detail. Thank you. Yep. Second question is are we considering property assessed clean energy options for
 homeowners, low and moderate income homeowners who may not be able to access conventional bank loans and would like to make those clean energy improvements to their homes. Yeah, right here.
 So currently we are not allowed to do that on the state. We are not allowed to do residential because of statewide law right now and federal law. But what it came out maybe eight years ago is that we started with residential, and that's how we developed Clean Energy Works, which is now in Habit.
 which was we wanted to come up with a financing tool that would allow people to put no money down, be able to finance their home improvements and pay it back over time with the energy savings. So we started that as part of the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, realized two years in that it would be able to run quicker, faster, smoother if we made it a non-profit. So we set it up as a non-profit and spun it off out of the city. So those tools are available.
 It's never easy for any low-income person to want to enter into any kind of loan arrangement and inhabit. I mean, it may not be called a loan, but it walks and talks like a loan, just like anything else. And so having to put that money up, being able to get that money, and then being able to have an arrangement where then the rest of the loan can go with the house when it's sold is a great idea. Yeah.
 We found that we targeted low-income families in our first thousand homes that we tried to do. And, again, we didn't want to put that kind of burden on low-income families. And we found out that, in fact, there was only a very small target group that owned homes. And so this leads us to our next thing, which is, well, then how do we help renters?
 be able to, who are in single-family homes, and how do we target the homeowners? So that's sort of the next area we're working on. That was one of my other questions because there's a very limited program for low-income renters to do kind of weatherizing, not actual clean energy improvements so much. Years ago, I...
 You know, we've mentioned the fix-it fares. So the fix-it fares came out of what was sort of a settlement years ago where we actually invested in low-income homes. We took part of the franchise fees and said, well, why don't we just take a little bit of this and do one major improvement to maybe 500 to 1,000 homes a year, you know, just do the major ceiling insulation or wall insulation or whatever.
 or floors and then along with that, the Community Energy Project, which is a non-profit, did the rest of the package with volunteers doing that.
 Probably, you know, 10 or 15 years ago, that funding just went away, and it no longer came out of the franchise fee. But it was at a time when we had shifted the franchise fees from 3.5% to 5% from the electric utilities. At that time, several different energy conservation programs, there was a nexus there. But that's since gone away, and we're happy to talk about looking again at –
 the current franchise fees or expanding the franchise fee to enhance the work that goes on at the Energy Trust, for example. Okay, yeah, I'd be interested in that. And I'd love to see scoring for home energy for rentals as well as houses for sale. I think that that's information that renters certainly should have a right to. It's also something that landlords should be taking into account because...
 some homes are incredibly expensive to run on top of the rent if they're not energy efficient.
 Sorry, guys. Lots of questions here. Those are all great. We're ready to go to Reynolds whenever we think the next step is ready. We did homeowners first. Well, if you need anything from me. So my final question is looking at the 80% of residents will be able to easily walk or bicycle, and the low-income populations and communities of color will equitably benefit. That's assuming there's...
 can still live in the city. And so I'm wondering if somewhere in this plan, you're looking at the impacts of our lack of affordable housing, at how displacement is affecting our climate plan, because we have so many workers who are forced out to the outskirts or out of the city altogether. That would be a really interesting...
 frame for this for me personally.
 Some of the work we did in the development of the comprehensive plan, which you didn't have the benefit of sitting through 300 hours of work as some of the rest of council. I went to two meetings on that, but yeah. And was the focus on actually mapping sort of disparities and people that were being pushed out and sort of which are the next neighborhoods that are about to potentially go. And so –
 We've looked at how could that impact, to some extent, energy efficiency and the ability to pay and the ability to have access for transit and such, but not in a big way. I mean, I'd love to go over the maps with you, though, and to show you how we kind of come up with some of that work. I mean, it really seems like an essential piece of the conversation to me. And we know that people of color, seniors, people with disabilities,
 all of these people are more likely to be overrepresented in that low-income population, and all of them are at risk of being displaced. And so those are the people that need, most need, easy access to, well, not necessarily walking or bicycling, but public transit or those compact neighborhoods. Yeah, we still need to get together for that beer. I just have one question based on public testimony.
 I assume that we will constantly fact-check the document and make sure that we're accurate in terms of representations about legislation and things like that. Very good, because the gentleman had identified some potential issues. And we received some written comments from him earlier today, so we'll follow up. Great, we appreciate that. That's very helpful.
 Good. Any further? Excuse me. I apologize, Commissioner Fritz. It's all right. I'm sorry. Following up actually from Commissioner Udeli's questioning, I was wondering about the status of the equity implementation guide, which for those at home is the tool to help staff implement the action items in ways that advance health, equity and prosperity, especially for low-income communities and communities of color, those in East Portland. Right.
 Yeah, so we are still working on that. We have some materials up on our website about the process that Vivian described in terms of integrating equity into the plan with a lot depending on how it's implemented. And so our equity specialist is working on that and collaborating.
 You know, it's difficult, it's important, and so we want to get something that is going to be of service to staff and to the community. So it's still coming. Good. And remember that Director Treat directed that the LED lights should happen first in the eastern parts of the community
 community that most needed the more safety on the streets. I appreciate that but if next time you could include that I'd appreciate it. My second slightly less of a big picture when we were in Lent I asked the community how is Recology going because Commissioner Fish will remember an extremely acrimonious hearing when we were planning to have a compost or food scrap transfer station there and I was told that it's shut down so
 Is there somewhere else where the food scraps are going and getting transferred? Yeah, so primarily they go to Metro Central, so the transfer station in northwest Portland, and from there the residential ones are taken out to Washington County where they're actually composted. So that's among the tank farms, right? Yeah.
 The metro? Yes. Near North Plains, really. But the transfer station. Right, the transfer station is, yeah. And then they take it out to North Plains. Okay. And so related to that, last time we discussed this, we had questions about the city hall compost, which were only allowed to put food scraps in, which then...
 has a large biodegradable bag that's sometimes emptied with two tea bags in it, which doesn't seem particularly efficient. And it's also annoying to have to throw away things that at home I would be putting in the compost. So could you give us an update on that program and how it's working? Sure. So this is the challenge where the...
 program for composting at home is different than what we can do in commercial places, so including public institutions where at home the food scraps and other compostable materials are actually composted, and so we can take a much wider variety of materials. Businesses
 Because we get a much larger volume of actual food scraps, those can be put into an anaerobic digester and used to create methane. So biogas, the primary component of which is methane, which can be used to generate electricity, but it's more restrictive about what actually can be digested. And so that's why in City Hall and in other workplaces we can't –
 take the same range and sort of the, it's, you know, food-soiled paper kinds of things that we can at home because, in fact, it's digested rather than composted. All right, but I was hoping for an update on how is that going, how much scraps get put in there. And then isn't there an option for having a second bin, which would be the pizza box as well as the end of the pizza crusts? I think, hypothetically, yes. I think it...
 So part of the issue really is also is that we regulate residential garbage and recycling and composting. We don't, in the same way, have franchises for commercial. And the commercial then, the commercial composting program is more set by Metro. And so we have a little bit of lack of control there. And I'd be really happy to chat with you about the advantages or disadvantages of wanting to have a franchise system for commercial garbage and recycling. Yeah. Yeah.
 Just going back to your original question, Commissioner Fish, my son and daughter-in-law live in a multifamily place that does have composting. I think they're close to some restaurants, so there's a lot of food scraps and not much otherwise. But it's interesting because I bring my clamshells and my batteries from home to recycle here, sometimes take stuff from here to recycle at home. It just seems like there should be a... We've gone to everything in the same bin at home. Is there not a way to...
 reduce the waste from the city buildings that goes to the landfill. Thank you very much. One more question, Mayor. Yes, sir. I just remembered. So when we closed down our house and moved to an apartment last year, we radically reduced our footprint. And so we did what I think a lot of people do, which is we went to all the reuse and recycle places and just gave away our stuff. So furniture, community warehouse, you know,
 All my son's school stuff, scrap, you know, you go down the line. And it occurs to me that because it's decentralized, it actually takes a lot of work. Now, some of these places will send a vehicle to your home to get all your stuff. But because it's decentralized, it's a little harder. Yeah.
 Do you foresee a day when the city helps jumpstart a single location where someone could go and drop off clothing, furniture, paper, recycle, all kinds of stuff, whether they're selling their house or whether they're doing spring cleaning? Well, for the Spring Cleanings Commission, you can do that with the neighborhood cleanups. You just take your cart load and they actually use it as a fundraiser. Yeah. And that's coming up next – or several of them coming up next month.
 So there literally are hundreds of nonprofits and small companies that make their living during this. And so one of the things we can do and have started to do is something called resourcefulpdx.com, where you can go to that website and find all the, you know, the closest place that will take all of your things. Right. So, you know, it's one of those things where it's sort of like the garbage system. We could have just closed down all the individual haulers a long time ago and had the city just pick it up or had one hauler. But this is a pretty...
 small business kind of sector,
 on the sort of secondhand sector, and I don't know that we want to do that, but I think we could do a more complete and robust job in terms of having one place, which we do now, resourcefulpdx.com, that people can go to and find where all these different places are. I wish I had known about that website before, but I'll check it out. And, yeah, that's a convenience, knowing as you're breaking out all your stuff –
 Because we gave away a lot of stuff, and I mean, I have the advantage of knowing what some of those places are, and then we worked it out. But it does seem like every time someone moves or when they sell a house or they downsize, there's this huge opportunity. And I love the idea that there's a website where you can go and get current information, so I'll check that out. And I guess the key issue really there then is just that –
 We could get to the 80% reduction in emissions, but if we're still buying such a huge amount of stuff in the first place, that part of the footprint doesn't really get counted. And so we now have done one of the first look at counting the emissions from the stuff we buy within Multnomah County. And so we have that data. It's part of this report here looking at, you know,
 From our dollars, what is the impact on climate? Because it's very different than we could reduce all the electricity use here in the city and do all the right things here. But if we're still buying things that are made in places that aren't doing all those things, it's still our fault or whatever you want to call it. So I think that's our next, you know, that's the next five years of work is how do we...
 Focus on impacting how things are made. Well, when you do your PSA on that, I volunteer, because I can attest to the fact that it is incredibly liberating to get rid of all the junk you don't need and just surround yourself with the stuff you love. And in our case, it's necessitated by reducing our living footprint by 75%. But it actually is very liberating not to have all the clutter. That's why I wear the same suit every day. Commissioner Fritz.
 One more thing, thank you Mayor, and thanks to Claire Adamsick on my staff for reminding me about this. One of the main areas that I see we're at risk of not achieving by 2020 is the tree code.
 that we passed it in 2011, we were not able to implement it until 2014. It needs fairly significant revisions, and yet the council has not chosen to fund those revisions. So we've done some minor tidying up around the edges without addressing the real problem that we're not saving...
 large trees that do help cool our city. It's interesting in your heat map, you could just, oh, that's Triumph Creek State Park, that's Forest Park. Yeah, it's really, and Powell Butte. So I just highlight that, colleagues, because if we're really serious about this, which I believe we are, then we do need to do a tree code update, maybe not this year, but next would be very good.
 We are definitely looking at that at BDS. I've already flagged a few issues with the tree code. One more thing. I have heard a desire expressed by some of the deconstruction folks for a one-stop drop center, such as Commissioner Fish suggested, not so much for household items, but for the materials from the deconstruction because it's,
 Especially if we increase that date range, there's not necessarily the capacity to move all those materials out through retail locations. So I want to put that out there. And I have an idea for just a spot for it. Very sure. We'll maintain the suspense. You know what it is. Mayor, I move to adopt the report.
 Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. I thought you meant accept the right. Excuse me, accept the report. A second from Commissioner Eudine. Any further discussion, questions? Carla, please call the roll. Thank you for an excellent report. And while we had a chance to say this last week, thank you for the strong partnership between your agency and all of our bureaus. And I got a front row seat into how that magic happens last week around the –
 the biogas. And it's actually very exciting to marry the expertise in your shop with the values and the directions that have been given to the bureaus and hit that sweet spot. So thank you for your good work, and I'm proud to partner with both of you. Hi. You daily? Hi. Well, thank you for this great work. I appreciate the annual updates. Thank you to Mr. Proctor for coming in and sharing your expertise with us, and I hope you'll meet with the staff and
 guide us with your background. That's very helpful. I'm very impressed with all this, and we have to do it. I'm looking forward to the second part, though, Mayor. I know you're working with some of the providers on establishing the goal to switch us to 100% renewable energy by 2050. I was actually thinking that seemed like a too long time, but I know that's...
 Senator Merkley is probably not built to get it done in the national scene. And, of course, even if we have the goal, we could always make it sooner than that if we can. Thank you very much for that and very much support your work on that, Mayor. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Thank you, Commissioner, for those kind comments. Great report, great presentation, great testimony.
 And with regard to Commissioner Fritz's good comment that she just made, if we can move to the future faster, absolutely we should. It is not well known that Oregon actually starts from a position of disadvantage when it comes to moving towards renewable energy.
 And in fact, relative to other states and other countries that have also established aggressive targets, we still have a disproportionate reliance on coal energy. And so there is a requirement.
 for a long time span, but I'm with Commissioner Fritz 100%. If we can get there sooner, faster, better, then absolutely we should do that. I just want to underscore one point that you made very, very clearly, but it warrants stating again. We have reduced our climate emissions, our greenhouse emissions, our carbon emissions, sorry, by 21%.
 below our 1990 levels, 41% on a per capita basis, while expanding our population and growing our economy. So the oft-stated trade-off between achieving climate goals and economic prosperity, that is a false trade-off. And I want to also underscore the point that was made around equity,
 and social justice goals in the context of our climate action plan. We want to make sure that there aren't some populations that benefit disproportionately at the expense of other populations. And that is a more recent frame.
 in the plan in recent years, but it's one, obviously, we're going to continue to aggressively pursue going forward. So I'm really pleased with the work that's been done here. I, we have accepted the report, and we are adjourned. Thank you, colleagues. That was interesting. Thank you. It's a really strange thing.