Gentlemen, we have one pre-gavel item this morning. I'd like to turn it over to Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. Yesterday, May 1st, was the beginning of National Mental Health Awareness Month. And in honor of that, we have a proclamation which the mayor is about to hand to me. You've been brought in in due ceremony. The tension mounts. All right, here we go.
 And thank you, Mayor, for giving me the honor of reading this proclamation. It's my pleasure. Thank you. Whereas mental health is essential to overall health and well-being, and mental illnesses are prevalent in our nation, with one in five individuals over the age of 13 in the United States experiencing mental illness in a given year. That's 20% each year.
 And whereas half of all mental illnesses have an onset prior to age 13, and three-quarters of all mental illnesses have an onset by the age of 24, and half of us will have a mental health illness at some point in our lives, whether it be depression, anxiety, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, substance use disorder, post-traumatic stress, or another condition. And mental illness is a leading cause of disability in the United States.
 And whereas mental health should be treated as part of a person's overall health, and insurance coverage for mental health care should be comparable to coverage for medical care to ensure that individuals living with mental health conditions receive needed treatment and feel comfortable seeking help and support to manage these conditions. And whereas accessible and affordable mental health services are essential for helping people with mental illnesses lead full and productive lives and contribute to their communities.
 And whereas engaging in prevention, early intervention and expanding treatment are effective ways to reduce the burden of mental illnesses, just as they are also effective in reducing the burden of other chronic conditions. And whereas each business, school, government agency, healthcare provider, organization and person has a responsibility to promote mental health and well-being for all.
 and people who live with mental illnesses, their families, advocates, and service providers all need support from our community. Now, therefore, Ted Wheeler, the mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Mental Health Awareness Month in Portland and encourages all residents to observe this month.
 I'd like to say a particular thank you to the Rosewood Initiative, whose community members brought this to my attention, helped draft the proclamation, and who did a health fair in Rosewood, which is at 162nd and Stark. They had a whole evening full of 30 health care providers came to allow drop-in consultations and education, and it was really a fantastic event organized by and for the community.
 Thank you, Commissioner, for bringing this. And this is obviously an important issue. And just knowing a lot of people in this room today, I know it's important to all of you as well. And it has become clear to many of us through the efforts we're engaged in, and I realize the proclamation is broad in its approach, but as I think about the services that the city delivers, both our first responders and our police bureau and our fire bureau,
 And I think about the work that we do around the homeless population on our streets and the many service providers that we interact with. More and more people are coming into contact with people on our streets who are dealing with very serious mental health issues.
 And it's incumbent upon us to make sure that our services are reflective and responsive to that increased need. And I'm very proud of the fact that you brought this proclamation, and I'm proud of the work that's going on in our city to address this growing need. And I know that all of you have asked that in this budget process we reflect through our budget our desire to be more engaged on the mental health issue, which we are. So thank you.
 for this. I don't know if anybody else would like to add anything. Very good. Thank you. We are now in session. This is the Wednesday, May 2, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Udaly? Here. Fritz? Here. Wheeler? Here. Good morning, Robert. Good morning. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business.
 The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting.
 After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 Very good. So first up is communications. Please read the first individual. I notice they're all on the same subject. Did you want to come up together or just individually? Yes. Together? Very good. So, Carla, please read the first five names. And Mary and Stan, if you could bring chairs, well, one more chair up. It looks like we're one short. Thank you. Item 400, request of Mary Seip to address council regarding noise review, board pile drafts,
 Driving Proposal, 401, request of Stan Penkin to address counsel regarding noise review board pile driving proposal. 402, request of Dave Mitchell to address counsel regarding noise review board pile driving proposal. And 403, request of Mary Helen Kincaid to address counsel regarding noise code. And 404, request of Molly Porter to address counsel regarding pile driving proposal.
 Very good. Good morning. Good morning. Welcome. We'll start with Mary Helen. Thank you, Mary. Okay. My name is Mary Helen Kincaid, and I am not a resident of the Pearl District, but I am here out of concern for construction noise and the impact it has on the health of our citizens. In April and May 2014, neighbors endured seven weeks of impact hammer pile driving at the construction site in Block 17 in the North Pearl District.
 Residents are suffering serious negative physical and psychological effects of the 100-plus decibel noise. Portland City Noise Code limits construction noise, but pile driving is exempt because of the belief that it is impossible to reduce the noise to meet the 85-decibel limit for construction equipment.
 Over the years, Pearl District residents had come to believe that the use of the impact hammer pile driver was a necessary evil of high-rise construction and something they just had to endure. Then neighbors did some research and learned that there is newer, quieter technology available, such as the auger drill method.
 They also researched the physical and psychological effects of exposure to loud noise. What they found was really alarming. On May 14, 2014, the group attended the Monthly Noise Review Board Meeting. They presented the board with compelling evidence of the serious health hazard posed by the type of noise and shared information about the availability of newer, quieter methods to set the foundation piles such as the auger drill. The group was also involved in the group's research on the use of noise in the environment.
 While the Noise Review Board at that time agreed that the noise was a nuisance, they were skeptical and not very encouraging or supportive.
 They told the group that any changes to the noise code would have to be approved by the City Council and advised the group to take their concerns there. On June 25, 2014, members of the group appeared before City Council requesting that Title 18 be amended to restrict the permissible hours of the day and days of the week for pile driving, remove the exemption for pile driving, thereby requiring a noise variance for its use, and require the use of noise mitigation devices.
 City Council called the presentation impactful and pledged their support. And in fact, Mayor Hales commented, we'll continue to work with you both in the Noise Office and the Planning Bureau to figure out what the options are here and to move quickly enough that it will make a difference. That was four years ago.
 Over the next three years, the Noise Control Office and Noise Review Board held 17 public meetings where the issue of restricting pile drivers was discussed. On July 9, 2015, the Noise Control Office presented a proposal to City Council to amend Title 18 to reduce the permissible hours of the day and days of the week for pile driving.
 They were reduced from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Saturday to 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday through Friday. The proposed code change was approved by City Council and became effective July 29, 2015. I want to add right here, because I have 20 seconds.
 This group of citizens have been impeccable in their research. They've brought factual information. They've presented it in a reasonable and respectable manner. And I think we need to honor their work and what the research that they've done. So, thank you. Thank you, Mary Hall. Ooh, and I had two seconds left over. Perfect. That's about as good as it gets right there. Good morning. Good morning, everyone. My name is Dave Mitchell and I'm a resident of the Pearl District.
 My comments will pick up from where Mary Kincaid just left off. After the July 9, 2015 City Council meeting, Commissioner Fritz convened a noise task force to further study additional pile driving restrictions. However, the noise task force was unable to come to any consensus, so it made no recommendations to further restrict pile driving.
 Commissioner Fritz then asked her staff to draft a proposal to amend Title 18 to do the following. First, to remove the exemption for pile driving and to require a noise variance permit for this activity. And second, to limit the use of the impact hammer solely to projects where soil conditions prevent the use of quieter methods such as the continuous auger drill.
 Seven months later, on February 10, 2016, Commissioner Fritz presented a first draft of her proposal to the Noise Review Board. At that meeting, Carrie Stanley, an acoustical engineer and Noise Review Board member, said, quote, I would rather see companies come up with viable noise mitigation devices than it wouldn't matter what equipment they use, unquote.
 Then-Noise Review Board Chair David Sweet stated, quote, the July 2015 code changes had been effective and any further code changes were not needed as there have been no impact hammer pile driving since the July 2015 code change, unquote.
 The fact that there had been no impact hammer pile driving was not because of the July 2015 code changes. Rather, it was because all proposed projects had been tracked carefully through the Design Review Commission and because a vigorous letter-writing campaign had been conducted in the Pearl District asking developers to use the quieter auger drill method. As a result, more than 15 developers had agreed to switch to the auger drill.
 Then on March 9, 2016, the Noise Review Board heard public testimony on Commissioner Fritz's proposal. Pilot driver union members were invited by the Noise Control Office to attend. The union members who testified in the Noise Review Board stated that restricting the use of the impact hammer would cause them to lose work.
 Ironically, representatives from both Pacific Foundation and DeWitt Construction stated that they hire union pile drivers to work on auger drill projects, just the same as they do on projects employing the impact hammer. The Noise Review Board felt that they were being asked to make geotechnical decisions in determining how building foundations should be constructed, and consequently the Board elected not to support Commissioner Fritz's proposal.
 So without the Noise Review Board's support, Commissioner Fritz understandably decided not to go forward with the proposal to City Council. The good news is that we in the Pearl District had enjoyed more than two years of freedom from the intrusive noise of the impact hammer because we had successfully persuaded 15 developers to use the auger drill. However, at that very moment, we became aware that Hoy Street Properties was preparing to begin construction on its condominium project at Block 20 called Vista Pearl Condos overlooking Fields Park.
 Hoyt's geotechnical engineer had previously indicated his preference for using the Impact Hammer in his testimony at noise review board and city council meetings. Consequently, on September 2nd, Hoyt Street Properties announced its intention to use the Impact Hammer pile driver at its condo project at Block 20. I'll now turn things over to Molly. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Molly Porter, and I'm a parent, and I'm at Chapman Elementary School, and I'm on the PTA board.
 By the time that Hoyt announced its plan in September 2016 to use the pile driver at Block 20, construction had been completed on the new building. More than 1,000 residents had moved into the neighborhood adjacent to the Block 20 project. Portland Public Schools had created a split campus for Chapman Elementary, relocating the kindergartners to the Ramona apartment building near Block 20. Chapman kindergarten classes would be conducting recess daily in the Fields Park, directly across the street from Block 20.
 Flyers were distributed to residents in all of the surrounding buildings and to parents of the Chapman kindergartners, asking them to email Hoyt and the Noise Control Office expressing their concerns and asking them to use the quieter auger drill method.
 Hoyt Street, the Noise Control Office, and Commissioner Fritz were bombarded by emails and phone calls. Our emails were effective. Within days, Noise Control Officer Paul Van Orden and Noise Review Board member and acoustical engineer Carrie Stanley visited the site. They reached out to the Chapman Principal and Chapman PTA, PPS, and Hoyt Street Properties, asking them to come together to evaluate the risks and explore methods to mitigate the noise to protect the kindergartners.
 We immediately began organizing an effort to persuade Hoyt Street to switch to the auger drill. Many neighbors and parents attended a community meeting to discuss strategies to persuade Hoyt Street to use the auger drill. On October 2, 2016, more than 100 citizens protested outside Hoyt Street office.
 Chapman School and PPS representatives, along with Paul Van Orden, met with Hoyt Street Properties. Paul and Carrie met with Hoyt Street and DeWitt Construction. DeWitt agreed to use a shroud on the impact hammer to muffle the noise and to build a sound barrier in front of the kindergarten classrooms at the Ramona. On September 14, 2016, more than 20 concerned citizens attended the Noise Review Board meeting to once again request that they amend Title 18 to remove the exemption for pile driving.
 Then-candidate for City Commissioner Chloe Udailey attended the meeting and gave public testimony in support of our request. Thank you for that.
 Paul and Carrie visited two sites, Chapman's Kindergarten at the Ramona and the construction site at Block 20, and Paul gave an overview to the Noise Review Board. Paul and Carrie shared our concerns, and Carrie made a motion to present a proposal to City Council to amend Title 18 to remove the exemption for pile driving, requiring a noise variance permit and the use of noise mitigation devices. The Board voted unanimously to approve the motion to amend Title 18. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning. Morning. Good morning. My name is Stan Penkin. The pile driving at Block 20 lasted 14 weeks. Without the snow delays, it still would have lasted 12 and a half weeks. While still loud, it was much more bearable than the Block 17 pile driving in 2014 with the noise barely audible at the school. DeWitt had some challenges with the first shroud tearing in high winds.
 They constructed a new shroud for materials suggested by Carrie Stanley and tested it on the last day of pile driving. Mary Seif used a loaner noise meter from the Noise Control Office and joined Rory Martindale, Anderson Construction Safety Supervisor, and Paul Van Orden to monitor the effectiveness of the new shroud. They recorded meter readings between 85 and 96 decimals.
 a significant reduction from the 110 decibels at block 17, proving that mitigation is effective in significantly reducing noise. It will never be as quiet as the auger drill, but if the impact hammer is utilized, we should require the use of this effective mitigation. At the March 18, 2017, Noise Review Board meeting, the Board announced it was ready to put something together to send to the City Council.
 Paul announced that the proposal had been placed on Council agenda for June 21, 2017. On June 9, Paul notified us that David Austin, ONI Interim Director, had placed the proposal on hold due to the Noise Control Office busy season. They both committed to bringing the proposal forward once the busy season was over.
 Commissioner Udalli's office committed to bringing the proposal forward in the fall or winter, but indicated there was no sense of urgency because there were no planned impact hammer projects in the near future. Without the requirement for a noise variance permit, there is no sure way to know of upcoming impact hammer projects. River Place Parcel No. 3 project has broken ground and is currently using the impact hammer."
 The location is adjacent to apartments and the Marriott Residence Inn. The entire fifth floor of the Marriott is the location of Ronald McDonald House, where families and patients being treated at Doernbecher Children's Hospital stay. How unfortunate that these families, under the stress of a child with medical issues, are being subjected to the constant 100-plus decibel hammering.
 They might have been spared if the pile-driving proposal had been presented to City Council for consideration. The Noise Control Office busy season has passed, fall and winter have passed, and we still await the proposal on the Council agenda. We see no reason for further delay. There is, however, reason to move forward with the proposal before the next Impact Hammer project gets underway.
 Hoyt Street Properties announced plans to build another high-rise on Block 23, less than 100 feet from the Ramona Chapman School. We need to ensure that if they use their preferred impact hammer method, they will be required to obtain a noise variance permit and use mitigation devices. Now I hand it over to our cleanup hitter, Mary. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Mary Seip.
 Let me give you an example of what this amendment would do. If Hoyt Street uses the impact hammer at Block 23 adjacent to the kindergarten, this will give the Noise Review Board the authority to place conditions on the pile driving. The board could require a sound barrier or a noise shroud or require them to cease pile driving during recess. Without this amendment, the board has no authority to place any conditions on pile driving because it's exempt from the code.
 The research has been done. The evidence is clear that noise mitigation is effective. We do not need another 17 meetings to obtain stakeholder input. We do not need another task force. Development will not be impeded or delayed. Piled drivers will not lose work. The Noise Review Board will not be determining how buildings are built.
 Whether the impact hammer pile driver is used because of soil conditions or to reduce costs will not matter. Developers will continue to be free to select the pile driving method they wish to use. When Paul Van Orden presented his noise control program update to the City Council last August, one of the five priorities he presented to you was to bring forward the Noise Review Board proposal on pile driving. That was nine months ago.
 At a recent City Council meeting, you reappointed Kerry Stanley to another three-year term on the Noise Review Board. As you noted, Kerry has volunteered many hours to the Noise Review Board over the past 30 years. You all expressed your appreciation to Kerry for his many years of service.
 Kerry was successful in persuading DeWitt to build the sound barrier and use the shroud, and he assisted in the selection of acoustic materials and design of the barrier and the shroud. These devices were successful in significantly reducing the noise, and Kerry subsequently proposed the amendment to Title 18 to remove the exemption for pile driving and require a noise variance permit, just as Commissioner Fritz had done as part of her February 2016 proposal.
 It's been 20 months since the Noise Review Board voted unanimously to submit this proposal to City Council. We have had multiple meetings with Paul Van Orden, David Austin, and the new Livability Programs Coordinator, Kenya Williams, to no avail. While they all say they support the proposed amendment, they refuse to commit to reschedule this item on the City Council agenda. All we get is double talk.
 It's time to honor the work of Carrie Stanley, the Noise Review Board, and the community. Please direct Mr. Van Orden to place this proposal back on the City Council agenda within the next 30 days. In your packet, I hope you will take a look at a couple of things that I put in there. One is just a simple draft of what this amendment could look like.
 Another is from the Noise Control Program website, an outline of the responsibilities and authorities of the Noise Review Board. And another is a very timely article from the Washington Post that was published in the Oregonian yesterday. And I would ask you to pay particular attention to the very last paragraph that I highlighted in yellow.
 Thank you. Very good. Could I ask just a couple of questions? Number one, do you have any sense, and Stanley, I think you mentioned this, the shroud, you said, is not quite as effective as the auger. Do you have any sense of...
 scale in terms obviously the high impact is the loudest and you gave a decimal reading of that previously I think go ahead I just wanted to get some sense so on average the impact hammer is a
 around 100 to 110 decibels. Okay? When we took the noise meter readings with the shroud on... Okay, it was about 85, you said? It was 85 to 96, depending upon where we were at.
 And Paul will tell you that a reduction of 10 decibels is like halving the noise. So even though it's 85 to 96 decibels, it's still a significant reduction. And in fact, when the Shroud tore in a high windstorm,
 As soon as they started work the next day without the shroud, I got bombarded by e-mails from neighbors saying, what's wrong? It's so much louder today. And so it's significant. And the barrier in front of the kindergarten was also significant. And do you have a sense of the decibels of the auger?
 Yeah, the auger is less than 85, around 85 decibels, less than 85 decibels, and you cannot hear it above the rest of the construction noise. They come in, they drill it, and about three weeks they're done, and you don't even, in fact, one of the projects I contacted Pacific Foundation and I said, when are you going to start? And he said, we finished two weeks ago. Okay.
 So we didn't even know they'd been there and gone. And the shroud that you mentioned, could you tell me a little bit, what is that actually made of? Yeah, I should have. I had some photos. Oh, could you just send that to me? I'll send you photos. That'd be great. I'd like to see that. Yeah, it's really interesting. And it doesn't cover the whole thing. It covers the hammer. Yeah.
 Okay, thank you. Is it a fabric? Yes, it's an acoustical type of fabric. And they started with one fabric, and then because they had the trouble with it tearing and stuff, Kerry worked with them and they redesigned another one with different materials. And when I send you the photos, you'll see the difference. And it was definitely sturdy and effective. Great. I appreciate that.
 Commissioner Fritz. Well, first, thank you very much for your presentation. Claire Adamsick on my staff and I have been continuously impressed with the diligence and the help that community members have given to us in educating us and figuring out solutions. So I appreciate that very much.
 And I'm also mindful that, as you just said, the auger method is under 85 decibels, so you don't need a variance. So this is one of those opportunities to add a little bit of red tape in the bureaucracy that would then encourage developers to do the right thing while still giving them the option to do their preferred method. I was driving by River Place on my way in a short while ago.
 finally understood more clearly what you were talking about. And I was inside the car with the windows shut, and I was like, whoa.
 That is really loud. We had a neighbor that lives in Block 17 directly across the street from Block 20 when that pile driving was going on, and the wife was pregnant with her first child. And as soon as the impact hammer started, her blood pressure went up, and they actually ended up inducing her early because of the effects from the noise. Yeah, so the health hazards, we all agree,
 that it's a serious health hazard. And I'll send you some information on that as well. And, again, this is pretty simple. Very good. Commissioner Daly. I'm sorry. Very good. So I look forward to continuing this conversation. I think you've made a very persuasive case.
 Okay. I hope we can count on you to not make us wait another nine months or 20 months and get this back on the city council agenda. You need the opportunity to make this decision. You know, if it doesn't get presented to you, you don't have the opportunity. Right. And I do recall we had a hearing previously on this subject, and it was my hope that we'd wrap this up, but clearly we have not. No, we haven't had anything on it. Yeah. I've talked about it.
 Okay. Yeah. Good. Okay. Consider me very open-minded on this. Thank you. I appreciate your presentations. Thank you. Carla, have any items been pulled from the consent agenda? Yes. We have 412 and 415. Very good. Please call the roll on the remainder. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Please call item 405, time certain.
 Proclaim May 2018 to be Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Commissioner Fish. Actually, Mayor, you have the proclamation. Very good. I will, and I understand you're going to provide some opening remarks. Is that correct, Betsy? Very good. Before you read it. Thank you. Yes. Thanks, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. For the record, my name is Betsy Kittawa. I'm a constituent services specialist in Commissioner Nick Fish's office. I am also on the leadership committee for the HAPA Asian and Pacific Islanders of Portland Affinity Group, HAPI for short. HAPI works with the city to advocate and educate on behalf of HAPI employees and develop ways to attract, support, and retain HAPI employees.
 The Hopi Affinity Group welcomes and celebrates Hapa Asian Pacific Islanders and allies who are and have been city of employees, regardless of their native language, religion, culture, or tradition. You can find more information and a calendar update of upcoming events if you Google Hopi, H-A-P-I, Portland, Oregon, will be the first link on the top. This month's theme is...
 is the empowering journey of the Asian and Pacific Islander experiences. And this morning we'll hear stories from three members of the Pacific Islander community. But first, I'd like to invite Teva Oriata, Polynesian dance troupe, for a special performance. Don't be alarmed if it gets too loud in here. Okay? Okay? That's it. Manap. She Manap. Tick tock.
 Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey, Hey,
 Thank you.
 Kura o te e Feti a o te po Feti a koi poi Feti a auro E ana e
 Thank you.
 Ma'uta kinehene Totino ura mara Anapanapa Ma'i tifetia Otira ura To'iri ava Tite ura E ti
 Petia o tepo Petia poi poi Petia auro ea Napa e totino E te pura tu
 That's amazing. Yeah, that's great. Wonderful. Thank you so much. Betsy, can we pull up the screen again so we can see you? Yeah, of course. Perfect. Thank you, Carla.
 So now Angie Jackman will be coming around to give you some lays. Let's do that. Yeah, totally fine. You can drop it. Thank you for being here. If you can please stand up. Thank you.
 Thank you. That was really fantastic. Beautiful. All right. So, Mayor and Commissioners, now I'd like to introduce you to our invited guest speakers, Angie Jackman, Simeon Jacob, and Eli Saulele. Thank you. Good morning.
 Hi, good morning, Commissioners. Yaro na, aloha kakaiaka, and good morning, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Angie Jackman, and I am the raatira, or owner of Teva Oriata Polynesian Dance Troupe. I founded Teva Oriata back in 2014 because Oregon was the only West Coast state without a trupupu ori, or Tahitian dance studio. Thank you.
 When I moved here, I noticed right away the need for more Polynesian diversity in the Rose City. And not only through performances or shows, but through the culture, the actual culture itself. Portland is already a beautiful city with colorful flowers and seasons, which I never experienced before in Hawaii. But culturally, it needed a little bit more vibrancy and a little bit more color to it.
 What my studio has enabled me to do, it's empowered me to perpetuate this Polynesian culture through dance, music, and traditional costume making, and the true meaning of Aloha. My dancers and I have created a community of Aloha that we share with open arms to the open arms of Oregon, and I'm so very fortunate and grateful that Oregon has been welcoming.
 It's so satisfying when we go into the Portland Public Schools and we perform at the Rose City Fair and we see the eyes of our kiki or our children, their eyes light up because they're watching this culture that they have never seen before and that is from hundreds of miles away. May 1st or May Day is Lay Day in the Aloha State.
 and it's tradition that we lay each other to show our appreciation, our love and our aloha for all that you do for us and that we do for each other. I do not personally have the economic privileges to offer these classes and workshops for free as I wish I could. My husband and I are actually proud public servants. He works at DHS APR for the state and I work at OHSU.
 So we already struggle every day to provide a general means to provide this added culture and a normal life for our children and to contribute this to our community. What would be helpful to cultural organizations like Te Vo Ariata is more funding and grants towards these activities and cultural diversity in the community.
 Thank you so much, Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing us to be present today and share our culture and allowing us to advocate for more recognition of the Asian Pacific and islanders' presence here in Portland. To push for more aloha and mafatu or heart cannot hurt anything and can only make this city stronger. So thank you so much for your time. Maruru and mahalo.
 Thank you. We're grateful for your presence. Appreciate it. Good morning. Morning. Thanks again, Mayor and Commissioners, for allowing us to have this opportunity to share our story. My name is Simeon Jacob. I was born here in Portland, but both my parents are immigrants. My mom is from...
 Da Nang, Vietnam. She came to America as a refugee and grew up in a foster family in North Carolina and then moved here in Portland at the age of 16. And then my dad, he came from a small but mighty island from Pingalup, which is an atoll, part of the federal states of Micronesia, so if you're not familiar, Phnom Penh.
 a thousand tiny islands in the South Pacific. And he came here as a COFA citizen, which is the Compact of Free Association. And so I always like to talk about where my parents come from because they
 they are here because the United States were there in their islands, or just where they're from. And so I always want to bring recognition to that, but I always like to lighten the mood because the reason why I'm here is because of hotcakes. There's a place off of Powell in Milwaukee called the Original Hotcake House, and that's where my parents met.
 in the typical late night hours, but my dad was a frontline cook and then my mom's brother was also a cook. So that's where they met. And so whenever we go there, my brother and I always like to have a moment and thanks for the hotcakes for bringing us life in this moment.
 But also longevity. So I always like to tell that story. And I always find that it is important that I tell these stories of where my parents come from. Just because, like, my experience being born here, growing up in Portland, going to school here, there wasn't very...
 Like, I didn't see myself or hear any of my stories. So the thing is, is, like, I didn't think that our people were real. Because I never got to read about it. And then when I would tell folks that my dad is from the islands, they're like, oh, you're from Hawaii, right? Like, you're like the rock. I was like, oh, wait, not quite. Like, and so I will...
 really am thankful for this opportunity to tell my story, for people to see me and be able to tell that story. So again, my name is Simeon Jacob. I am currently a staff member employee at APANO, the Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon. I feel like I'm a pretty good embodiment of that because I'm both Asian and Pacific Islander and grew up here in Oregon. It just kind of works.
 So, do that. I'm their new operations and program coordinator. And so, one thing that's really exciting about that is that I'm getting to lead the work in partnership with ERCO and the Asian Family Center. And doing the program called APICLI, which is the Asian Pacific Islander Community Leadership Institute. And it's a...
 a group that annually we bring a cohort of leaders throughout the state of Oregon to do workshops as well as I
 doing workshops, learning from one another, getting mentorship, and really building leadership within our own communities. I was a participant in this program. One thing that was really important in that time was throughout my whole academic journey, I never saw myself or anyone who looked like me in those spaces. It wasn't until Apickley where I actually met
 a Palawan woman working at PSU and like my mind
 like totally just blew up. I was like, what? There are people who work in these spaces? Because where my dad is from, the pinnacle of education is high school. And as soon as you graduate high school, you start your family and you work. And so for me to go to college, this was already like a very countercultural. And so to see...
 meet this lady, um, and be my mentor. Um, that was something that was really amazing for me. Um, and so that was one of the things that I learned from her was to make sure that you continue to tell your story, um, so that people know that we exist. And so, um, since then I've been able to participate in other things as well. Um, I've been able to be part of the executive committee, um, with
 the Multnomah County PI Health Coalition. Very much there, we're leading the work in collecting data for our communities here in Multnomah County, just because in that same sense, it's very important that we collect the information and make sure that we control the narrative. Or not even control the narrative, but making sure that our stories are being told, whether that is through collecting data. And so...
 I just want to stop there and just thank you for the time for sharing my story. Thank you so much. Excellent. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Ted Wheeler, Commissioner Udaly, Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Salzman, Commissioner Fish.
 For the record, my name is Elias Alele. My family and friends call me Eli. On behalf of my brothers and sisters from the Pacific Islands, I would like to say thank you and to greet this council as we say in Polynesian,
 As we celebrate this month as Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, it is an honor for me personally to be part of this great occasion. As a Pacific Islander and a city employee, I am thankful to members of this council and to those who came before you who laid down the foundation for city policies, encouraging diversity, greater equality and inclusion, while at the same time discouraging discrimination.
 When I was invited to be one of the guest speakers for today, I was asked to share something unique and special about my, specific about my culture. In my Samoan culture, men do the cooking, women do not. Not because women can't cook, but out of respect for our wives, mothers, and sisters. The role of women in the Samoan culture is highly respected. Women can even reach the status of chief in Samoa.
 There is a joke out there that says, before you consider dating a Samoan woman, you shall first find out how many brothers she has, because Samoan men are highly protective of their sisters and daughters. It is one of the reasons why I am happily married to a beautiful American woman. Secondly, most of the traditional cooking done by men is very labor-intensive.
 You go fishing, you gather the crops from the plantation. You gather the wood and collect the firewood. You climb the coconut trees and husk the coconuts. You weave the baskets and prepare the earth oven all in one day. And sometimes you have to do it because the chief said so. So it is good to be a chief. I am, however, grateful that whoever invented the microwave. It makes things a lot easier in our day.
 On a serious note, I am thankful that I grew up in such a culture where subsistence and communal living and organic food is the norm. A place as a kid growing up, the coral reef and the rainforest are the playground. It makes me as a Pacific Islander when I moved to this adopted country of mine many years ago to be grateful for every little thing I have, appreciate every friendship I make, and be thankful for every blessing that this great country has to offer.
 We as Pacific Islanders share a lot in common, whether Polynesian, Melanesian or Micronesian. Our culture, our traditions and our languages and our faith are a very important part of our identity. Humility and respect is a vital component of our chiefly system that governs our families and communities. Pacific Islanders are known as the happy people, as you can see.
 And you will find in them some of the most friendly, loyal and respectful people if you get to know one. As a former high school biology teacher and law enforcement officer, I have a lot of respect for members of this council. For the fact that you have to put up with the amazing amount of love and respect aimed at you nearly every council meeting. And for this reason, I honour your service to this great community.
 As we consider the future, let us imagine ways we can improve government-community relationships and how to tear down barriers for education and employment opportunities for minority ethnic groups such as Pacific Islanders. Thank you.
 Now, on behalf of all the Asian American and Pacific Islanders, thank you for the opportunity to recognize a small minority of Americans in Portland. Mayor, will you please read the proclamation? I'd be delighted. Thank you. Whereas the city of Portland is proud of its diversity and draws strength from the rich cultures and traditions of all community members,
 And whereas Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month is an opportunity for all individuals and organizations to recognize the contributions of Pacific Islanders, Native Hawaiians, and Southeast, South, and East Asian Americans to the development and the defense of our country, as well as the cultural, civic, and economic life of Portland for over 150 years,
 And whereas Pacific Islanders, Native Hawaiians, and Southeast, South, and East Asian Americans come from a complex and diverse mix of many languages, ethnicities, and faiths, including Buddhism, Christianity, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and Sikhism,
 And whereas Pacific Islanders, Native Hawaiians, and Southeast, South, and East Asian Americans in Oregon are prevailing over the adversity of exclusion, incarceration, and displacement—
 And now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in Portland. I call on all Portlanders to recognize and celebrate the vibrant history, cultures, and contributions of our Pacific Islander and Asian American communities. So we welcome...
 We'll welcome any comments, and then we'll take a photo at the end. Colleagues? So, Mayor. Fish or fish? We've been asked to take a photograph, and I think we should, when we do the photograph, we should acknowledge and ask a number of people that are in the room to join us. I see that Jamie Lim is here, the publisher of the Asian Reporter. Jamie, would you stand and be recognized? Just celebrated the...
 Jamie's Foundation just celebrated its 30th anniversary of giving scholarships to young people in our community. So thank you to Jamie and his wife. Sho Dazono is here. Sho is here wearing many hats. You have to wear hats when you have so little hair. But Sho, I'm right behind you. Helen Ying and Stephen Ying are here. Let's recognize them and thank them for their public service. Thank you.
 And I know there are many other leaders that are with us. And, Mayor, perhaps we could invite everyone to join us for the photograph. That would be great. Why don't we just go ahead and meet right up here in front? That would be fantastic. Thank you. It's got to look just like a double. Yeah, we can probably do it. All right. I'm going to take a picture. So, you guys, we can start lining up behind here. Okay. Line up.
 I'm gonna go to the back. Yeah, we can do this. Yeah, we'll have to get in. If we can have people come in front. Yeah, we can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this. We can do this.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor.
 It was great Thank you Nice to see you too, Nisa 406 It's a real name Yeah, no, it's impressive
 All right. Next up is item 406. 406. Appoint Jahan Nani to the Citizen Review Committee Advisory Board to the Independent Police Review, a division of the City Auditor's Office. And I see Director Sevier is here. Come on up, sir. Good morning. Good morning, sir. Good morning, Mr. Mayor, members of council. Good morning.
 I am here with Jihan Nami for her to be approved by you folks to serve a three-year term on the Citizen Review Committee. Ms. Nami is an astoundingly great candidate, multilingualist, and to kind of show the depth of her concern and dedication to the city, while she was in graduate school, her thesis was about –
 possible strategies to prevent gentrification while the city rebuilds. So it's an amazing, I think, level of dedication that we seek on the Citizen Review Committee. As you folks know, it is an important task that we ask community members like Ms. Nami to serve.
 We at IPR work very hard to get qualified candidates. And just reviewing Ms. Nami's background, I've just been reminded again the hard work that...
 IPR staff members like Irene Konev engage in to be able to provide quality candidates for your approval and a quality candidate of the quality of Misnami is just astounding. I'm very excited about her service on the CRC and we have a lot of things
 in front of us in the next several years as we kind of go through the settlement agreement as well as the project that the Citizen Review Committee has before it. And Ms. Nami is prepared to have some brief remarks. Very good. Yeah, we'd love to hear that. Thank you for being here. Mayor Wheeler, members of the council, thank you for having me today. It's an honor to be here.
 I've lived for many years in several police states, repressive police states, and I understand what it
 is to live in a place where the police is only accountable to the people in power. I've also lived in places where there is a vacuum of power and there is no police force to serve local residents. So I'm really grateful for the opportunity that Portland provides for community members to actually hold the police accountable, and I look forward to being part of the solution in the future.
 improving relations between community and the police force. Very good. I appreciate that. Thank you. Colleagues, any thoughts, questions? I'll just say this. Thank you for your willingness to step forward. All of these issues are complicated. They take a lot of time, and there's a lot of research involved and a lot of listening to the community involved, and the pay is not very good, unfortunately.
 So we're always delighted when we have somebody of your caliber, both lived experience as well as technical experience, being willing to serve in that capacity. So personally I want to thank you, Johanny, for your service. This is a resolution, so I don't know if there's any public testimony on this item. Yes, we have two people signed up. Very good. Thank you. Dan Handelman and Ethel Golaris. Come on up. Three minutes, name for the record. Good morning.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I am Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch, and this seems to be kind of a regular monthly gathering now where we're putting new people on the Citizen Review Committee. There's been a lot of people who have left in the last year. In fact, we track membership, and I think I told you last time that more people have left in the last year than...
 than left since 2003 when five people quit all at once and another person left later that year. Hopefully, the changes that were made in the settlement agreement that no longer push the committee to try to hold their hearings within 21 days of a person filing an appeal will make things easier for the committee members. We have nothing particularly...
 objection, we find nothing particularly objectionable about Ms. Nami's nomination to be on the committee. We saw her take part in the retreat this past Sunday that the CRC held. I'd be interested to hear an answer about how she came to meet with Chief Marshman's wife three times to talk about Michelle Alexander's book, which is mentioned in her application as you know since you are required by the ordinance to read that.
 We also discovered though through the application that she's in her 30s and so that doesn't change the issue we've been bringing to you for almost a year now that there are very very few people over the age of 40 or only one over the age of 50 on the CRC at this point and none are retirees they're all working and that's part of the reason they were not able to get as much done as they were in the early days when
 perhaps there were too many retirees on the board. So the pendulum swung too far the other way. Also, one of the things that was discussed at the CRC's retreat is that in order for the CRC to get all these things done, they need to have their own staff person.
 IPR provides a staff person who does support work for the CRC but it's not somebody who's at all their meetings or taking notes at their subcommittee meetings or really is a champion for them. Furthermore, IPR has cut CRC out of its annual reports, which we haven't seen this year's annual report yet, but I'm sure they probably don't have the same kind of section they used to. They are no longer given their own column in the quarterly reports and it just seems like
 Somebody has to champion this group, and having their own staff person would help that a lot. And last time, too, when I brought up the issue about the diversity, which is, in fact, in city code, that the reflection of the city, the makeup of the committee should be a reflection of the city.
 There was a comment made that you don't want to micromanage the auditor's choices, and the council does have the authority to reject nominees. I'm not saying you should reject Ms. Nami's nomination, but if the CRC and IPR fail to start recruiting people of more age diversity, you're not going to be able to reflect the makeup of our city.
 Thank you. And Director Sevier is here, and he's heard your comments as well. Thank you. Next individual, please, Carla. She was on the wrong list. Oh, okay. Is that it? That's all signed up. Very good. Colleagues, any further comments, or may I call the roll? Please call the roll. Fish? Fish?
 I want to thank Ms. Nami for stepping up and agreeing to serve. And this is an incredibly important position, and we will try to support you in every way necessary. Thank you. Bye.
 Saltsman. Yeah, thank you, Ms. Nami, for your willingness to serve. And I also want to thank Irene Konev for doing an outstanding job in delivering you here today. I was reading through the impact statement that Irene prepared, and it's an exhausting schedule she leads in the search for qualified members for the CRC. So good job, and thank you. Aye. Udaly. Thank you for your service. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 Thank you very much for being willing to serve. As you know, it's a lot of work. I'm particularly excited about your international experience. I bet University of Staffordshire sounds absolutely idyllic place to do sustainability and environmental work. I hope it was a good experience for you. I do share the concerns that Dan Handelman raised regarding the reporting and the staffing of this committee. That has been an ongoing challenge. And I hope that I will continue to have a liaison from the committee letting me know what's going on there. So thank you very much for your work.
 Wheeler. Well, I'm obviously thrilled that we have Ms. Nami willing to step forward and serve. You know, Dan doesn't agree with me a lot on a lot of issues. On this one, Mr. Handelman, we're in agreement.
 that all of our cities, boards, and commissions should do more to reflect the diversity of age. We are not talking about an age-friendly community just so we can talk about an age-friendly community. In order for this to be an age-friendly community, that means people of all ages need to be at the table where decisions are made.
 And so I would strongly encourage that we do everything we can to diversify this and all committees and boards and commissions around age. Your credentials here are really solid. They're exceptional. I think you're going to be a very excellent contributor to this group, and I want to thank you for your service. I vote aye. The resolution is adopted. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next item, 407. Time's certain. Accept the quarterly technology oversight committee report from the chief administrative officer.
 So the Technology Oversight Committee, as you know, colleagues, provides citizens' oversight on significant city technology projects, especially those with a high risk or potentially high cost. This gives us early and continued technology oversight by an independent five-member committee for the purpose of increased transparency and accountability.
 TOC sends quarterly reports to the chief administrative officer who then forwards the reports to the council. The quarterly report includes information from each project's independent quality report
 assurance consultant and TOC's assessment of project status. And we have a number of people today, sorry, who are interested in giving us the details of this report. I think, Jen, are you up first? We're starting with Jen Claudius. Thank you for being here. Good morning, Derek. I'm sorry I have to take this. I'm.
 I'm Jen Clodius, the Strategic Communications Manager for your Office of Management and Finance and Staff Support for the Technology Oversight Committee. With me today are Jeff Baer, the Director of the Bureau of Technology Services, and Diana Garcia, who is Commissioner Fritz's appointee to this committee. Thank you.
 to give honor to the others uh the other members are ken newbauer who represents commissioner fish dr wilf pinfold who is appointed by mayor wheeler mike lynch for commissioner saltzman and we are currently working with commissioner you daily staff to find a replacement for josh mitchell the report that we are presenting today actually is only one project the portland online permitting system
 That said, TOC has been working with the city budget office on their replacement software for the budget process, and they're also beginning to take oversight of the Portland, Oregon website refresh project. So the future reports will be much larger. We're going to project this dashboard, and Jeff and Diana are going to catch you up. All right. Me first. All right.
 Okay, so the POPs online permitting system, for those that do not know, is the project that's going to put in the paperless permitting system for the city of Portland. So it'll be an online process, which allows all of the people looking for permits to go to one place and be able to do that online. Okay.
 Project deliverables include digitization and online access of historical permits, property information, implementation of an updated permitting and case review, information management system, online case and permit application and review services, mobile online access for field staff, and implementation of automated queuing systems. So it's fairly robust. Okay.
 This quarter they have implemented or they've done some technical train the trainers for the people that will be working on putting the system in. Team is restarting the work on the key project management deliverables, so the charter, risk planning, communication, and overall plan for the program. And then do you want to talk next about what's coming up?
 Yes. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler, members of City Council, Jeff Baer with the Bureau of Technology Services. Just to add a few more things that we've made progress on since the report was submitted. And we've got a really, in my opinion, a really strong team in place. And I want to thank Director Esau.
 from Bureau of Development Services, for her support in this effort, and along with Dan Cote from her staff. The work that we're doing together is really difficult, challenging, but we are on the right track. And if you haven't had a chance to visit the...
 Bureau of Development Services website on the POPS program. I'd encourage you to do that and take a look at it. We just published a fact sheet that has the latest information about what we are doing. We recently released a new
 what's called BDS maps program that's going to cut the creation of addresses down by at least half the time. So we're rolling out different functionality and features of this program over a period of time. So it's a very progressive iterative process, but we are making significant progress. And I think...
 What you had heard from myself and from Director Issa a couple months ago is we're on track to come back in later this summer with a bigger package to present about the rollout of the different efforts that we've got underway for a longer-term program once we get some base systems in place. So we're on track for that.
 Just kind of to close it out, we in the TOC have talked quite a bit about POPs, knowing that it is a very large program and very important for the city that this project and program goes well. We are really optimistic with what we're seeing. They are taking our feedback, and we are feeling like it's a partnership, which is great to hear that we're able to provide input that's value-add for them.
 We are slightly cautious. We're seeing a lot of progress and the plan still isn't coming together. So that's something we'd really like to see come together sooner rather than later. And we've provided that feedback as well. The one ask we would have to the Council is continued leadership with the bureaus.
 The PROPS program is probably going to need bureaus to come together and align and actually get some consistency between them on how they do processing and how they just the overall process.
 That's hard for anyone. And so continued leadership to help them understand the importance for the city is something we would like to ask for you guys to do with the bureaus that report to you. We feel like that partnership will just make Portland even better and stronger. And this will be a huge win for them if we can bring not only the tool but the city together as, you know, one city and come as one Portland. Questions? I'm looking at the –
 under the column that says current revision. It says 9 September 30, 2017. Is that supposed to be 2018? I believe that's a carryover from the discovery phase, discovery process. Yeah, I think that should be 18. Okay. So September 30, 2018 is when we're looking for it to be online. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz? But then we don't have a schedule and a scope, so how do we know that it's going to be done by January, the end of September this year? That's not long to go. Correct. Thank you.
 So that's one of the things we are asking for as well is to get that schedule and scope really locked down. I think part of that goes to the bureaus coming together and aligning on what they can do. The team has been doing a great job to make progress against that. We just don't have the formal documents yet, but we know there is progress against it. We just need the actual physical thing.
 And part of the reason, too, is we're on a pretty short timeline, and we have a preliminary or a draft schedule and scope in place, and we're working with that. We just want to be sure that we've got that nailed down before we present it as a formal document. Any other questions? Very good. Any further questions on that? Very good. I'll take a motion. So moved. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll.
 Fish? That's the first time I remember seeing a sea of yellow on a report of this particular project. So congratulations to all involved. Aye. Saltzman? Thank you for your good work and good results. Aye. Udaly? Well, thank you to the TOC and to BDS staff who continue to work diligently on this project. I'm hopeful that we're going to see that yellow turn to green.
 and will make significant progress in the coming months on POPs. Well thanks Jane Clodius for your continued stewardship of this work and Diana Garcia I'm really proud that you're my representative and it's humbling and honoring that you give such diligent volunteer work and give your expertise on something which has been a gnarly issue which has been stymieing the bureaucracy for many years and so I'm
 like you, a bit nervous about that September 30th date and hope that while all the bureaus are in your portfolio, Mayor, there'll be maybe a coming together of the minds of how we can get there. Wheeler. I appreciate this work. I think it's excellent. I appreciate the updates and perhaps more than anything else, I appreciate your guarded optimism, or maybe I'd restate it as engaged skepticism. Mm-hmm.
 around pops because, frankly, that's where I am. And so it makes me feel better knowing that you are taking this very seriously, and I know you are. So thank you for the accountability check and balance here. I think it's really important, the work you're doing. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Thank you. We'll see you next time. Item 418, please.
 Approve an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University for the Hatfield Resident Fellows Program for training and leadership development for candidates interested in public sector service for four years for up to six years.
 fellows per year at an amount per fellow of $40,000 and total contract amount not to exceed $960,000. Colleagues, this is a renewal and update of an existing master IGA between the City of Portland and Portland State University, setting out uniform terms and conditions for city boroughs that wish to sponsor Hatfield resident fellows through PSU and its Center for Public Service, which runs this program.
 Potential fellows are recruited each year by PSU from its own graduate programs and similar programs across the United States.
 In a typical year, applicants come from more than 30 graduate programs, both within Oregon and from outside. Fellows are brought on as PSU employees and are paid by PSU, which pays payroll taxes and some PERS benefits and assumes all HR responsibilities for them if and only when a sponsoring entity identifies a suitable candidate.
 For each fellow and his or her assignment, a statement of work, SOW, is then negotiated between Portland State and the city bureau, specifying the deliverables for which PSU and its paid fellow are responsible. If and only when city bureaus identify a need in the resources for bringing on a fellow, this IGA will facilitate the contracting process and let them draw unavailable funds.
 I don't think I'll go into the history unless anybody specifically requests that. I think we'll just start with Director Phil Kiesling. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We're really proud of this program, which has been running now with Hatfield resident fellows version since 2011. During that period of time, we have recruited from dozens of institutions across the country as well as our own. It's a competitive and a matching program, as described by the mayor. We have, over the period of time with the city of Portland, placed, I think, 23 fellows.
 And I think it's a testament to the contributions that they have made that the city bureaus, where they have been placed over the years, I think in 22 cases, they have extended to some extent their service after the fellowship was completed. And I think a dozen of them or so are now currently still working at the city of Portland.
 This is a program that attracts people back who are from here but might have gone to school somewhere else, in addition to people from Oregon that are completing their school here. It also, quite honestly, attracts people who do not have many ties to Portland but have heard very good things about it and really are eager to work in a city where the values and the policy commitments match their own. It's where they want to start their public service careers.
 We, of course, have to compete, though, for them. Even when they get an offer for a fellowship, they are often weighing other options, both in their home communities or maybe fellowships at other entities that also participate in the program.
 But it is something that we really believe helps with meeting the city's goals of talent, city's goals for diversity. And this IGA is simply a way to facilitate the onboarding process if and only if city bureaus decide they have a fellow that they want to bring on and the fellow agrees to it.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Larry Nelson with the Bureau of Human Resources. I'd just like to point out that since this program has started since fiscal year 11-12, that it has been immensely popular throughout the city. We've had them in this contract three different times just because we couldn't keep up with the demand for fellows. And I'd like to point out that
 The value that we get, even though we're only paying $40,000 per fellow, they're often providing us over $100,000 in benefit in terms of salary and production once they're here. So we're greatly appreciative of that. The total contract is $960,000 over four years. That allows for 24 fellows over a four-year period.
 So I would like to explain how that works across the city. It's a citywide contract, so if bureaus have the appropriation in their budget, they're able to pull on the contract and use $40,000 of that contract. So it doesn't go to one particular bureau. It's just whoever requests a fellow through PSU. So that's all I have. Commissioner Fritz? Who covers the fellows' health insurance? Yes.
 Health insurance, unfortunately, is not part of the package. Usually they cover it on their own, either out of the stipend that they get. Some people have still coverage through Obamacare provisions, Affordable Care Act, because of their age. But we do not provide health insurance benefits. That's worrying because they only make about $23, $24 an hour.
 So to have to then buy the health insurance is concerning. Do other PSU students have the ability to buy into PSU's coverage? If you are a PSU student, you are, but these are not PSU students because they have graduated from their program, Commissioner Fritz. And the city doesn't cover them either, right? Yes, that is correct. And it is something that in an ideal world we would very much like to be able to do.
 But the term is short and it's an eight-month period of time. And fellows know when they take this on that that is not part of the compensation package.
 And they weigh that, and they sometimes turn us down for exactly that reason and choose another opportunity. Yeah, I think, as we're all going to at the local level have to be more responsible about providing health care if the federal government isn't going to be as assertive on it. Let's put it kindly. When the contract comes back next time, if you could think about that, please. And then also, do we give any sick time? Obviously, they'd get paid sick time. Not from the city, no.
 They would have to get paid sick time because of the Oregon State law. If they're working for us, they earn sick time. So that's something that we should make sure that we're clear about. Well, they are Portland State employees. Right. They get the sick time under PSU laws as the law provides. That's correct. Not through the city. Yeah, not through the city, but through Portland State because we are the employer of record.
 Through this contract? Yes. Okay. And then what are the demographics of the 23 fellows we've hired so far? So far from the city, city of Portland. So the demographics, it's part of the package that we've provided. So of the 24 Hatfield fellows placed at the city of Portland from 2012 to 2018, 66.7%, two-thirds, 16 have been white. Okay.
 Three identified Hispanic or Latino, two black or African American, two Asian and one chose not to respond. So roughly approximately one third not white. Could we do some targeted recruitment at universities that tend to have more students of color?
 Absolutely. Commissioner Fish, that is one of the things that we strive and work very hard to do, and it's part of the program costs is that recruitment. For example, we've reached out to historically black colleges
 and we had somebody place from Morgan State University, African American, with a local nonprofit here in town that deals with housing. We have one minority candidate out of the three that have currently been placed for this next round at the City of Portland.
 but we strive to try to get these numbers up and I think that's something we really look forward to working with the city on to doing more outreach. It's a very competitive market in ways that it wasn't two or three years ago. We had a lot more people
 applied back in the depths of the recession when opportunities were less. So we're competing more as the economy has done better, and quite honestly as more and more people are retiring from the public sector and opening up positions. So we think this is a very, very important goal of this program, is to help not just the city but all of our sponsors with their diversity goals. Thank you.
 Phil, I have a question. You were here last week, and just remind me, when you were with the Hanoi delegation, you were wearing the hat as First Stop? Portland, right. First Stop Portland. So I want to just acknowledge to my colleagues that Phil Kiesling was here last week with a delegation from Hanoi, and we don't have currently any kind of sister city relationship with Hanoi. That may change. But they were here interested in learning more about health issues. Yes.
 and in particular exploring a partnership with the Knight Cancer Institute and having a way to tap into their network. And I could not be more excited about those kinds of partnerships and the idea that delegations coming from other countries wanted to know more about Knight and how they can collaborate with the city and with OHSU is just fantastic. So thank you for bringing them by. Thank you. Very good.
 Is there any public testimony on this item? Yes, we have three people signed up. Very good. Come on up. We have Dee White, Shedrick J. Wilkins, and Shannon Carney. Good morning. Hello, my oaks.
 Hello, my name is Dee White. Thank you, Dr. Kiesling, for being here today and for your presentation on the Hatfield Fellows Program. I'd also like to thank our auditor, Mary Hall Caballero, and her staff for their consideration in this agreement. This new agreement between the city and Portland State for the Hatfield Fellows Program appears to be very worthwhile. But more importantly, it is an equitable and honest expenditure of Portland taxpayer and ratepayer money.
 Six fellows per year as opposed to 20 fellows per year from the previous agreement is much more acceptable given that all city bureaus are, in Mayor Wheeler's words, literally hanging on by their fingernails.
 Six fellows as opposed to 20 fellows means $560,000 per year of taxpayer and ratepayer money can be spent elsewhere, like saving a few community centers. The previous fellows program from 2014, which had been amended twice, was in January of this year presented to council with another amendment, which consisted of a request for an additional $400,000 one month before the agreement was due to expire.
 No reason was given in the impact statement or the ordinance for why or for what the $400,000 was needed. After questions arose from the public, the ordinance was pulled back to the mayor's office, and the new agreement y'all are voting on today as an emergency is what resulted.
 At the PSU Hatfield Fellows website, I learned the Hatfield Fellows program teaches recent graduates who are seeking to transition into the public sector about the ethics and values that continue to shape the Northwest's policymaking process. I respectfully request that the Hatfield Fellows program places more emphasis on the ethics portion and less emphasis on the values portion of your teaching policy program.
 Ethics and values are most always vastly different, especially at the City of Portland. Ethics determines what is right or wrong. Values define our priorities. And the City of Portland's priorities are all too often ethically conflicted. Thank you, Dr. Kiesling, in advance for your consideration. Thank you. Good morning.
 Hi there. My name is Shannon Carney, and I work for the City Budget Office. So normally when I'm here, I'm talking about the data and facts and figures around our programs and city results. But fortunately, Phil and Larry did a lot of that already and covered a lot of ground.
 which is great because I wanted to come today to really just express my gratitude for the Hatfield Fellowship opportunity that I was able to take advantage of to come to the City of Portland and to represent the other Hatfield Fellows that have also become City of Portland employees, several of whom are here today. And...
 I want to tell you a little bit of my story. So I remember the exact moment when I made the decision to go back to graduate school. I was on Psycho Oregon. It was September of 2011. And I was standing in this field in Riddle, Oregon. And one of the ride's founders, this guy Jonathan Nicholas, a pretty legendary figure himself, was telling a story about the...
 the settlers that came across the Oregon Trail, and how, you know, we talk about their covered wagons, but really they walked. You know, they walked here 2,000 miles to get to Oregon because they'd heard it was such a promised land. And...
 You know, it made me reflect on my own life. You know, I'm a person that was born and raised here in Oregon and always loved the state. But I had moved away. And right then and there, I decided that I wanted to go and fulfill my dream of working in government in Oregon as a way to give back to this place that has given so much to me.
 So I went to school at the University of Washington, Daniel J. Evans School, and when it came time to graduate, I didn't have a network in Oregon because I'd lived elsewhere for so long. Fortunately, I was able to connect with the Hatfield Fellowship and received a placement at the city budget office.
 Fantastic. Center for Public Service offers a pretty unique opportunity there. Even among elite schools of public policy and public administration, this is a very unique program to have postgraduate placement. So that's been my story, and now I have a job that I love leading citywide performance management.
 So I also want to say that, you know, the reason that I support this program so much is because I have an opportunity to work with the other former fellows. They're true changemakers. They're totally dedicated and so skilled and bring a really strong diversity of perspectives and experience. They come from all over the country in many schools. And I also wanted to say, I wish they could all speak today because they're all doing amazing work, but you know about a lot of that.
 So I also want to say that, you know, PSU and Bureau of Human Resources, they didn't ask us to come here today and support. In fact, it was the other way around. We lobbied them to be able to take some of their time because it's a unique opportunity to express our gratitude, you know, for the work of the program, to say thank you to Phil, Kathy and to George Beard who enthusiastically recruited and mentored many of us along the way. So thank you so much.
 Thank you. Appreciate it. Any further questions, colleagues? Please call the roll. Fish? Well, Mayor, thank you for bringing this revised ordinance back to council, which I enthusiastically support. First to Phil Kiesling, our former Secretary of State and the sort of author or architect of Vote by Mail.
 I now live in a big residential apartment building, rental apartment building, and the other night someone came and knocked on my door and said, would you please come over to our place? We want you to explain some things that are on the ballot to us.
 So two glasses of wine later and the voters pamphlet and the ballot and some newspapers articles they were looking at. I think I left them with some information to chew on, but that would not, of course, operate, would be possible without vote by mail. So very pleased that we've made that stride forward. This is a partnership with a wonderful university and a program very close to my heart at the Hatfield School of Government. Thank you.
 And when we have gatherings like this, I think about Dr. Nohat Toulon and his great legacy in bringing Senator Hatfield into the fold and celebrating his work
 There are many reasons why this is beneficial to the city, to the fellows, to the taxpayers, but I'll just, in keeping with this idea of values and ethics, I'll remind all of us that a signature event in Mark Hetfield's life was when he voted against the balanced budget amendment and did so at great political peril.
 In fact, he offered to resign from the Senate in order to allow Bob Dole to have his signature achievement that he hoped to secure ahead of running for the presidency. It could have cost him his committee chairmanship. It certainly cost him lots of support within his own caucus. But he chose to take a principled position even though it was out of step with his party leadership.
 I would say we need more of that kind of leadership in our country. And so when I think Hatfield Fellows, I think about a program that is hopefully training people to have fruitful careers in public service where they have the kind of courage to follow, to do the right thing when those kinds of situations arise. So thank you very much. I'm pleased to vote aye. Seltzman? Well, this is a great program. I appreciate the leadership at Portland State, Phil Kiesling and others.
 And also, just the city is the real beneficiary here. We reap the fruit.
 tremendous dividends from the talented Hatfield Fellows we've had. Shannon Carney is one of those people, and thank you for sharing your story about how you got through the program and how you're doing a great job leading performance management at the city. And she's just one of many. All the Hatfield Fellows I've met through the years have always impressed me, and I think many of them have gone on to full-time city employment, which is a win-win for everybody. Hi. Eudalie? Hi. Hi.
 Thank you for your presentation. Thank you, D. White, for your tracking this. I'm happy to hear that you support the revised proposal, and I appreciate the changes that were made in it. Mayor, thank you for responding to the previous concerns. Thanks, Shannon Carney and Lauren King and others who are here, exemplifying why this program can be so great for everybody. I'm very happy you're now getting full pay and benefits. Thank you.
 And I do think that as we continue to look at how do we attract people, we know that people want to work at the City of Portland for things like vacation time, sick time, paid parental leave, and some of the things that certainly with sick time and paid parental leave were not universal and still in some cases are not universal. So as we look to attract people from other states, let's exemplify the best example.
 so that we get the best coming here, as we have in the past as well. Dr. Kiesling, I do want to mention my daughter has moved to Irvine, California. She told me last week she signed up for permanent vote by mail. Of course, Mum. So we'll spread it out. We'll give back the love as well. We'll spread it out. Thank you so much. Bye. Bye.
 Wheeler. Good work, everyone. Phil, thank you for your leadership on this, as always. And I also thank Shannon, not only for her story, but for her significant contributions to the city. And I know I lean on Shannon a lot. So she's one.
 of many. In my office, Elizabeth Perez was our most recent Hatfield Fellow, and she was and continues now as a full-time employee to be a significant contributor to my team. So I know this program does a very, very good job of connecting with predominantly, although not exclusively, young people who show significant chops and leadership potential
 And for that reason, I continue to strongly support this program. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you for being here today. Next item, 419, please. Authorize a lease with...
 Bristol Equities, Inc. for warehouse space at 935 Northeast 24th Avenue through April 30, 2020, at an average annual cost of $36,600 for the storage and retrieval of personal property collected during campsite cleanups.
 on City of Portland property. Colleagues, historically, the most challenging aspect of the city's following the spirit of the Anderson Agreement has been the process for returning personal property. The primary reason for this has been the location of the property storage facility, the southernmost edge of Portland, across from the Barber Boulevard Transit Center.
 Though it was located directly across the street from a mass transit hub intentionally, its location created a considerable deterrent for those waiting to claim collected property.
 After an exhaustive search of suitable city-owned property in a more centralized location, it was determined that this warehouse, located just to the north of Northeast Sandy on Northeast 24th, will help the city meet both the spirit and the letter of the Anderson Agreement.
 We're excited for this development and hope it makes for an easier process for folks wanting to reclaim their personal belongings. I'd like to invite Lucas Hillier and Pauline Goebel. They're already up here to answer any questions that we may have about this new location or the lease.
 Thank you. I just have a couple slides to show that. Thanks. And Lucas, could you just introduce yourself for the record? Lucas Hillier, OMF. Thank you. Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. So right now our property storage location is on the very southern edge of the city of Portland, roughly 400 yards from the city of Tigard. Using City Hall as a reference point, you can see on here it's roughly –
 four or five miles away from the downtown core. The new location is a much shorter distance from downtown. But if you look at a map of where folks are actually camping, you can see that this is right in the heart of the city where folks are living outside.
 So the reason for this move is twofold. One is that we are running out of space in the 1,000-square-foot building that we're currently in. The new space is 4,300 square feet and will allow us to more effectively get people's property back to them. Commissioner Fritz? That street on the east side, is that 122nd? The one with the concentration of people living outside?
 That is the I-205 multi-use path that runs along I-205. Thank you. I was just going to say that's a very interesting graphic showing where communities are really being impacted and where people need services. I was curious as to what percentage of items are actually reclaimed. Well, right now I would say that that's roughly 10% or below. And I think a big reason for that is the location of the storage facilities.
 And it is our hope that if we move it into a more centralized location, people will be able to get it and those numbers will go up. And what is our retention time for items that are? It's 30 days. 30 days, okay. How do we let people know where to go?
 So on the notice that we place, the 24-hour written notification, there is a phone number in black or bold red letters for folks to call. It's Pacific Patrol Services. It's our primary vendor who handles the property storage. So folks call them and set up an appointment. And will that remain the same with the move? It will. So we're assuming that...
 all homeless people have easy access to a telephone? So we have worked with outreach providers to assist and make sure that all the outreach providers working with the population are aware of the process. We have also worked to produce a flyer that has, like, a little tab to pull off the phone number that folks call, trying to proliferate that information.
 Will this be the only function of the space, the storage? Yes. And so it won't be staffed regular business hours, hence the need for an appointment? Correct. There will be vendors there from Pacific Patrol services throughout the day, off and on. But it is not cost effective for us to keep somebody there 24 or 40 hours a week. I understand. Thank you. Presumably people can call 823-4000 and get connected to that service.
 Yes, and the other phone number that we have on the posting notice is 211. And so we've had a conversation with 211 to help people redirect. I seem to remember that the current location is a Water Bureau property? Correct. Yeah. I live a mile from there. It's actually seven miles from downtown. Oh, is it? It's out there.
 Some of us don't think so. It depends on your mode of transportation and your ability to get bus tickets, which obviously people don't. So I really support your continuing to look, because I know it was really hard to find somewhere in the first place. So the fact that you didn't just call it good and say, well, there's nothing we can do about it, I appreciate your work. I think everything came together for this space, so it was very hard to find space. And then having this come available, just everything at the right time, so...
 We're pretty excited about it. Yeah, it's a great space. Could you identify your name for the record? Oh, I'm sorry. I'm Pauline Goble, property manager in the Office of Management and Finance, Facility Services Division. I just wanted you to get the credit. I want to thank my team. Really, they did a collaborative effort. As I say, it's impressive that you didn't just call it good and say, well, we're fulfilling the letter of the law, but you continue to care about people actually being able to get their stuff back. Oh, absolutely. Thank you. Very good. Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? No.
 No one signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank you both for the great work you do on issues of dealing with camps and all the issues of one point of contact. It's a lot of work. You get a lot of calls, a lot of complaints. So thank you for doing that. Aye.
 You daily? Aye. Fritz? Thank you, Lucas Hillier. You've really taken this to the next level with care and compassion and with giving a lot of data so people can contact the one point of contact and get on your email list so that you can say what's been done, what's coming up, and there's a lot more certainty in the way things are happening. And this is another of the important pieces that once people have been – and it's mostly abandoned sites. It's a –
 the cleanup crews are taking care of here, as well as helping people find services. And so I appreciate the dual approach. Aik.
 So I don't ever get to embarrass Lucas in public, and I thought I'd take that opportunity today. Lucas is one of the hardest-working employees in the city of Portland, and he has one of the most difficult jobs in the city of Portland. And if his job was mishandled, it would create real problems for some of the most vulnerable people in our community. And he handles it effectively and professionally.
 And he understands keenly the balance in terms of delivering service both to people who are vulnerable and on the streets as well as the public at large. And he has contact with all of the above. And I've watched him really do a masterful job. And this is just one more example of going forward.
 the full 10 yards, if I have my sports ball analogy correct, and I believe I do here, to actually do something beyond what the law requires at a minimum. And I know, Pauline, you also, and the folks at OMF, you guys worked really, really hard together to find this location. And a lot of time and energy went into it. And I thank you both. This is great work. I vote aye. Thank you.
 The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Next item, item 420. Verify income of subsequent homeowners receiving a property tax exemption under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Colleagues, the Portland Housing Bureau administers the city's tax exemption programs. You know that. The Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program
 known as the HULTE program, provides 10-year property tax exemptions for low- to moderate-income homebuyers, making homeownership more obtainable for families in Portland.
 Homebuilders apply for tax exemptions prior to starting construction on new homes. Those approved homes must sell below an annual sales price cap to income-eligible homebuyers who will live in the homes. Currently, exemptions continue for 10 years as long as homeowners continue to owner-occupy the homes receiving the exemptions and don't use the properties as rentals.
 This ordinance enables the Housing Bureau to ensure that any future homebuyers meet the income requirements at the time they buy a home with a tax exemption in order to continue the exemption for the remaining years. By doing this, we're ensuring that the city and other taxing jurisdictions do not continue to forego the collection of taxes from higher income households.
 Good morning. Director Callahan. Good morning, Mayor, Commissioners. Shannon Callahan from the Portland Housing Bureau. The Mayor has distinctly noted what this ordinance would do. It changes language to make sure that subsequent purchasers of homes that we have granted a tax exemption still meet the income requirements that you as a City Council set on an annual basis. Thank you.
 which is presently set at $74,700 a year, which is the median family income for a family of four, making 100% of the area median income. That's essentially what the ordinance does. We would be enacting that on a going-forward basis. The next time you would hear from us on HALTI was to set another price cap for the next following year, which we intend to do in December. I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have.
 What's the current price cap? The current price cap is $375,000. Shannon, my recollection is we've made two changes in this program over the last 10 years. One is that it used to be administered by PDC, and now it's the Housing Bureau. Is that correct?
 Yes. And the second is that it used to be limited to certain areas, and with working with the state legislature, it was expanded to include high-opportunity areas as well. Is that correct? Yes, Commissioner. Thank you. Very good. Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up.
 Please call the roll. I'm sorry, this is a non-emergency first reading of an ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thanks, Shannon. Next item, 421.
 authorize a contract with Parametrics, Inc. for professional engineering services for the Lombard Pump Station upgrade, project number E10920, in the amount of $959,746. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. The Bureau of Environmental Services Lombard Pump Station conveys wastewater to the Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant
 serving North Portland and protecting public health and the environment. The project will provide mechanical, electrical, standby power, and seismic upgrades to the pump station. I'd like to invite Aaron Lawler, engineer, and Paul Sudo, principal engineer, from BES to give a brief presentation, and the PowerPoint is in your packet. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. For the record, my name is Paul Sudo, principal engineer with BES.
 The project we're presenting before you today is the Lombard Pump Station. It's part of BES's ongoing program to reinvest in the 99 pump stations that the Bureau operates and maintains for the community. The reinvestment is critical to ensure reliable and cost-effective service to our ratepayers. On average, this program completes about two to three pump stations per year, and we have about 10 pump stations or so currently in process, anywhere from just initiating through construction.
 So with that, I'll turn it over to Aaron Lawler, the project manager, and he'll provide more details on this specific project. Good morning. I'm Aaron Lawler, engineer with BES Wastewater Treatment and Pump Station Engineering. So I'd like to walk you guys through our PowerPoint today. The presentation is for the approval of an ordinance to enter into a contract with Parametrics, Inc. for design services during this project.
 So Lombard Pump Station. This slide here is to...
 provide context on the location of the pump station. The address is 12902 North Lombard Street. I've pointed out Columbia Boulevard Wastewater Treatment Plant in the lower right-hand corner here on this slide just to help orient you. You can also see on this slide the Willamette River on the left there, Columbia River up in the top right, and the pump station is located...
 adjacent to the Columbia Slough and near Port of Portland Terminal 4.
 So here's some aerial photos of that location we were just looking at. These photos depict two very important aspects of the location of the pump station. First, you can see the proximity of the pump station to the slough. It's right there on the banks. And then second, you can also see this well-timed aerial photo of a train passing across the access route to the pump station.
 the pump station. So it's a little bit off the beaten path there. But this train can restrict access for our operators and maintenance personnel to reach the pump station should they need to. Longbourn Pump Station is a City of Portland-owned and operated pump station that was constructed in 1983. The aging facility requires upgrades and improvements. It's a caisson-style wet-well-dry-well pump station that is critical to the overall
 collection system. It receives flows from three other pump stations and is the final pump station prior to sending those flows to the Columbia Boulevard wastewater treatment plant. The capacity of this pump station is approximately 9 million gallons per day, which is equivalent to about 6,500 gallons per minute. It's a fairly well-sized pump station throughout our system and
 It's definitely not the largest, but it's one of the main ones. The pump station then discharges to a 30-inch force main, which sends all the flows to Columbia Boulevard for treatment via the St. John's interceptor.
 On this slide here, we've got a picture of the existing two pump motors in the dry well of the caisson right there. The Lombard pumps, the project will address a number of issues at Lombard, most of which can be associated with the aging pump station that has exceeded the standard design life. Since it was initially constructed, code requirements and design standards have also changed, and the project will bring the site into compliance with these.
 including electrical, mechanical, structural improvements, as well as implementing best practices for pump station design. Key components of this project include...
 providing standby power to the pump station as this is currently not available on site. And if there is a utility outage, the pump station will shut down. This is less than ideal. As I mentioned, three other pump stations send their flows to this pump station, so it creates a real challenge, and the power outage could cause issues throughout the system.
 Here's up close of some of the wearing facility equipment. These are some gate valves to the wet well. In addition to upgrading all mechanical and electrical equipment to increase reliability and operability, the project will also provide structural improvements to the pump station to increase seismic resiliency. These improvements to the pump station will help benefit maintenance and operations staff for the City of Portland and the environment.
 The project also includes condition assessment of a 30-inch force main, which is 4,800 feet long, so almost a mile. This force main recently required an emergency repair, and this project will investigate and address any additional force main condition issues that are discovered during the assessment.
 So we're here today to request an ordinance to approve a contract with Parametrics, Inc. in the amount of $959,746 for engineering services. This contract is for engineering services, and following completion of design, we will return to council to request approval to advertise the project and award construction contracts.
 The overall project budget, as you can see here, is $5,245,000.
 which includes the pte contract that we're here today for the estimated construction cost which is currently at three million um and then all internal costs as well for managing the project over the next few years the the current proposed schedule has the construction beginning in late 2019 and we'll have the project completed near the summer of 2022.
 In preparation of this project and this ordinance, a request for proposals was issued for engineering services. Two proposals were received, and the selection committee reviewed and scored these proposals. In accordance with City Code 5.68, parametrics were selected. After negotiating scope and fee, a contract amount of $959,746 was agreed upon.
 Of this amount, $150,460 are optional tasks, and these will not be completed without the direction and approval from the owner's representative. I would like to point out that Parametrics did an excellent job of identifying opportunities to utilize DMW ESB subconsultants. Explain that. Yes. Disadvantage minority-owned, women-owned, or emerging small businesses.
 And of the requested contract amount, $409,786 are allocated for DMWSB participation. That's 42.7% of the contract. So our recommendation here today is to authorize execution of the PTE agreement with parametrics with a contract not to exceed limit of $959,746. All right.
 And that concludes our presentation. Very good. Colleagues, questions before we go to public testimony? Very thorough. Thank you. Public testimony, Carla? No one signed up. Very good. So this is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Good work, gentlemen. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, Paul and Erin. Good job.
 Second to last item, and then we have some items that were pulled off the consent agenda. Item 422, which is a second reading, and before I forget to say so, I was out of town for the first reading and testimony. I have reviewed the record. Carla, please call the roll unless there's any other questions on 422 after you read it.
 Sorry, 422? Yes, please. Reauthorize Environmental Services Tree Bait Program to incent residential yard tree planting to contribute to Portland's stormwater management, clean river, and community livability goals. Yes.
 Please call the roll. Fish. This is a good program. The incentive is modest, but the benefits to the city and to our rate payers is that trees help us manage stormwater runoff, and in the long term means that we'll spend less money on new pipes to deal with and have fewer runoffs into our rivers. So it's a good program. It's well scaled, and I'm pleased to support it. Aye. Saltzman. Aye.
 Fritz. Thank you, Commissioner Fish, for explaining the program last week. For the just previous addendum item also, it's very clear what the Bureau is doing and why, and I appreciate the good work. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call item 423. Aye.
 Vacate a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street east of Southeast 122nd Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Saltzman. Thank you, Mayor. Before us today is a street vacation that will greatly benefit the residents of Portland, as it is a key piece of the Leach Botanical Gardens Phase 1 of their 25-year master plan, a plan I know that both Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz have been integral in moving forward.
 Right-of-way agent Lance Lindahl from the Portland Bureau of Transportation is here to quickly walk us through the details of the vacation and answer any questions Council may have. Thank you, Commissioner Saltzman. Again, Lance Lindahl, PBOT Right-of-Way Acquisition. As the Commissioner just mentioned, the proposal today is to vacate a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street east of 122nd Avenue. This vacation was initiated at the request of Portland Parks and Recreation. They're the current owner of the properties located to the north, south, and east of the vacation area.
 A portion of Claiborne Street to the immediate east of 122nd Avenue will be retained so that the residential property located at 6518 Southeast 122nd will retain their public right-of-way access that they have now. The portion of the street to be vacated is currently an unpaved gravel road that only provides access into the Leach Botanical Gardens parking lot. Here are a couple pictures of the site. The first one showing right at 122nd. This is the area that's going to remain public right-of-way.
 Second picture shows the area to be vacated and the current overflow parking lot for Leach Botanical Garden. As Commissioner Saltzman mentioned, this is part of the 25-year master plan for the Leach Botanical Garden and parks plans to construct a paved private driveway, landscaping, a gift shop, and administrative offices within the area to be vacated. A new network of sidewalks and pedestrian paths will be built nearby as development progresses on the garden site.
 And this slide shows an overhead view of the planned improvements for the Leach Botanical Garden in the vacation areas in the middle there, outlined in red. As a condition of approval, a lot of consolidation is being required by the Bureau of Development Services, and this will prevent the park's parcels from becoming landlocked from public right-of-way. Work has begun on this condition and will be completed prior to the recording of the street vacation ordinance.
 Also, the Water Bureau is requiring construction of a new water main, and Portland Parks has agreed to this condition. That's my presentation. If you have any questions, I'm here to be of assistance. Thank you. Thanks. My colleagues? Makes perfect sense. Is there any public testimony on this item? No one's had that. Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you.
 Last, but certainly not least, we have two items pulled from the consent agenda. I'd like to read them together. That is item 412 and item 415. Thank you.
 412, pay property damage claim of Larry Anderson in the sum of $9,829 involving the Portland Police Bureau. And 415, pay property damage and injury claims of Julie and Robert Wells in the sum of $45,000 involving the Portland Police Bureau. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning. My name is Karen Bond. I'm here from Risk Management. And with me today is Assistant Chief Chris Davis and also from the City Attorney's Office, Scott Mody. Thank you.
 If you have any questions for them afterwards, they're here to answer those. These two emergency ordinances are for the same incident. It was kind of a long, plain-out incident that happened on May 28, 2017, over in the Laurelhurst neighborhood. Someone called police saying there was a gentleman with a handgun.
 in their neighborhood, and so officers responded to the neighborhood. The first officer there did engage this gentleman with the handgun in front of the Wells' home. In the Wells' home, it actually sits upon a berm that's a grassy berm that's several feet above the sidewalk and the street. When the officer got there, he did have his bureau issued instructions
 Shotgun? Is it called shotgun? Okay. And he was giving commands to this gentleman to please drop his weapon. He refused. The officer felt that that berm would take any impact from the shotgun. So as he was firing, he thought they were hitting the berm, but actually they were going a little bit high, and they were actually impacting the Wells' home. So it entered the front, and it went inside of their home.
 the buckshot and the impacts. The Wellses initially sent me an estimate, or sent risk management an estimate for repairs to their home for $78,000.
 We, Risk Management, hired an independent appraiser who came back with a damage assessment of $20,000. And we kind of went back and forth, got some different numbers. And in the end, the Wills met with the mayor's office, and they agreed to settle their property damage claim and any injury claim for $45,000. Thank you.
 This ordinance would allow risk management to go ahead and pay that $45,000 to the Wellses to settle their claim or claims. The second part of this ordinance is for Larry Anderson.
 When the officer engaged the gentleman in front of the Wells' home, the shots didn't hit the gentleman. The subject disappeared into the neighborhood. He later reemerged in front of Mr. Anderson's home. Mr. Anderson had just moved his boat and trailer from his driveway into the street.
 at the curb the day before this happened. The subject was hiding behind the boat and trailer on the sidewalk. The officers were in the street behind a police car for SHIELD. The officers were again giving commands to the subject to please drop his weapon. He refused at one point. It appeared that he was pointing his weapon at the officers, and so they began to discharge their firearms immediately.
 Those impacts actually hit the boat and the trailer and damaged Mr. Anderson's boat trailer. We sent out an independent appraiser. His boat was deemed a total loss, and we came back with a value of $9,829 for the trailer.
 amount of the boat trailer. Mr. Anderson has agreed to that amount. And so the approval of this ordinance would allow us to pay that to him. And that's all. Thank you. Thank you. So I understand this is a property damage claim, but I assume it also leads to a reevaluation of tactics and potentially training. For example, backstop training. Is that correct, A.C. Davis? In general, yes. I mean, there are
 Without getting into corrective action in specific cases, there are individual training issues and there are bureau training and equipment issues, and we've looked at both as a result of this case. Thank you. Colleagues, any questions? Was the suspect eventually apprehended? He was several hours later in a different neighborhood, but he was eventually, yes. Public testimony? Dan Hedlund pulled this. Coming up, sir. Thank you.
 Good morning. Good morning again. I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Cop Watch once again. And we've had this item pulled because it's about the shooting or the shooting with no hits of Michael Grubby last May. I had to dig through the paperwork to figure that out because there's no mention of his name anywhere or the police officers using bullets mentioned anywhere in the paperwork that was filed. I noticed they were both missing.
 incidents that happened on the same day as the shooting. That's how I figured it out. I think that in a city where we're trying to be transparent and open about our police accountability issues, I think it would be better to put these things on the public agenda. I understand this is not directly about the use of force, but this is the most I've heard about this incident since it happened almost a year ago. I'm glad that we had a presentation from members of the city staff to tell us what's going on a little bit.
 So the Portland police shot up this neighborhood with multiple rounds, including those that hit the home of the Wells family. And while the family told the Oregonian they weren't upset with the police, that would have quickly changed if one of their loved ones had been hit by one of those bullets. This is the neighborhood, after all, where 12-year-old Nathan Thomas was shot accidentally by police as he was being held hostage by an intruder inside his home.
 Sure, it was 26 years ago, but the city, which promotes community policing and trauma-informed care, should realize the implications of a police shooting in that area. Instead, as we understand it, neighbors have been asking for an explanation of what happened and the results of the PPB's police review board hearing, and the police have so far refused to meet with the neighbors to explain what happened.
 So do the Wells and Anderson families deserve compensation for what the police did to their homes and property? Yes. But that doesn't mean the city should avoid the discussion about officer-involved shooting when the investigations are done and they can't hide behind this new veil of not wanting to taint the grand jury. And just while I have a few seconds left,
 we look at the city council agenda every week to see if there's any lawsuits being resolved. And I think in the last several years, a lot of cases have been being resolved outside of the city council purview. And I realize that you don't have to hear anything when it's under $5,000. But I...
 would like to get some kind of accounting through either the Bureau or through the Risk Management Department of how many times people have sued the city over use of force and other misconduct and how much money has been being paid out because that used to be regularly available and we haven't had those discussions here. Very good. Thank you, sir. Mayor, what's the response of are the investigations all done and why could the neighborhood not know about that? AC Davis, could I call you back to the rostrum, please? Yes.
 I think you heard the commissioner's question, or do you need her to repeat it? Sure. And the investigation is done, I believe, up to –
 The Police Review Board, I would have to go back and check and make sure that the final piece of that is done where the chief has reached the final determination of inter-auto policy. But I can check into that and get back to you on what stage that's at. Well, if I was in that community, and of course I am a community member of Portland, I would want to know more about the answer to the mayor's question about what training, both individually and...
 throughout the Bureau has been done and have there been any protocol changes in response to this incident? I agree that we should be paying the claim. And I'm always, whenever we pay a claim, I want to know what have we done to make sure, to try to minimize the chance of this happening again. So is there a way that the Bureau is allowed to meet with the neighborhood to talk about those issues, about the training issues? Yes.
 I would have to consult with the city attorney's office because the tension here in this case is between any issue that we've addressed with a specific employee versus the larger picture. I can tell you that as a result of this incident, as a bureau, we have looked at the sighting system that is on these shotguns to make sure that's the best tool or if maybe there's something better out there. And the training division is in the process of looking at that right now.
 Yeah, I think that would be helpful because obviously we don't identify individual officers in there. If there is any discipline, that comes in a kind of a summary report to avoid embarrassment to the officer, I believe is the wording in the police contract. And the part that we could share is about the training and the follow-up, those kinds of things. Sure. And like I said, I mean, I can tell you definitively that we've looked at the citing system in this case, right?
 Because, you know, at least in terms of organizational issues that we've identified as a result of this incident, we always look at training and organizational issues whenever we have one of these events because ideally we'd like to avoid having them and, you know, we'd like to have better outcomes. But that is a specific issue in this case that we've looked at in the training division to make sure that we prevent this kind of thing from happening in the future. Yeah. Well, with the passage of this ordinance, the families being –
 both the home and the property owners are being made whole, it seemed like a sense of closure. And as Mr Handelman pointed out, particularly in a neighbourhood that undoubtedly still remembers the Nathan Thomas incident, it would be a good kind of closure to the whole thing. So I would just encourage you to maybe have a community policing officer attend their neighbourhood meeting or something like that. We can certainly look into that. Thank you.
 Very good. And colleagues, I just want you to know also, I have met with both of the families, and my staff has met with both of the families in some cases multiple times. And I think all of us agreed that we wanted to move on from this. And in part, that's reflected in the settlement agreement that we have here today.
 Very good. Please call the roll on 412. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. And just to be clear, this is the property damage claim of Larry Anderson. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Please call 415. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted, and we are adjourned until 2 p.m. Thank you.
 The Wednesday, May 2nd, 2018 afternoon session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. And now a word from our sponsor. Thank you. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so that everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions, excuse me, or the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it.
 The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on, and when your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down.
 Disruptive contact, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be tolerated. If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Thank you. Good afternoon, Carla. Good afternoon. Hi. Could you read item 424, please? Yes. Yes.
 adopt the fiscal year 2017-18 spring supplemental budget, and make other budget-related changes. Colleagues, the proposed spring supplemental budget allocates $7.2 million compensation set-aside funds for bureaus who experienced full staffing throughout the course of the year and require their budgeted cost-of-living adjustments.
 It allocates $2.8 million in general fund contingency resources for urgent needs and incurred costs, such as providing reimbursements for labor costs incurred by bureaus this year and reimbursing the Bureau of Transportation for an enhanced level campsite cleanup costs, which were incurred during this year. It also allocates funding to support the creative laureate position and help send the Portland Gay Men's Chorus to China.
 The proposed budget process is program carryovers totaling $8.7 million, which will be rebudgeted to support program continuation in the fiscal year 2018-19 budget. In total, these changes will leave a balance of about four – well, it will leave a balance of $493,000.
 $381 in the city's unrestricted contingency account for urgent or unforeseen needs during the remaining two months of the fiscal year. The proposed budget also increases city staff by 53.15 FTE with non-general fund resources.
 Increases are primarily in the bureaus of transportation and development services to address increased workloads paid for through increased bureau revenues. Joining us today is the City Budget Office Director, Andrew Scott. Director Scott, welcome. Great. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Andrew Scott with the City Budget Office, and good afternoon.
 I think we have a relatively quick action before us today. The mayor has outlined some of the overview major issues within the spring supplemental budget. Just as a reminder, this is the opportunity for bureaus to true up their budgets for the current year, to ask for carryovers, compensation set aside, and other requests. We did have a work session on this spring supplemental budget.
 On April 17th, we went through a number of these packages in detail, so I will not recap those, but I am happy to answer questions about any packages that you have. In addition to what the mayor talked about in the compensation set-aside requests and the new requests and carryovers, just as a reminder, there is about $600,000 coming back from the Bureau of Emergency Communications as underspending from last year, and then about $3 million of additional state-shared revenue related to marijuana. Okay.
 I do want to note, specifically the Mayor talked about the 53 positions being added in this supplemental budget.
 And he mentioned the transportation positions. I also want to mention that within OMF, they did request position authority to convert three temporary revenue collection positions to permanent. These positions work on arts tax collection and are funded by OMF's requested increase in the arts tax administration budget. This is an issue council had previously dealt with, but we didn't talk about it at the work session, so I did want to mention that.
 And the other thing I want to mention, just to specifically call out, it is in the ordinance language, but OMF is requesting a one-time temporary change to the fund statement of purpose for the Spectator Venues and Visitor Activities Fund.
 This is specifically related to a request for the city to contribute $500,000 to the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall. I believe it's the sound shell work that needs to happen there. That fund's statement of purpose does not currently allow the authorized payments for capital improvements.
 However, the fund does have sufficient excess capacity in the current fiscal year. I'm sorry, actually in next year's fiscal year to pay up to $500,000 to assist with that electronic acoustical system in the Schnitzer. And it is in the city's interest to support and assist Portland 5 with the cost of that capital improvement. So they are requesting a one-time change to that fund statement of purpose to allow that expenditure to go forward next year. So it automatically...
 Statement goes away automatically after one year? Yes. It would just change the statement of purpose for this one expenditure, but it wouldn't change it on a permanent basis. And we do have Susan Gibson-Hartnett here if you have additional questions about that particular provision. Okay.
 So outside of those things, I do believe there are a few amendments that commissioners may want to bring forward. I think you have copies of those amendments. And so if there are any questions on what was in the mayor's proposed spring supplemental, I'm happy to answer those. And if not, we can move on to amendments. Very good. Why don't we put amendments on the table? Colleagues? Commissioner Fritz? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. I've handed out the three amendments that I have. One was in the requested bump. It wasn't funded, but I'm proposing to put it back in. That's Amendment 1. Increase bureau expenses to Portland Parks and Recreation from the general fund by $100,000 to convene and run the street tree task force. Funding is provided from a drawn general fund unrestricted contingency, and it updates exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. Second. Thank you.
 We have a motion from Commissioner Fritz. We have a second from Commissioner Fish on Amendment 1. Thank you. The second is a new amendment on behalf of Portland Parks and Recreation to increase the Bureau expenses from the general fund by $40,000 one time to support dedicated ranges for Director Park. Funding is provided from a draw on general fund unrestricted contingency and update Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change.
 I'll second. There's a motion from Commissioner Fritz, a second from Commissioner Saltzman on amendment number two. And if I could just briefly explain that. We are unexpectedly, and I just found out about this a week or so ago, having a lot more difficulty with graffiti and minor criminal behavior, as well as overnight camping at Director Park. And so this funding would allow for hiring of seasonal rangers to provide more security and also assistance to people using Director Park facilities.
 And finally, Amendment 3 is spotted by my eagle-eyed chief of staff that the bump did change the money for the open and accountable election system. However, it did not change the positional authority. So Amendment 3 has a technical adjustment, increased positional authority in special appropriations by 1.0 FTE. Positional authority was approved by council in the Office of Neighborhood
 in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement via Ordinance 188872 on March 21st, 2018. This amendment will move the position to special appropriations. Funding for this position is being allocated to special appropriations via a transfer from the Office of Neighborhood Involvement, and it updates Exhibit 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. Second. Commissioner Fish seconds Commissioner Fritz's amendment number 3.
 That concludes my amendment. Thank you, Mayor. Very good. Colleagues, I have one amendment that I propose as well. Decrease program expenses in the Portland Housing Bureau, this is general fund, by $1,250,000 for the Joint Office of Homeless Services and set aside funds for program carryover and allocation in the fiscal year 2018-19 budget.
 These funds were previously approved by the Council for shelter costs in the fiscal year 2017-18 fall supplemental budget, but the resources are not expected to be spent before the close of this fiscal year. This would update Exhibits 1 through 5 as needed to reflect this change. Second. Commissioner Fish seconds what we will call Amendment No. 4. Any further amendments? I guess I...
 That's a question. Please. Yeah. Commissioner Fitzgerald, Amendment 3, it's a lot of words here, but is it still keeping two positions in the opening accountable elections? Yes. Well, this is the first of them, yes. So we're not messing with the other one. We're not changing the other one just yet because we don't need it. Okay. But yes. Okay. Very good. And I've got...
 All right, I want to note that we also have Mark Jolin and Christian Elkin here from the Joint Office of Homeless Services. So if people had specific questions about that. Andrew, or Director Scott, sorry. Could I get a little more clarity on the amendment that I've put forward for the record? This is for shelter capital costs.
 and they were not expended during this fiscal year, so we were requesting that they be carried over to the next fiscal year, and that has been done in discussion with the Joint Office of Homeless Services. That's exactly correct, Mayor. Is there anything else I should be saying? No, it was funded in the fall bump, and this is just to carry over those funds to next year for the same purpose. Very good. And it is expected that we will need these funds, but we were not able to expend them this year because, frankly, we—
 a shelter we were working on did not come to pass. That is my understanding, yes. I would note just for the record that of the four amendments for the Parks Bureau to spend general fund dollars in the remaining contingency, if those amendments were adopted, would stand at approximately $353,381. Yes.
 Very good. So I had a couple of questions, Commissioner Fritz, just for clarity. And I'm sorry I missed the work session related to the street tree task force, but I'm certainly familiar with the issue. And I guess my question is this. This is for the purpose of convening the task force. It would be supportive of an FTE to help –
 administer that task force. Is that correct? Catching me unawares, but yes, I believe so. I know that part of it is for a contract. Correct. I'm sorry, for a contract. My question is this. We have certainly read press accounts about the difficulty that certain residents are put in, particularly if they are next to a large forested area.
 And there was one article earlier this year that told this story about a family that's lived next to what they believe to be a large green space for many, many years. And along comes a storm, and they found out that they had a personal liability, private liability for a substantial cleanup. And so part of the process here is to try to address that issue. And that certainly makes really good sense to me.
 The flip side of the equation is that, and having gone back and reviewed the record, and I think Commissioner Saltzman raised this question during the work session, is the reality that if we do a broad-scale, effectively-executed,
 a public acceptance of that liability for all of the street trees, it's substantial. And I think the number 750 million was being bantered about.
 I would only be interested in supporting this if I had confidence that there is a scaled approach to this that doesn't encumber us with the entire liability of all street trees in the city of Portland. And I'll give you an example. I live on a street where I have two street trees that I am currently responsible for. I'm aware of that responsibility now.
 I don't prune it without appropriate clearance to do so. I take good care of it, and I assume that liability. I don't believe that the city should assume that liability. On the other hand, the kind of story that we read about in the Oregonian, I totally get that. And so I'm wondering, does this...
 create the opportunity for a scaled approach where we assume the liability in limited circumstances like the one that was described in that particular narrative. I know ultimately the work of a task force comes back to the council for approval, but I don't want to mislead anybody on that committee into thinking that I would ever support a broad-scale approach
 public acceptance of a liability that the city, frankly, isn't in a position to assume. Does that make sense or do I need to clarify that? It does, Neff. I'm laughing for two reasons. First of all, such is the force of your personality that I would have sworn you were at the work session because I've gotten so that I can hear what you're saying in my head. I don't know if that's a good thing or a really scary thing. I know, I know. I'm really quite concerned about it. I may need to get you help for this. Well,
 Second of all, anybody who's seen the proposed budget would not suspect that you would be up for funding hundreds of millions of dollars in the Parks Bureau. So I don't think we need to worry about that. To be serious, however, yes, that's what the task force is going to look at. And actually part of what I'm quite interested in is the work of the consultants to tell us what other jurisdictions do. Yes, I think it would...
 would need to be made very clear by whoever is the Parks Commissioner when this gets going, is that don't come to us with a single option of $750 million because we don't have it. Right, and I wouldn't support that. No, neither do I. I just want to be really honest about that up front so people don't serve on a task force and then get disappointed when they come back and feel that their work was disrespected. I remember this was asked for by the Urban Forestry Commission, who likewise are...
 familiar with the challenges of funding tree programs over many years here in the City of Portland and who advise on our budget requests or the Bureau's budget requests. Very good. Mayor, may I make a suggestion? Commissioner Fish. So...
 We don't know how quickly this will be convened, and you have also indicated that at some point in the next six months there may be Bureau changes and various things. This doesn't just impact the Parks Bureau. It's conceivable that the Bureau of Environmental Services has an issue here, and then there's obviously a general fund and potentially other sources of hits. So what I would just – I mean, I would offer this as a friendly amendment, but I know that this is how Commissioner Fritz would intend to roll this out anyway –
 which is that if we approve this, that at the time of putting together a task force, that the Bureau touch base with each office as to the scope of whatever the task force is going to be asked to do and the composition of the task force, which I would expect Commissioner Fritz to do in either case, but I'll just put that on the record.
 I think when the Mayor hands the Bureau to whoever he hands it to, that could be a stipulation. Yeah, so the scope, the particular scope of the work of the task force and the composition of the task force and even the leadership in terms of who chairs it can all be discussed among council members. Thank you.
 Well, Commissioner, I know that you and I have found over the years that when we do things collaboratively between the five of us and have input early in the beginning to set the scope and get the membership, things tend to go better. So certainly if I do have the honor of leading this project, I would be happy to do that.
 Let me ask a related question to that. Maybe this is just a thinking out loud moment. The Parks Bureau has a lot on its plate right now. It has the cost recovery program. It will have the capital program. There's some ongoing visioning and strategic planning. Is this the right year for this, or are we –
 pushing the Bureau too hard to do too many planning exercises simultaneously. Do you have a sense of that? I envision that the Urban Forestry Commission and its supporters will be very active in this, and it's getting an outside consultant to help with the analysis. So I think it can be done in parallel. But if we're looking at the long-term financial sustainability of the Parks Bureau,
 cost recovery and the visioning, then how do we pay for street tree maintenance, I think should be part of that. And so I think this could be complementary. Very good. And...
 With regard to Amendment 3 and Director Scott, I'm probably looking more at you for this. I just want to be very clear, given the technical nature of this amendment, there's not a funding request. This is actually a positional authority. That's correct. Just to be perfectly clear. Yes, this is, as you described, a technical change. We realized, and actually Commissioner Fritz's staff realized that although council had approved amendments,
 In this bump, we are moving the funding for the open and accountable elections to special appropriations. There was previously a position that had been authorized in the Office of Neighborhood Involvement that had not been moved, and so we wanted to make sure that it was moved along with the funding. All right. That's really all it accomplishes. No additional money. No changes. Correct. Any further discussion, colleagues, or are we in a position –
 Do we have to take public testimony on this? That's a good question. Standby, standby. The answer is yes, it is an ordinance, so technically we do. Public testimony, Carla, on these items? No one signed up. Last chance. Colleagues, can we call the roll on Amendment Number 1, Commissioner Fritz's Amendment 1 with regard to the Street Tree Task Force? Please call the roll.
 Fish. I appreciate the discussion on this, and I look forward to learning more about how other cities have addressed this issue with a mix of carrots and sticks. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. As I mentioned at the work session, I can't believe I'm advocating quite so hard for this because I think it is something that's going to be really challenging and potentially give us a...
 no particularly good outcomes. However, it's something that previous councils have kicked the can down the road multiple times on, and I do believe it's my responsibility to advocate for this and then whoever is the Parks Commissioner to go ahead and get the work done. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Amendment's adopted. Amendment number two, and this is the increasing expenses by $40,000 to support dedicated rangers and Directors Park. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. I very much appreciate my colleague's response to this very late request. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The amendment's adopted. Amendment number three, this is the technical positional authority amendment. That's as exciting as I could make it sound. Sorry, you're right. I'll try harder next time. Please call the roll. Fish. Mayor, you did an admirable job of obfuscating what this is all about. This particular amendment's about. Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman aye Udaly aye Fritz I think I must win the prize for the geekiest amendment and I'm very proud of that aye Wheeler hands down aye the amendment's adopted amendment four and this was the one with regard to the carryover of the allocation to the Joint Office of Homeless Services please call the roll
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The amendment is adopted to the main motion. Please call the roll. Fish? Well, this is where we get a chance to thank a number of people for bringing us to this point. And I want to start with our independent budget office. There's actually a lot of work that goes into these bumps.
 budget modification processes. There's a lot of consultation that goes on with members of council, and there's a lot of money moving back and forth and being tracked. But Andrew and his team always manage to make this look smooth and easy, and so we appreciate the good work. I appreciate the...
 collegial spirit in which the council reviews these recommendations, first the requests, then CBO's views on the requests, the mayor's proposed, and then the amendments. It has become a much less, let me put it this way, this process has become less dramatic than it has been in the past because I think about the way we approach it. And I am proud to support this particular reconciliation. Aye. So, this one.
 Thank you to the Budget Office for all your work. You daily. Aye. Great. There's one other item I just wanted to call to everybody's attention, and this is a whopping $5,000 which Commissioner Fish put in for the creative laureate. Creative laureate. And it was brought to my attention by SUPAC, the parks...
 culture manager, arts and culture manager, that this is for two years. And that's even $5,000 seems like not a lot of money for the amount of work that our current cultural laureate is doing. So Commissioner Fish, if and when you're on the council again next year, I hope you'll bring back an annual appropriation for this amount. In the meantime, I'm very happy to support it and thank you for your leadership on that program. Aye. Thank you. Wheeler. Aye.
 Great work, everybody. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted as amended. Thank you. Thanks, Director Scott. Next item, please. 425. Is that a time? 3 o'clock. Time's 7. Oh, look at this. We should have talked a lot longer, told jokes or something. That would have been great. I'd say my best. All right. We are adjourned until 3 o'clock. Thank you, David. No worries. Good. Portland City Council, we are now back in session. Carla, could you please read item 425? Yes.
 Appoint new members to the new Community Involvement Committee as provided in the 2035 Comprehensive Plan for a term to expire April 30, 2021. So, colleagues, as Carla just said, we're happy to confirm these seven candidates to the new Community Involvement Committee. The candidates are Clara Carter, Isadeen, Alexandra Dager, Beth Rubin.
 Jai Singh, Sandra Walden, and Christina Weinholz. I think we have Sarah Wright going to desk. There's Sarah Wright there, front and center. Do you want to come up and introduce the CIC for us? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. So Chapter 2 of Portland's new comprehensive plan calls for the creation of a CIC to oversee the city's community involvement efforts for land use and transportation planning projects. And as Mayor Wheeler said, these appointments are the first members of the new Community Involvement Committee.
 So Claire Carter retired in 2017 from ODOT after a 32-year career as an environmental professional. Her formal education includes a BS in geography and a bachelor's, master's degree in landscape architecture with a special emphasis on community involvement in design. She and her family have lived in southwest Portland since 1999.
 Issa Dean lives in North Portland and has served on the Humboldt Neighborhood Board, the PCC Bond Advisory Committee, and currently the RAC Artist in Residence Panel for the Humboldt Neighborhood. She is the Regional Technology Coordinator in the North Northeast region for Multnomah County Library. Alexandra Dager started working at HP, Inc. after receiving her Ph.D. in Environmental Engineering from Oregon State University. She is on the Overlook Neighborhood Association Board, where she serves as Transportation Chair and Board Secretary.
 Beth Rubin has recently moved to Portland and is Professor Emeritus of Sociology at the University of North Carolina, Charlotte. An interdisciplinary scholar, before her retirement she directed the Ph.D. in Public Policy Program and held positions of Professor of Sociology, Organizational Science and Public Policy and Adjunct Professor in Management.
 Jai Singh is a field organizer at APANO. Jai recently graduated with a master's degree in urban and regional planning from Portland State University and is also a proud 2016 graduate of the Opal Environmental Justice Oregon Organizer and Training Program.
 Sandra Walden lives in downtown Portland. She has worked as a realtor and developer in the Pearl District, solar developer, and also for the wireless industry, building and modifying telecommunication sites. She's been an active participant in neighborhood associations and the downtown business association and has a longstanding interest in urban planning.
 Christina Wienholz lives in Portland with her family. She graduated from the City of Portland's Disability Leadership Academy in 2017 and remains active in alumni activities. She's also currently a member of the Resolutions Northwest facilitation cohort. So we're pretty excited to bring these seven people on board for this brand new committee.
 Because Chapter 2 of the 2035 Comprehensive Plan lays out a set of ambitious goals and policies on community engagement. And this new CIC will help advise staff on how to make those work in real life and how to continuously learn, adapt, and refine practices for meaningful, inclusive involvement. Great.
 Very good. And are any members of the committee proposed candidates here today? I don't believe so. And I know we extended the invitation, and sometimes it's very, very hard for people to take time off, but I appreciate your taking the time to go through and read a little bit about the biography of each. Colleagues, I don't know if you have any questions. If not, I'd entertain a motion. I move the report. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman. Aye. Eudaly. Aye. Fritz. I don't recall the last time we had so few men on the committee, and I'm looking forward to seeing what they do. Aye. Wheeler. Well, I want to thank all of those who are stepping forward to serve on the CIC. It's a very important and new venture for the city of Portland, and as I always say, the work will be hard, it will be interesting, and the pay will be lousy.
 But we're always delighted to have people of such caliber step forward and serve the people of this city. I vote aye. The report is adopted. Thank you for being here today. Now we have to adjourn again. Oh, good Lord. Yeah, we do. Yeah, so we have four time certans today, which is confusing. So we have to adjourn until 315. We are in recess. All right. We are back in session. 426, please, Carla. Thank you.
 suspend system development charges for parks and recreation, environmental services, transportation, and water for the construction of accessory dwelling units that are occupied by the property owner or have a rental agreement subject to ORS 90, the Residential Landlord and Tenant Act. Very good. Commissioner Udayla. Thank you, Mayor. First, I'd like to move to consider an amended version of the resolution. It's been distributed.
 earlier. The amended version directs a new approach to enforcement of the policy. Old language has strikethroughs. New language is underlined in copies of the resolution that was previously distributed. Second. Thank you. We have a motion for and is this actually a substitution? Yes. So we have a motion for a substitution and this comes from Commissioner Udali. It's seconded by Commissioner Fish.
 Commissioner, for the purpose of people at home, could you just read into the record the additional, not the changes, but the be it further resolved that you're adding? Sure. Be it further resolved that the council further directs the Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services Revenue Division to administer short-term rental covenants associated with SDC waivers for ADUs, develop a fee schedule and budget for administering STR covenants,
 collect data annually about rents charged to ADUs that receive SDC waivers, enforce violations of STR covenants, and present a biannual report to Council regarding the volume of SDC waivers granted and rental rates at ADUs that receive SDC waivers. The Revenue Division will begin administering STR covenants within 120 days of receiving STR data from the STR platforms.
 If Portland Housing Bureau or another city bureau begins collecting rental data that includes rents charged by landlords, the rent data collection function and biennial reporting requirement will transfer to that bureau. That's it. Okay. So, hello, everybody. Hi.
 The Systems Development Charge Waiver for Accessory Dwelling Units has had a powerful impact on the market. Since the waiver was originally approved by the City Council in 2012, development of ADUs has dramatically increased from roughly 50 a year to 500 a year.
 This resolution directs SDC charging bureaus to extend the waiver. It does not include a sunset, but it does direct that a biennial report about the policy be presented to council. That report will enable future councils to evaluate the ongoing efficacy and necessity of the ADU SDC waiver.
 The other significant policy change that this resolution directs is that recipients of SDC waivers will be required to sign a covenant barring them from listing their property on short-term rental platforms. This policy is designed to support the development of long-term rentals, not commercial development. This resolution represents a first step in a multi-step strategy to help Portlanders meaningfully engage in solving our housing problem.
 Some of our next steps include, or my next steps include, working with my colleagues to fund a project that will develop a lending product which will enable moderate-income homeowners to finance ADU development as well as bring down the cost of developing ADUs with off-the-shelf designs, teneting assistance, and other strategies. We will also be including ADUs in the field issuance remodel program at BDS
 That will significantly decrease the time and headaches associated with permitting ADUs. And we will be exploring a limited property tax abatement for ADUs that are affordable to people earning 60 to 80 percent of medium family income with our partners at the county.
 Government can't solve the housing crisis by itself. People in Portland want to help. More than 800 people signed up for a Multnomah County pilot program to host a homeless family in their backyard in an ADU built by the county. If we help create the right combination of incentives and market supports, Portlanders will step up to help us solve our housing problem while developing new sources of income for themselves and building wealth in their homes.
 Growth does not have to be a win-lose proposition for Portlanders, but it clearly has been. The rising tide of prosperity is leaving out many longtime Portlanders. A significant number of homeowners as well as renters are struggling to keep up. A recent Oregon Center for Public Policy report indicated that 24% of homeowners in Oregon are cost burdened. I believe the number is significantly higher in the city of Portland.
 If we don't do this work, I'm worried that our approach to infill will only benefit affluent homeowners and developers. So we need to develop strategies that enable as many Portlanders as possible to benefit from the city's growth and prosperity and the coming residential infill policy changes.
 We need to do everything we can to harness market forces to produce more affordable housing. ADUs are not going to solve our housing crisis alone, but they should be a significant part of our comprehensive strategy. I'm going to stop there and invite staff and some local experts to testify. We have Matt Wickstrom, Senior City Planner with BDS.
 Robert Liberty, Director of the Institute of Sustainable Solutions at PSU, and Eli Spivak, owner of Orange Slot LLC. Welcome. Please state your name for the record. Matt Wickstrom, Bureau of Development Services. And what I'd like to do is quickly walk through the resolution with you, and I'll just start from the top and go, just kind of give you a summary of what the different components of the resolution are. Okay.
 So as Commissioner Udaly said, the resolution is to suspend SDC fees for ADUs that are not rented as accessory short-term rentals. And there's language in the ordinance that speaks to...
 How ADUs contribute to the housing density and housing stock in Portland, therefore, which can have an impact on affordability overall. Then there's language in the...
 Resolution that just speaks to accessory dwelling units in the Portland Zoning Code and how we regulate them. It notes that the SDC fees for ADUs do present a substantial barrier to homeowners just because of the proportion of the costs the SDCs are in comparison to the overall project value.
 And then we outlined that the intent of this resolution is not to allow the SDC waivers for accessory short-term rentals. And then as far as the now therefore be it resolved, the council would be asking the bureaus that charge SDC fees to return to council with proposed amendments to Portland City Code that would extend the SDC waiver program.
 So that's no longer temporary. I understand it doesn't have a sunset date, but it would be re-evaluated on a biannual basis. And then after that, it speaks to that there would be a penalty for those who do rent, who are found to have rented the accessory dwelling unit as a short-term rental while having also taken the SDC waiver. And the time period that the...
 ADU cannot be rented as a short-term rental is 10 years, and the penalty for renting it within those 10 years would be 150% of the SDC fee at that time. And then finally, the...
 The resolution speaks to the Revenue Bureau being the bureau that would monitor accessory short-term rentals on Airbnb and HomeAway websites. And if they do notice that one that received an SDC waiver has been listed on those sites, they would notify the SDC bureaus and then they would pursue collection of the waived SDC fees at that 150% rate.
 And we have Thomas Lanham here, Director of Revenue Bureau, if anyone has questions about the enforcement piece. Thank you. Mr. Liberty? Mr. Mayor and Commissioners, I'm Robert Liberty. I'm the Director of the Institute for Sustainable Solutions at Portland State University. First, I want to disclose that I've begun work on a basement ADU in our house, and if we are tardy in submitting our application, then we will personally benefit from the extension of the waiver.
 Since August of 2016, our institute has been making substantial investments of faculty, students, staff time, and cash to the tune of $140,000 on a project to promote accessory dwelling units and to have them achieve affordability, equity, and sustainability objectives.
 Our ADU project has engaged PSU faculty from architecture, business, economics, geography, gerontology, and urban and regional planning. We've worked with the staff at your bureaus of development services, housing, and sustainability, and we're grateful for the support we've had from Commissioner Udaly. Participants in our project include nonprofit housing providers.
 For-profit developers like Eli Spivak, financial institutions, and neighborhood groups are shown in Appendix A, although I probably have omitted some. We're collaborating to design, to help implement, and to evaluate a variety of public, private, and nonprofit systems. And I want to emphasize this point, systems, to A, greatly increase the production of ADUs in Portland,
 Have ADU meet the housing needs of Portlanders of modest means, expressly those between 60% and 80% of median area household income. C, mitigate some of the displacement caused by gentrification and achieve related equity objectives. And D, use ADUs to help achieve some of the city's sustainability goals, particularly around greenhouse gases.
 There are a range of challenges to be overcome if we were to realize these goals, and a partial list of those challenges and our approach to them are provided in Appendix B. As part of the foundational work for these efforts, our institute commissioned a survey of more than 500 Portland ADU owners and tenants carried out toward the end of 2017 by Professor Matthew Gephardt and Ph.D. student Yale Kidron.
 The survey confirmed that your waiver of STCs has been an essential contributor to the growth in ADU applications, which have risen, as Commissioner Udalia said, from a few score to more than 500 in recent years. Wynn asked, quote, did the system development charge STC waiver influence your decision to apply for an ADU permit? Seventy percent of the respondents said yes.
 That response is not surprising given that 15% of the ADUs built by the respondents cost less than $50,000. And another 31% cost between $50,000 and $100,000. Adding $15,000 in SDC charges would translate into a cost increase of between 15% and 30%. Some additional excerpts from this. ...access your lift data...
 Some additional excerpts from that survey about the use, rents, and types of ADUs, and given in the context of some Portland data on household and home size, are attached in Appendix C. In conclusion, the SDC waiver is essential to allow ADUs to continue to make a very important, and I would add distinctive, contribution to Portland's housing supply. They are not like apartments, and they're not like single-family homes.
 I look forward to our continued work with the city to find ways for ADUs to make Portland a hometown once again where people of modest means can find a good quality home to live in across the city. Thank you. Thank you.
 Commissioner to the Mayor, my name is Eli Spivak. I am a developer, general contractor. Although I'm not wearing that hat right now, I serve on the Planning Commission, and there will be some accessory dwelling units involved in the upcoming residential info project. How it lands, I'm not sure where that will be yet. But I spoke nine years ago in support of waiving system development charges to City Council. Things have changed a lot since then, and Portland should be commended for going with that experiment. We've been a national leader in accessory dwellings since...
 Just last month, 11 jurisdictions around in the region are all coming together with metros convening to adopt their own accessory dwelling unit codes to stimulate the market, not just in Portland, but in cities all outside of Portland. The state of Oregon now requires every city to allow an accessory dwelling unit.
 California requires it now, and Washington, D.C. is making changes. It's happening across the country. Portland is looked to as a leader in this world. And although Portland has been a leader in the number of ADUs created, that's short-lived. Los Angeles, just based on the state requirement, legalized ADUs, and they got 1,600 permits issued in a few months. So we're not going to be the leader in numbers anymore, but we can be the leader in policy. And I think that,
 The system development charge waiver was a key stimulus, and it's appropriate. I support the resolution that disqualifies short-term rentals for that waiver, but I think we should remember the benefits of accessory dwelling units beyond affordability.
 in terms of capital A affordability, we're actually restricting tenants based on their income or their rent level. One of them is that even a market-raised accessory dwelling unit is by far the least expensive house in a neighborhood, oftentimes half the rent, even at market rent. The demographic match is perfect for our demographics we have right now, where there's aging population...
 The big population booms are in people retiring and getting smaller households, downsizing, and young people forming households for the first time. ADUs are a perfect match for either end of that continuum. ADUs also represent a way to reinvest in existing neighborhoods in such a way that you accompany existing houses or repurpose existing bedrooms rather than take down houses.
 Many ADUs, even unregulated, are rented for zero or almost nothing to family members or loved ones just to provide some independence and access to a safety net that people can do on their own. And the thing that originally got me invested in the ADU world was environmental benefits. Just having smaller space of house to condition decreases the climate impacts of living in a city.
 I was really excited by the brilliant suggestion from, I think it was Commissioner Fishes and Todd's office of, if we're going to provide this subsidy, why don't we get some data out of it? And I know it takes a lot of work for ISS and others to collect data from owners. So collecting rent data is one great idea. I could think of some other data we might also want to collect from SECs in exchange for getting the waiver. Perhaps we can talk about that later to inform our decision making.
 But I think that going forward, the great thing Portland can lead on that's not being done anywhere else in the country is figuring out ways that less affluent people can create ADUs. Because right now, to do it, you need to have $50,000 or $150,000 in your back pocket or have a lot of home equity to build one. So it's great for the person who rents it, who lives in it, but it still takes a certain level of affluence to create one in the first place. And what Portland can do with new financial products, where there's frankly a market gap,
 Perhaps property tax abatement assistance is to help make creating them more available. And if you want to achieve affordable, like regulated affordable housing and accessory dwelling units, there are some tools we can look at, like a waiver of your limited property tax while you have someone low income living in the ADU.
 or if the city provides some financing, do a waiver on interest payments during the time that someone who's income-prolifying lives there at a low rent. So there are some tools we can explore, and we know, though, that from other cities that have linked
 accessory dwelling units to regulated affordable housing, it's turned out to be a poison pill, intentioned or not. So I hope that Portland does look for new ways that we can stimulate affordable housing and ADUs and look for some of the financing things that ISS is working on with Craft 3 to be a leader in that way as well. Thanks. Thank you.
 Colleagues, any questions? Yeah, I have a question for Eli. I know that you do cottage cluster development. Why should an accessory dwelling unit that is 800 square feet not pay SDCs, whereas a building in a cottage cluster that doesn't happen to be an ADU, but it's 800 square feet, why should there be a difference in how much they pay SDCs? I think that, well,
 Poland doesn't allow Kadesh clusters now, at least in the way... No, aren't we? What did you say? Are we not going to in the new infill? I'm sort of juggling my hats here. The discussion draft...
 doesn't add cottage clusters in the way you increase your density for smaller homes. They would allow accessory dwelling units to accompany primary homes in planned developments. So that may be a good question to ask, to jump in when we get there. I mean, it's a fair question of whether, I mean, the prime question here is, should accessory dwelling units get a benefit from,
 and not pay towards infrastructure resources. And I think that it is a subsidy for accessory drilling units. That's why I wanted to outline the other policy reasons why the city has been and I think should continue to encourage them. I said a few years ago that the best approach would be to waive the fees
 until we scale down SECs all based on home size. And Parks Bureau has done that. Other bureaus have not. So I guess it's a fair policy question. I think that if you have...
 In some cities that allow cottage clusters, they usually allow them to about 1,200 square feet, which really gets a three-bedroom size. And at this point, though, Portland has this accessory dwelling unit animal that is capped at 800 square feet or three-quarters the size of the main house, which is a bit smaller than most cottage clusters are allowed. Mr. Liberty. An addendum that might address some of the interests of Commissioner Fritz. The survey showed that
 41% of the units were under 500 square feet. An additional 28% were 500 to 700 square feet. 43% were interior, at least 43% were internal conversion. So, well, I should say garage renovations, basement renovations, and a certain share are attics. The other thing that Eli mentioned is looking at both rents and home costs.
 The average home price, single-family home price in Portland is about $400,000. If you need 20% down payment, that's $80,000. If you want to build a $150,000 ADU, you need $150,000. That's one of the big challenges. Another is...
 My background is in land use policy, but I now have to become a developer in order to do this, and that is a tremendous burden. And so making it as easy to build an ADU as it is to get solar panels, something that Inhabit's working on, I think, is also critical. Finally, the rent information we have, and Eli has alluded to this both from the 2013 survey and our survey, shows a lot of the units are charged below market or no rent to family or friends.
 and the rent range we have from the survey is pretty much close to the range of what would be affordable to 60 to 80 percent of median family income right now. Now, not all of them, and we don't have the breakdown, but it means that the policy interventions available to the city might be pretty inexpensive for that area.
 people in that market range. That's what's a very interesting experiment. This is the private sector's building the units and then non-profits, the homeowners themselves who own the ADUs, and government together maybe just need to provide a little bit more, plus some information to make that a significant supply. That's what's really exciting about it. And we do all that, we also get big greenhouse gas benefits out of it.
 Thank you. I don't know how many houses you'd be allowed to build in a cottage cluster scenario, but one of the arguments for me in support of ADUs is presumably we're going to allow people to build two ADUs when rip comes, one in the basement and one either attached or detached. That's really just adding one or two units onto an existing home building
 relatively small units, and in many cases, bringing the number of residents on that property back up to more historic levels because our single-family neighborhoods are
 in general less dense than ever because people are having smaller families and there's not as many multi-generational households. So I'd say the difference between adding one or two ADUs and adding six individual homes on one lot is significant. And that would be my justification of waiving SDCs for ADUs versus cottage clusters. Well, it depends, though, on the zoning.
 and on who's benefiting and who's burdened. So I'm going to be bringing to council in the next few weeks transfer of development rights from the community garden at Thomas Cully Park where Saving Community Development Association is developing a cottage cluster on an R3 zoned property right next door. 16,000 square feet. They're going to do 10 detached homes.
 and I think it's going to be a wonderful development. That's what they're trying for. That's single-family homes going to be at affordable rents because it's a Saving Community Development Association. Now, admittedly, they'll get a different exemption. But I think we should be looking at like with like and just looking at...
 How does growth pay its way? Because all these people who are going to, the people who are going to be living in these accessory dwelling units, particularly if you've taken your backyard to put the accessory dwelling units in, they're going to need a park to play in somewhere nearby. And how does that, if we have the philosophy, which we've had for many years, thanks to the urban growth boundary and Metro 2040 plan, that growth is going to pay its way, how does this jive with that? Let me answer a technical question first. The development,
 Cottage cluster you just described there is a multi-family zoning. So they would pay a reduced impact fee compared to single-family homes because you just pay lower rates per unit in multi-family than you do in single-family. And if the residential info project folds in a cottage cluster provision, as the city council has asked them to do, that would be an example of a cottage cluster provision within single-family zoning where SEC rates are a step higher. Okay.
 So I think that the development you're thinking of, even if it weren't a nonprofit sponsor, if they actually have to pay the SDCs, they'd be paying a lower rate. I'm building two projects right now that are multifamily zoning. Effectively, you might call them a cottage cluster, but they're outside of what the residential infill project would be doing, because it's zoned multifamily. To your main point, I think that there is...
 i mean i want to give you credit for the that's it's correct that we like to pay as we go for infrastructure stuff for uses um and i i think i'm gonna sort of listen to what commissioner daly said about the um
 In many of our established neighborhoods, population density has gone down, and ADUs are a way of bringing the population up to what was there beforehand. And those impacts have been paid for by prior owners investing through property taxes, or however it was before we did system development charges to create some parks.
 And this has been a stimulus strategy that's been effective. I think we still achieve good public policy benefits from accessory dwelling units appropriate to the small level of subsidy we provide to them through the SEC waiver program. But I take your point. I mean, it's a good point. Isn't it true that the accessory dwelling units have mostly been done in higher income neighbourhoods?
 So it's the people who are already homeowners who are then getting this break, and it's the only 0.9% of them are in East Portland, and that's the place that most needs the system development charges to build up the system. That's why we need our loan product. I would say that, first of all, having people, and I would say it's not wealthy people building them. There's people with a lot of home equity. They may or may not be wealthy. Wealthy people don't need them.
 So people with home equity are investing that in something that's providing housing supply. Now compare that strategy to relying on a housing bond for a different population at $200,000 each. Okay.
 I think you're creating supply that you can then use in a way that benefits the community. Without that, it wouldn't exist. And I believe without this waiver, a lot of those units would not have been built. Now, your questioning about is it fair and how is the burden distributed to pay for infrastructure is a good one. And I think that's why the sunset claw or the review period is appropriate to look at that and decide, is it fair? Are we getting the results? If in two years...
 You saw the same pattern and there wasn't a change in how they were used. And I think it's going to be a legitimate question. That's the point of this sunset. And it's a hard sunset. And I would suggest that the evidence shows that it is not only not fair, it's not equitable.
 The places that have been benefiting the areas of town are the more affluent areas, the ones with more homeowners, and the places that really need the system development charge money to build capacity in the system are the ones that continue to need it. Aren't the beneficiaries the tenants rather than the owners? I think we've gotten way off track here. I mean, so we're going to just all of a sudden ignore the fact that we have a policy that promotes
 new development and opportunity areas. The equity lens here is who's being served, not the geography in which they're being built. And the reality is that we have a strong preference in our policies for encouraging development with our limited toolkit, which is either carrots or sticks, in areas of high opportunity. To call that inequitable goes against the whole notion of opportunity.
 Some of the neighborhoods where you're seeing most ADUs built are very expensive and have been very resistant to up zones, and this seems to be the most politically palatable way of getting smaller, more affordable units in those communities. Let me offer an analogy. People who afford to live there. No one here would say that it is inequitable to give a tax abatement to someone who wants to put a fancy development in an affluent area that produces, under inclusionary housing, a percentage of units that are set aside that are affordable. Right.
 We'd actually say that that's the best possible outcome because it's in a high-opportunity neighborhood with good infrastructure, close to schools, with transportation, and we're now actually expanding choice in giving people a choice in where they're going to live. So my guess is that there's less ADUs in East Portland, as Commissioner Udaly was just alluding to, because of the cost barriers. And as you pointed out, Professor Liberty –
 The, you know, these, it's not like buying a house, we put 20% down. You know, you actually probably have to have the full 150 or find some way to finance it that's different. So, yeah.
 I don't buy the argument that it's a failed policy or inequitable simply because East Portland isn't fully participating. I think that points to other barriers of entry that we can address by having different financing mechanisms that encourage neighborhoods that don't have the same access to capital to build accessory dwelling units. But actually, if you draw that one.
 When we drill down, it does, because taking less system development charge money from one group of developers increases the assessments required from the remaining pool of applicants who then are not building those. And that's particularly the case in the utilities.
 So we're required to replace funding that we don't take in when we waive SDCs. And so that's going to have to come from rates for your bureaus. Let's be clear. One of the reasons that one of the number of reasons why I'm not opposed to this policy is it actually has a very modest impact.
 It has an extremely modest impact on the rates. I wish they were being built to scale to such a point that we could have the debate about whether it's putting pressure on rates. But what we're trying to do is still prime the pump. If and when the pump is primed, we can talk about whether it needs to be sunset. Professor Liberty.
 If I may, with regard to the distribution of the units, I think one of the things that happened not concurrently with the recovery from the recession, the waiver of the SDCs and some changes to the regulatory requirements, is Portland became a hot destination for tourism.
 I mean, I never would have imagined 20 years ago to see tourists, wealthy tourists from mainland China going to Division Street to eat at fancy restaurants. I mean, that was inconceivable. So those neighborhoods became very attractive for high returns, which some people used to finance their ADUs. When there is more knowledge and opportunity in financing, I think the ADUs build in outer neighborhoods, which are not...
 desirable as a short-term rental location. And some of the housing is actually cheaper to convert. So when my parents moved from
 inner Portland in 1962 to Washington County. We moved into a standard ranch home on a slope with a downstairs with a big window, a wet bar, two bedrooms. Now to convert that into a rental unit would be very inexpensive, be great housing, and create, I think, a bigger supply over larger parts of the city. So what I think we're seeing is the beginning of the market. This is the pump priming stage.
 And what we want to do, and I think all your partners want to do, is to make sure that the opportunity is more widespread, serves more housing needs. And I think there will always be, of course, this question about who's bearing the burden in terms of the infrastructure. But I would agree with Eli that the city was built with infrastructure for a much higher population density in those neighborhoods than currently lives in it. I'll also add one other comment because I think this is a fascinating discussion. Okay.
 If the question was philosophically, should we be...
 by encouraging the private sector to do certain things that we want them to do by using foregone revenue, I would say that's not my preferred way of doing it. So there is inherent in tax abatements, in tax credits, in waivers of SDCs and other things, there are distortions that in a perfect world we would correct by having enough money to provide a direct subsidy. Okay.
 The direct subsidy route is obviously the most efficient way of doing it, but we don't have the resources to do it, so we use a lot of carrots,
 in our toolkit that result in foregone revenue. The foregone revenue impacts infrastructure, impacts school funding, impacts money available to the county to fund good deed, impacts our general fund. But we're making – we're using the tool, A, because we don't have necessarily a better tool, and, B, we've made a judgment that the public benefit outweighs the cost.
 But even within the tax abatement plan, I mean, we have tax abatements that come before us, and depending on the value of the dirt, the abatement could be worth X versus Y. The value is more. The hit to the general fund is more in nice areas that have established infrastructure and therefore higher property values. But we make a judgment that investing in high-opportunity neighborhoods is actually a positive thing.
 In a perfect world, again, I'd rather have the dollars go out through the front door and not the back door because it does produce some distortions. We don't live in that perfect world, and we have only a handful of ways to stimulate the private sector to do things which we think are in our long-term public interest. I'd like to be clear that I –
 I share Commissioner Fritz's concerns about who this is benefiting and that this waiver is only one piece of a much larger strategy. And that strategy must include a lending product. So we can deliver the benefits of RIP as far down the income spectrum as possible. As everyone has noted, you need to have access to capital to develop an ADU. There is no loan product for an ADU. And,
 in simplest terms, what this loan product would do is take into account the rent generated by the ADU, and that would enable much more modest-income homeowners to develop ADUs. And I see this as a strategy for people who want to age in place, people who want to get their kids out of their basement, maybe into their backyard. That's kind of my situation. Okay.
 And, yeah, just really – he's not in my basement. He's in my second bedroom. I just – That's cold. Yeah, but after this, he may want to be in the basement. One year until he's 18. That's cold. And then it's to the backyard. But, I mean, honestly, the ADU will probably be nicer than the main house. Yeah.
 Anyhow, it's a low-impact way to add density to our single-family neighborhoods, and it's also a way to invite average Portlanders to help us solve part of our housing crisis. And that's the most hopeful thing to me. When we talk about the numbers...
 25,000 affordable units, short 35,000, however many units we are behind. That is so daunting. And I do the math based on what we're producing now, and I think we might solve that problem in 500 years. Maybe our population will decline and it will happen a little faster. But by breaking it down and giving opportunity to potentially thousands of property owners in our city, it becomes...
 infinitely more doable. And I'm really, really hoping that we can hit this from every angle and make the most of this opportunity that's coming with RIP.
 Could I, since I never like to miss out on a nerdy conversation, do we have good data on what I guess I'll just call the but-for argument? Do we know that if you provide this subsidy, how many additional units it's generating at the margin? Do we have any sense of that?
 That question was not asked, Mr. Mayor, in the survey. It just asked if it was important, and you have to deduce based on the relative weight of the SDC waiver compared to the total project budget. That's pretty substantial. My anecdote is if the SDC waiver was applied, we wouldn't be building our unit. It's just absolutely impossible. That's fair enough. So on the margin, that certainly made a difference for you. I think if we can go a little deeper into nerddom,
 I think the other thing that some light is shed on is what would be the alternative for the people in the ADUs if they didn't exist. For most of them, it's apartments. And the people who choose to live in an ADU are picking something that's quite different from an apartment, which has some of the attributes and a location, like a single-family home, but a rent that's at least in many cases competitive of what it would be for an apartment.
 I think in the future there are not many families that have children in ADUs right now. It's a small percentage. But school choice is very important. We have a problem with income segregation in Portland public schools. It's pretty significant. So let me stipulate on the demand side. This is a fabulous thing. I'm not disputing that at all. I love ADUs. Eli sort of hit the nail on the head in terms of my thinking. This is...
 the lowest threshold...
 easiest, politically most expedient way to drive additional housing into what, if I can just use the pejorative, are more, quote, traditional, unquote, neighborhoods. It fits with the character. People don't come in here and get riled up about an ADU. It seems to be broadly accepted as a strategy, and it creates on the demand side all these great opportunities that wouldn't be there otherwise. I guess where I was going with this is, you
 is the marginal value of creating an ADU greater than the cost when you sell your house? I mean, it seems to me from the perspective of a homeowner, it is the economically rational and smart thing to do to build an ADU because the cost you pay, and you said whatever you said it was, you know,
 My guess is you get back a lot more than that in additive value when you sell your house. Do you know if that's true or is that false? It's actually one of the things that in the project we've heard, and Eli has been at this a lot longer than I have, the appraisers don't agree. Okay. And I went to speak to some realtors in Hillsborough.
 last month about this. And they asked me for information. I said, I don't think we know yet. But what we can show, and the survey shows, is the payback period on the investment. That return is high. Now, that includes the 26% that are getting short-term benefits.
 rental income, and that's very high. One of the products that will come next from our project will be from the Northwest Economic Research Center, and it will be a kind of pro forma for the homeowners to help them think about this. So that will – it's not going to answer the question about the market, but it will help homeowners make the decision about whether it's a good investment. So on the equity argument, and then I'll stop, but it was such a great – and it was really a good conversation, and I didn't want to interrupt it –
 I agree that on the demand side, the equity issue is being addressed in any area of high opportunity, provided that the price is right and people are able to afford to come in at various levels of affordability.
 I do think there's an equity issue on the supply side. If we're providing a government subsidy broadly that is not being used broadly but is providing additive value to a limited or a select group of homeowners, that is an inequity. Mayor, can I address that for a sec? Yeah, please. Because I want to throw a – and maybe ask Professor Liberty to comment on this –
 You said something this morning about us being more intentional about taking the age-friendly format framework and applying it to our policy. So let me offer the obvious analogy. The assumption you're making in the question you ask is that we're providing a benefit that increases the value of an asset and that someone potentially gets a windfall when they turn around and sell their house. Let's assume that what we're trying to do is prevent someone from having to sell their house.
 and instead hold onto their house as an asset. Let's take the person that we want to age in place, the elderly couple that can no longer manage a house, that transitions to the ADU and rents out their house so they have a steady stream of income, which covers their expenses that allows them to age in place. If that ends up being a byproduct of this,
 that older residents who would prefer not to sell and would like to keep the house in the family, use the house as a rental stream, move into an ADU and flip the arrangement, it seems to me if the data supports it, that would be a big win for an age-friendly Portland. Yeah, I don't disagree. But, again, that potential benefit is not available broadly. It's available to those particular homeowners. I think – But I don't dispute that. I mean –
 For me, this is somewhat of an interesting academic conversation. I support this, but I just want to be clear. It's multifaceted both on the supply and the demand side. Mayor Wheeler, I think that's an appropriate question. And if the benefits are accruing mostly to people that already have a lot of assets in their homes, I think you have to think about the policy. I think we should measure it. Right. Well, I agree, and I think the – Actually, we already have that policy. It's called the mortgage interest deduction. That's correct. That's exactly the right thing.
 But what I would say is that one of the reasons it's been taken up in those neighborhoods I think has less to do, and it's not only just equity, but the intellectual capacity and professional connections people have who are able to do this. That's one of the reasons.
 It's not just the money. It's like a part-time job to do this, and that's something also that we have to address, is there has to be a development of a set of services, some of which can be public, some of which are non-profit, some of which are purely private and for-profit, to help people to make it really easy. Because most people do not have the time or the capacity to do this right now.
 That is something that needs to evolve. And I think when we see that, you'll see it spread in other neighborhoods. The second thing is I think when you come around to re-evaluating, you can say maybe, well, I would say that the impact of the... Just stop there, because if we don't have an actual hard sunset, there isn't really an evaluation. Well, I was going to talk about that, actually. Go ahead, then. Sorry. I think having an evaluation built into this is logical and appropriate. We are trying to do that with the existing policy as well.
 And I think the question about who's going to reap the benefits is an important one. You have a lot of tools, though, I think you're going to have to distribute the benefits more equitably between different neighborhoods. Well, but we had testimony from Bishop Stephen Holtz, who are looking at this very issue in the North Northeast plan. And they have recommended not moving forward with subcontracting.
 supporting more additional, well, at least continuing to monitor it. And he cited the very thing that you just said, that people may not be ready to be business owners, that they may not know all the rules about landlord-tenant law, that it's a more significant undertaking if they are going to rent them than just the matter of who gets to build them. But we're not requiring anybody to do this. And Bishop Holt was referring to...
 From what I could tell, a small sampling of people that came to a meeting that expressed some hesitation about it, but this is not a forced policy. This is something you can opt in or not. Well, yes, and we're talking about who gets to benefit from the waiver.
 It was $8 million of lost revenue in parks in 2017 from the affordable housing waiver and that system development charge waivers. That's a lot of money that could be used for developing new parks in East Portland, where you'll all remember those three lovely master plans that we approved that we don't have the money to build.
 So the waivers benefit homeowners and potentially the few renters who are renting those individual apartments. The people who are burdened are renters in other areas of the city who need the services and who are not going to get them because we're not going to have those $8 million a year. So we're having all the fun up here.
 And this has actually been a fantastic conversation. I'll let Commissioner Udaly get the last word, and then we should open it up for some public testimony. Carla, how many people have expressed an interest? I show seven more. Very good. Commissioner Udaly. Well, since it hasn't come up yet, I just want to point out that ADU development will generate tax revenue for the city and the county. And while there is...
 foregone revenue on the SDC side, we have a real issue with maintenance of our parks and our streets, and we can't spend SDC money on that. I don't have the exact numbers in front of me, but it would be interesting to look at, compare the tax revenue versus the foregone revenue on the SDC side.
 Yeah, I actually do have the numbers, and it's not significant. The amount of tax revenue you get from them is not enough to pay for the operations. Well, if we were building 1,500 ADUs a year, maybe it would be. Gentlemen, anything else for right now before we go into public testimony? If I may, just quickly. Yes, sir. With regard to the new ordinance that will prohibit short-term rentals, I think it will be very interesting to see if that shifts the geography significantly.
 Because I think the inner neighborhoods which have high demand, the ones where people are building it to serve that need, and with other things that are in progress, I think maybe we'll see a broader distribution. That's certainly my hope and goal.
 Very good. Excellent discussion. Thank you. So, folks, when you're called up for public testimony, you get three minutes. The yellow light will give you 30 seconds. When it is red, please stop talking because I hate to be the talking police guy. So please wrap it up when you get to your three minutes. State your name for the record. We don't need your address. Please do let us know if you're a member of a lobbyist organization. That's required by council rules.
 First three, Carla. Are Joe Robertson, Robert Bergen, and Tom Miller. Thank you for being here. Tim Miller. Those are the longest 30 minutes of my life. You should have been here earlier today. Yeah, that's interesting. How do we do this? One at a time? Yes, sir. One at a time. And the mics sound like they're on. I don't know if Carla can see the light. Okay.
 Very good. And we find out that about six inches away is sort of ideal. Okay. Thank you, sir. All right. My name is Bob Bergen. I am a 30-year general contractor in Oregon, mostly in northeast Portland. I'm presently a volunteer for Habitat International. I'm a post-disaster construction superintendent. And I'm also the liaison between the state VOAD and the state services office of Habitat. Okay.
 I have a piece of property that I've been wanting to build to 600, 800 square foot permanent homes on, which technically, in my opinion, ADU doesn't cover that
 But that's what you're calling it. And I'd be glad to do it. I've taken plans into the city twice and been told that the one on the right, there'd be no development fees, and the one on the right, on the left would cost me $30,000 to do. And I said, I'm not going to do that. That's ridiculous. So pursuant to that, I think that development services should have a whole new office
 to a new name to figure out how we're going to do all of these without development fees. And to answer Amanda I'm sorry, Commissioner Fritz's question, you know you're spending a ton of money moving people around that are camping and cleaning up and they're out there. Every ADU you put in or somebody puts in is going to get one of those people off the streets. You're going to save them money. You can put that into development. Okay.
 I call this do-it-yourself habitat. I'm sure there's a lot of people like myself who, you know, you can't take it with you. I'm not rich, but I would be more than happy to build those units 400, 600 square foot, make them absolutely off-grid. It can be done if you want to. There's no reason to do it, but we can make them that well, okay? Landscaping so that no one ever has to touch it, right?
 and rent them and I would be more than happy to charge a rent, commencement, what it cost me to do it, to where I will end up making no money on it. Now if you started that office in development services and developed a program like this and got the word out, did a little PR, I'm sure that you'd have people come into that office saying, show me how to do it. Okay? Just because it's the right thing to do.
 That's the way people are in Portland, okay? And it'd be a great thing. It'd be a very humanitarian action to do. Let's see. Am I done? No. Okay, the other thing I think you should do, one last thing, and I know this is way over the top. You need to get together with the Attorney General of Oregon and Washington and sue Airbnb. It's a violation of people's property rights. It changes my neighborhood into a commercial neighborhood.
 piece of property. And I don't think anyone's really looked into this. You know, it's a, I mean, you know, property rights have been the basis of a legal society since the signing of the Magna Carta. Okay? It's a big deal. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. It's a good testimony. Thank you. Okay. Hi, I'm Joe Robertson. I'm an owner of Shelter Solutions. I'm a residential builder.
 been building. This is the fourth time in the last nine years that I've testified to this commission concerning this issue of SDCs. And during that time, or during the last 20 years in Portland, I've built over 180 U's. So I have a pretty big group of case studies of how they've been used over the years and so forth. I appreciate the...
 the commissioners and their support of ADUs in the past, and as Eli said, making Portland really the leader in the nation in building ADUs. I've been amazed over the years of the uses of ADUs and how they can transition from one use to another throughout the life of them and provide all kinds of uses for the homeowners. Thank you.
 I do support this resolution and look at it as a reasonable compromise. However, I think there may be some negative unintended consequences. I don't know how it will be addressed as far as providing housing for relatives or friends on a short-term basis, and I hope that it will not do something to prevent that. Okay.
 I have a customer right now, for example. First of all, let me just say I'm not a big fan of Airbnb or short-term rental. A lot of my customers have done it, but not as many as you would think.
 Most of them are many more uses like Aging in Place, exactly this case study that you said. I've done four or five of those like that, and a lot of good uses. So it's a small percentage that's been Airbnb or that are Airbnb now. I have one, however, right now I'm going to be completed with in about 30 days, and she is building it primarily for her and her husband's parents to live in part-time.
 For her to be able to do that and provide that for them part-time, she has to rent it out as an Airbnb part-time to cover her costs. That's one example, and she told me today when I told her I was coming here, I would not be doing this if I couldn't supplement my income and cover my costs with a short-term rental. Another one that was just featured in the Oregonian about a month ago,
 in North Portland, they use it as a community meetings, neighborhood meetings, community and let other neighbors use it for their guests. They have to rent it out two weeks out of the year for our out of two weeks per month to cover their costs. So neither one of those would have built that ADU if they would have been prevented from doing that. So I think it's something that should be thought about.
 All in all, though, I support the resolution, and I thank you for your support. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, thank you so much for the chance to talk with you today. My name is Tim Miller, and I run an organization called Inhabit. You heard it mentioned earlier this afternoon. We're a nonprofit organization, and our mission is to create social impact through better living spaces. And we started just across the hall here back in 2009, 2010.
 You may know us for doing thousands of energy efficiency projects. We've helped about 5,000 families improve their homes. You may know that we've done seismic work to upgrade and improve the resilience of homes. Recently, we've worked in the floodplain to help reduce folks' insurance costs and help stabilize those families. And we're also the organization working with the county and with the Joint Office of Homeless Services to build the four pilot ADUs to help create housing for some homeless families.
 We all know that we are in a housing crisis, and ADUs are not the solution to the problem. We need multifamily buildings. We have shelters. We have dozens of nonprofits working on this. We're helping people stay in homes by improving those homes.
 A range of efforts, but ADUs can be a huge part of that range of solutions, as you all know. We see ADUs addressing homelessness, like in the units that we're building now, with programs wrapped around those construction projects. ADUs address low-income housing. ADUs can help folks stay in their homes, as we discussed earlier. ADUs can be a solution for aging in place and can be built ADA-compliant.
 ADUs can give folks access to neighborhoods they would not otherwise be able to access, opportunity neighborhoods as we've talked about before. And they're a path to gentle density is how our colleagues in Hood River are thinking about ADUs for them.
 We're working with dozens of partners on this effort. Mr. Liberty from the Institute for Sustainable Solutions and Eli are a couple of our friends and colleagues working on this effort, dozens of other groups. There's a whole team of nonprofits and other organizations working on a build small approach. How do we do all this work? At Inhabit, we're aiming to get units down to $100,000 to $125,000 to build them.
 But when you think about that math then, you see that $15,000 to $20,000 of SDCs is 15%, 20% of the cost, which is a really big swing. So we also see an importance of having a system that was mentioned in some of the comments to help
 Gather the right contractors, ideally minority and women-owned contractors, to the extent that we can do that. Designs, loans, we're working with Graph 3 and others to build and create access to those loan products, as Inhabit has always done, and create the help and process to help folks do this. So then hopefully it can go from 580 use a year to 1,580 use a year and really drive this. Without an SDC waiver, I think that 500 would go down to 100 or 150, back where it was before we had the SDC waiver.
 So we're really looking very closely at this, and SDCs are a fundamental platform on which we can build all these other programs to get at the issues that you all mentioned about who benefits and who doesn't. Thank you. They're a platform. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. The next three are Shuler Silva, Willie Dean, and Ben Jacklett. Good afternoon. Would you like to start, sir? Sure. Thank you. All right.
 Commissioners and Mayor, thanks for having us today. My name is Skyler Silva. I'm the co-owner and founder of Square Foot Studios, a design-build firm specializing in accessory dwelling units and home studios here in Portland. We're also working with Inhabit on the A Place for You project, providing ADUs for homeless people.
 I've come here today to give testimony on the resolution to extend the waiver of the service development charges on ADUs on behalf of our past, current, and future clients as well as their communities, not on behalf of my company. The resolution, should it pass, would be of great benefit to our company. That is no doubt. But as a design-build firm, we value our clients' needs first.
 A majority of our ADU clients approach us wanting to leverage their asset of property to create housing, adding a revenue stream for the homeowner. Many uses of our ADUs include long-term rental, serving as a guest house for friends and family, multi-generational living, and occasionally the use of short-term rental services during vacancies to supplement the expense. These above reasons are all win-win propositions.
 ADUs create additional housing while creating an easily achievable investment with a return for the homeowner. We believe that extending the SDC waiver for ADUs will continue the win-win proposition for homeowners and renters. The City of Portland has been revolutionary in its support for ADUs, and without its continued support, the unique opportunity of investment and increased housing will falter. Thank you.
 Square Foot Studios would also like to applaud the City Council for upholding its goal to increase density rather than relying on sprawl. Our city planners must also be applauded for their continuing efforts to maintain the urban growth boundary. Finally, we would like to acknowledge that this resolution is in response to a nuanced issue that requires continuous, thoughtful solutions. Square Foot Studios supports continued study and regular review of the issues affecting housing in Portland.
 As citizens of Portland ourselves, we would encourage the city council and the affected bureaus to find alternate streams of revenue to fill the gap of the SDC waiver for ADUs. With increased density comes increased wear and tear on our infrastructure, which is already in a state of disrepair. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Willie Dean. I own Ground Up Design Works. It's a...
 residential design business. And we provide permitting services to homeowners throughout Portland and have been doing so for five years. In the past five years, we've helped plan around 20 ADUs. And I think that, well, let's see, I'm just gonna read from this because I'm kind of babbling here. The waiver has been a significant incentive to many of the projects that we work on. Most of my projects,
 wouldn't have been able to get off the ground without the waiver being in place. And I just see it as a humongous benefit to the housing and rental market. The SDC waiver is an extremely successful way to incentivize new, compact, affordable infill housing built throughout the city. We're in the midst of a housing crisis in general, an affordable housing crisis in particular.
 Why take away a successful strategy in the midst of a crisis? The strategy has been great for the community and has put Portland on the forefront of this housing development type in the country. I mean, it's really a feather in the hat of Portland that we have this ADU development model, and people look to us to help.
 see what we're doing and find ways to promote ADU development in their communities. And I think that this specific issue has been probably the largest driver in that. So I'm just here to support the extension of the waiver. And I just think it's a really great thing, and it's been good for the community.
 for the housing market. If the waiver expires, we would continue to see ADUs being built, but not at the current rate. One of the last speakers said that we're at 500 right now, and if we continue forward, we can expect that number to grow. And if the waiver expires, I think we can expect that number to drop significantly. Great. Thank you. Kids, where are you from? We're from Purdue. Excellent. Welcome to Portland City Hall. Are you having a good time? Yes. Excellent. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it.
 Good afternoon, sir. Hello. My name is Ben Jacklin. I'm a little nervous with the new audience now. Forgive me. You have an audience. I'm with yimbyhomes.com, and I would like to encourage the council to extend Portland's bold ADU waiver program. This program is vital to the development of Portland's promising and diverse ADU ecosystem.
 and it is an integral component of the YIMBY mission to deliver backyard homes that are beautiful, sustainable, and affordable. ADUs represent a creative solution to the housing crisis. We applaud the City of Portland for taking the national lead on enabling and encouraging people to build them.
 Well-designed ADUs can lower carbon footprints and create livelier, denser neighborhoods without demolition and disruption. The omission of short-term rentals from the fee waiver makes perfect sense to me. I applaud the city for standing firm with its housing objectives. The fee waiver represents a major investment in the housing future of Portland, and it makes sense to invest judiciously.
 I believe strongly that this investment will pay off for Portlanders in many ways, including job creation. Thank you for the opportunity to share our support of this resolution. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. We appreciate your testimony. Carla, how many more do we have? These are the last two who signed up. John Baer and Tom Karwacki.
 Good afternoon, gentlemen. Would you like to start, please? Sure. My name is Tom Karwocki, University Park Neighborhood Association Land Use Chair. We put this on our website and social media. I think the comments came back from people.
 40 comments in less than 24 hours is pretty good dealing with issues on this nature. One, they've requested they keep the record open so that you can actually get some input from people who aren't developers or architects involved with this process.
 The main issue and concern that people had, and I do too personally, is the clawback workability. So how are you going to actually clawback the $19,000 or whatever the SDC waiver is if someone has to, because of a recession or something else, go out and put it on Airbnb for a certain period of time?
 There's some 10 years might be too long. The average mortgage is seven years. So, therefore, you're looking at inter-ownership issues, and that would also have major impacts on the appraisal value of any house, and I think it would have a significant impact. You can test that. Third, the city has the opportunity to survey the actual owners.
 Instead of just making a decision here, you can actually go out and address. You know this is not a huge population. You can actually send an email or text or a letter and actually survey the people. How important is an Airbnb opportunity to have been an influence on yours? We don't have to just rely on some other studies on that. But the main thing was to keep the record open. I've looked at 25 ADUs within University Park and Portsmouth.
 Two are with family members. Most of them are Airbnb.
 The concern has been that people can age in place. The answer is they can't if they're not designed for ADA capability. We had four people at our last meeting come up to me in wheelchairs or in full chairs, and they were talking about ADAs and Airbnbs and the ADUs and that there are almost none that they could find that were accessible. I've only been in one in North Portland that was accessible.
 So the whole concern about aging in place is a serious concern, and I think that I would like to see us how we can incentivize these kind of universal design or something like that whereby we're actually getting some and reaching out to the real people who could be using this in the future. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Commissioner Udaly. Thomas, I do have some good news for you on the ADA front, which is with the coming RIPP,
 Currently, if a homeowner wants to develop two ADUs, one of them will require basic visitability. That means the entrance is accessible, the bathroom is accessible, and there's an area to socialize. I agree, that's a concern of mine. But I would encourage anyone building ADUs who sees it as a strategy to age in place to take...
 that into consideration because we almost all do eventually experience some kind of mobility challenges. But how can you incentivize? You're at that point that I think that you might want to look at how you can do that. Well, the incentive is you don't get to build it unless you meet the visitability requirements.
 And just to be clear about short-term rentals, the covenant doesn't preclude anyone from building an ADU for the purpose of a short-term rental. It simply doesn't waive the SDC charges because we should not be subsidizing someone's commercial enterprise. If we're going to give a $15,000 subsidy to what is essentially an unintended loss
 hotel room, why wouldn't we give $15,000 subsidy to a bookstore or a coffee shop? So that, you know, and I heard a couple scenarios, which are interesting challenges that I feel like they're worth discussing. And I think that we can get a little more nuanced about that policy, but also you can...
 If you amortize that cost of the SDCs over a period of years, increase your short-term rental rate a few dollars, you'll recoup your SDCs. So we need people to build real housing, not short-term rentals. Thomas, can I offer just another observation? We used to provide a bonus for developers that included a green roof. Now it is mandated. Okay.
 And it has become fairly ubiquitous anyway. The market caught up. People understood the benefits of a green roof. Now it's mandated. Between now and 2050, the number of people 65 and older is going to double to 1.5 billion globally. And we're going to have, we hope, if the city continues to be an age-friendly destination, we hope that we are a place that older adults choose to live in and are drawn to,
 And so my guess is that over time, the idea of universal design will go from being, you know, sort of something we talk about on the margins or, you know, some adaptations, to being something that the market demands. And I suspect in due course our code will have as a mandate a much higher standard of accessibility. I think it's inevitable. Very good. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is John Baer. And more than ten years ago I bought and resided in a house –
 close to the University here. It's amazing that I'm following this gentleman because I have the same concerns. My age is 66. My income is low enough that I qualify for the property tax, not deferral program, but the state pays my property tax. And upon my demise, there's a bill owing to the Department of Revenue. The only way I can see to afford to live in my house in the future now that I'm
 alone in it is to do a service of short-term rentals to students, which technically aren't short-term rentals at all. They assist the community. My intention is to develop my walkout basement in an accessible manner.
 Because at 66, I can't depend on using my own two feet for the next 10 years. And using my upstairs to provide an income for me as well as housing for students and relieve the load on transportation and other infrastructure. I think I'm very deserving of a waiver of the transportation system development charge at least. So what I'm sensitive to is the transition rules that aren't in place in this document.
 I'm qualifying under the old rules because I'm filing in the next few months. However, I have a firm deadline of 11 months after July 31st to complete. No provision do I see here for being able to qualify under the new rules, having language put on my deed. And I also, the way I read the old rules, I would have to pay the system development charges if I don't get the certificate of occupancy by June 30 next year.
 So I submitted to council an email to the clerk, the following language. In acknowledgement of the need to transition SDC waiver rules from the existing firm dates to new dates meant to extend the waiver program, this paragraph is proposed to remove ambiguity for many homeowners who have begun their ADU redevelopment on their properties under the former rules. Quote,
 be it further resolved that council directs all affected bureaus to amend the current waiver of sdcs for new adus or the conversion of structures to adu units to explicitly rescind the june 30 2019 date for receiving final inspection and certificate of occupancy for those adu permits submitted by july 31st 2018. respectfully john bearer please consider that adding that
 to the bottom of this. So we're not in limbo and we'll be caught unawares, either owing a lot of money or seeking a favor from the council next year. If I get injured on the job and I'm doing the rough construction in my own basement, I may, through no fault of my own, be unable to complete. The only trades I'm sending out are electrical and plumbing because I don't feel I have those skills and perhaps some finished carpentry.
 But everything else is on my dime. Pay as you go. Thank you. That's all I have to ask. Did you say you emailed that request to us? Yes. During the meeting, I was writing it back here. So we've got it in our boxes right now? What? We have it in our inboxes right now? Yes, you do. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Very good. Colleagues, Commissioner Fritz. Yeah, I really appreciate the discussion and the expert testimony as well as the community partnerships. It seems to me, let me just state, ADUs are a good thing. They have many, many benefits for the property owner, for the renter, for the family member, for the kinds of people that we just heard. So, yeah.
 The question is, how can we make this policy work for everybody or for more aspects? So I'm just wondering, and second of all, I really appreciate Commissioner Udeli, your establishment of this.
 of the Revenue and Financial Services Division to administer the covenants and to set up a fee structure and registration. So that actually can be perhaps a model for what we need to do for other short-term rentals. I'm really excited about that. And when I read that, I started thinking of, well, this could be the way to get to affordability that, you know, we heard, I read in Professor Liberty's report
 that some of the ADU rents go up to $1,200. That's quite a lot of money. And so potentially, although I heard the caution from Eli Spivak to not have rent-controlled units, is there a potential to have a maximum...
 monthly rent. So that's one thing. We got an email from someone else who pointed out that sometimes people use, they start off doing the short-term rental in order to pay off their construction loans with the intent of either themselves or a family member moving in later. So I am concerned about how does this affect the affordability of
 There is the accessibility thing that Thomas Kowalkie brought up, and that if we're going to be giving this benefit on an ongoing basis, could we do what Commissioner Fish just said and make it a standard that you have to do it a certain way? And then finally...
 This is another example of, yes, this is a great policy that benefits housing, that benefits many other issues that the council is working on, and that is detrimental to parks and to transportation. And we know, we get told time and time again in the budgets, that parks and transportation have to find new revenue to pay their way, and that people are concerned about lack of parks in underserved areas, about unpaid streets and the other things that system development charge in transportation pay for.
 So I'm wondering when the bureaus come back with their revised ordinances, whether that could be part of that, that perhaps parks, transportation in particular, should be during the budget process reporting on this is the amount of SDC waivers and putting in a request for that as part of the budget. So it's very clear which bureaus are subsidizing which other –
 needs and how much the council is willing to backfill to meet those needs. Because I just know about parks and we have over $300 million worth of improvements that are needed to provide an equitable system. So although $8 million a year is in the grand scheme of that not much, $8 million can buy a couple of really nice parks. $8 million can pay for a lot of things. So
 that then the general fund is not asked to subsidise. Because eventually, or the...
 property tax payers are not asked to subsidize, so that it reduces the amount that we're going to have to go after in a construction bond, which parks is going to have to do at some time in the near future. So I think there is a way to do this that meets all of those many more needs. And so I'm just wondering, obviously we're not voting on this this week, it's a non-emergency ordinance. It's a resolution. It's a resolution. Well, I'm wondering if there's a...
 if there might be merit, in doing a short-term extension of the current waiver and looking into some of these other possibilities, considering this after this is passed, will become a permanent thing that might not get to the top of the list of a future commissioner in charge. Commissioner, can I make a comment to that? So the point that you just made about...
 having transparency about foregone revenue and how it impacts the budgets of various bureaus. To the extent that that data is not part of the budget process, I would wholeheartedly support having that be daylit and part of the discussion. And I think that council should have the opportunity to decide whether there's a general fund backfill for any foregone revenue where the burdens are spread broadly over infrastructure bureaus, for example, and it has a consequence. And by the way...
 It could be backfilled with additional capital dollars. I know it doesn't have to be the same color of money, but at least it gives the commissioner in charge a platform to argue for some adjustment. So just speaking for myself, I think that is a positive thing. The way I read this resolution is that there's a directive to come back to council by the end of July with code language. It would seem to me that between now and then we can have a continuing conversation about that
 that issue and about whether we want to have a sunset or any number of things, that adopting this resolution in no way precludes us having the conversation on those or other issues that my colleagues may have. Commissioner Saltzman. Yeah, I was impressed with the very thoughtful testimony as well as the council discussion on this. So there's a couple things that I'm concerned about, or maybe not concerned, but I'd like to see us look at in more detail. Maybe that is in the ordinance, but...
 I'm intrigued by the idea of making universal design sort of more of an incentive, that perhaps we grant X percent of the waiver and increase that X by more if it's universal design ADU. I think that is an incentive that makes a lot of sense. So I'd like to see us explore that. I don't know if I need to offer an amendment now or whether we can deal with that in July. And then the issue that Mr. Baer just raised about some of the transition, I think we need to make sure that.
 The transition from the old waiver to a new waiver. I just think we need to make sure people like Mr. Baer, who have some legitimate concerns and need sort of a planning horizon, that we provide that planning horizon. So those are, I guess, two thoughts I have.
 So as far as universal design, which I'm definitely enthusiastic advocate for, I don't know that this is the best tool to address it through. I think that maybe, well, it's definitely something that we could get to in the RIP. Sorry, I've lost track. There are so many questions right now.
 As to people who are in process now, yes, I'm open to that. We're seeing a slowdown right now just because people know that this waiver is going to end and there's not really enough time to begin a development process. That's why we're bringing it now, because we want people to keep going rather than come to a complete stop and restart. Okay.
 Trying to hit all the... I was a little confused by the last testimony about student housing. I don't believe that would be considered a short-term rental. We're really talking about people who are advertising their units on short-term rental platforms as vacation homes. But that's something that we should look at a little more closely, how do we define short-term rental? I know the current rules for vacations
 offering a short-term rental is the residence needs to be owner-occupied for nine months out of the year, which happens to coincide with the length of a school year. So I don't think providing student housing would be precluded under this covenant. I want to just caution my colleagues on something. We currently have a waiver that has no conditions. Okay.
 We have a sunset of that waiver, and Commissioner Udaly is proposing an extension of that waiver subject to more restrictive requirements. So, I mean, we are free to put all kinds of new conditions on this, but we also may end up creating a situation where it's no longer a viable option. The heart of this is directing that bureaus come back with –
 language that would allow the continuation of the waiver subject to the limitations set forth in the be it further resolved. So the public benefit has now been more sharply identified in this resolution. It seems to me the council can decide at any time to further sharpen the public benefit, narrow the scope of this. I would caution us not to do that today because the ultimate goal in this, the question before us from my point of view is, do we want to extend this waiver or not? Okay.
 This actually limits the extension of the waiver to a much more specific case. Council may or may not agree with that. But I think if we start putting other conditions on, we're getting ahead of what I think should be the process. If we think universal design should be put in, I think we should evaluate it, and we should decide whether this is the right vehicle, RIF, or some other proposal. Commissioner Fruits. The challenge, though, is I'm wondering just of the logistics about this. You intend that there will be a model –
 amendment under the be it further resolved there's four five bureaus that are required to put something in about the covenant will it be your intent to provide model language for that from development services yes
 And where would we then get to the discussion of requiring universal accessibility? Because I... What we can... I'm just suggesting... There isn't even visitability except in the second ADO. Is that correct in the residential... That's correct. I honestly don't think that's something that we're really prepared to figure out today. I'd like to call a vote if that's possible. It seems to me the council can direct...
 and the Bureau of Development Services at any time to come forth with options for expanding universal design. And we can look at it as carrots and sticks or something in between to graft it onto this, which is essentially an extension of the sunset, without knowing the impact of that decision on cost and on whether someone would take advantage of this program, I personally think is a mistake. All right. So I think we've all heard the ins and outs and the nuances. I'm going to call the question. Please call the roll, Carla. Fish? Fish?
 Very good discussion from my point of view, and the issues that have been raised about the impact, particularly on infrastructure bureaus and ratepayer bureaus, is real and important. This notion of foregone revenue is not my favorite way of getting at council priorities.
 but it is one of our tools. I agree that it needs to have a clear public benefit, and I agree that it has to be carefully monitored. The substitute resolution has some things that I really like, which includes something that Todd Lofgren in my office discussed with Commissioner Udaly's office about collecting data annually about rents charged at ADUs that receive the waivers so we can continue to monitor this program.
 This requires bureaus to come forward by the end of July with some code language. It then gives us a second opportunity to discuss further refinements. And there's a number of things which have been raised in this hearing that I would like to see us discuss, either in the context of this or separately, particularly around universal design and how we can accelerate the movement towards having more accessible units, either through mandates or through incentives. Thank you, Commissioner Daly, for bringing this forward.
 I appreciate that a number of people have said to us today that Portland has a chance to be a leader in the area of accessory dwelling units. And that is, I think, very important for a number of reasons, not the least of which is it is another way of addressing our significant shortage of affordable homes. So thank you. I vote aye. Sol Sweeney. Well, I do, you know, I will support this, but I do want to express the sentiment I just expressed a few minutes ago is that I intend to develop language solutions.
 for the ordinance in July that will accord some priority to units that have universal design. I mean advocates for universal design are always on the outside knocking to get in and we do little bits here and there like the residential Enville project. If you build a second ADU it's got to have visibility. That's not enough. We all need, we all benefit from universal design. We all will
 And those who are challenged right now will benefit from having another living option that they can take advantage of. So I will provide some language in July that will provide some incentive. I can't articulate it exactly right now, but I think it would be, you know, maybe you only get 90% of the waiver. 80% of the waiver if you build a standard ADU. If you build universal design, you get 100% waiver. Okay.
 But I think we have to start putting some teeth to our talk. And this is one way I commit to do exactly that. And I will be coming forward with an amendment. I'll be discussing it with all of you in July. But, you know, it's no longer sufficient for people with disabilities or people who want to age in place to sort of always be on the outside of the issue, knocking on the door to get on the inside. Let's put them on the inside to start with.
 And then I do have, and I intend to support this because I do think ADUs are a positive contribution with the conditions of this resolution for more affordable housing options. But I will say that I do have concerns in general about making something permanent, anything permanent. So I do think it's incumbent upon us, the future councils, to really scrutinize this very closely, both for its impact on our infrastructure bureaus,
 but also just to make sure that we are, this is still the part and parcel of the goal of solving our affordable housing crisis. If it somehow changes on us in the midstream, then we need to be able to claw back that benefit. Hi. Udailey? Yes.
 Well, thank you everyone who came today and gave testimony, and thank you to my colleagues for a lively conversation. It really feels like we don't get to do this often enough. I certainly appreciate everyone's passion around universal design. As many of you know, my son uses a wheelchair, and I have faced a lot of challenges in finding safe, affordable places.
 accessible housing. So it's of great interest to me. I just want to make sure we take the time to get it right and that we put it where it should live and I'm not convinced that it should live with this waiver.
 I want to specifically thank Matt Wickstrom and Kimberly Talent, Rebecca Esaw, and the whole BDS team for developing this policy. Thank you to Treasurer Cooperman, Director Lanham, and the Revenue Bureau team for helping develop an enforcement mechanism and for being willing and able to administer it.
 Thank you to Robert Liberty, Beth Glidden, and the ISS team for convening a dream team of stakeholders that's helped shape this policy and our region's approach to ADUs. And thank you to Eli Spivak and others who were here today to give testimony, expert testimony on ADU development. Thank you, Todd Lofgren from Commissioner Fish's staff, who came up with a brilliant idea of collecting rental data.
 from properties that receive waivers. It's cute how excited staff gets when they get a shout-out in council chambers. So you're welcome, Todd. And thank you to staff from Parks, PBOT, Water, and BES who have to do the work that this resolution directs. I'm excited to get to work on the next steps. Aye. Aye.
 Sorry, Mayor. We have a clarification we need. We moved and seconded the substitute. Correct. But we didn't vote on accepting the substitute. And I think this vote is for a final. That's correct. We need to vote on taking the substitute. So let's do this. Go backwards.
 Don't vote yet, Chloe. Commissioner Udaly. Go backwards and vote on the substitute amendment to accept it. Right. Sorry. And we'll just take the roll call. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Very enthusiastically support the amendment. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Thank you. The substitutes on the table were back to the main motion. Commissioner Udaly, continue. I believe I voted aye. Very good. And...
 Move and run along. Okay, we need to do fish. And so now we're on the main motion. The substitute motion is amended. Yeah, fish. I've already cast my vote. I thought we were going back to where we started. I interrupted the vote on the main motion. Carla, do you want to do the whole vote over again? We don't want the speeches over again. Oh, but I have a new one already. Okay.
 Legal counsel, I believe I have the ability to suspend the vote midway through. So that was the vote on the main motion and the commentary on the main motion. So now we will continue the votes that have not been cast on the substitute motion, correct? Hearing no objection. I want to make sure legal counsel doesn't object. Hearing no objection. That's the only objection I care about. Mayor, I think if...
 Because the substitution wasn't before the council, it might be good to just hear the votes of each council member. Very good. So we'll start the main motion again, but we don't need to hear the speeches twice that have already been given. Fish.
 So I was at a press conference the other day, and I gave a great speech, and a reporter came at the very end and said, I'm sorry I missed it. Could I hear your speech again? So she put a phone in front of me, and I gave the same speech from memory. But I won't bore you with this time. Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Thanks again, everybody. Aye. Aye.
 It's the longest I've ever had to wait between Commissioner Eutaley's vote and mine. I appreciate the discussion. I do appreciate the amendment. I'm in the same place that Commissioner Saltzman is and will be, if I'm fortunate enough to be in charge of any of the infrastructure bureaus, I'd love to partner with you on bringing something back in July. I'm concerned about the timeframe in July, that we would have to make the decision July 1st
 First, I'm not quite sure when the council hearings go. I'm always in, I don't like being put in a situation where I have to vote for something as an emergency ordinance, even if I don't like it.
 So that makes me very nervous to not know exactly how that's going to weigh in. And so I think we could be missing a big opportunity to provide this incentive, to provide this benefit, and then missing out on other things like accessibility and affordability. And I'm very concerned that there wasn't much public process outside of those who are most concerned with this proposal to get input from those who have...
 have done it in the past, and the neighbors in general. So regretfully, I vote no. Wheeler. I want to thank everybody for the hard work on this. I thought it was a fantastic conversation. It was detailed. I think we heard a lot of different perspectives, and I appreciate that, and I respect that. I'm proud to be part of a body where we can actually have that kind of a conversation. I'm intrigued.
 by the idea that Commissioner Saltzman has raised. I, too, think that's ambitious between now and July, but it can be done, and I would certainly be interested in keeping abreast of that because I do think the universal design concept is a really, really solid one, and I'd like to see us ultimately move in that direction.
 But as for the matter that's before us today, thank you, Commissioner Udaly, to you and your team for your hard work, to the bureaus that were involved. I vote aye to the resolution. The substitute resolution is adopted. Thank you. Next item, 2-7. Amend the 2035 Comprehensive Plan map and amend the official city zoning map to carry out Portland's 2035 Comprehensive Plan.
 Colleagues, we're here for further deliberations on the Council amendments to the MAP Reconciliation Project. The written record was reopened following the last Council session on April 25th and closed on Monday, April 30th at 8 a.m. We do not expect to take any further public testimony today.
 Staff have prepared the appropriate as amended substitute ordinance and exhibits which were distributed to Council last week. Today, the Council will vote on the amendments number 12, 17, 19, and 53, which were moved and seconded on April 25, 2018, and then vote to accept a substitute ordinance and exhibits. Council will take a final vote on the ordinance and exhibits on May 24, shortly after the new 2035 Comprehensive Plan is in effect.
 We have BPS staff here, Eric Einstrom and Mary Stockton. Please come forward and guide us through. One moment. Stop. I have to take a sidebar. Call me. Does the staff talk to him? They are right now. All right. Where was I? Good afternoon. Thank you for being here. Thanks for having this session. Appreciate it. I think we're ready.
 So are you giving us a presentation? I feel like I'm being teed up for a presentation. Okay, sorry. Thanks, I appreciate that. Okay, great. Go with it. Okay, so today, just to establish the action before you, we have a council deliberation and vote to move to the second reading for the amendments, number 12, number 17, number 19, and 53.
 We are also, my understanding is that there may be some new amendments 54 and 55 based on testimony. And then council will vote to accept a substantive ordinance and exhibits and move to second reading on May 24th. So our colleagues, before we move on, I had a question. I had believed there would be a motion to table number 19. Is that true or no? Yes.
 So Commissioner Udaly has requested that we table number 19. Is there any objection? That means it's being withdrawn. No, that means it's being withdrawn. Well, my understanding is it was going to be carried over. So there's definitely... What do you mean by being tabled? We can do either. Okay.
 We can carry it over to May 9th at 2 p.m. We have a time certain slot available. Is that what we were discussing? You'll need the substitute. I'm sorry, I cannot hear you. May 24th. Michelle Planbeck, staff to Mayor Wheeler. Thank you. We will go ahead and move the substitute, and that's later on in the script, to May 24th.
 Amendment 19, which is being discussed right now, would also be continued to May 24th. So we would not make a final decision until May 24th? I mean, we wouldn't even make a sensitive decision until May 24th. So I can also have staff. This is Lindley Reese, city attorney. This is an emergency ordinance, so it certainly can be amended and adopted on the same date. But it can't if we don't have unanimity. Correct. Correct.
 Well, on a controversial issue like this, it seems highly unlikely that we're going to get to 5-0. So I don't think that works. Well, then it's not amended. So my suggestion would be that today, if the only thing, and I'm presupposing based on what I've heard, is the only thing that council...
 is not in agreement on is number 19 right now, that you would go through, and I'm looking at Marty Stockton's number 12, number 17, number 53, number 54, number 55. You would go ahead and adopt the substitute ordinance and exhibits, and then you would leave to whichever date you want number 19 if you choose not to take that up today.
 And so just so I understand, because this was already extremely complex from a procedural perspective before we got to this. So just so I understand, then 19 would be moved to a different date for further deliberation. Is that correct? That's up to council. But at this point, it has been moved.
 At least a version, possibly two versions of 19 have been moved and seconded, so they're available for council to vote on today should they choose. The others, 12, 17, 53, have also been queued up by being moved and seconded. Mayor, may I jump in for a second? Commissioner Fish. So from a slight distance, this is what I understood was being considered. We have to adopt the substitute.
 and we have the right to take an item out of the substitute and simply defer adopting that. So if it is the council's desire to pull 19 out and adopt the substitute, we can do that, and then the substitute goes forward to the 24th. The question that I understood was still open, because you were not here, Mayor, for the last hearing, is whether you and Commissioner Udalli would like additional time to consider options around Amendment 19. Okay.
 Commissioner Fritz has pointed out the peril of putting that to the last day. So what I would suggest is that if we are going to set that over, not table it, but set it over, we do it at some date at least a week before the 24th so that council can have a discussion after you and Commissioner Udaly have had a chance to have further discussions and make a recommendation.
 I think that's what was intended. If I'm wrong, staff will correct me. I'm getting hand signals on a date. And what date is that, Michelle? I can't quite make it out from here. We're looking at moving it to May 9th at 2 p.m. times certain. Would that work for council? And then what are we moving? Is it just a vote only on the 9th?
 On the 19th. On Amendment 19. Just Amendment 19 prior to the substitute vote on the substitute ordinance, the body ordinance. That's the emergency that you'll be talking about. That's on May 24th, already scheduled, time certain, if you'd like to discuss.
 Amendment 19 prior to that date, which I think was what Commissioner Fish was speaking to. There is some time on the agenda available on May 9th at 2 p.m. So could I ask why? What's the purpose of not doing it today? The hearing was continued to today. We've got dozens of people here who would like to listen to what we have to say about it. What's the purpose of delaying it until next week? So I'm ready to go today. Let's go today. Thank you.
 And Commissioner Udaly, what is your thinking? It was my understanding from the Mayor's Office that you wanted to continue it, that there were... Let's clarify this. Can we take a five-minute recess, please? Something about... I think we have to wait for a guy. Commissioner Saltzman, paging Commissioner Saltzman. One moment. The suspense...
 Should we continue with the presentation while we're waiting? Dan will be down. I assume he'll be here in just a moment. Okay. Actually, I'm going to take this moment because I was a little rushed getting up to the dais to just introduce ourselves because I think that might help just the audience. So my name is Marty Stockton. I'm the project manager for this MAP refinement project. I'm also the Southeast District Planner, and I'm with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability.
 This is Eric Engstrom. I'm the principal planner overseeing the comprehensive planning program at the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Very good. So we're waiting for Commissioner Saltzman. What can be seen once in a minute, twice in a moment, and never in a thousand years? The letter M. Not bad. What's the longest distance between two points? Oh, boy. I don't know. A shortcut. A piece of string locks into a bar. Oh.
 Dan, you missed it all. I got it. It was good. Do you want to vote? No. We are not there. So we will continue where we were. We're going to first move into item 12, which was moved and seconded on April 25th.
 Okay. So moving into item number 12, Commissioner Fritz's amendment. This is an area that is on Northeast 66th Avenue, just north of Columbia Boulevard.
 This is an area that is currently a residential farm and forest but has an industrial sanctuary comprehensive plan map designation. And there have been a series of property owner requests for zone changes to the industrial zone. And this is something that staff is supportive of. And this particular area,
 minor amendment, the reason why it's carried over was because there was an additional property that was added to this request. Very good. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll on item 12. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Motion passes. Now we have before us item 17, which was moved and seconded on April 25th.
 And if you could provide the summary, please, on number 17. Correct. So this is a request from the Portland Housing Bureau on a site that was formerly owned by the Water Bureau, which is now transitioning to the Housing Bureau. To the north of Syracuse, there is an area that is zoned R5 but has a comprehensive plan map designation of R2. So that would be a zone change.
 The area south of Syracuse is currently zoned and comped R5, and so that would be both a comp plan map amendment and a zone change amendment to R2. We did hear some testimony from University Park on their concern regarding a recently designated heritage tree, a sequoia, and that was one of the reasons why it was held over until this date today.
 I don't know if there's Commissioner Fritz or Mayor Wheeler, if there are any comments that you want to make on this particular. Nope, I'm ready to go. Commissioner Fritz? I just need to, I have had discussions with Chairman Callahan in the Housing Bureau. So basically, Mayor, as the Housing Commissioner, I'd like assurance from you that the heritage tree and access to it will remain when there is a development. I will chain myself to it. I will protect it with my life. Thank you. And you have my word here in public.
 Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Things get real fun around here at the end of a long day. Aye. Fruits. And I do have comments to that effect from the Housing Bureau. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. 17 is adopted. Now we will consider item number 19. And there are currently three options before us. Commissioner Udaly, I believe you have a comment with regard to your amendment. Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you for being here today, everyone. I want to explain the confusion a little bit. The mayor was out last week. The record was unexpectedly reopened. And then I was out. And so we hadn't had a chance to connect yet.
 and I think our staff's got our wires crossed. First, I want to say I am in general support of the Alberta Alive development. The developer and all of the people involved are good actors in our affordable housing development community, and I was really excited by the potential that this lot offered. However, I have...
 Deep concerns. I guess procedural concerns about how this came about. You guys are distracting me. That's okay. I should be. Usually people are screaming obscenities, so this is nothing. Don't give them any ideas. I expect flowers. After talking to BPS and getting...
 a greater understanding of the specifics of this particular lot, I have decided to rescind my amendment. I want to say... Okay, no clapping. Twinkle fingers. I do want to say that we, as a city, are looking at lots just like this one. We are in conversation, active conversation. I think we're funding some kind of study.
 in conversation with faith communities who have dwindling membership and are land-rich, how best to utilize those properties. So this could be reconsidered in the future. I can't promise you that this won't ever happen on this lot, but I'm not comfortable enough with this current proposal to move forward. I also want to say...
 I'm frustrated by what blunt tools or zoning codes offer us because there really was no middle ground between R1 and the CM2. And I think...
 a lot of the concern expressed by the neighbors was the height, the five stories and the commercial. And, and the developer didn't necessarily need to have that commercial floor and could, could have limited it, but there was no way that we could guarantee that we can't actually say, here's your new zoning with some restrictions. So my, my staff is going to be looking into creating some kind of affordable housing zoning plan.
 where we could bring more height and units without having to add in the mixed use. So just want to make sure that I covered all the bases. I do want to say initially in the first round, 40% of the comments we got were in support. So there really was support, and there was support in your neighborhood.
 The second round, about 4% of the comments were in support of this development. So it was suggested that my office wasn't being honest about what we were hearing, and we were, and I just felt the need to say that because I don't like my staff to doubt to be cast upon them. We really were listening to everyone. And finally, I'm going to keep my amendment on the...
 Sorry, is it the Hicks property? They still would like R1 zoning. And in conversation with EPS, they did feel like this was a natural progression of zoning in this neighborhood and that there actually is a plan to dig deeper into the, oh, no, I'm getting thumbs down. Well, you know...
 It's a compromise, everybody, so that's where we're at. So thank you, Commissioner Udaly. She has withdrawn her amendment on 19, and I agree with you. I think there was a communications crosswire there, and I want to take ownership for that on the part of my team as well. So thank you for that. We got it all cleared up. Sorry for the five-minute delay on that.
 We are going to take a vote on option three in a moment, which is Commissioner Fritz's amendment, but I wanted to let you guys do your overview with that new context in mind. Great. Thank you.
 So I don't know if I, I'll just quickly state what option was just for clarity in the room. So option one was for the service parking lot to the north to go to CM2D, and then the church property to the south to go to R1. Okay.
 Option two, which is the Planning and Sustainability Commission's recommendation from November of 2017 and would be the default if option three does not pass, would be only R1 on the surface parking lot. And again, the church building was not part of their decision. Very good. Further discussion before I call the roll? Commissioner Fish? Aren't you going to tell us about option three?
 I can. If you could complete the three options. Okay, sure. So option three is Commissioner Fritz's amendment to Amendment 19, and it is R1 on the surface parking lot and R1 on the church building. And the rationale for the inclusion of the church building in this map change is that with a multi-dwelling zone,
 If the church becomes either a national or a local landmark, historic landmark, then it can go through what's called a historic incentives review, and the use can become non-residential. So that's something. It's a path forward for the church. Very good. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll on option three, Commissioner Fritz's amendment. Okay.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Well, thank you, Commissioner Udaly, for withdrawing your amendment. And thank you to the neighbours who have informed me on this.
 have said that, yes, we can have more density, and that this is what this amendment does. I was very tempted to just say, let's leave it with what the Planning and Sustainability Commission said, which was R2.5 on this lot. So let it be, let the record show that the neighbours said, yes, we're okay with having R1 density, and I do believe, thanks to Marty Stockton, that this will help preserve the historic abbey, and I appreciate that, and I hope that will happen. Aye.
 Wheeler. So I definitely want to thank those who have expressed an interest in increased density. I want the housing.
 I really want the housing. And as you heard me say a few days ago, we can't say we're for affordable housing but not in our neighborhood. And you have stepped up and said you are willing to accept more density and more housing in your neighborhood. Where I think people got squeamish on this was the idea of also introducing a commercial approach.
 into an area that is not commercial. It is between MLK, which is commercial, and Alberta, which is commercial. But this area in and of itself is not a commercial neighborhood. So I think this is a very, very smart compromise. It is pro-housing. I support it. I vote aye. The amendment is adopted. Thank you. Item 54. Item 54.
 53. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have before us item 53, which was moved and seconded. This one was also on April 25th. We'll be voting on this. I don't know if you wanted to give a description of item 53. Just very briefly, this is the property, residential property, just to the north of the surface parking lot, currently zoned R2.5, and there has been an amendment to R1 on this property.
 Very good. Carla, please call the Commissioner. Thank you. This is a neighborhood that's been adversely impacted by council's decisions for decades. And so I think it's particularly important that we not make a hasty decision on this particular lot.
 I would be fine leaving it with its current zoning of R2.5. If the council wants to support Commissioner Udeli's amendment, I would suggest that a fairer way to do it would be as a comprehensive plan designation rather than a zoning change and apply it to the whole block so that all the property owners...
 This particular family has brought it to Commissioner Eudaly's attention that they would be impacted, although they asked for it at the time that they thought it was going to have commercial zoning next to it. The difference between our 2.5 height and our 1 height, our 2.5 is 35 feet, our 1 height is 45 feet. So that's not that much of a difference. I don't think there's going to be that much of an impact on the Hicks property.
 If there is, then it then continues on down the line to the rest of the block. So if we're going to do anything on this block, I think we should do it on the entire block, and I would suggest we do it as a comprehensive plan designation rather than just changing the zoning. My preference would be to reject this amendment, and looking at the abbey and the parking lot, that's the one that...
 all this debate. And at some point, we've got to say stop and this is what's been on the table. Putting another amendment on the table now, I think just continues down the line of turmoil. And so I would encourage my colleagues to vote no on this. So I'm open to...
 the suggestion that you just made but I need some clarification on it but I do want to let my colleagues know that we have been in conversation with Mrs. Hicks and Mrs. Hicks preferences that nothing happened on this lot and I told her that that was not
 on the table. Um, and she expressed a desire to leave. She doesn't want to live. She's 83 years old. She's lived there for 45 years. She doesn't want to live through the construction of a multiple story, uh, development. And, uh, she would like to realize some benefit from what is happening in her neighborhood. Um,
 could you talk about both...
 I guess BPS's intention of looking deeper into neighborhoods off these corridors and rezoning for multifamily. Yes. What would be possible on that lot given the size and if it were R1? And then what Commissioner Fritz's amendment would functionally mean to the family or future developer? So there's a lot that you just kind of laid out there. Yeah. So I'm going to try to kind of unpack that a little bit.
 So first of all, I would say that this segment of Alberta is a neighborhood corridor on the urban design framework. It's also within inner Portland. So this is an area that...
 there's been a lot of testimony that there should be higher density along this area. And I would agree that in the future, through a future area plan,
 that this is a segment that there should be conversation about whether or not R2.5 is the appropriate zoning, and if not, what would be, and also looking at kind of a larger area, not just piecemeal, lot by lot. Getting to kind of the second...
 component of what you were wanting me to share with you is that currently the R1 zone on a 5,000 square foot lot, the density is a range of three to five units. So oftentimes what we would see is we would see a conversion of an existing house into a triplex. If the house is demolished, then we could see up to a five unit building on a 5,000 square foot lot.
 That, I would say, has to be asterisked with the fact that we are currently, we have a legislative project called the Better Housing by Design that is moving away from a density, maximum density, to a form-based density.
 where a structure could be 60% building coverage, setbacks up to 45 feet in height, and that the number of units are similar to our mixed-use zones where it's more on building code, not so much on a maximum density. Okay.
 So that's something to just be aware of as we're moving forward in this conversation. I think that also gets to some of your comment earlier, Commissioner Daly, about the bluntness of the current zoning tools, that that Better Housing by Design project is an avenue for us to look at that.
 How can we get some building massing that approaches the mixed-use zones without that commercial element for housing projects? And that's part of what we're looking at in that project. Yeah, I mean, I want to point out, this is a very large home. It's six bedrooms. It's home to three households. It's an intergenerational home. And currently, well, I guess when RIP comes, it could be turned into a duplex.
 if I'm not mistaken. Well, with the R2.5 zone, that is an attached single-dwelling zone. It can be converted to a duplex right now. So it could be converted to a duplex, but this home is big enough to be a triplex or a fourplex. Of course, what we would want to see is that existing home preserved and turned into more units, but we can't guarantee that is what would happen.
 The other possibility, since this is contiguous to a lot that we know has some development activities, it could just end up being incorporated into that project. Right. So what do you think of Commissioner Fritz's amendment? I didn't propose it. I'm sorry, suggestion. I think that...
 The focus of this conversation for really since it came up before planning commission in October to today has really been focused on the surface parking lot and then the church. I think that adding the property to the north does feel a little piecemeal to me.
 When as a planner, if I'm looking at an area, I really would prefer to look at it more holistically and look at a much larger area and even determine whether or not the R1 zoning, maybe that's the appropriate zoning on the corridor, but maybe there's a different transition. So there's so many different alternatives that we just cannot put forward today because we have not done the analysis. We have not had those community conversations. Sure.
 So it would be hard for us to say, like, where do you draw the lines? We haven't had the chance to really look at that. Well, that's the last time we're going to ask you a question. Let's take a moment to just reflect on what happened. A commissioner asked a highly respected senior staff person in a bureau to offer an opinion on a question that's a close call. Okay.
 that reasonable people could agree or disagree. And we got what we always get when Marty's here, the team, is we got a superb and clear answer that gives us something to think about and gives us some boundaries around making a decision. And I wish there were more people in our chambers on a more regular basis to witness these kinds of interactions because this is why I think we are very fortunate to have these jobs. I thought it was the joke telling that was... So...
 We issue you daily. So changing the comp plan, was that your suggestion? Yeah, but having heard Marty's response, I don't think that's a good idea. Wouldn't the implication of a comp plan only change is that the property owner would have to come back through BDS and ask for the zoning at their expense? So, Eric, what's the next bite of the apple where this could be addressed? That's my next question.
 What's the next planning exercise where we could take this up? I think each of our district liaisons, and this actually isn't Marty's district. She's a southeast district liaison. But each of our district liaisons has a work program over time to look at a variety of issues in their district. And so...
 Um, and we do intend to do smaller scale follow-up mapping work with each of our districts as going forward. Hopefully this is the last time we're doing, for a while anyway, this citywide look. Because it's, it's, you know, it's a lot of work and it's, it's difficult for people to track. So we hope to do some more localized planning efforts through our district liaison staff. And I think you could direct us to look back at this section of Alberta and, uh, consider other options. Um.
 just through our district liaison planning program and consider bringing forward some proposals that way. It doesn't have to be through some larger citywide project. It could just be something that our district liaison is asked to do. So a similar example to that was there was a request to look at the area around 15th and Killingsworth. And so it was kind of a quick response
 So that's one thing when the district liaison team isn't admired in four or five or six years of comprehensive planning, is that we can be much more nimble and responsive to areas where we want to do a legislative project. Well, I'm going to rescind 53, but I am going to ask that you do that close examination of that area, including that property, because...
 I want to do right by this neighborhood. I also want to do right by this family. And they're going to be the most impacted by whatever development happens on the lot. And I'd like to see some priority given to them. So, Mayor, now I move the substitute. Commissioner Fish moves the substitute. Don't we have to do the new amendments? That's what we do right now. I think we just took up the other. No, we still have 54 ahead of us.
 Yes, 54 and 55. Yeah, okay. So let's hold off on that, Commissioner. So 53 is withdrawn. We have before us item 54, which is a new amendment to change the comprehensive plan and zoning map. The item has not been previously brought to council. It was raised in recent testimony. Very recent. So that is one of the, I think, things that is most painful when we –
 reopen the testimony multiple times is that we always hear these nuggets of testimony that we really want to act upon. Even though we didn't get this as timely as we would have liked to in the project, it's really an opportunity to look at this. What this request is, this is the block on Williams between Cook and Fargo. You'll see that in the red, the
 the area of the block is going to CM3D and we already have some development that is developed there.
 The blue is going to an RH with a D overlay. So those are areas of the block that would not be able to have a commercial ground floor. So the request from the long-term property owner is that the whole block has the same zoning. My understanding is the neighborhood supports this.
 So this is the Elliott neighborhood. They have not been contacted about this. Yeah. Folks, folks, folks, folks, please.
 And did this came up when we kept the record open on those other matters? Yeah, so exactly. This came in through the April 25th to April 30th timeframe. But, I mean, just in fairness, Marty, didn't we say that the records open as to the matters that were on the table? Correct. But we get testimony about that.
 Yeah. So on something like this, where it comes in at the last possible moment, it has not been vetted with the Neighborhood Association, and while your description makes it sound relatively non-controversial, how do we evaluate it? Well, there's evaluating it on the technical merits of what the difference is between the RH with a 4-to-1 FAR versus a CM3D. So there's those comparisons there.
 I think given the conversation you just had, it would be fair game to also direct us to bring this back another time if the last-minute nature bothers you procedurally. I'm really torn on this one because it is completing the block, so it seems like it was one that was kind of missed as a technical error. And this is something I just want to inject this, is that
 Again, the frustration about the map refinement project is that it has been very site-specific or property-specific. This block, it's currently RXD, which is a significant... I don't know if you...
 have the heights off the top of your head for RX, but it's basically a zone that's only now in the central city. So all areas that were zoned RX were changed to a different zoning in the comprehensive plan process.
 The areas that are in red, those were developed under the RXD zoning. And so in the map refinement project, we have changed them to the most comparable zoning, which is CM3D.
 So, in all fairness, the properties that are in blue right now, they are currently zoned RxD. So, this is a long-term property owner that if they had developed today, they would be at a much higher level of development capacity.
 So they were effectively down zoned by the city. And what we're trying to do is we're trying to bring them to a comparable zoning that is what is currently developed on the red. And so that's a little bit of a story. Can I ask you two questions? Do you view this as a technical amendment? I do. Okay. We've not heard, at least as of now, we've not heard any objection. Is that correct? Correct. Okay.
 If we were to adopt this amendment and then adopt the substitute ordinance, and between now and May 24th, someone came out of the ether and said, you've made a terrible mistake and here's why, we could technically remove it before we vote on the final ordinance. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yes. So that is our backstop. And Commissioner Fritz may very well suggest, as she has in past hearings like this, that she would like to have the Neighborhood Association notified so that if they do have an objection, we had a chance to hear it before the adoption. And if that satisfies my colleagues, I'm prepared to support the Mayor's Amendment 54. With it being downzoned, too, there's the added twist that they could have a claim under Measure 37? Yes.
 I forget which one. Most of that is in the single family realm. Oh, is it? Yeah, that could come up in a general sense. I think generally what happened at this node was that during the comprehensive plan, we did take the density down a little bit with neighborhood support, but then what happened is in the meantime, buildings got permitted to,
 while we were in that year, and now we've got just these remnant properties left, and it doesn't really make sense to hold to that scheme anymore. There's a consistency and an equity play here. Absolutely. Call the roll, please. This is – I need a motion. I move it. Second. Thanks. Call the roll, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. This one does make sense. Aye.
 Wheeler. Aye. 54 is adopted. 55 is also a new amendment to change the comp plan and the zoning map. This item has also not been previously brought to council but was raised in recent testimony. And just to be clear, it was not raised in this most recent reopening of the public record, but it was raised in the one just prior.
 And again, when we're reviewing testimony, sometimes it takes us a while to process through it.
 Um, so really quickly, uh, this right here is the St. John's Wesleyan Church. Um, the, uh, lead pastor, uh, submitted testimony as well as the St. John's Opportunity, which is the neighborhood prosperity initiative in St. John's, uh, that it's, uh, a Prosper Portland program. In addition, the Community of Hope, which is a, um, uh, uh,
 a non-profit that provides shelter in North Portland. So they have all come in requesting that the Split Zone site go from R2.5 to R1 for the ability to do affordable housing. I would note that when we looked at this, we did note that while the church is on St. Louis, there is New York that abuts
 I'm going to see if I can... This is New York right here. And then if you look at the aerial, there actually is an alley right here. And the alley is not developed adjacent to the church property, but it is developed here. So there were, from a connectivity point of view, there were some nice elements to this. Marty, is this similar to what we did with that church in southwest Portland? Yeah.
 So the church in southwest Portland, it's what the greater Bible church of Portland, I believe. That was a church that...
 That proposal was actually R2, and the rationale was because there was some environmental zoning, and they partnered with Portland Habitat. But this is an example of where there's the church, the prosperity initiative, and the affordable housing provider all coming together to make this request. Is this a first cousin of what we did at Albertina Kerr?
 It is maybe a second cousin, but yeah. I'm satisfied. I'll move the amendment. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any further discussion? All again, the question is, do we then comp the entire block? Because we haven't heard testimony about whether the neighbors are going to be impacted by changing from 2.5 to R1. So we're giving the people who asked and not really considering those who didn't ask.
 I would say in this case, since we have an affirmative interest in getting churches to develop property with affordable housing that links the beloved community with the housing in a campus setting, I think for me this is distinguishable. And to be clear, the neighborhood is aware of this, whether or not some of the adjacent property owners are, whether all the adjacent properties are.
 owners are, I don't know. We're about to find out. Please call the roll.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. I'm really torn on this one. I think the backstop is what Commissioner Fish said, that if we hear a lot of concern that we can withdraw it later. I will have to say that I'm going to support it, mostly because I know the people involved, and I know that they're very connected with the community and will do the right kind of development to really look after the impacts on the neighbourhood. So this is one where I'm...
 The planning half of me and the community person is a bit at odds. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. 55 is adopted. Now BPS staff is going to explain the substitute ordinance. Great.
 So, BPS, we are asking the City Council to move and second and vote to accept the substitute ordinance with a revised Exhibit A-2. Just a note on that, since I did not know the exact outcome of today's vote, I'm going to rush back to my office and finalize Exhibit A-2 and then send it over to the Council Clerk.
 as well as a revised Exhibit C. We'll pass the ordinance on to second and final reading on May 24, 2018, at 2 p.m. Mayor, I move the substitute with the record Exhibit A-2 and with Record Exhibit – oh, excuse me. I move the substitute with revised Exhibit A-2 and with revised Exhibit C. Second. Second.
 Mayor, may I chime in quickly just to make sure we have clarity on the record? So you want us to clarify the amendment numbers. Is that correct? What I'd like to do, because what was filed was a revised A2, but it has been amended today. And so I'd like you to clarify that so that staff can conform A2 to the amendments you made today. So I would like you to please clarify the numbers. So I move the substitute with revised exhibit A-2 as amended.
 And with revised Exhibit C as amended. Yes, and I will clarify that the amendments that were made today to include are number 12, number 17, number 19, option 3, number 54, and number 55. Correct. Second. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish. We have a second. Any further discussion? Carla, please call the roll. Fish. This is our penultimate vote. Am I right? One more? Who knows?
 So we're kicking this thing down the road to May 24th. How long does this one stay in purgatory? We've had a really fascinating couple of weeks of hearings on some really important issues, and we could not do it without superb staff work. So thank you to everyone who is on this side of the table helping us through this, and I appreciate the quality of the discussion with my colleagues, and I appreciate the –
 members of the community who have come out and shared their views and helped us get it right. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly.
 What Commissioner Fish said. Thanks, Marty, especially Lauren King and Louise. Thanks to all the community members who came out, especially to the lady who's wearing my T-shirt with my initials on. I really appreciate it. I want one of those. That's very nice of you. That is hilarious. That's hilarious.
 This is why I like planning, because I think we're talking about things that really matter to the community, and what we do in this process will make a difference for the next 20 or more years. And so thank you for participating. Hi. Wheeler. So I definitely want a woke AF shirt. That's fabulous. That's not your initials. You can't have one. You guys need to do a selfie. I have to get my own?
 All right, I'll get my own. I vote aye. Thank you, everybody. That was fabulous. So we will continue the as amended substitute to May 24th, 2018. That will be a time-certain item at 2 p.m. Eric or Marty, is there anything else that we need to do? I don't think so. Oh, I've got to say thank you to Claire Adamsick on my staff, who I forgot once again. But thank you, Claire. Thanks, everybody. We're adjourned.
 And in answering your question, we are not doing this. Oh, I'm sorry. My life is on the line. That's good. Oh, yeah, well, that's it.