So let's do that. You ready, Carla? Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the May 4th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish, Saltzman, Novick.
 here thank you for that dramatic entrance here good morning everyone welcome we have some um pre-gavel business to do and then communications items and regular business after that first we have a proclamation and i know commissioner fish would
 I'd love to have been here today for this because it's an issue he cares a lot about, and he works a lot with Elders in Action. So let me ask if I don't think Barbara Bernstein made it, but Elders in Action is represented here today. Banduna Shrestina from AARP is here. Lieutenant Colonel Linda Campbell is here. Come on up, please. And I'll read the proclamation. Thank you.
 and we'll hear from these leaders. It says, whereas the Portland City Council and our community partners at Multnomah County, Age-Friendly Portland, Elders in Action, Portland State University, and AARP are committed to a shared vision of Portland that is welcoming and inclusive to people of all ages and abilities, and whereas nationwide more older adults are choosing to stay in their homes and age in place, and whereas among Portland's growing population is an increasingly diverse influx of older adults,
 And whereas the average cost of rent in Portland exceeds the Social Security retirement check, making it harder for many older adults to live independently and remain in their homes, and forcing many to work long past retirement age. And whereas the City of Portland supports livable communities for people of all ages through such actions as funding age-friendly Portland's work on housing and implementing policies in the Comprehensive Plan to keep Portland's neighborhoods welcoming and accessible.
 And whereas older adults benefit from a wide range of city and county services designed to prevent fraud, abuse, hunger, illness, and financial insecurity. And whereas communities flourish when people of all ages contribute their experiences, their time, their respect, and their service. And whereas we acknowledge the many contributions of older adults in our community who deserve our respect and appreciation.
 Now, therefore, I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, City of Roses, do hereby proclaim the month of May to be Older Americans Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this month. So let's hear it for older Americans and welcome a couple of leaders in this cause. Good morning. Good morning. My name is Linda Campbell. I'm not an older Oregonian, but I am turning 70 on Friday. Okay.
 Three years ago, I moved into what I like to refer to as a lovely, lead platinum old folks home. I'd been so busy moving in and settling in that I really hadn't had time to look up and see who my neighbors were. My first evening in the dining room, I looked around, and to my shock, I said, these people are old. Laughter
 But then I started to get to know them. The first woman I met was 92. She and her husband in earlier years had decided to buy a ranch. And as she tells it, he was in charge of the crops and she was in charge of the cattle. She confided that men just aren't good with cattle. You really have to be a mother to understand them. She said she'd still be out there riding the range today if she could.
 We have social workers and psychologists in our building. We have a nun and a priest who fell in love and got married. We have teachers and librarians and professors and nurses and doctors and dentists and lawyers and judges. We have politicians. We have bankers and accountants and dancers and musicians and singers. We have one woman who sang on Broadway. We have one woman who did her own radio program in New York City.
 We have painters and sculptors, some of great renown. We have writers and editors and authors. We have police officers and CIA agents. We have soldiers and even one general. We have entrepreneurs, some of whom have built impressive businesses. You would be amazed to glimpse their wisdom. They've learned so many lessons that are far beyond my reach. One man became aware...
 that there were 200 people in danger of their despotic government halfway around the globe. Their government had wanted to do them harm, and this man somehow managed to get a 727, and he managed to get it sent to that country, and he rescued 200 people, had them brought to the U.S., he found housing for them, and he helped them find work.
 It seems that every one of my neighbors is amazing. You may see my neighbors and just not know. You may see one man wandering around without direction because Alzheimer's is encroaching on his brain. What you don't know is that he spent his life as a talented research scientist. You may see my neighbor who's a talented violinist.
 What you don't know is that he was an early pioneer in DNA research. He's a microbiologist with a PhD, as is his wife. You may see a woman, shrunken with age, stooped over, pushing a walker. She may be a pilot or an opera singer. If you ask these people what they're doing now, they may say they are walking for a charity or starting up a scholarship foundation. They volunteer as mentors for children,
 give generously to hospice or to Compassion and Choices or to our house or to their church. They work on neighborhood organizations and they continue to make a difference. Some of us are LGBT. Many have LGBT kids or grandkids. For this and other equality issues, my neighbors are vocal and committed. They believe in good government, strong schools and social justice. When I first moved into the old folks' home,
 I just saw old people. Now I know better. Now I see amazing people all around me. They've made a difference in my life and in the community and in the world. And I'm in awe of them. And I'm working hard to follow in their footsteps. For what they have witnessed and suffered and fought for and accomplished, I'm proud
 They absolutely deserve this recognition today, and I thank you all. Thank you. Well said. Wonderful. Thank you. Yes. Let's hear it for the morning, Ben-Mina. Would you like to add to that story? Thank you. I think I would not be as eloquent or moving. I'm very moved by what you have to say, and I thank you for this opportunity, Mayor Hales, Commissioners Saltzman.
 Fritz and Novick. It's great to be here and as I said it would be hard to say anything more than what Lieutenant Colonel Campbell has said and I want to say that because I'm so honored to be here. We didn't know you were going to be here. I didn't know but now to sit next to you because you yourself have been such a trailblazer. Older Americans Month is a time when we recognize older adults in our communities and this year's
 theme is Blaze a Trail and I think it's very appropriate to have that theme because like Linda said, older adults don't just are not old, just
 but they've been contributing individuals throughout their lifetimes, have done amazing things. And even as we get older, we continue to contribute. Older adults volunteer at amazing rates, much higher than most other age cohorts. They vote. They run for office. They serve in committees.
 At AARP, we see the work that older adults do every day. Without our volunteers, we wouldn't be able to do what we do in terms of social change. Our volunteers are leading walks in this city. They are serving as tax aid volunteers. They bring back thousands and millions of dollars for families.
 lower-income and middle-income families. They're teaching driver safety courses. They're going out and teaching people. They're doing amazing things. And that's, you know, we want to recognize that. They deserve this honor. We thank you for adopting this proclamation. But in addition, I just want to say, you know,
 This is also a time maybe to stay the course in terms of the trail we have blazed here in this city as becoming an age-friendly community, committing to age-friendliness and to policies and plans that really make the city an age-friendly place.
 Unlike many of the people that Linda mentioned, there are others still who may not have been able to contribute similarly or might not have had certain advantages previously.
 And, you know, old age can be a great time to contribute and volunteer, but it can also be a time of limitations. And I think as much as recognition, we also ask for your continued commitment to older adults and in your planning and your decision-making. And I just want to say thank you again, and it's an honor to sit next to you today.
 Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks so much for being here. We'd love to take a photo with you if we could. Great. Wow. I do have a request. The AOA is asking for selfies. I know it's a terrible thing. I'm going to bring that over. Could you just put your name into the record, please? I'm sorry. I didn't say it. It's Bandana Shrestha. I'm with AARP. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Okay, we're going to move on to communications items. We have four people signed up to speak on subjects of their choosing, starting with 432. Request of Dana Clark to address council regarding more than a survivor photo exhibit in City Hall. Good morning. Come on up. Hey, how are you? Good morning. Good morning. I have support. Yes, you do. Thank you.
 Thank you to Commissioner Saltzman for hosting the event that we're having here this next week, and it will be in the city for five weeks. I'm Dana Clark, and I'm chair of a multi-club committee, Rotary Insects Trafficking Now. Our exhibit will start next week. It will go to Portland State University, David Douglas High School, Portland Community College, and finally at Clackamas Town Center. In each of those venues, we will have...
 opportunity for the community event to educate the public raise awareness and courage community members to take action the exhibit honors the survivor leaders featured for our for their diversity beauty strength and accomplishments and celebrates their present and future and with me as Jerry Jimenez who works for the city and is part of the survivor exhibit
 The exhibition is a powerful antidote to the stereotypes of commercially sexually exploited and trafficked victims, perpetually broken and forever limited by their trauma.
 This traveling exhibition from GEMS, which is Girls Educational Mentoring Services in New York City, is also designed to be a poster series that will be utilized in agencies serving youth to inspire a tangible sense of hope and future for community, commercially sexually exploited and trafficked girls and women.
 Buyers must be educated that these children are coerced, beaten, and abused into submitting to have paid sex with them. We want to change the culture of citizens who believe the youth who are on our streets are there willingly, but will learn to view them as the victims that they are of a trafficker and report suspected trafficking.
 Thank you for your time, and we hope to see you at one or more of our events, including downstairs. And on behalf of the Rotarians of the Rotary Clubs of Albina, Central East, Southeast Portland, and my home club, East Portland, thank you. Thank you very much. Jerry, Mike, who would like to go next? I'm Mike Gallagher. I'm a police officer with the City of Portland and have been part of the sex trafficking unit for the last seven years.
 I've been a police officer for almost 25 years now and been working prostitution-related missions most of my career. And the views of officers in our sex trafficking unit and officers within the Portland Police Bureau are changing and seeing prostitution more than just the word prostitution. We're seeing how victims are truly victims and seeing how we need to address the demand side out there by addressing the men who see this as a victimless crime.
 And so our views at our sex trafficking unit have really changed our focus to on the demand side of this thing and focusing our efforts on men and providing the women that are out there resources and education and treatment to get them out of the lifestyle. This More Than a Survivor exhibit puts a face and a story behind the victims that are out there and shows that they're real people and survivors.
 how they were forced and coerced to be involved in prostitution and i want to thank you for the support and allowing that to be here and that education piece that goes behind this and look forward to seeing you at the event jerry would you like to add anything sure um i was asked in 2008 to speak to montevilla neighborhood association and their biggest problem at the time was prostitution and at the same time they were going to end the prostitution free zones for being unconstitutional
 From there, in 2010, we co-founded a survivor-to-survivor support group, which is more of a sisterhood. It's not a 501c3. But what I know from that process is that we have hundreds of women who are doing incredible work here in the city of Portland as professionals who escaped a life and have moved forward.
 Because of that work, I was asked to go to New York in 2013 to be a part of this poster series where we got to do the Survivor Leader Institute and then have hair and makeup, which was really nice, and get our pictures taken for a poster to show 22 women from across the country who are doing great work.
 Since then, I've been allowed to work on the Obama Strategic Plan for Human Trafficking in D.C. and work with American Indian groups across the country working on human trafficking as well on my vacation time.
 So it's been an incredible experience to work on the leadership development of people, to help keep them out of that forever. And I want to thank you all for your support. Thank you. Well, we appreciate your leadership, and the exhibit here in City Hall will be a teachable moment for a lot of people. So thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Let's do this. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move on to 434, please. Request of David Keefe Davis to address council regarding homeless sweeps and civil rights, human rights violations by the city. Good morning. So my name is David Keefe Davis. I'm with Fight the Sweeps Portland and Multnomah County Cop Watch. And it looks like I chose a slot a month beforehand for something that's pretty timely last year.
 just yesterday you guys swept out up to 400 people they were forcefully evicted off the spring water trail including homeless people that are mentally ill handicapped have brain injuries abuse trauma victims victims of sex trafficking like these uh
 folks just talked about, you know, victims of child sex trafficking, slavery, all this various stuff, and you guys just continue to wage your little cultural cleansing war against the homeless. And I saw, you know, that wasn't the only thing you guys have recently done. You recently cleared out the
 homeless people under the Hawthorne Bridge, too, and you're going up to Northwest and you're getting ready for the Rose Parade. And you want to know what? I hear there's a lot of rumblings about how the Rose Parade's going to be shut down by all the homeless activists. And a bunch of those 450 people that got forcefully evicted will actually be blocking the Rose Parade. So, you know, so you're building a big resistance and resentment, okay?
 And not only did you sweep the people out, oh, ODOT leased the land to the Portland Development Commission so they could fence it off. I think that's totally illegal, actually. I don't see how ODOT can even be authorized to just simply...
 lease out land to a quasi-city agency like the Portland Development Commission, and especially under your little homeless state of emergency farce that you guys have been pushing. I see all you guys were all chuckling and chuckling when you came in, old Steve Novick coming in, all, yeah, here, all happy, happy, happy, but he doesn't want to even look at me.
 Because he knows he's guilty. Just like all you guys. You guys have a look of guilt on your face. Because you're killing people. And you're abusing people. You just say, oh, it's all great what you guys are doing. Fighting sex trafficking. But you have no problem going out and victimizing the victims that they were just talking about.
 And other trauma victims, you know? Victims of child abuse. All kinds of various things. Oh, mentally handicapped people. Handicapped people. Veterans. Yeah, one of the best ways to become homeless in America, I hear, is to join the military. Because then you become homeless. And then you just become worthless to your country once you've served it. Thanks very much. And worked for the corporations. And then you...
 Then you get to get pushed around by bullies on city council. Mr. Davis, your time's up. Thanks very much. Are you going to do anything to fix this problem, or are you just going to, like, Thanks, Mr. Davis. Thank you very much. Okay, let's take item 435. Request of DPWU to address council regarding report from Portland Jobs with Justice Workers' Rights Board. Come on up, please. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm bringing support up to the table. Okay. Dr. Bates. Good morning. And I have a request if Dr. Lisa Bates could speak in my stead. Certainly. She chaired the Workers' Rights Board panel last Thursday. That would be fine. Thank you. Dr. Bates' work is known to us. So good morning.
 Good morning. Thank you. I'm here to report on behalf of the Workers' Rights Board convened last week for the community to hear about issues faced by errand workers at Instafab, which is a steel fabrication and erection company, where non-unionized workers have been striking for over a year due to unsafe working conditions.
 The Workers' Rights Board, which consisted of myself, Oregon House Speaker Tina Kotak, Professor Jose Padin, Reverend Cecil Prescott, and Father Dave Zegar. We heard testimonials from workers, some of whom are here today, about hazardous conditions in the fab shop, unsafe practices on construction job sites, inadequate or non-existent safety training, and verbally abusive supervision. Thank you.
 As these men explain the dangers of their job, things like potential lung or eye damage, falls, the hazards of stacking and moving very heavy structural elements,
 We found that their descriptions were bolstered by the State of Washington Department of Labor and Industry's recent findings of up to a dozen serious violations of workplace safety at the Instafab Fab Shop, which is in Vancouver. Those are violations that could lead to injury or death, but which have been dismissed by the owner as being minor violations.
 As we heard workers speaking of their concern and care for fellow workers at Instafab, it was particularly poignant that we were meeting on Memorial Day for fallen workers, those who lose their lives on the job.
 Our recommendations at a community emerging from this will be presented in a full report. You have the executive summary now, and we'll present that to you. That will be presented to the Instafab owners and management, recommending that they meet with workers and address training, safety, equipment, and supervision practices, and to really take very seriously those issues.
 We will be directing our findings also to Oregon BOLI to ensure that they are aware of the findings of Washington State and take action on the Oregon side of the border. Two major contractors, including Anderson and Skanska, that they need to address the practices of their subcontractors on job sites.
 And to our public institutions, our colleges and universities here, where INSSAFAB workers are involved in construction, including here in Portland at OHSU, and to our public employee unions so that they're aware and can address standards and practices of construction on campus.
 I think that we're all here very concerned about equity and who benefits and who's burdened by Portland's development boom. And we want city leaders to be aware of these issues and be aware of these findings and recommendations. Certainly as the city moves forward with things like affordable housing, construction and development, transit zones, et cetera, we would urge care with our public dollars as a way to support good jobs and safe working conditions as part of our social equity imperative. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. We really appreciate you being here and calling attention to this and the linkages with public expenditure. So thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all.
 Okay, let's deal with our consent calendar briefly, and then we'll move on to our next time certain item. I've had some requests to pull items off the consent calendar, and I actually made a couple myself. That is, we're going to take items 440, 441, and 442 to the regular calendar. Any other requests?
 Okay, then let's please vote on the balance of the consent agenda. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay, items 436 and 437, please. 436, accept.
 Report from Asian Pacific American Network of Oregon on a community of contrast. Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders in the West and 437 proclaim May 2016 to be Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. I believe we have a panel from APANO here. Christina Narayan, Khan Pham, and Cheryl Wong, I believe, are going to present. So come on up, our presenters. Thank you.
 And welcome. Good morning. The timer is making me nervous. We will be sharing time. No, presentations aren't subject to the time limit if you're invited presenters on a council calendar item. Great. Let's see if I can navigate this. Okay.
 Hello, Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Christina Narayan. I'm the Policy and Research Coordinator with APANO. To my left is Khan Pham, the Environmental Justice Manager. And further down is An Li, who is a recent graduate of the API Community Leadership Institute. First, before we begin, we'd like to thank you, Mayor, and the Office of Equity and Human Rights for inviting us to share information about our community and our work.
 APANA, with national partners, has produced a demographic profile of the West, and in this booklet is about 10 pages specific to Oregon. I'd like to briefly just share some of the highlights.
 You know, as you all know, our community's history is rooted in the fight for equality and justice. We've persevered and missed obstacles such as exclusion, incarceration, and displacement, to name a few. And since the 1800s, we've contributed significantly to the industries that have fueled and shaped Oregon's economy, namely the fishing industry, farming, and the construction of railroads.
 As you can see, Pacific Islanders are among the second fastest growing ethnic group in Oregon, and Asian Americans aren't too far behind. But this narrative is often untold and unlearned. Yesterday, we took a step toward instituting this history. The school board voted to adopt a resolution affirming ethnic studies as part of the graduating curriculum at all Portland public schools to be instituted by 2018. This was the result of a year-long campaign designed and driven by APANO's youth.
 Now, I don't know if you remember what you were doing in high school, but I was trying not to go to class. Definitely was not making an effort to make it more dynamic and appealing to my peers. Now while measures and metrics often aggregate us together, it's important to know that we are a unique, diverse community. I identify as Fijian. My mother is from Yugoslavia.
 And as you can see here, the Asian and Pacific Islander community represents about 26 different ethnic groupings. This ranges from our historic Chinese communities to our newly placed Bhutanese refugees and Marshallese islanders. Multnomah County is home to the state's most historic population of Asian and Pacific Islanders, but actually we see the most growth in rural Oregon, where populations have actually doubled.
 Could I just ask you about that? I was very interested to see that Malheur County has a large contingent. Do we know why folks are going there? Well, we actually see a large group of Pacific Islanders there for some of the agricultural work in just that industry. Okay.
 I guess I couldn't tell you otherwise, but people tend to go to where their families are. We see a lot of climate justice pressures that are bringing islanders to the mainland, which actually Con will touch on as well. That's wonderful to see more diversity in the rest of the state. I think so. Thank you. So as our communities grow, we want to make it a point to involve them in community processes. Okay.
 And what we found is that our communities have the ability to swing elections with populations that represent the margin of victory in nine house district races. And this is based on the 2012 elections. Our local district, 44, is the highest number of voting age Pacific Islanders in the state. And a continued investment must be made to ensure that the right to vote is protected and accessible regardless of language spoken at home or length of citizenship.
 APANO recently launched a statewide campaign to register 6,000 newly eligible API voters by October, and we're on track. We'll also release ballot voter guides in seven different languages. So our families contribute to the economy still, and we are more likely than any other racial grouping to own a small business in Oregon.
 With over $3 billion in revenue and fueling about half a billion dollars in payroll, we are literally creating jobs, and they're local jobs. The Jade District is an awesome example of what a thriving community can look like.
 But we must ensure that our communities have the opportunity to continue to thrive and be stable in these neighborhoods. And so there really need to be paths to storefront ownership, such as community land trusts and other city policies that can incentivize these purchases. Thank you.
 So while we have seen pockets of prosperity within our community, many still struggle to make ends meet. Since from 2007 to 2013, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have actually grew into poverty. And while some in our community find academic success, others face barriers in accessing educational opportunities and language assistance for critical services.
 Statewide, Pacific Islanders are among the least likely to own homes, second only to African Americans who have a home ownership rate of 33%, and we know this rate is even lower in Multnomah County. Even homeowners are likely to face a significant cost burden and increasingly double up or make tremendous sacrifices to keep their children in their school district, to stay near their jobs, and to simply be near their social supports.
 We have seen our communities prosper in the wake of, well, in the wake of, sorry, in the wake of incredible challenges. And one way that we can ensure future prosperity is through advocacy and leadership development. APANO is engaged in civic engagement, as I mentioned, but also in member-led campaigns to expand healthcare access and health literacy within our community.
 The importance of Heritage Month extends beyond recognizing our history. It's a value statement that the city is making. You're recognizing that we are an integral part of the city of Portland, and as such, we must be included in the decision-making process so that we can help decide our future and also make sure that these policies help and don't hinder our fate.
 I'd like to turn it over to Khan to explain a little bit more about the breadth of services that APANO offers and how community members are really shaping the landscape in which they live. Thanks. Good morning. As Christina mentioned, Portland's growing API communities face a lack of living wage jobs with which to support their families, a housing crisis that is pushing more and more APIs out of the city altogether, and growing anti-immigrant sentiment reflected in English-only ballot measures and other campaigns to blame.
 so-called others for our problems. At APANA, we believe that our communities find strength in a powerful political voice shaped by self-determination and our diverse cultural and ethnic heritages. We believe that the root causes of inequity are interconnected, and thus we organize and advocate on a range of issues ranging from educational equity for English language learners, ethnic studies, to anti-displacement and affordable housing, and transportation and climate justice.
 We invest in political education to understand the systems that create inequities and to focus on developing leaders who can work collectively to identify problems, make demands, and win concrete changes for our communities. Today, I'm going to share a little bit about our programs. Our climate justice work is rooted in the fact that Asians and Pacific Islanders are among the most impacted by climate change, both here and in their homelands.
 Many of our members, such as our Pacific Islander members and other communities like my family back home in Vietnam, have seen firsthand the impacts of rising sea levels and flooding and increasing drought. The neighborhood with the highest concentration of APIs in Oregon is the Jade District, where residents suffer asthma rates twice as high as the city average because of being surrounded by high traffic rate corridors.
 We know that it's crucial to make a shift to a clean, renewable economy, and we see many forces working to make this transition. But we want to make sure that it is a just transition, that we don't merely replicate the same unequal structures of power only now with solar panels and green infrastructure.
 We want to make sure that the people who are locked out of the current economy because of race, class, gender, sexuality, national origin, are given access to green jobs and training so we can all help build a renewable economy that we all need. In the Jade District, our organizing and advocacy centers around four main goals. A home for all or anti-displacement, transportation justice, which includes sidewalks and safety improvements, as well as access to good public transit, small business development, and healthy air and green space.
 We've worked with community coalitions like Anti-Displacement PDX, Powell Division Community Stabilization Committee, and many, many others to ensure that anti-displacement measures are included in the city's plans. We have started doing tenant organizing with residents at Douglas Square Apartments, many of whom are recent Chinese immigrants, who are facing rent increases after the recent sale of their building, which is a microcosm of what is happening all over the city. Thank you.
 We have launched our Chinese Parent Leadership Academy and plan to launch a Vietnamese Parent Leadership Academy in the fall to build the skills and political analysis of our immigrant members so that they can effectively advocate and organize for their families at all levels, from Portland Public Schools to City Hall and beyond. At APANO, developing leaders is at the core of our work. Anh is an APICLE graduate and now one of APANO's awesome member leaders, and she will talk now about her experiences and reflections.
 Good morning. Good morning. Hi. My name is An Le, and I have lived in Portland since 2007. I came here from Vietnam with my mom and my older brother when I was 15. I am an undergrad student at Portland State University. Go Vikings! And I am hoping to become a clinical social worker in the future.
 Last month, I graduated from an eight-month leadership development program called the API Community Leadership Institute, APICLEI, which APANO and Ergo Asian Family Center run together. APICLEI taught me the importance of training leaders in minority communities and the power of telling stories to challenge social stigma and as a tool for social change.
 From the day I was born, I was taught to never question authority and to do my best at any given situation, good or bad, oppressed or not, because I quote, "...as long as we work hard, we can overcome everything." Well, that is not always the case.
 My grandparents and parents lived through the fall of Saigon in 1975. To survive, they had to adapt to the new system, and humans are the product of the environment. It is hard to do something different than what we know, and it was hard to do something different than what I knew. Recently, something happened that made me realize how much I have changed and grew in the last eight months with the PICLI. I was teaching a group of 30 teenagers to prepare them for leadership camp at the end of this month.
 At some point, I mentioned the term FOB. FOB means fetch off the boat, and it's typically a derogatory term used to shame new immigrants. Most of the kids who knew what that term meant immediately told me to not use such term to talk about myself. I told them, I asked them, what's wrong with being a FOB? And they couldn't give me any answer. I didn't tell them how proud I am for being one and having friends and family members who are.
 Every time I say or hear the term FAB, I think about all the silent and endless sacrifices that my mom, who was a 52-year-old widow who also did not speak any English, had to leave her country with the hope that my brother and I would have a better life than her. I asked them, how could something as beautiful as that become such a shameful thing to mention? And again, they could not give me any answer. And the room went quiet.
 At that very moment, I know that I have given 30 young leaders in my Vietnamese community a sense of ownership and the power of our ancestor story that is not learned in school or covered in the media. All of that happened because I was no longer afraid. Irving Goffman, the 73rd president of the American Sociological Association said, stigma is a process by which the reaction of others spoil normal identity.
 It is important that our growing community knows we belong and are included in the decision-making and planning process. The decisions made in this building drastically help or hinder our ability to thrive. We thank you, thank you, for recognizing our communities through PIA Heritage Month. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Wonderful presentation.
 Thanks. Are there others that want to speak on the report itself? No one else signed up. Okay. And then before we take action on the report, I have the privilege of reading a proclamation, which says this, whereas the City of Portland is proud of its diversity and draws strength from the rich cultures and traditions of all community members.
 And whereas Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders of Oregon are prevailing over the adversity of exclusion, incarceration, and displacement. And whereas Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month is an opportunity for all individuals and organizations to recognize the contributions of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders to the cultural, civic, and economic life of Portland for over 150 years.
 and whereas the asian american and pacific islander community is comprised of many languages and ethnicities and their vibrant history ought to be shared with all portlanders now therefore i charlie hales mayor of the city of portland oregon the city of roses to hereby proclaim may 2016 to be asian american and pacific islander heritage month and encourage all residents to encourage to observe this month let's hear it for our asian and pacific islander community
 Thank you all. I think a motion to accept the report is in order. So moved. Second. Second. Let's take a vote, please. Saltzman. Well, thank you for this good report. I look forward to looking through it more, but it definitely has some good information about the tremendous population growth of our Asian American Native Pacific Islander population. So thank you. Aye. Novick. Aye.
 Thank you so much for your presentations. And just looking at the report, I think there's a couple of passages that I wanted to read out, which is that while some reports on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders paint a simplistically glossy picture, this report aims to provide a fuller and richer portrait of the social, economic, and political challenges and opportunities our communities face.
 And I think that's really important information to deliver because I think you're right in sort of the popular imagination. It is often a glossy picture. We need to be reminded that it's not always so glossy. So thank you very much. Hi. As always, data informs our decisions and helps us understand. And I appreciate Commissioner Novick for calling that out, that the report in fact shows that Asian Americans do suffer –
 disparities that are ongoing and in some cases worsening. So it's very much appreciated that you came to present today. Several of us were in the 82nd Avenue of Roses Parade on Saturday, which was wonderful. And it's great to see the businesses along 82nd recovering from the recession and went past the Opano community space, which always brings a smile to my face. So it's
 It's a partnership we need to continue to support. I'm very proud of the Jade District and the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative. On June 11th of 1979, I was fresh off the boat. I came to hear from the United Kingdom, and in those days a one-way ticket on the boat was cheaper than a one-way ticket on the plane. So that's my story, and that is not a story –
 that arriving on that boat was very different from the experience of you and your mom and your brother. And I appreciate that you are going to Portland State and that your mom must be very happy to see you embarked on a life that will indeed be better than hers. Although I'm sure she feels that having you and your brother is part of a good life.
 and getting here safely. So I appreciate very much you coming to give us your personal stories. Every immigrant has a personal story. Every American has a personal story, and we need to be reminded of those things. I'm very grateful for that and for your participation and membership in the community of Portlanders. Hi. Hi.
 Well, you know, this change in the demographics of our city is one of the most amazing and noteworthy changes in Portland's history.
 and we have really become a much more diverse city over the last few decades and this report both shows the strengths of that community and of those communities and the weaknesses and problems that we need to confront but i have so much hope having seen some activities and activism here recently saturday after the 82nd avenue parade i was out at the at the new year celebration in the park
 with communities from across the Asian and Pacific Islander cultures in our city. And it was both a cultural celebration and a celebration of the young people in those communities and a big family picnic for a big family that comes from dozens of countries. And Paulo and others that organized that, it was really a wonderful event.
 because it shows how we are all becoming Portlanders. And I said something there that I want to emphasize again here, and you mentioned it, Anand, that is part of this involves leadership and political power, not just leadership.
 access to the good things of Portland, not just equal opportunity, but actual political power. And some of you I know attended our budget hearings this year, and there were communities of color from across the city who came and spoke eloquently and passionately at those hearings. And to me it's an illustration of the exercise of that citizenship and power that comes with inclusion.
 And so that's something to be celebrated, encouraged. I love the fact that there are deliberate efforts at raising up new leaders, whether as high school students, college students, or working adults who then can start taking these roles in political and public life. So I'm an enthusiastic fan of that development as well.
 So there's a lot to be hopeful about, a lot to be celebrated, a lot of work to do, and you have a city council and a community that support that change and all that comes with it. Aye. Thank you all very much. We have a proclamation I would love to give to you, and then I'd love to take a photo with some of the leaders here from the community who are here this morning. So could we please? Please.
 I should put you right there, but... laughter Can we all get in? laughter It's a very different AJ. laughter laughter
 Can we get Jennifer and Bujanski? And the Cambodian guy. Can you put money in his microphone? Who's going to? Cheese. I can see.
 Thank you. Okay.
 let's take I think we should go ahead and take the items that we pulled from the consent calendar and get those taken care of here starting with item number 440 are you ready to do that now that's the I think so they're held property maybe not okay all right let's wait from parks here
 If anybody from Parks is watching, if you could get in here. All right. Let's wait on those. We can go ahead and take on the regular agenda. Well, there's the two. The other two we could deal with. So let's do 441, please. 441, authorize a contract for Portland Communications Center seismic upheaval
 upgrade, roof replacement, mechanical upgrades, and envelope repair for an estimated $2,093,062. Right, and I pulled this to regular simply because the dollar amount was over the threshold where we shouldn't have it on consent. That was just an error on our part. Unless there are any council questions about this,
 or if there's anyone who wants to testify on it we can take action on it i think without ms moody being here to present it but it was a budgeted project for repairs at our 911 center very important anyone want to speak on this item if not then let's take a vote please helmsman hi novick hi grits hi tails all right and 442.
 Authorize a contract for Smart Park and North Precinct recoding for an estimated $1,567,355. Okay, and then this project is complete and we are simply closing it out. So any questions about this one? I don't think so. It says...
 Oh, the design is complete. Sorry, the design is complete, and now it's ready to go out to bid. Wrong, wrong. I read that wrong. Yeah, the only question – I'm glad you pulled it, and I just note that I wondered why we're combining the two projects. Next time maybe it might be –
 give more opportunities to smaller firms if we didn't have good questions because they're certainly not next door to each other so i'll ask uh yeah next time we should unbundle those because that gives more opportunity for smaller firms and this is recoding so they don't need as much equipment as if you're grinding and paving this one was bid this way so it's important to honor our commitment yep any other questions anyone want to speak on this item and let's take a vote please to authorize this oh okay come on up
 Well, actually, I'm going to take three minutes of silence for Michelle.
 a local activist i'm sorry we're talking about a contract for paving here so unless it's on that subject i'm going to rule you out of order mr davis so i'm going to take three minutes oh i'm sorry we're not going to do that you're out of order and we're going to proceed so roll call please no i would like to speak on this it's too late but joe already called for that no you did not call for it when i spoke right you did not call for it yeah
 You are both out of order and you'll be excluded from the council chambers unless you let us proceed with our business this night.
 3 on 1, you need to be seated in the audience. Otherwise, we'll keep closing the council meeting so you can be excluded. 2, 1, 0. We're recessed. We're recessed. These folks need to be removed from the chambers. Are we all ready? They're here. Okay. Okay. Council, return to order, please, and we'll take item 440.
 M-440, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County for removal of reversionary interest on a portion of Lair Hill Park property and release the reversionary interest at Troutdale property.
 Thank you, Mayor. Again, this was inadvertently placed on the consent agenda, and it's something that we're very pleased with, so I'm very happy to have the opportunity to introduce our staff here, your staff, Mayor, and mine from Parks. It shows the strong collaboration between the Office of Management and Finance, Portland Parks and Recreation, and Multnomah County to manage public property more effectively. With that, I'll turn it over to our trio of wonderful presenters. Good morning. Good morning. I'm Peter.
 Today we're here to talk about the removal of a reversionary clause that we have on a piece of property out at Troutdale. It's part of the old poor farm, the Edge Field property, as you may remember. It is now part of McMinimums and the larger property. We had a reversionary piece of language on AD that we transferred over to the county back in 1923, I think it was, for it to be continued to use for those county uses.
 Since then, as you know, the poor farm shut down, the jail is shut down. The only thing left actually operating county out there is the animal services.
 So the reversionary clause allows the county to actually take this property and combine it with properties they've already worked to develop with McMinimums and the property there to release it for that use. The property we're talking about is mostly wetlands, and its main purpose is for adjacent properties to be able to do mitigation on. There's some ability to do some agricultural work, too, but that's the main purpose. Okay.
 What we have in trade for that is the actual reversionary clause that the county has on the Layer Hill Park property, which has the large brick building there that's in pretty bad disrepair, but the reversionary clause there is that it be always used for parks use. It's been used for storage for a number of years, and what we're doing is simply trading reversionary clauses, releasing our interest in the –
 troutdale property and the county will release their interest in the parks layer hill property for a partitioned lot around the building so that parks can use that property in whatever is the best interest you have any questions we're happy to answer any questions oh i'm sure there's an interesting story about how the city of portland never came to own that first
 What is Parks intending to do with the dormitory at Lair Hill? Isn't it a historic structure? It is not on the historic register. It is a very old building, however, but it is not a historic structure as of this point. Can you introduce yourself? Oh, excuse me. My name is Trang Lam. I'm the property and business development manager for Portland Parks. Okay.
 And just to go in a little bit deeper on the property itself, it's been in storage use since 2001, and it's very underutilized. So this will give us an opportunity to actually kind of think about what other uses might be. So we're going to have to go through that process. Yes.
 So not demolishing it? Not demolishing it. No, no, no. It's a beautiful building. We wouldn't demolish it. Okay. It's not in very good shape, though. That's one of the places we looked at. Could we do storage for people living outside? And even for that use without many people in it, it wasn't deemed suitable for those watching at home.
 And those who are my age, it's the old Children's Museum before the Children's Museum moved up to Washington Park. It is. It is a beautiful building, but it needs a lot of work to make it habitable and useful. So, yeah, maybe you don't know all the possibilities yet for the Learhill property, but are you going to put it out on RFP or are you going to try to seek an internal solution within city bureaus? What's the university possibilities here?
 I think all of the above is the, you know, kind of all the possibilities. You know, I've spoken with our director and the commissioner around probably putting out a RFP. Because it does need a lot of TLC, it will probably need a lot of funding. So we'll probably try to look for a partner that could help us fund that. Yeah.
 And one thing that we could do is do a lot line adjustment to make that a different property from their light hill park. And I want to be very clear to the neighborhood and those who love the park that we're not proposing to develop the park land or in any way diminish the amount of park land that's available for park uses. We do have to partition a lot around the building. The reversionary release does not release the reversion from the rest of the park, so the park is still always park use. And the setbacks is based upon current code right now?
 Other questions? I will also mention that Commissioner Salsman, one term of the intergovernmental agreement is for the city to devote any proceeds exceeding $389,000 from the de-transfer of the building to an affordable housing or homeless shelter program mutually agreed upon by the Parks Commissioner and the County Chair or Operating Officer.
 So there is that component that that was part of this whole mega deal with Troutdale and the park property. So as I say, we've been working on it for quite some time, and I think it really is potentially a win-win-win. Great. Other questions? Anything else that you all need to make sure we understand before we see if there's testimony on this item?
 I would just add a little bit more to what Commissioner Fritz said, which is above and beyond the 389. It also would include any renovations that we would have to do to the building as well as, you know, any of the setbacks and things like that. So above the cumulative number. Okay, great. Thank you all very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then it's an emergency ordinance. Let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? Well, as you can tell, colleagues, this has been a tremendous amount of work, and I particularly thank Bob Keeter, Pauline Goebel, and Trang Lam for their work on it. And this measure allows increased flexibility so that we can continue to figure out the highest and best uses of these public properties. Aye. Thank you.
 mails well one i want to commend you commissioner fritz and to the bureau for um taking this approach to these kinds of properties we've worked together on another one that had caught my eye which were the unused uh derelict restroom buildings at ankeny and park and you had that you have that out for request proposals and what we found of course is there were a lot of very creative
 ideas that came in from the community and the Bureau is free obviously under your direction to set whatever criteria we want, that we prefer a non-profit or we're looking for this kind of community supporting use. But I think one thing that I've certainly learned over the years and it's evident in that reaction is that there are some creative people out there who are smarter than I am and I take as my proof every time I go around the city or much less to Edgefield, the McMinimins
 This isn't necessarily going to become a McMinimins. That's not my point, is that they can look at a building that I would say, it's too far gone, it's hopeless, and that was very much my reaction to the Kennedy School when they converted that into a commercial enterprise that was very respectful of the old structure. So I hope that's what happens. That kind of thing happens with the property at Ankeny, and that might be the outcome here. But I have learned from experience that there are people who can look at these old buildings and come up with –
 cost-effective solutions that I wouldn't think of and maybe no one in city government would think of. We're out for proposals on the old fire station at 2nd and Everett on the same kind of basis. Well, not 2nd and Everett, 2nd Lovejoy, on the same basis. You know, the old fire station next to Union Station is...
 pretty far gone. It's a historic building. We hope it can be brought back similar to this. I toured this building along with Sheriff Kofori and Commissioner Saltzman, I think, when we were looking at facilities that might accommodate temporary shelters and ultimately led to our decision to try to use the Sears building. And one walk around this building made it clear.
 not feasible for any kind of habitation without a major reinvestment. But I hope that some solution, either inside the family of city bureaus or in the community can be found because it is a great old building. It's not, it deserves rehabilitation and hopefully this leads to that kind of solution. So thanks for good work on this and look forward to the next phase of that work. Aye. Okay, let's move on to regular agenda item 445. Amendment.
 Building Regulations Code to ensure all residential demolitions covered under the existing residential demolition delay provision of Section 24.55.200 are subject to the demolition delay provisions of either Title 24 or Title 33.
 Well, I just want to say, and queuing this up for you, Commissioner Saltzman, as my co-sponsor on this, that we're looking for every means we can find in planning and code to do a better job of protecting great old buildings. And that's why it's great that we've added Mr. Spencer Hartle to the planning and sustainability staff.
 support the work that's being done and that we need to make sure that we're sending the right signals and consistently to people that are trying to demolish buildings and that's really what this particular piece is about and I appreciate the attention to that. Mr. Salzman. Thank you Mayor. I'll turn it over to staff they can explain it better than I can but it recently came to the attention of staff that
 unranked residential structures that are on the historic resources inventory, we're not subject to our relatively new demolition delay provisions, and these changes before us rectify that and make those properties subject to demolition review delay. And I'll turn it over to Nancy or Spencer. Thank you.
 Good morning. Nancy Thorrington with the Bureau of Development Services and Brendan Spencer-Hartle with BPS. Basically, what happened was actually this has been part of the ordinance since at least 2002.
 But it just came to our attention recently on a particular project. Some projects, basically there are two exemptions in the demolition delay ordinance to the 35, the existing 35-day delay. One is for nuisance properties, and the other is for properties that are historic resources or that are on the historic resources inventory. Okay.
 What we discovered recently in a project was that the Title 33 language only subjects properties that are ranked. That's a term in the zoning code that are ranked to the 120-day delay. If they're unranked properties, then they're not subject to the delay, which means that you would both bypass the 120-day zoning code delay and the Title 24 delay.
 essentially what happened in the past was people would just pull their properties off the HRI, which they can do by a simple letter. But if you had an unranked property and you didn't pull it off, you would actually be subject to no delay. So this ordinance closes that loophole by basically saying that anything that is not subject to Title 33 delay is automatically subject to the Title 24 delay. So there's no way to get through it.
 Since 2002, there's been a lot of changes to the zoning code, and so the language that was in this exemption didn't necessarily cover all of those. So this broadens that, so it just basically creates a safety net so that every property, every residential demolition that would normally be subject to a delay is.
 So, yeah. That's great. Any questions? Anything to add to that? No, I think that pretty much covers it. Okay. Great. Questions? And I would just add, in order to avoid having projects being exempt from the delay provision, there is an emergency provision attached to this ordinance. That is great. Yeah. That's a good idea. Okay. Thank you both very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Anyone signed up to speak on this item? Yes. All right. One person. Mike O'Callaghan. Okay. Come up, please.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. Michael Callahan speaking about the demolitions. I appreciate that. It supported me for years after building down and sold the building material in Alaska. And it's good to see it coming down here and certainly support reuse of all those materials. It's a good way to go. It gives people jobs on both ends, tearing it down and also on the usage end.
 Now, earlier on, there was a mention about a fight for equity and justice. Now, who do we fight for equity and justice? Okay. We fight you guys. Okay. That's who we fight. That's why the Bill of Rights are in place, to protect us from the authorities. You. Charlie, what right do you have to confiscate property rights?
 The Camping Ordinance doesn't give you that right. What gives you that right? It's tyrannical. You take people's property without authority of law. Wow. And you know the Camping Ordinance was declared unconstitutional in 2001, Multnomah County Court judge, also by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Camping Ordinance...
 I'm glad you suspended it, but you certainly didn't stop the sweeps. What gives you the right to sweep? You're all involved in this, even if it is different cabinets that run different parts of it. I've heard people, and I have read of people coming and talking to you about homeless. God, forever. Doing anything about it?
 Now, you look at the count of the people and homeless, what was it, 1,800? I think the last count was up 11%, something like that. You scratch a little deeper, you see that there were 600-some-odd people that weren't included in the count because they didn't want to wake them, because they didn't want to participate, because, because, because. As I mentioned to you before, we have over 10,000 homeless on the streets. Do a count.
 One of the first parts is understanding the magnitude of the problem. Now, this is unfortunate that you have chosen these things, but I do appreciate that you did kind of stop the sweeps for a little bit. I gave a friend of mine a heart attack urge. He came out homeless again. He got a week in a place to stay. Had another heart attack with the next one. I haven't seen him for a while.
 And you heard the guy that wanted a minute, three minutes of silence that you couldn't give him. Can't you guys do something about this? Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else on this item?
 And as Commissioner Saltzman said, it is an emergency ordinance, so let's vote, please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Good catch. Thank you. Aye. Hales? Yes. Thank you very much. Aye. Okay. 446. Authorize a contract with Walker Macy LLC for urban planning, design, and architecture services for the design overlay zone assessment not to exceed $150,000. Aye.
 so there's a lot going on in the bureau of planning sustainability right now as we all know and there's also a pretty urgent need to retune our design review process so the purpose of this contract is to supplement our staff with consulting services and i don't know you want to give us a quick overview of this proposal
 Good morning. Good morning. Hello, I'm Sandra Wood with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. Thank you for giving me a chance to say a few things about this project. We're really excited to have the opportunity to be doing an assessment of the design overlay zone. As you know, the D overlay or the design overlay is mapped throughout the city, usually in places where high growth is expected. In the comprehensive plan and the mixed-use project you'll see later this year, we're also expecting...
 proposing to expand the design overlay to more areas of the city which raises the need to do this assessment at this time so that we get the tools right before that expansion happens
 The purpose of the assessment is really to look at the design review process, both discretionary design review of projects that go through the design commission and non-discretionary design reviews of permits over the counter to see what the design outcomes are and if indeed what the value added is in the time and expense worth it, in other words.
 So we're looking at that. In thinking about this project, we really thought it would be best to have a consultant doing the work so that they can conduct the assessment and do interviews with stakeholders, and we felt stakeholders would probably be more open and willing to speak to an unbiased audience.
 group of people as opposed to us staff in the city. So we feel that contracting with Walker Macy, who was the selected candidate for this contract, is a really great way to go. They have a lot of experience and we're excited to work with them and hope that you will award this contract today. Thanks. Questions? What's the timeline for completing the work?
 They are, we're having our kickoff meeting next week, if this is awarded today, and we should be back at City Council by December with their recommendations. Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, there is a need for speed, and it's an emergency ordinance, so let's vote, please. Saltzman? Well, I appreciate you bringing this ordinance forward, Mayor. It's very important that we take a good impartial look at our design overlay and get some input from people. Aye. Aye.
 Hi. Hi.
 Thank you. Hi. Bales. Yeah, I think it's important to know that we're coming from strength in this issue. We've done a good job with design review, but it can be better. There are places where it takes too long. There are places where it's not enough. And so I think the purpose of this project will be, again, to tune it, to have it work better for more parts of the city, but also not have it become a huge time impediment for projects that are well designed. And that's the goal. We have amazing volunteers who serve on the commission and great staff involved
 But we also have a city that's growing so fast that one we need good design in more places and two We need the system to be efficient. So that's the goal of this project really looking forward to the results. All right Okay 447
 Apply to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $9,363 for the fiscal year 16 Bulletproof Vest Partnership Body Armor Safety Initiative for Bulletproof Vests. Good morning, Lieutenant Shearer. Good morning. I'm Lieutenant Shearer. I'm here representing the Portland Police Bureau. We're requesting an ordinance.
 to apply for a grant to the Department of Justice for $9,362. That's a 50% match for the cost for 25 vests. Right now we currently have well in excess of that as far as officer vacancies, so we're anticipating the need to purchase these vests over the course of the upcoming year or two. Great. Thank you. This 50-50 grant is an ongoing resource for us as long as the feds keep authorizing it? Correct. Okay.
 Great. Questions? Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, roll call please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Fritz? Thank you. Aye. Hayles? Aye. Okay. 448.
 accept a grant in the amount of $140,000 and appropriate $33,750 for fiscal year 2015-16 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program for sworn personnel overtime and program expenses
 for Portland Interdiction Efforts. Great. Captain Kruger, Lieutenant Kranz, good morning. Good morning, Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. This grant for Haida is a renewal of the grant we've had with them since 2005, which provides supplemental funding to the Drugs and Vice Division for drug interdiction efforts, and it supports principally investigative overtime and some small material costs and equipment costs. Thank you.
 This past year, in fact, the Haida grant also funded the Drugs Device Division study for the deployment of the naloxone opiate overdose remedy, which we studied throughout 2015 and then have deployed with the Police Bureau on a full-time basis beginning this year in 2016.
 Yeah, and while you're here, I mean, it just seems like on one hand we have a huge amount of heroin issues on the street right now from everything I've been hearing anecdotally from officers. And then, too, you've had some enormous quantities of drugs that you've interdicted in a couple of recent arrests. What's going on out there? I mean, give us a picture, if you wouldn't mind, of what you see overall in the situations.
 Drug trafficking in this portion of the United States is dominated by Mexican drug cartels. They are bringing substantial quantities of drugs into this region, and we have been very successful in interdicting drug trafficking.
 Thank you.
 So we're hoping to limit the harm to the community by limiting the amount of drugs that are available on the market and then providing also the opportunity for officers to revive people in overdose situations.
 Do you have any idea how many times we've used that anti-overdose medication now? During the test period through 2015, we had eight successful overdose revivals. The problem we have, or it's not really a problem, we have a very efficient EMS system in Portland. So EMS most often arrives at overdoses before the police bureau does, and they provide the same service. We're basically catching the opportunities where EMS hasn't arrived first, and we think that that's an important opportunity to fill the need.
 Yeah, that's great. So is it called naloxone? Yes, sir. Naloxone is the intranasal version of Narcan, which you've probably heard of, and it provides the same impact on the person. It blocks the receptors in the body from receiving the opiate, and it revives the overdose. So you said it's been deployed. Does that mean every patrol car has the opiate?
 No, sir. The study that we conducted, we found after we studied it throughout 2015, was that opiate overdoses are concentrated in central precinct. And that's where we have the most exposure to them. So we believe through the study that we conducted that the best place to deploy it was in central precinct. So the program is focused in central precinct.
 I didn't realize it was intranasal. It's not an injection. It's a spray. Yes, sir, just regular nasal spray. Very easy for the officers to use and very non-invasive. Oh, wow. That's great. Thank you. Any other questions? Anyone want to speak on this particular grant acceptance? Then let's take a vote, please, on this one. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I continue to believe that interrupting the supply of drugs is a losing battle, but taking money from other governments is good. Aye. Fritz?
 necessarily doing just that it's actually saving people who have taken drugs so thank you very much for your work on this I thank you all right okay and we have one more here from Oregon Department Justice item 448 morning lieutenant Mike Kranz with the gang enforcement team she's got to read it though I'm sorry I read the number wrong
 Oh, sorry, 449. 449, accept a grant in the amount of $10,000 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program for program expenses for Portland Metro Gang Task Force interdiction efforts. Okay, thank you, Lieutenant. Lieutenant Mike Krantz with the Gang Enforcer Team in the Metro Gang Task Force. And this is another renewal of a HIDA grant that we've received since 2009.
 And this is a specific grant for the amount of $10,000. And this is for the purpose of using for the purchase of information and evidence in our ongoing investigations of large-scale gang organizations involved in drug trafficking or violent acts. So this, yeah, that's the reason for this particular funding is it allows us to solicit and purchase information. That's correct. That's great. All right. Thank you. Questions? Yes.
 So it doesn't include looking at prostitution in gangs? It's specifically drug trafficking in gangs?
 It's for us, our Metro Gang Task Force is specifically given the mission of identifying and targeting for prosecution criminal enterprises, street gangs that involve drug trafficking, money laundering, crimes of violence, human trafficking, and ongoing street violence. So we have a large, a broad view of a lot of different crimes that incorporate into gangs. Okay. So it does include human trafficking. Absolutely. That's good to know. Good. Thank you. Other?
 Other questions? Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then let's take a vote, please. Saltzman? Thank you both. Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thanks very much. Thank you. Okay. Let's read item 450, please. Thank you.
 Authorize a competitive solicitation for treatment readiness services, transitional housing, and follow-up retention support services to chemically dependent homeless adult chronic arrestees for an annual cost of $1,716,410. So this was filed in error and needs to be returned to my office, and if there's no objection, I'll do that. Okay, it's returned to my office. 451. 451.
 amend the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program to reflect necessary plan design changes as recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and as administratively required by Bureau of Human Resources for the City Self-Insured and Insured Plan offerings beginning July 1, 2016. Good morning. Good morning. Also good news. Yes, it is.
 Kathy Bless, Health and Financial Benefits Manager with the City of Portland. And Anna may walk in as well. We're a little ahead of schedule, so that's good. As part of the upcoming annual enrollment process, Council Item 451 establishes the 2016-17 City of Portland Benefits Plan, reflecting necessary administrative and plan design changes for the upcoming fiscal year.
 And while many folks often look to the headlines regarding health care and make assumptions that all plans must be struggling, I'm here to tell you that it's not the case within the city's self-insured planned city core. The city core rates have not seen a material increase since the plan year beginning July 1, 2014.
 In that year, our single-party rate was $693.13, and for July 1, 2016, it's $693.85. We have managed to hold rates flat, even with added coverage requirements within the Affordable Care Act, and we have continued to seek value in plan design where it's made sense. In fact, because of our recommendations and work within the Labor Management Benefits Committee,
 We are able to lower the maximum out-of-pocket cost per person under the City Corps plan from $3,500 to $3,000 and add a much-needed increase to the basic life benefit for the DCT groups, moving away from a flat $10,000 benefit to a benefit that is one times annual salary up to $50,000, which matches the general population of employees.
 These enhancements are made possible because of stability and overall utilization of the plan and because of a move in pharmacy benefit management services. The new PBM's formulary structure provides maximum rebates and discounts back to the plan while still adding value to the member. The LMBC worked collaboratively and hard to look at each option and come to consensus on what was best moving forward.
 The recommendations I make to the LMBC and to you are balanced, ensuring the program is fiscally responsible and sustainable long into the future, providing quality, value-driven care and coverage and choice to employees as I know, a commitment of this council and our office. I continue to support and advocate for a culture of health within the workplace and within the health plan and see this as a critical function of my office.
 We have a desire to create an environment that supports getting to the root cause of barriers to health through preventive care and the Healthy Foundations program. As we have discussed in previous years, Healthy Foundations is a personalized program that matches interventions, intensity, and objectives more closely to the participants' individual beliefs, attitudes, and preferences.
 This program has helped ease the burden of chronic disease for the 230 folks who have either been through the program or are currently participating. We can show the participants who graduate from this program have lower stress, lower depression rates, and higher patient activation scores. Members also see improvements in physical fitness, social activity, overall health, and quality of life.
 They are more adherent to prescription medication, have fewer days in the hospital, use emergency services less, and cost significantly less than participants who have been invited to join the program but have chosen not to enroll. The average annual cost of care for CityCorps participants, whose claims are between $5,000 and $50,000, is $13,600 per person.
 Healthy Foundations participants' claims costs average 9.5% above that, above that general population in this claims range. But for those who have been invited but have not chosen to enroll, those costs are 17.2% above the general average. Significant savings are happening, but we also understand that more work needs to be done.
 We will continue to build opportunities for employees within the Healthy Foundations program. New options will be available over the course of the next planned year, getting these important services to more participants through group-centered activities, coaching, and individualized plans for success.
 We will also look for ways to integrate the Employee Assistance Program services through EAP and how best to integrate primary care to ensure employees have ready access for services, whether that is in new partnerships with hospital systems, providing primary care, or envisioning more collaboration to bring services nearer to employees who do not work within the downtown core.
 At this time, I'd like to introduce Roger Lennenberg to provide some remarks to you regarding his own experience within the Healthy Foundations program. After that, I would be happy to answer any questions that you have about the health plan and then also ask for your approval on the amendment. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome, Roger. Good morning. Thank you. I am one of the beneficiaries of the Healthy Foundations program and the city's health program. Thank you.
 When I heard there was an opportunity to at least put a face to the people that use that program and just give a little highlight about how important it is, I took the opportunity. And so I just wanted to share with you my experience briefly. I've had a chronic disease for 30 years, struggled with it more or less, always been a productive member of society, but it's taken its toll on me and my family.
 And because I'm a heavy user of the system where I was, more heavy user, I was lucky enough to get chosen and asked to join Healthy Foundations, which I did. And it took a fairly substantial commitment of time. I would go regularly for once a week for over a year.
 And it's amazing what the transformation and the help that it provided. I no longer require medicine that was costing $10,000 every six weeks.
 I had been off it for quite a long time. I'm not going to say that just spending time with the good people at Healthy Foundations was what did it, but it's a product of a lot of things that I think Healthy Foundations brought to the table for me that you just don't get elsewhere. That's the long and the short of it is that people who have specialties know a lot about their specialties. They don't always know a lot about the things that are attached to those specialties that they have.
 work on. And for anybody that's had an experience like I have, it's very difficult to find a place that provides a big tent of services. And financially, it makes a big difference
 And from the personal point of view, for people who live with people with chronic disease or people who work for the city with chronic disease, it makes a difference to have a place and a way to get past that being a central part of your life, which interferes with your work and interferes with your personal life.
 And they're good people. It's worth the city's investment. And if you've wondered if anybody you know uses that service, yes, somebody you know does. There's probably a lot of people that just don't talk about it a lot. So thanks for your time. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. Good morning, Ann. Morning, Mayor. I apologize. I had a meeting with 483, which is great these days, so we're very happy. But, yes, so.
 Happy to be here as well. And I know Kathy's already gone through the plan, but I do think She does Kathy doesn't often toot her own horn. But I'm one of the reasons that the city has Really such a robust health insurance program that meets the council values around health care for employees that focuses on a model that doesn't punish the sickest people in our system and
 and is a model that was recognized most recently by we met with the representatives from Viera Health as, oh, my God, you guys are doing everything right. So, you know, as you consider this, I want to reiterate that this is a lot of work on and to by my staff and also a lot of collaboration and very good thinking with the Labor Management Benefits Committee in designing the plan design, and I know Kathy mentioned this earlier,
 Gratifyingly, although it's not a big part of the plan, we were able to increase the life insurance for DC2 employees through the LMBC process, something we were unable to do in the bargaining process. So that's great. So all in all, I do applaud the efforts of Kathy Bless and the LMBC in bringing this plan to you.
 Great. Questions? There's just an article in the paper about soaring requests from health care companies asking for increases in premium. How are we doing on paying for the city system in terms of increasing in cost for the program? So the article that came out yesterday on the Oregon insurance exchanges, yeah, anywhere between 14% to 32%. We have a 0% increase this year. Can you say that again, please? Sure.
 Really loud and smile. I didn't know the answer there. That was definitely a leading question. Their requests are 14 to how many percent? 32. 32 and a half. Zero. And ours is? Zero. And, in fact, we're increasing benefits because we manage our system so well. Yes, and we have not had to dip into any reserves to help subsidize any payment of claims. We're doing a phenomenal job. You are doing a phenomenal job. Thank you. That's really excellent.
 Thank you. Other questions? I guess I had an email exchange with Kathy about this, and I think that basically the changes to the benefits are, in essence, cost neutral because of the savings under the new prescription plan, right? Right, which we will be coming before July 1 for a contract with
 Express Scripts. That's the new PBM. What's it called? Express Scripts. And they are one of the largest PBMs, and we're really able to show us value through rebates and pricing and formulary that has very small impact to employees and huge value to both consumers of prescription medications and the city. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes.
 thank you all very much does anyone want anyone else want to speak on this item if not then we should take a vote please ah well this is extremely good work and i thank you for that and thank you roger for putting a face on the healthy foundations program it really helps i appreciate it hi novick
 It is great to be reminded of the success of this program. And I join Commissioner Saltzman and Roger in thanking you for putting a face on it. And it's great to be reminded that we are doing a phenomenal job of controlling health care costs in the face of skyrocketing increases elsewhere. All done. Aye. Okay.
 Well, thank you, Kathy Pless and Anna Canratt. Thank you for coming to tell your story. Thank you to others in the audience who have been part of the Labor Management Benefits Committee. It's a great example of administration and employees working together to do good things.
 So just to recap, Anna mentioned at the end that we are now providing $50,000 life insurance to members of our district trades unions and recreational employees, local 483, which brings everybody in the city up to have that basic benefit, and it really makes a difference. So, again, that's being done within the existing costs.
 We are decreasing the annual out-of-cost individual maximum from $3,500 to $3,000, again, within existing budget. And we are moving to a $3 minimum copay with still zero costs.
 cost for birth control. So I very much appreciate all of the attention to details. Oh, and so my staff were pretty excited about the $150 towards the purchase of night guards. Apparently city employees have a lot of grinding of teeth during the night. It's very stressful, yes. That is all appreciated. And at the same time, we're saving taxpayers money. Yes. This is excellent work. Thank you.
 Yeah, Roger, thanks for coming. I think it's really important to note that one way to save health care costs is to help people avoid health care by being healthy, by healthy lifestyles, by weight loss, by exercise, by other choices that we can help our employees and their families make that reinforce their own health. So that's very much the philosophy here, and I appreciate it. This is one more of these.
 remarkable unremarkable proceedings that happen in this room you know there are still people in Portland who pick up on the generalized rhetoric that government must be wasting their money all the time everywhere I heard a little of that last night at a contentious community meeting on a completely different subject but you know you still hear it even in Portland and I keep telling the stories about these unreported proceedings
 that happened in this room when our outside auditor comes in with a document this thick sits where you sitting today and say we have no issues with a four billion dollar budget with thousands of line items they said we have no issues and essentially they're saying our financial staff is doing absolutely everything right down to the last digit and then here our health benefits manager says zero percent increase
 at a time of rapidly inflating health care costs and huge turmoil some of the positive like the affordable care act in the healthcare industry you're surfing through all those choppy waters and ending up at a good a better plan at the same cost it will it will no doubt get little coverage but it is noticed in here and appreciate it very much thank you all all right thank you thank you good work okay uh let's take on item number 452.
 License law to include direct access, electric services, and establish minimum penalties for certain violations. Second reading and roll call. Saltzman.
 Thanks to the Office for Community Technology for their great work. Aye. Novick? Aye. Ritz? The answer to my question last week about whether this new money, $500,000 to a million is included in the budget is yes. So that's already been accounted for in the Mayor's proposed budget. Again, this is excellent work by the Office for Community Technology and I appreciate it very much. Aye. Niels? Aye. Board 53. Aye.
 Authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder for the construction of the cured in place pipe southeast rehabilitation project number e 10682 for two million two hundred and sixty thousand dollars Peltzman I know Vic. Hi What 54
 Revise ordinance to update engineers estimate issue a competitive solicitation Authorized contract and provide payment for the road 10 project second reading roll call Saltzman, I know fake. Hi Hi Hi, and 455
 Authorize the purchase of a capital project management software system not to exceed $825,000. Also, second reading roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Rich? Aye. Hale? Aye. 456.
 Authorize the purchase of five pieces of emergency apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,325,000 with general obligation bond funds and two pieces of emergency apparatus for a total not to exceed amount of $2,329,151 with general fund resources. Commissioner Sussman.
 Thank you, Mayor. This ordinance authorizes proceeding with contract solicitation and negotiation for the purchase of seven pieces of emergency apparatus by Portland Fire and Rescue. Five of them will be funded through the remaining funds from the 2010 general obligation bond, and these will be the last items purchased with those general obligation bond funds. And we thank voters for approving that in 2010.
 And two fire trucks are funded with resources from Portland Fire and Rescue's Apparatus Replacement Budget. And here to answer questions or maybe say something, Chief Ken Burns and Jay Guelph.
 Mayor and commissioners, thank you. I'll just keep my comments brief in that we appreciate the opportunity to come and ask for these funds to keep our apparatus in a fine, workable condition to serve the citizens of Portland. Our logistics section has done an outstanding job extending the life of our apparatus. We do have
 a few of our frontline apparatus who have upwards of 150,000, 160,000 miles on them, and our goal is to replace them at 120,000. So due to that section's hard work, we have actually extended to life beyond what we really anticipated.
 As the mileage increase, the maintenance goes up, and there's some costs associated with that. So this ordinance is a great opportunity to keep our apparatus in a good working order to provide that care and services to the citizens in a timely manner without breakdowns and delays. Thank you.
 A couple of questions, Chief and Jay. So the apparatus that gets cycled out of the fleet as a result of these purchases, I know we've had a tradition of sometimes gifting an apparatus to one of our sister cities. What happens to the surplus of used vehicles that are at the farthest end of the timescale there and are coming out of the fleet? Yeah, that's it. They do get cycled out. After their first line apparatus, they become a reserve apparatus for
 to replace during temporary repairs or a callback apparatus if there's a major event, we can staff extra engines to provide more care. And then ultimately after they're reserved, then they go out to our training facility, and then our recruits use them to the rest of their duration of their useful life, and then ultimately when they're out.
 150,000, 200,000, and they're 20 years old, then we do try to find a good fit for them to help other communities that are in need also.
 and then um i noticed that you're purchasing a foam unit had a scary conversation with your predecessor uh chief jansen's when the oil fire issue started becoming national news and i said are we ready for that kind of fire in portland and she gave me a one-word answer which was no tell us about this foam unit and what it does to our capabilities and maybe a little bit of a picture of what else we might need to think about our current um
 capacity, if you will, is foam buckets that is manually dumped into a pump to then deploy. And so right now our best, we have great partners. And right now we have mutual aid agreements with the airport and some of the facilities along the waterway who have bulk storage, actually a 500-gallon tank with a mobile pump on a flatbed pickup, those types of things.
 are far better than a pickup with a lot of five gallon buckets on it. So yeah, this foam unit will put us where we need to be and be able to respond not only efficiently, but quite frankly, very safely. This is a bigger one? This is a larger capability unit? Oh, yes, yes. There will be actually totes on it. So instead of having five gallon buckets that individually have to be poured into a container,
 This unit will have bulk storage on it, so we'll be able to deploy it. Quite frankly, the five-gallon bucket really is very inefficient, and most times the use of the foam is faster than you can actually dump the bucket out.
 So right now, quite frankly, we've been really fortunate. We have had a couple incidences, but we've had great partnerships with the Port of Portland in bringing some mobile foam capabilities as well as Vancouver Fire. So there are examples for us to follow and learn from, and that's what this foam unit will do for us. Thank you. Glad to hear that. Okay, other questions about this package? Thank you both. Thank you.
 I might just follow up real quick because I was intrigued about the police officers. Just for you all to know that Narcan administration, that heroin is a problem in Multnomah County. We at Portland Fire, with our EMS partners, 420 administrations last year. Wow. So that really gives you a picture of...
 that partnership with the police is an outstanding partnership and it's great that they took on some of that responsibility or helping us providing care 420 individual administrations Have you switched to the nasal rather than injectable?
 We have the nasal. The injectable, quite frankly, we can do it IM. So for us, we have a higher training capacity. So it's probably, I would say, just as effective nasally, but it depends on the patient. It's the paramedic's choice or the person who's administering it. So we can...
 administered in several different ways where the nasal was the most appropriate for you know people with not as much training right yeah so great just to share that oh that's that's an amazing statistic thank you thank you very much thank you thank you thank you anyone else want to speak on this item if not then it passes to second reading next week 457
 create a local improvement district to construct street sidewalk and stormwater improvements west of southwest 30th avenue in the southwest dulce court spring garden street local improvement district commissioner novick andrew abby take it away
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick. Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. The council approved the resolution of intent for the Southwest Delf Spring Garden LID four weeks ago. Thank you very much for council's strong support of the project. Since we were here four weeks ago, we've increased the budget by about $190,000. That additional funding is coming from PBOT.
 We are building in a little bit of additional contingency as a prudent measure because we have some pretty poor pavement condition where we're adding the curb and the sidewalk and the drainage. I passed out two things that Carla had to hand out to you today. We did not receive any remonstrances from any of the property owners.
 whose properties are proposed for assessment. We did receive communication labeled as a remonstrance from somebody who was walking down the street and saw a posting notice and thought that their property was going to be assessed. When I explained the situation to her, she sent me an email withdrawing the so-called remonstrance. It's only a remonstrance if your property is proposed for assessment, which was not the case here. So we do have a 0% remonstrance level today. And then I also passed out.
 and correspondence from a property owner by the name of Peter McMinn. His property is not proposed for improvements. He did request traffic calming measures on the street. When I wrote the ordinance, I did give the city traffic engineer the flexibility to add traffic calming devices.
 If in the judgment of the city traffic engineers, those are warranted. And probably most importantly, if the condition of the pavement will support adding speed bumps or other traffic calming devices. So Mr. McMinn also lamented the poor condition of the pavement on Spring Garden Street.
 And the way the LID has been structured, the properties on Spring Garden do have the ability to voluntarily participate in the LID. At this point, they haven't indicated they wish to do that, but we will do additional outreach during the design phase of the project. So with that, I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay. Questions for Andrew first before we take other testimony? Okay. Thank you. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Christine Abernathy, and I moved to the Walt Noma neighborhood in January 1978. I own a house that is 3218 Southwest Freeman Street, built adjacent to the property of Spring Garden Park.
 And I am one of those houses that should have filed a remonstrance. But I'm going to say to you that I was on the original CAC committee to develop a city park there when that park was purchased. And thanks to various city commissioners, we got that park, and I'm really pleased.
 However, when we developed our first plan, it was very important that it be very transparent, and we sent out surveys to people in the neighborhood. We tried to have
 Parties in the park so people can see that we eventually developed we did 150 surveys we got back We decided that natural areas were important to us and that was the park plan that was presented to this City Council and Adopted and we were told we were the poster child group for parks The new committee was formed about four years ago as money became available. Thanks to you Amanda Fritz for doing that
 And I expect that, I guess, that same transparency going through on this park. Three plans were presented. We saw those. There was a meeting on January 2016. I wasn't able to attend. And evidently, that final park plan was decided. But no mailing ever came to the rest of us. I have never personally seen that plan until things were very far along.
 On April 20th, we don't enter the park, I should say, on Springdorf or Spring Garden Street. We actually go through that little local access on Freeman. On April 28th, we were walking our dogs and we stopped to read a posted sign on Dahl Street and 30th.
 informing residents that improvements in costs and charges for improvements, $1,462,502.16, of which $1,272,551.79 would be borne by residents assessed on a combination allotting square footage and equivalent dwelling unit frontage,
 on Spring Garden Park. The proposal could be modified as a result of testimony at an LID formation hearing. That posting was made on the 19th of April. April 27th was eight days later. We walked by there April 28th. We had no chance to file a remonstrance. I've never seen what I would be buying for that money.
 I am quite shocked. I feel really blindsided by it. So, hence, no mailing. No plan. I understand the process concern that you've raised. The process concerns me because I walked up the street. I looked. There was a sign at the bottom of 30th Street.
 There was a sign at an opening in Spring Garden Park, which we don't use, and at the bottom of the field, evidently, there was another sign. It wasn't there when I checked on it on the 28th. It was put up later and knocked down again. I don't think we knew what was happening. I think that's why there were no remonstrances. I hear that. I understand that. Aside from that question, which is very legitimate, so thanks for bringing that up, what the substance of what's being proposed in terms of the improvements –
 Do you think they're appropriate? Do you think they're – I've never seen it. I've never seen any of that. So how do I know? Thank you. I'm texting my staff to see if they could come and go through that with you on the park planning piece, and then we'll hear from Andrew about the assessment piece. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Andrew, do you want to come respond? Sure.
 Morning again, Andrew Abbey, Local Improvement District Administrator. I'm not entirely clear whether the concern is with the park planning process. I know that some of the residents on the street had questions about the design of the park, which I'm not really in a position to answer. What I can tell you is that the Parks Bureau, and I'm ad-libbing here a little bit, Commissioner Fritz, because I'm obviously with PBOT, not Parks, but I am aware that Parks did seven months of public engagement on
 had three public meetings and five advisory committee meetings and had their own outreach process with respect to the park improvements. We held a property owner meeting in January, and then prior to coming to council in April, we P-BOT erred on the side of notifying everybody on both Dolphin Spring Garden between 30th and 35th Avenue. So we set a very broad...
 mailing to everybody on both streets to err on the side of notification. I didn't hear from the owner of 3218 Southwest Spring Garden Street. I did hear from... She's on Freeman. So there aren't... Are there any properties on Freeman that are being assessed? No. There aren't? Well, we have a disagreement here at...
 Yeah, the notifications were on DOLF and on Spring Garden. We did not focus on the Freeman Street properties because we weren't proposing any street improvements to Freeman Street. So there are no charges to anybody on Freeman Street? There are no frontage improvements proposed for Freeman Street, nor are there any charges proposed for Freeman Street. Okay.
 So one of the things, candidly, that I struggle with a little bit is that the posting notices are required to be on one page. City code is very specific that the letters, for example, have to be an inch high.
 And so I put my contact information on the posting notices, recognizing that most LIDs are complex and it's hard to communicate all the nuances of the LID in a posting notice. So generally what happens is when people see them, they usually call me up. I'm able to answer in property-specific terms or questions about the project. So...
 Generally, that's what people do when I answer their questions. Usually, people don't have the first point of contact show up in the council hearing. So in the exhibit that I have, there are six properties listed, Spring Garden, 30th Avenue, Dolph Court, Dolph Court, Dolph Court, Dolph Court.
 And those are the properties that are being assessed? Correct. And if it's not listed here, they're not getting any charges? Correct. And just to further amplify what you're saying, Commissioner, the notification process prior to LID formation is actually done by the auditor's office based on a proposed future assessment role. So if there's no proposed assessment for a particular property, they're not on the assessment role and they're not going to receive notice from the auditor. And again, that's why I erred on the side back in April.
 to notify the property's owners on Spring Garden and DOLF, but didn't do so on Freeman because we didn't have any improvements planned for Freeman. But what I will be happy to do moving forward is we do design the street improvements for DOLF and Spring Garden, and as I continue to collaborate with parks on the park design, we will be doing some additional outreach, and I'll make sure that the folks on Freeman are aware of what's planned on their neighboring streets and for the park.
 So the folks, the entities that are getting assessed, it looks to my reading of the list, consist of the lion's shares being paid by the Parks Bureau and then a couple of apartment complexes and a handful of single-family homes. Right, with another $190,000 of funding from PBOT.
 So I appreciate that bringing this concern. From my reading of the ordinance, your property's not in there. We're not voting on it today, so there's an opportunity for you to check with Andrew. I've asked one of my staff to come in and talk about the park planning part of it, because certainly we –
 always try to strive to engage folks to the extent practical when we weren't able to mail individually to nearby property owners because there's such a large number of properties that are going to be using this as their park but one of my staff will be in and will be happy to go through what's being proposed thank you for bringing these concerns to our attention thank you commissioner other questions okay thank you very much so we'll close the hearing and this moves to the second reading next week uh okay uh 458.
 Extend contract with Kogan Owens Kogan LLC through December 31, 2016 to provide administrative and logistical support to the Private for Hire Advisory Committee not to exceed $43,000. Mr. Novick. Mark Williams, the Private for Hire Program Manager, will explain what this is all about. Hi. Good morning, Commissioners. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor, so back in January 2005, the commissioner in charge, they convened a 12-member task force that you're aware of, and they were to focus on the program and how it was evolving to the new market developments, which included the DNCs. Colgan, Owen, and Green was contracted to facilitate those meetings and provide administrative support.
 In 2015, December, Council established a new advisory committee to provide expertise and feedback to not only the public, PBOT director, and obviously to this council regarding the private fire market and a number of other topics. While FAST was – or staff was focused on enforcement strategies, we thought it was a good idea to engage Kogan, Owen, and Green and –
 I'm sorry. And to continue some of the services that they provided for the task force, the original task force, they will continue those same services for the new advisory committee. I'll be happy to take any questions. Questions? Mr. Williams. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mike. Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes the second reading, item 459. Amen. Transportation System Development Charge Capital Improvement Project List.
 Mr. Novick. Second reading. Oh, sorry, second reading. I'm sorry, I didn't see it. Let's take a vote then, please. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Enthusiastic. Aye. Hales. You're here. Aye. 416.
 Vacate portions of North Portsmouth Avenue, North Van Houten Avenue, North Monteith Avenue, North Warren Street, North Strong Street, and two unnamed alleys on the University of Portland campus subject to certain conditions and reservations. Second reading, roll call. Paltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz?
 If it weren't on an institutional campus with a master plan, I wouldn't be able to support this because there are obviously existing uses for the right subway. Because there's a master plan and because University of Portland has been such a good partner with the University Park Neighborhood Association, and we had the commitment of leaders last week that they will continue to do so, I'm able to support this vacation. Hi. Neal. Neal.
 I agree with those comments. I appreciate University of Portland always trying to be a good neighbor and trying to walk that careful line between the needs of the campus and the understandable needs and concerns of folks that have lived in that neighborhood for a long time. So, Jim, appreciate your good work to that goal. Aye. Verse 61. Aye.
 Vacate portions of North Van Houten Court, North McKenna Avenue, and three unnamed alleys on the University of Portland campus subject to certain conditions and reservations. I'll vote, please. Galtzman? Aye. Novick? I still think it's a little sad that these alleys are being vacated without even getting names, but aye. Fritz?
 i'm particularly appreciative in this one that the university addressed the access down to the river mayor adams commissioner fish and i worked really hard to make sure that we looked at the riverfront access there and this continues to do so and i appreciate the university's good stewardship of the hillside as well as the river aye aye okay 462.
 Authorize $65,000 for grant agreement with Momentum Alliance through the Diversity and Civic Leadership Program to support community engagement activities for communities of color, immigrants, and refugees through October 31, 2016. So thank you, Mayor, and I appreciate it.
 I appreciate Commissioner Novick's forbearance. We did hear a lovely presentation, an inspiring presentation a couple of weeks ago. Two of our colleagues who will be voting on this were not there for that. So today we are going to have a very abbreviated presentation so that
 The public has another opportunity to hear about a Momentum Alliance and that they can continue to inform the council. As a reminder, the determination to fund Momentum Alliance was the result of the council action last year to expand the diversity and civic leadership program
 And then the Office of Neighborhood Involvement organized a competitive process, and Momentum Alliance was the winner. And so I'd like to welcome Diego Hernandez and Emily Lai to give us a brief snapshot of their youth-led organization's work and a preview of how Momentum Alliance will utilize city grant funds to expand its scope of service and impact. Hello, Chair and Commissioners and Mayor. My name is Diego Hernandez. I am the co-executive director of Momentum Alliance, and this is...
 Emily Lai, and I'm a program coordinator at Momentum Alliance. And just so you know, we're around five years old. I was a co-founder five years ago, and we have been growing ever since. So I'm just going to give a brief overview of our general organization's mission and structure, and then we'll just kind of tag team on giving you a preview and review of what we're going to be doing.
 So Momentum Alliance is a youth-led social justice nonprofit. Are there cute kids in the back? Yeah, there are. Yeah, there are. You could get upstaged. Welcome. Future members, perhaps. Yeah. So Momentum Alliance is a youth-led social justice nonprofit whose mission is to inspire young people to realize their power individually and collectively and to mentor future social justice leaders. Nothing about youth without youth.
 We believe that youth should be leaders in our own lives and in our city. So with experienced coaches and allies, we support young people from underrepresented communities to become social justice advocates, decision makers, and leaders in the public, private, and nonprofit sector. So we exist in response to the demand from youth for more spaces and opportunities to advocate for themselves and for their communities and for the issues that impact them.
 We believe that people most directly impacted should be the ones at the table developing solutions and making decisions. This is why youth have decision-making power at all levels of our organization. Our founders, our board members, our staff, and our participants are all young people from underrepresented communities. In order to ensure that our organization is led by young people,
 Our bylaws require that at least 51% of our board is 25 years old and younger. Presently, out of 25 board members, 75% of our board is under 25, with our youngest board chairs being 14 and 23. 85% of our board are people of color. 75% of our staff are people of color. And 65% of our staff are 30 and under.
 Our program coordinators, Carla Castaneda and our youth director, Vanessa Dominguez, were both hired at the age of 19 after being program participants. And Diego Hernandez, our co-executive director, was hired at the age of 26 after being a founding board member at the age of 23. That said, we also have staff who are in their mid-40s and 60s because we believe deeply in the power of intergenerational and intercultural alliances.
 All right. Well, we work with ages between 14 and 23 for our first program and 30 and younger for our second program, which is developing much more advanced leaders. And we represent an array of young people.
 Underrepresented and marginalized youth isn't just folks of color or youth of color. It's also young people who are undocumented, LGBTQ young people. We also represent gang-affected, STI and HIV-positive youth, youth with disabilities, youth experiencing foster care and homelessness and living in shelters, youth who have experienced genocide and domestic violence
 and sexual assault, racial profiling, and displacement. I think it's our unique ability to build relationships across all identities that really makes this program really powerful. So we have...
 This funding is going to help us do some amazing work. Emily here and Carla Castaneda, who was mentioned earlier, both were former program participants. And now, because of the City of Portland, we'll be able to build a cohort that's going to help and develop 35 underrepresented young folks.
 to become social justice and civic engagement leaders in our community. And the beautiful part is that our coaches, who will be part of making sure that all of our youth have the support that they need to thrive, were former cohort participants of our first leadership development program last year.
 So we want this to be, and with your support, to be this peer-to-peer youth development-driven model where young people lead themselves and also engage in the work themselves.
 And let me talk a little bit about, and Emily can fill in, but let me talk a little bit about what our youth group has been able to do last year. Last year we got involved with Metro's racial equity action project, action plan. And our youth were able to be part of that process and engage in it.
 And this year's cohort will be able to continue that process by deciding which action agenda items are a priority for them. On top of our youth have already been involved in the ONI process, the ONI budget process, the DCL meetings. And so we look forward to being involved not only in the
 at the metro and the region level, but also at the city level. And last year, our youth were also, for the first time ever, I mean, even setting steps in city council, but also in the legislature, was their first time testifying or being in the capitol. And we think it's really powerful when we can expand the opportunity and the minds of our young people who historically haven't had that opportunity.
 Yeah, just thinking about how one of our program participants who participated in the collaboration with Metro and giving them youth feedback on their racial equity strategy, one of the participants felt encouraged to apply to actually be on Metro's racial equity committee and is now on that committee. So these are some of the results of our programming.
 And like Diego said, just many firsts. Like last year was my first time lobbying in Salem. Some of our youth talk about highlights of taking selfies with Governor Kate Brown and speaking to them about their stories. Yeah. Yeah, so thank you very much for this opportunity. We look forward to having leadership also reflect the many communities that live in our city. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you very much. Questions?
 Thank you both for being here. I appreciate this view of the work you're doing. It's really exciting. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. We do take action on this today. Yes, we do. Yes. Please. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? I think it was really good to have the whole council hear from you. You had such a powerful presentation last time, and it's great to hear from you again. And Diego, I'll see you at the next Bernie Sanders rally. Aye. Fritz?
 Well, thank you, colleagues, for your support, and I'm very excited about this. I think it ties well with the mayor's initiatives on youth engagements in a positive way. It builds on the work that we've done with the Multnomah Youth Commission in a different format, and it's exciting to have this as part of our diversity and civic leadership program, which is now in its 10th year. So that program is designed to empower participants to learn about how government works and,
 some of the decisions government makes. And so you've been a great example of that. I'm very excited to welcome you, Momentum Alliance, to the Oney family. Hi. Hi.
 Yeah, this is exciting. And we were talking earlier this morning about some of the iterations of new leadership in the city, particularly from communities of color. And there really is an opportunity. And I think you have an opportunity to make the most of that, to show people that they can have power, they can exercise it, they can be leaders, make a difference. And this is a city that's really open to that.
 I think there are other power structures maybe elsewhere in the country that aren't as open as we are here. We're not perfect, but we are open. And I think teaching, mentoring, developing leaders who can make that true is really important. So I appreciate the work you're doing. Look forward to working with you and other new leaders. Aye.
 Thank you so much. Just so you know, we have already gotten the ball rolling to start a youth equity collaborative, which includes Multnomah Youth Commission. So we're excited to build a larger coalition of youth civic engagement and equity-focused organizations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good stuff. Okay. Let's move on to 463, please.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University to provide survey and research-related services for a term of three years for an amount not to exceed $150,000. Second reading, roll call. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Again, having the data to improve service delivery, especially for underserved populations, is great and another good partnership with Portland State University. Aye. Thank you.
 hales aye and 464. authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder for construction of the selwood park pool bath house roof replacement and size upgrade project for an estimated 585 thousand dollars roll call please saltzman hi novi hi another much needed project funded by the fixar parks bond thank you portland voters aye
 All of us who worked on public works projects, whether they're transportation or parks, we have these memories of
 before and the after I remember the Selwood pool before we did the renovation of the pool itself and the moment in which then County Chair and I Diane Lynn in our business clothes waded into the pool you're gonna have the satisfaction of seeing this building you know with the proper roof on it after all these years so each one of those you know are are wonderful to see and then
 they pay benefits to the community for a really long time so happy to see this happening hi and we're recessed till 2 o'clock good afternoon and welcome to the afternoon session at the May 4th 2016 Portland City Council session I am presiding while mayor Hales is on his way Carla please call the what the roll fish Saltzman here Novick here Hales Fritz here
 We are here for a very happy celebration here to adopt items, hopefully, items 465 and 466. Please read those items. 465, direct city bureaus to prioritize reuse of artifacts from the Eric Ladd and other cast iron artifact collections in the Skidmore Old Town Historic District, and 466, adopt
 adopt the Skidmore Old Town Historic District Design Guidelines. Thank you. And I say this is a happy event because I know that many people have been working on this for 10 years or more. So staff, please come up and present. And I would like to dedicate this whole session to Art DeMuro and Bing Sheldon, who are two of those who worked very, very hard on this and I know are with us in spirit today. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Commissioners. I'm Joe Zender, Chief Planner with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and I'm here with Nicholas Darin, who's going to be actually describing the proposal to you today. And just as introduction, I wanted to point out that what you're seeing in these guidelines not merely have been in the works for many years.
 but also represent our efforts to improve the quality and sort of the legibility and the efficiency of the guidelines. We better guidelines add to the productivity and the success of the review process. And when we did these, that was our model to be able to do that. So it's a constant process improvement. With that, I'll turn it over to Nicholas.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, Commissioners. Nicholas Starn with the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability. We're here to have a public hearing on two items, updated guidelines for the Skidmore Old Town Historic District, as well as a companion resolution calling for city bureaus to prioritize the use of cast iron artifacts in city-owned or controlled development projects in the historic district.
 I'll take this moment and note for the record that the project files are in a cardboard box over there and are available for review by anyone who wishes to do so. The Skidmore Old Town District is Portland's oldest historic district and perhaps its most significant historic resource. It's where the city began and contains a world-class collection of historic architecture.
 It covers about 56 acres, including rights away, 17 city block, complete city blocks, and seven partial blocks. It was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1977, and that's one of only two such historic districts in the state of Oregon, the other being in Jacksonville in southern Oregon.
 It's significant at the national level both for the history that it conveys, the history of Portland, but also the growth of the Pacific Northwest as well as its rich collection of historic buildings.
 The district contains 57 contributing historic properties. They're in a wide range of historic design styles, but most importantly for its historic character are its collection of 19th century cast iron buildings, primarily in the Italianate style. So two examples being the New Market Theater and the Merchant Block. It's as perhaps the most important collection of cast iron buildings on the West Coast and one of the most important in the country.
 There are existing guidelines that guide development projects in the historic district. However, they're now 30 years old, and they lack any illustrative examples or photographs and have other sort of problems in their implementation, and the need to update them has been identified for a long time.
 The effort to update these guidelines goes back at least to 2008 and actually earlier than that.
 An earlier version of the guidelines document for you today was last seen by the City Council in 2008. The guidelines were part of a larger regulatory package that included a series of zoning code amendments in the district that included proposals for increases to building heights on selected sites you see in the map in front of you in yellow.
 That process, the public process for that package of amendments that included the guidelines and zoning code changes included a process that took over a year, had a community advisory group, numerous meetings and conversations with the AIA, preservation organizations, the Neighborhood Association, and interested citizens, many work sessions and hearings with the Planning Commission, Landmarks Commission, Design Commission.
 However, while the guidelines were widely supported by members of the community and property owners and design professionals, the proposals for height increases were highly controversial. And as a result, city council did not take any formal action on that package at that time in 2008. Thank you.
 The public interest in adopting the guidelines has never really waned, and we heard that loud and clear in recent years during the West Quadrant planning process. The West Quadrant plan, as you know, this council adopted in 2015, calls for reviewing, revising, and updating these guidelines. So accordingly, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability reinitiated the legislative process to adopt the guidelines and the companion cast iron resolution. Thank you.
 So we took the 2008 draft, the guidelines, as a starting point and reinitiated the review process at the Landmarks Commission, which unanimously recommended their adoption with changes that they supported in February 8th. However, just to be clear, we're not bringing forth at this time any proposals to change the zoning code as it relates to the district.
 And this package does not have any proposed height increases, and the draft Central City 2035 plan is not proposing any height increases within the historic district. So now I'll just briefly give you an overview of what's in the guidelines document themselves. The first chapter contains information about the purpose of the guidelines, how they're used in the historic resource review process. Okay.
 The second chapter contains an extensive set of background information on both the history of the district as well as its defining physical attributes and characteristics that make it such a unique part of the city. And this information is very useful for property owners and developers contemplating projects as well as helping to inform the design and review process. Chapter 3.
 Three is really the heart of the guidelines document that contain the actual guidelines themselves. There are four sets of guidelines. The first are general guidelines, which apply to all sorts of development proposals in the district, so proposals for alterations or changes to existing buildings, as well as proposals for new development.
 Then there are a series of three guidelines that are tailored to specific types of development proposals, alterations, additions to existing buildings, and new development. I'm just going to provide you one example of one guideline section to give you a sense of kind of how they're structured. This particular example is Guideline A7, which speaks to awnings and canopies in the district.
 First, there's another background statement that describes the particular attribute or subject of the guideline. That's followed by the guideline itself, which is generally a relatively short, plain English directive. And that guideline language itself are the actual approval criteria that are used in the review process. In this case, the guideline reads, integrate awnings and canopies within the district in a manner sensitive to the building and district.
 Following the guideline, there are generally two or often quite a few more may be accomplished by statements. These are examples with images that provide examples of how that guideline may be met in various different ways. This particular example shows how a non-historic awning shown in the bottom picture was replaced by an historically accurate canopy in the top.
 Now I'll just briefly cover some of the changes to the guidelines that have occurred since 2008, when the council last saw the document. As I mentioned, we started from the 2008 draft, and both staff and Landmarks Commission's approach has been to take a relatively light hand. The guidelines went through an extensive process and had a wide degree of buy-in, so we wanted to be respectful of that.
 That said, there are a few changes, and those have been guided by both testimony this council heard back in 2008 as well as more recent testimony from district stakeholders as well as the work that the Landmarks Commission has done recently. Thank you.
 The majority of changes are actually new images, most of which reflect new sort of historically compatible development that has occurred since 2008. For example, here on the left-hand side, the addition to the Mercy Corps building, and on the right-hand side, the renovation of the Bickle Block. There are a few examples of changes to the guideline language themselves.
 relatively few. I chose this example because it's in direct response to testimony the Council heard and input has been reiterated from the design community and constituents. The way the guideline was previously worded, it could lead one to believe that we were trying to encourage new development to be done in a 19th century sort of architectural Italianate style, and that was never really the
 So we substituted the word Italianate with cast iron, and this change, as well as some change to the background, it gets more to the intent, which is to get new buildings to respond to the characteristics of cast iron buildings, tall first stories, glass in the storefronts, detailed work around the fenestration, but not literally sort of mimic an Italianate or historic building.
 We've also changed some of the maybe accomplished by statements or examples. Guideline A2 speaks to wanting to reinforce the strong street wall.
 The previous example that was in the document, you can see the crossed out language would have made it very hard to approve any sorts of courtyards or alleyways in the district. And while the intent is still to encourage buildings to come to the street edge and be lot to lot, there might be instances where we would want to have alleyways or courtyards. And so this example says it might be okay to do that, but you're...
 provide a substantial gateway to help contribute to that sense of street wall so um i'm going to move on unless there's any questions or we can take them at the end but the companion cast iron
 This resolution, I'm going to paraphrase or put some words into Bill Hawkins' mouth, who's here today, and you'll hear from him, but I think something that he would say, he's the great scholar and longtime champion of this district, is cast iron is the reason this district exists. And there's been a long-held desire to see reincorporation of cast iron artifacts and facades into the historic district.
 These are architectural elements that were salvaged from historic buildings that were demolished in the, I think, primarily the 40s, 50s, and 60s.
 A lot of them are owned by the Portland Development Commission, also some by the Bosco Milligan Foundation. Bill Hawkins, back in 2008, as part of that larger project, conducted a wonderful inventory of those collections, and so we know a lot about them. And this resolution would direct city bureaus to make, essentially, good faith efforts when doing development projects that,
 on city-owned property or city-controlled development projects in the district, make good faith efforts to look at whether it makes sense to incorporate those cast iron artifacts in a development. They don't require the use of those artifacts, but they just require an effort to make sure it makes sense. It might not always make sense in all kinds of projects. Thank you.
 So that's kind of the end of my presentation summary. Staff asked you to adopt the guidelines and pass the Castarian Resolution. I did want to pass on apologies from the Landmarks Commission scheduling conflicts, prevented any of them from being here today, but they requested that I reiterate their unanimous support for these two items. Any questions? Questions, colleagues?
 Dumb question. What is cast iron? So, you know, Bill Hawkins can tell you more. I'm sure Bill can tell me too. Yeah. So in the 19th century, architectural advancements sort of and metallurgical advancements made it possible to use cast iron to –
 sort of replicate, in often cases, Renaissance designs, capitals and curlicues and so forth. And it was sort of a new movement to have a kit of parts that you could pretty easily put up a pretty grand-looking building using sort of then-current sort of machine-age technology. And so a cast iron building is generally a building whose
 facade is sort of characterized they're generally masonry but maybe with iron supports and so forth but they're characterized by ornamentation that is that is of cast iron. Is that the same as flat iron? Isn't there a flat iron district in New York? I think the flat iron refers to a wedge shaped building on a corner. Oh okay. I'm sure Bill will get a chance to tell us. We actually have a couple of flat iron buildings sort of. Yeah. Yeah.
 and i have a question about the artifacts certainly we should be using them in the district are there so many that were unlikely to be able to use them in the district and if so are there should are they ever going to be allowed to go outside of the district or are we just going to keep storing them until there's an opportune time there are quite a few there it's kind of a hodgepodge collection we i don't think we have too many like complete sets like a complete set of an entire building so
 If we were to reuse them, we would probably have to replicate some parts. I do want to say, so there's no requirement. This doesn't require that they be used specifically in the district. It might make sense to use them someplace else. For instance, the Yamhill District has cast iron architecture. In fact, some of the artifacts might come.
 Some of the artifacts don't, in fact, come from Skidmore. They come from other parts of the city, so it might make sense using them elsewhere. That's basically saying use them wisely and don't give them away. And who owns them? PDC, I believe, owns the Eric Ladd Collection. Eric Ladd was a preservationist who salvaged these
 The Bosco Milligan Architectural Heritage Center also owns, I believe, a smaller collection, but has an agreement with PDC to transfer ownership as soon as a project kind of comes together. Thank you. Thank you both. Thanks very much.
 So, sorry I was late. You obviously heard the presentations. Is there anyone else that wants to speak on this? I show three people signed up. Come on up, please. Jackie Peterson-Lumas, Bill Hawkins, and Peggy Moretti. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon, whoever would like to be first. I'm Jackie Peterson-Lumas. Good afternoon, Commissioners and Mayor Hales. Thank you very much for the opportunity. I'm here with apologies from Sarah Stevenson, the co-chair of the Land Use and Design Commission from the Old Town Chinatown Community Association. I'm a member of that committee. And I'm here to basically read to you the letter which was recently sent to the committee for the record.
 Dear Mayor Hales and Commissioners Fish, Salzman, Fritz, and Novick, we are writing on behalf of the Old Town Chinatown Community Association Land Use and Design Review Committee to share our appreciation and support for the revised Old Town Skidmore Historic Design Guidelines that will come before you today for your approval. Old Town Chinatown straddles two national historic districts, the Skidmore Historic District and the new Chinatown-Japantown Historic District.
 These two districts are home to many historic buildings and form the epicenter of Portland's rich, multicultural history. Our community association, along with many neighbors and stakeholders, is working hard to revitalize and to bring this district back to life.
 One significant component of that revitalization work is ensuring that future development is compatible with the existing historic fabric of our neighborhood. Historic design guidelines are critical to this goal. We appreciate the revisions made to the previous draft of the Skidmore Design Guidelines, particularly the change that replaces natural materials with historical compatible high quality materials.
 and the guideline change for new construction that requires developers to integrate the design of new buildings with the cast-iron character as opposed to Italianate character of the historic district. We feel that these changes more clearly express the neighborhood's desire for compatibility with Italianate and cast-iron buildings rather than requiring developers to replicate a style that may not always be appropriate.
 We enthusiastically endorse the Skidmore Old Town Historic Design Guidelines and urge their immediate adoption. And we thank you, our City Council, for your time and commitment to preserving and celebrating what makes Portland unique and special. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Welcome. Mr. Mayor, Commissioners, I'm very pleased to help support this initiative.
 declaration that you have and the changed guidelines for the district. I followed this for a long, long time, really, since its inception. My partner, George McMath, was very instrumental on the first district. It became an historic district and later a national historic district. To support that effort of being a national landmark, I
 I hope I write in this book that explains everything you ever would like to know about and internationally. But what is most important from that, all that information, is how unique Portland's historic district is in an international scene. I've gone to most cities that had cast iron. New York's Soho Historic District is a huge district filled with...
 Totally elaborate, gorgeous cast iron buildings and a very important district internationally. Portland happened to be founded in the 1840s when cast iron industry first started. We had iron here as we slowly developed. Our first building had a cast iron front. The iron, not until the 60s, locally was used. And then we had every building in the city had a cast iron front.
 Now, when you want to promote your historic district and have something that is totally unique like that, like being the only city left that has cast iron of this quantity, there are others, but it makes Portland's district highly individual. I wrote for PDC a large explanation of all the iron and made proposals in it. There are indeed about five complete sets. You have to know in our historic district about half the buildings are cast iron.
 Half the lots in the district have historic buildings on them. The other half, a little bit less, are parking lots. Now, if these cast iron sets were put back into the district, we would have a predominantly historic district rather than a district with half modern buildings and half historic buildings. So to my mind, this is a pivotal time to reinforce that.
 The fact that PDC has all these sets, plus the Bosco Milligan collection, plus one that my name is somehow mysteriously attached to, gives a huge variety of opportunity to do this and reinforce, as this guideline is saying, reinforce our historic district. So I completely endorse it in every way. I want everyone to remember that we had a magnificent historic district before we tore it down.
 What we have left is still significant, so we should help support it and fill it in using these parts. I'm sure there are many ways to use them, but if possible, to use them in sets and adorn the rest of them with the pieces that we have or sculptures or whatever. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome.
 Good afternoon. I'm Peggy Moretti, Executive Director of Restore Oregon, and I also serve on the Old Town Neighborhood Association Land Use Committee. So I'm going to be very brief. I'm going to be echoing our very, very enthusiastic endorsement of the design guidelines.
 and the ability to reuse the cast iron collection. As you probably know, Restore Oregon has, for a number of years, been working diligently to promote the idea of compatible infill development and the protection of the infill.
 integrity of our historic neighborhoods and historic districts, and this is our finest one. So this makes great sense. The design guidelines provide clarity for development, and clarity, I've heard from a number of my development friends, is awfully important to get things done. It will protect the overall integrity of the district and its historic
 historic character, and it couldn't have been more vetted than this set of guidelines has been. So I'm hoping there are no doubts left in your minds whatsoever and that you can approve these post-haste. Thank you. Thank you. Questions for any of these three leaders in this movement? Thank you very much. Thank you. Others that we have signed up to speak? That was only three who signed up. Either item? Okay. Okay.
 So unless there are any further council questions, then we'll take a vote on the resolution, item 465. Let's vote on that, please. Councilman? Well, thank you for doing this work, and it seems like it's very well supported this time around. So putting aside some of the tougher questions, I guess, it really helps. And this is a very important asset, a very important part of our city's heritage, and glad to not only have the design guidelines in place, but to also figure out ways that we can incorporate them
 the cast iron in new development as well. So since we have an abundance of it, we should show it. Aye. Oh, Novick. Commissioner, are you saying if you've got it, plant it? Yeah. Great presentation. Thank you very much. Aye. Aye.
 Ritz. Well, congratulations. This is certainly something that's been on my city council agenda slash bucket list since I first got on the council in 2009, having seen what happened in 2008. And Mayor Adams tried several times to bring it to council. I don't know who was able to work the magic of finally putting the different pieces in different places, but it was probably a group effort. And I appreciate everybody.
 It's quite astonishing to me that here we are without both chambers packed and massive lobbying attempts and such. So sometimes you know that there has been enough process and we have finally come to agreement this is the right thing to do. And as I said, I know that Bing and Art are very happy about this. Hi. Niels.
 Well, I want to thank the Bureau, the community, the neighborhood, because all really three have come together here. The Bureau has done great work. The leadership in the architectural and historic preservation community has been great advocates and problem solvers in this work.
 And then I think the Old Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association and other groups and individual property owners have really helped get us to a shared understanding of why preservation is so important and why this district is so special and a way forward that includes development thoughtfully done, but preservation most of all.
 So I'm really, really happy about this. This is one of those things where, like you, Amanda, I want to say, yep, that's one of the things that I was very happy got done during my time of public service and, more importantly, to be able to see over time the results of not just the preservation of these buildings but the reuse of these materials. We have some very clever architects in Portland and some very community-minded developers. I think there will be ways and means for this development.
 this resource of the cast iron parts to be used thoughtfully and I can't wait to see how smarter people than me can figure out how that gets done on individual sites and projects but this is a great piece of work and yes also in being an arts name very happy to vote aye aye and then we take the second item to second reading next week so thank you all very much
 and we're 15 minutes ahead of schedule which is a rare and blessed event so we'll take 15 minutes and come back so we're recessed for 15 minutes yeah okay all right we will uh council will return to order we took a brief break because we actually got ahead of schedule so we're back uh let's take item 467 please
 amend contract with Xerox state and local solutions Inc for the photo radar system to expand services and Increase the not to exceed amount by four million five hundred thousand dollars authorize a related memorandum of understanding between the city and Multnomah County Circuit Court and find ten roadways as urban high crash corridors eligible for fixed-speed safety cameras missioner Novick
 Baron colleagues, today staff from PBOT, the Portland Police, and the Multnomah County Circuit Court will be presenting on controlling speeding on Portland's most dangerous roads with fixed-speed safety cameras. Speeding and aggressive driving are top contributors to fatal crashes in our city. The City Council placed fixed-speed safety cameras as an initiative on our state legislative agenda in 2015. And thanks to the hard work of Representative Reardon, staff in the Office of Government Relations, safety advocates, and Director Treat, we won them.
 Now, staff are back here to pilot implementation of this program. We'll be presenting an amendment to the city's existing automated enforcement contract with Xerox State and Local Solutions to include fixed-speed safety cameras in four specific high-crash corridors, Beaverton Hillsdale Highway, Southeast 22nd, Marine Drive, and Outer Southeast Division, as a three-year pilot.
 We'll also hear to talk about a related MOU on automated enforcement drafted between Portland Police, PBOT, and the Multnomah County Circuit Court. And finally, I'll be asking council to make a specific finding that Portland's 10 high-crash corridors are, quote, urban high-crash corridors eligible for fixed-speed safety cameras as per the legislation. And now I'd like to thank and introduce Director Leotre and the aforementioned Representative Rubin. Come on up, please. Good afternoon.
 All right, thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor, Councilmembers. Again, we're here today to amend the contract with Xerox in order to facilitate the city placing fixed-speed cameras on four high-crash corridors in the city. And this is the genesis of a lot of staff work that's taken a lot of time and has been in the works for several years. So just to give you a little bit of background, when I arrived in the city of Portland –
 In looking at our crash and fatality rates in the city and looking at the underlying data of what is causing the traffic violence in the city of Portland, the overwhelming preponderance of crashes are caused by aggressive driving, which is code for speeding. So speeding and impairment are the highest causal factors, and we have known tools that we can use to address traffic fatalities and serious crashes.
 while I worked in the transportation department in the city of Washington D.C. and also in the city of Chicago we implemented fixed speed cameras in those jurisdictions with overwhelming success
 So Washington, D.C. has had fixed-speed cameras for over 10 years now, and they have seen a 73% reduction in traffic fatality in the city. And in Chicago, in just one year, there was a 76% reduction in traffic fatalities and crashes in the areas in which fixed-speed cameras were placed. Okay.
 So I worked with my commissioner and with government relations and with the support of the city council. It was a legislative priority for us. And thanks to Representative Reardon, who picked this up and sponsored the bill in the state legislature and did yeoman's work, helping us in Salem getting this passed at the state level. The city now has the authority to.
 to pilot fixed speed cameras on 10 high crash corridors in the city on a pilot basis over 10 years. And Representative Reardon, I want to take the opportunity in public to thank you again for your efforts and supporting us. And I will now turn it over to you to say a few brief words for the council. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 Well, thank you. And for the record, I am State Representative Jeff Reardon, District 48, sort of over southeast Portland, down into Clackamas County. And Mayor and Commissioners, it is truly a pleasure to be here, an honor to be here this afternoon and to address you on an issue that's very important to me. And it is the safety of people across the city, but driven home by the...
 and so forth that have happened, especially on the high-speed corridors in East Portland. And...
 Mr. Treat knows the stats better than I do, but there's a whole lot of the accidents are happening out there and I'm hoping you'll share those numbers with us a little bit later. But the high-speed corridors are in my area and it's where the majority of these pedestrians are killed. It's happening not on a daily basis but at a high rate.
 It is an area where my constituents have to shop. They have to cross the streets to get to school. We're doing better on the infrastructure part because of a lot of your work over the last few years. But there's still a lot of the areas that don't have the sidewalks. So I'm not telling you anything you really don't know. But just for the record, it's been tough. We're making progress.
 I remember a few years ago that we had a little ceremony out on 136th and Holgate, and it was near where Morgan, a five-year-old, was killed. And I remember the mayor speaking and talked about three things that can really make a difference in traffic safety, engineering, education, and enforcement.
 And what I really like about this bill that we've worked on together is that it really hits two out of the three. It really hits education. And if the education doesn't work, then the enforcement should. So just about the bill, it is a transparent, data-driven program focused on improving safety. House Bill 2621 does require the use –
 clear roadway signage that alerts drivers to the presence of the fixed automated enforcement and speed reader boards to provide their current rate of speed before passing a camera, providing them ample information and opportunity to follow the posted speeds and to avoid a ticket. So that's the education part, lots of signage, lots of warning.
 And additionally, each camera will have at least a 30-day warning period during which beaters will be sent a warning notice instead of a full-fledged ticket. So I think this program really will save lives in my district and across the city. I look forward to taking the next step and authorizing this contract with Xerox so that we can get these needed safety tools on the ground. Thank you very much for your work, and thank you to all of your excellent staff.
 Thank you. Thanks for your leadership. Our next panel is to address the contract amendment specifically and the memorandum of understanding is Gabe Graff, P-BOT, Barb Marseille of the Loma County Circuit Court, and Sergeant Abramson from the Portland Police Bureau Traffic Division. Mayor, commissioners, thank you for having me here today. I've got a PowerPoint. Okay. There you go. Nope, wrong one. There's another PowerPoint. Can I switch it over here? Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. My name is Gabe Graff. I'm a project manager at the Portland Bureau of Transportation. Thank you for having us here today. I'll walk briefly through the presentation outlining why we think fixed-speed cameras are an effective safety tool, provide a summary of the authorizing legislation, and outline how we intend to implement the program.
 So why fixed-speed safety cameras? As Leah and Representative Reardon mentioned, jurisdictions across the country are using this technology to slow down arterials and save lives. Particularly in urban areas like Portland, speeding and arterial roadways are a dangerous mix. Speeding increases stopping distance, making it less likely a driver can avoid a crash.
 If you are crossing 120 second on foot and are hit by a person traveling 10 miles per hour over the posted speed limit of 35, you're unlikely to survive, as this graphic illustrates. In Portland, nearly half of our traffic fatalities are speed related. And as this council is well aware, too many Portlanders are involved in fatal traffic crashes on our roads every year. While overall we are making progress on traffic safety, you can see pedestrian fatalities are trending in the wrong direction.
 Where are these crashes happening? Primarily on Portland's multi-lane arterials, which suffer a serious crash rate four times higher than the region's freeway system. PBOT has designated the worst of these arterials high crash corridors, highlighted here in yellow. These 10 roads represent just 3% of our roadway network, yet account for 51% of our pedestrian fatalities. These are the roads we are focusing our safety efforts and controlling speeding on them as a critical component of this work.
 So thanks to the leadership of this council, Representative Reardon, Director Treat, and the Office of Government Relations, we had a data-driven bill targeted on slowing speeds on these most dangerous roads. As Representative Reardon mentioned, it's focused on safety and transparency, and it builds on a history of automated enforcement legislation in Oregon. To be eligible for fixed-speed safety cameras, roads must have a serious or fatal crash rate at least 25% higher than roads of similar speeds, and they must be clearly signed. Thank you.
 I think thanks to this focus on safety, we were able to build a broad coalition of supporters for this effort. The Oregonian Editorial Board, the Oregon Coalition of Police and Sheriffs supported the effort. So too did organizations with direct connections to high crash corridors, APANO and the Jade District, the 82nd Avenue Improvement Coalition, advocacy groups including Foster United, Friends of Barber, Elders in Action, Oregon Walks and Southwest Trails.
 And we got the support of people whose lives had been directly impacted by speeding on these roads, including Kristy Finney-Dunn from Families for Safe Streets, whose son was killed on Division. She took time off of work to join Director Treat in Salem to support our effort. In the final weeks of the session, the work paid off and the bill passed. And we transitioned into figuring out how to best implement this program.
 Working with our colleagues here at Portland Police and Multnomah County Circuit Court, we engaged in a series of conversations to figure out how to make this authorization a reality. The three items for council consideration today are the results of this collaboration. So we seek to amend the city's existing automated enforcement contract to allow us to pilot these fixed-speed cameras during the remainder of the contract term.
 We ask that council find that speeding on these 10 roadways has a negative impact on traffic safety and make them eligible for fixed speed safety cameras. To this end, included in your packet is a memo from DKS and Associates, our lead consultant on the city's Vision Zero effort.
 DKS has extensively reviewed crash data and identified speeding as one of the top four focus areas for Vision Zero. You'll see in the memo that all 10 of the high crash corridors have fatal crash rates well in excess of the threshold set by statute.
 And finally, our MOU on automated enforcement, which identifies agency roles and responsibilities. In it, PBOT has agreed to initiate the fixed-speed camera program, a role we have played in the past with our red light camera program and the mobile van program. We've also agreed to lead the community outreach effort related to fixed-speed cameras.
 Portland Police have agreed to review citations stemming from the program, and the Multnomah County Circuit Court will adjudicate the citations. All parties have agreed to ongoing regular coordination. Together, we work to understand and account for the staffing issues each party would face related to the launch of the new program. To this end, we agreed on a phased approach, piloting four corridors over the next 33 months. This is our proposed rollout schedule, with the first cameras being installed this summer.
 Outreach for our locations on Beaverton Hillsdale Highway has already begun. And here are what the four corridors look like from the driver perspective. Along with the first camera installation on Beaverton Hillsdale Highway and 35th, that's shown in the top left, PBOT intends to install a new pedestrian crossing with rapid flashing beacon and refuge island at this bus stop. The section of 122nd we're considering, shown top right, runs right through the David Douglas School District and past Representative Riordan's office.
 Bottom left shows Northeast Marine Drive. For drivers speeding on this road built atop a levee, there is little margin for error. And finally, Outer Division. This is Outer Division at 156th. There have been three pedestrian fatalities at this location alone in the last five years. And Kim Stone from Families for Safe Streets will speak more to that later.
 And finally, as I've mentioned before and has been mentioned several times, our goal here is behavior change. We intend to implement a transparent program on these corridors. I know of no other program with signage requirements as robust as the ones in this effort.
 We just want people to slow down and obey the law. Drivers will pass each of the signs pictured here before crossing a camera, giving everyone ample opportunity to slow down, obey the law, and avoid a citation.
 Additionally, there will be a warning period for 30 days after installation. Community groups along the corridor will be notified, as will the media. And per the legislation, the roughly 30% of traffic fines that the city will receive from the program will be held in a dedicated account. If those revenues exceed the cost of the contract and staffing at Peabodyn Police, they'll be used for traffic safety per the authorizing statute.
 Our MOU further specifies that any revenues in excess of program costs will be reinvested in traffic safety along the high crash corridors. Thank you. Turn it over to Barb.
 Hi, good afternoon. I'm Barbara Marseille. I'm the trial court administrator for the circuit court. We've been engaged with PBOD and PPB since last fall, right after the legislation passed authorizing this fixed-speed camera program, and we really appreciate the opportunity to collaborate on developing an MOU and to work on planning for the implementation of the program and the
 the understanding that the folks from the Bureau of Transportation and the Portland Police Bureau have of the impact on the court's workload in processing these additional citations. The legislature did allocate some funding to get the court started in terms of processing for the citations. It is going to generate a substantial increase in citations coming from the photo enforcement programs and funding.
 We will continue to monitor the volume of citations as the additional camera locations are implemented. And the memorandum of understanding really helps us with that process in terms of having communications, keeping those lines of communications open and establishing a process for any changes to be made, any changes in the timing, any changes in the locations, any changes in the integrations or reporting that are needed.
 Thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to participate in the development of the program and to have a voice in this process. Thank you. Thank you. Sergeant. Mayor, Council, David Abrahams. I'm a sergeant at Traffic Division assigned to the major crash team and overseeing the Traffic Investigative Unit. Photo enforcement also falls under my purview, and since the onset of discussions with PBOT, we have been privy and part of this process with them and have been supportive of this process.
 We're going to be providing support with officers who currently are the bedrock of our photo enforcement program. We'll be overseeing and spearheading this from initial onset where violations come in through the confirmation process, through the court, and even appeal process. We are continuing to provide training. Next week we're actually holding a course, and we'll continue to provide training to officers to make sure that we are in compliance and safe.
 providing things, make sure that things run with fluidity for this process. We do hope that this program will continue to be effective to create awareness for drivers in these high crash corridors where we're having horrific crashes and truly lower the significant crashes and fatal crashes that we're seeing on our roadway systems. Thank you. Thank you. If a driver is photographed and they're texting or on their cell phone, can you also cite them for that?
 No? I recall the same question from last time. Yeah, we did. We did. We had the same question about getting this as part of our legislative agenda. Yes. Yeah. At this time, no, we cannot. Was that a specific call by the legislature? Maybe Representative Reardon can... Yeah, we don't issue. We didn't ask. Yes. We haven't sought that out yet. That'll be next session then. That could be. Good idea. That's what everybody said last time.
 But an officer has the discretion to do that if they see someone doing that now, right? We do, yeah. But if it's actually photographed for photo enforcement, we aren't allowed to. However, obviously, if we're out in uniform and public view, then, yes, we can take that action.
 Thank you all very much. Thank you very much. We had a couple of other folks who I think we expected to testify. Kim Stone of Families for Safe Streets and Noel McElberry of Oregon Walks. There you are, Noel. You're hiding behind the pillar. Good afternoon. Welcome. Hi. Thank you for having me. My name is Kim Stone, and I'm a member of Families for Safe Streets.
 Two and a half years ago, my son Joe was struck and killed while crossing one of the city's high crash corridors. He was in a marked crossing at 156th and Division. Joe was one of three people that have been killed at that crossing since 2012, and that's three too many. Since his death, I've become an advocate for traffic safety, especially in regards to safe crossings and lower speeds.
 In February, I was at 156th and Division again, this time to thank PBOT for installing a temporary rapid flashing beacon at the crossing and to encourage them to expedite their efforts to make Southeast Division a safer street. But more must be done. I'm here today to support fixed speed safety cameras on Southeast Division in my neighborhood. People who live in East Portland will quickly become aware of the locations of these cameras and will slow their speeds accordingly. And those who don't will likely reconsider after receiving a warning.
 If people slow down and look out for one another, my neighborhood will be safer and other families won't have to experience the hurt that we do. Thank you. Good afternoon, Mayor and Councilmembers. My name is Noelle. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Walks, the state's pedestrian advocacy organization, and we work to make sure that walking is safe, convenient, and attractive for everyone. We're here to support the implementation of these safety cameras on four of our high-crash corridors.
 You already heard the stat from Gabe earlier, but at speeds over 40 miles an hour, pedestrians only have a 15% chance of survival. So speed has a huge impact on our community, and we really need an array of strategies to help save lives on our streets. Southeast Division has the most crashes of any other street in our city. Beaverton Hillsdale Highway and Marine Drive are particularly dangerous for people in cars, as that's what most of the crashes are on those streets.
 And 122nd is a critical connection, especially for transit users in East Portland. There's a question about stats on the number of fatalities this year, and there have been 19, 12 of which happened in East Portland. At this time last year, there had only been eight fatalities. So we have a huge...
 We have a lot of work to do in this area. And this pilot project has a unique opportunity to try something new for many different reasons. One of them, it requires a significant outreach and warning for communities surrounding these cameras, ensuring that they're aware of the changes and will not be the ones most affected. This is especially critical in East Portland. Yeah.
 they give much more advance warning than any other system that I know of, meaning that the outcome will be slower speeds, not just handing out tickets, which is really the goal of this program and what we really want to see on our streets. Thank you.
 And it also gives, with this new MOU, the city, the police, and the courts an opportunity to work together to build a more robust referral system to our amazing Share the Road program. I really want to see more people taking that educational opportunity rather than just paying a fine and not having to think about it again.
 So we supported this legislation last year and we're excited to work with the city on this pilot program and creating safe streets for everyone. I hope that you'll support moving this forward and take a step towards reaching the goal of zero deaths on our streets. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you both. Yeah. Well, Steve, you have a plan? And are there others here who want to speak on this item? Okay. Then if not, let's please take a vote. Saltzman? Well, thank you.
 Representative Reardon and other members of the Oregon Legislature for giving us this ability, and thank you for Mr. Novick and Bureau of Transportation for...
 putting together the actual implementing of this and i do hope that this will profoundly affect behavior of motorists especially as it relates to speed one day i hope it will also profoundly affect them as it relates to using handheld phones and texting too so well hopefully we can pursue that in the next session but if this is a good program and it's a good start and we need we need this very much so i'm pleased to support it hi no thank you
 Thank you, Representative Reardon, very much for your hard work on this. Thank you, Elizabeth Edwards, for your very hard work on this. I really appreciate the courts and the police bureau working with us to figure out how we can implement this program, which is a somewhat complicated effort for all of us. Thank you very much to Noelle and to Kim.
 for reminding us of exactly why we need to do this. And thank you, Director Treat, for your tireless advocacy. And your championing of this issue was the motivating force behind everybody else's work. So thank you very much. Thank you all the legislators who supported this and Representative Reardon for championing it. Thank you, Commissioner Novick and Director Treat, and for the families and others who are here today.
 um i wanted to dispel a myth so i am grateful to the department transportation staff for giving my staff a breakdown of where the money goes for this because people sometimes say oh they're just doing that to raise money and then they squander it so these expected citation revenue to be collected by the courts is about 7.1 million dollars 70 of that goes to the state and to the cost for the court
 Of the 30% that comes to the city, it's about $2 million. The contract for the technology is about $1.2 million. And then city staffing costs are $636,000 because we do need staff to coordinate, manage the contract, community engagement, all the things that we heard about. That leaves the revenue to the city after all of these costs at $215,000 a year.
 So, yes, one can do two crosswalks for that amount of money, and no, that is not the way that we are going to be able to fund safe streets. This is about making people, encouraging people to change their behavior. And we should not be waiting before we get a ticket or even a photo radar telling us how fast we're going. We should not be speeding on neighborhood streets, period.
 You don't get the five extra or the 10 extra miles per hour on a neighborhood street. It's somebody's neighborhood and there are people crossing, there are people at the side. And we should all be thinking about how would I feel if I were in a crash that killed somebody. So I really appreciate this effort, which is going to bring to the attention of people who are driving cars.
 speeding, and still we need a wholesale change in behavior. I was interested a couple of years ago when I first started, I drove down Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard for the first time in many years. I usually walk it or take the bus, and I happened to be driving, and I was very pleased to see that the culture on MLK has changed and that...
 people stop at unmarked crosswalks for the most part, and that you get honked at by other drivers if you do not stop at unmarked crosswalks. And there's developed a culture there that, yes, people and bikes are going to be crossing perpendicularly. We all need to be much more thoughtful about how we share the road with all different modes of users. And if we can do that, then we can achieve vision zero. So I appreciate this effort very much, and let's keep working on similar and other strategies. Bye.
 anything else well steve uh representative reardon um all the capable public administrators who've worked on this problem on the community's behalf thank you this is good work and i want to add on to commissioner fritz's effort to dispel a myth
 because we have to do that, I think, often in public life. And, in fact, I want to try to dispel a false truth that goes all the way back to Ronald Reagan in 1981 when he said that government is not the solution, government is the problem. That's a classic case of nonsense stated theatrically enough, left unchallenged, starts to sound like truth.
 But that's nonsense, and we need to get over that nonsense because we've had literal examples in this chamber over the last couple of days of how government not only can be the solution, but working smarter can actually save lives. We have police officers and firefighters out there with the antidote to drug overdose who've saved hundreds of lives in our city in just the last year. We have a Vista Bridge where people are now working
 prevented from suicide long enough that they can be reached, and it's happened again and again. Thank you, Steve Novick. We have police officers who almost every night use their training to avoid or avert or stop an attempt at suicide.
 We have examples across the city of smart public policy saving lives when you look at those flashing beacons that have made these dangerous streets a little bit less so. So this is another case where government working smarter saves lives. It's that good.
 And so I really appreciate this work. I was there, along with Representative Reardon and others in the neighborhood, in the aftermath of Morgan Cook's death and so many others in East Portland that have suffered from the fact that there are too many streets there that aren't safe, and this will really help make them more so.
 Marine drive, you know, an error of judgment or intoxication or use of the accelerator, you know, can have very tragic results. We've had a number of cases where the car literally ended up in the river and the occupant drowned.
 Beaverton Hillsdale Highway, a close friend of mine's daughter was killed there. So for all of us, this is personal because we have connections to our neighbors and friends who've been killed in traffic violence, and I'm just so appreciative that we have a commissioner in charge and a director who are committed to Vision Zero, and leaders like you, Jeff, who are working in partnership with us to make that vision real.
 Thank you all so much. This is good work. This is a solution, and I'm very happy to be part of it. Aye. Thank you all. Okay, 468 is our other remaining item this afternoon, also a transportation matter. Establish a heavy vehicle use tax to fund Portland's street repair and traffic safety program. Mr. Novick.
 mayor and colleagues i'm pleased today to present the city council an ordinance that will establish a heavy vehicle use tax over the past few months city staff from transportation the revenue office have worked with the subcommittee of freight interest to develop a funding mechanisms that trucks to ensure that heavy trucks pay for their impact in portland streets
 The ordinance before us today would create a heavy vehicle use tax that applies to businesses that, A, have a Portland business license, and, B, pay Oregon's weight mile tax. A tax of 2.8 percent on the amount businesses pay in the state weight mile tax is estimated to generate $2.5 million. And as you've heard before, $2.5 million is what is necessary for the trucks to pay what, according to EcoNorthwest's analysis of –
 the state apportionment formula between heavy trucks and other vehicles as revised for local conditions. We think that that would represent 13 percent of the total raise by accommodation of this and the gas tax. So we think that they should pay a 13 percent share. $2.5 million would be a 13 percent share. Okay.
 as you will hear from staff we considered a number of options including a diesel load fee and a fee based on a combination of the number of registered heavy vehicles and the business license tax before we identified the current proposal although no revenue collection mechanism is perfect i believe that the proposal including this ordinance is the best approach available i'd like to clarify a couple of specific points based on some recent feedback from the working group
 One, it is not the intent of this ordinance to apply this tax to businesses whose only tie to Portland is that their heavy trucks are passing through or stopping for fuel in Portland. They would need to be conducting some sort of business in Portland in order for this tax to be due. In other words, they would need to otherwise be subject to the city business license tax.
 Two, it does appear possible that there might be some businesses that pay the Portland business license tax and pay the weight mile tax, but their trucks spend a minimal or no amount of time on Portland streets.
 We, of course, have no way of knowing exactly how much time any given vehicle is spending on – we can't tell how much time all vehicles are spending on Portland Street, so we think it's impractical to have a local wait mile tax as the state does. However, if a company can prove that they have minimal interaction with Portland Streets, I think that it would be wise to create an appeal process. This ordinance does not do that on its face, but it would
 I would like to direct the Revenue Division to consider the creation of the administrative rule to provide an alternate calculation for taxpayers that only do a tiny percentage of their organ driving in Portland. I want to address a couple of other arguments that I expect the rule here made, and I want to address them up front. One is I think that it is very important for us to pass this legislation immediately. Okay.
 The Fuel Dealers Association, which is opposing the gas tax, is using as their primary argument against the gas tax the fact that it exempts heavy trucks. I think that before Portlanders vote, it's very important for us to let Portland voters know that we are not letting heavy trucks off the hook. There's also been a suggestion that we should say that this tax should only take effect if the gas tax passes. Okay.
 I disagree with that because I think that it's reasonable, no matter what anybody else is paying, I think it's reasonable for the heavy trucks that impose wear and tear on our roads to pay for some of that wear and tear. But I also think that it's worth noting that the Trucking Association is already opposing the gas tax, and linking the two would give them an extra incentive to fight harder against the gas tax. And I have no particular enthusiasm for giving opponents of the gas tax an extra incentive to fight harder and raise more money.
 So I know those issues will come up. I wanted to address them up front. And now I will turn it over to Loretta Petrete. Thank you again, Commissioner Novick, Mayor, council members. The ordinance before you today is going to provide some very critical funding for street repair and safety improvement within the city.
 I would like to take the opportunity to personally thank the freight committee, community and freight committee, for their ongoing commitment to street repair and safety. And as Commissioner Novick noted, you're likely to hear from some people today that they have concerns about the specific proposal. But I do believe that their participation, along with staff from PBOT and the Revenue Office, has resulted in a stronger and fairer proposal that you will be considering.
 And I'm going to turn it over to Ken Lee and Mark Lear to walk through a presentation and then go from there. Thank you. Mark Lear, I manage the resources and legislative group inside transportation. Ken and I are going to give a quick overview of the presentation building off of the work session that we had a few weeks ago.
 The first question that comes up is, why is Portland considering the adoption of a temporary heavy vehicle use tax? And it really came out of conversations that we started to have with the freight community as we were looking for a local revenue source. We thought that it makes sense building off of Oregon's cost responsibility and cost allocation models to make sure that trucks were paying their fair share. But one of the first things that was identified to us...
 if you want to go to the next slide, Ken, by the trucking industry is that right now we really have one truck stop in the city of Portland, Jubitz. And with truck, semi-trucks having fuel tanks that can be 120 to 300 gallons, it would be
 much easier if that to be more likely to happen the trucks would be bypassing that truck stop we would be losing the revenue we wouldn't be having that cost responsible contribution so the trucking industry freight community asked us to look for other options council directed us when we put together when we moved forward with the local measure sending that to the voters the gas tax to do this work
 The first thing that the group really dug into was digging into what would that fair share for Portland be. We know that statewide cost responsibility has trucks paying about a third of all the revenues for transportation improvements on the roadway network. And so we wanted to see what the local piece was. We brought in Carl Batten from Eco Northwest.
 who does that analysis for the state as part of cost responsibility. And this table that's in front of you highlights, one, the conclusion that that group came to. I think there was general agreement amongst the committee on this that when you think about what a city's share of cost responsibility would be for something like a local measure like the
 local gas tax, that 13.3% is a better number than about a third of the state level. It's largely driven by the amount of miles that are driven on the local network and some of the costs associated with that compared to statewide. So if we took the amount of revenue we're estimating, if the local gas tax passes that $16 million a year and made that 86.7% of the total, you can see that the heavy vehicle fare share would be about 2.5 million or 13.3%.
 are going looking forward four years, $64 million generated by lighter vehicles, and $10 million or 13.3% of that $74 million total. With that, I will turn it over to Ken to talk a little bit more about the specific proposal that's in front of us today. Thank you. Ken Lee, Portland Bureau of Transportation. So Mark talked about how much this heavy trucks would contribute from the heavy vehicle use tax. Now we're going to talk about who's going to pay
 Basically, what we did is we took the state weight mile tax database and we cross-referenced that with the business license tax database to see who businesses that currently pay both the weight mile tax and have a heavy truck. And from that cross-reference, we found that there's roughly about 2,500 businesses that meet that criteria, and that's who we found to be subject to this heavy vehicle use tax. In the parentheses here, or not parentheses, in the italics here, it says...
 Since businesses that deliver product by truck to a Portland address are required to have a Portland business license, the heavy vehicle use tax will be applied to businesses based in Portland and to businesses that ship to Portland addresses. So again, we're not intending to apply this tax to those businesses that have trucks that are just driving through the city and stopping for gas and the like. Thank you.
 On slide six, how will the tax be calculated? Basically, the tax will be calculated on a company's statewide weight mile taxes paid. From our estimates, we believe a rate of 2.8 percent will be able to generate the 2.5 million target per year.
 Slide seven. How much will most businesses pay under this proposal? So we took a look at this in some detail, and we're finding that the majority, like 85 percent roughly, of businesses will pay an average of about $15 per month. And so most of the businesses will not be significantly impacted.
 However, there would be a smaller number of businesses that actually have a much higher trucking activity from a statewide perspective, they'll pay a higher monthly tax. This roughly is about $500 per month for about 15% of these businesses.
 How will the program change if revenue forecasts are lower or higher than anticipated? So right now the target is $2.5 million. If we are significantly higher or significantly lower, we'll be reviewing this with the Revenue Division in terms of should we be able to adjust the rate, and we will adjust the rate accordingly to generate the $2.5 million per year goal for the four-year period so we can come close to the targeted amount. And with that, I'll...
 On slide nine, basically, this is kind of going back to the work session. It's kind of walking us through how we actually got to this option. There's about four feasibility factors that we looked at, and if you recall, we looked at the diesel load fee first. The biggest concern here was in the fairness of who pays.
 If you recall, we have nine Portland terminals that truck distributors will come in and load up on diesel, and they will then transport it to various places, including gas stations. Part of the concern was that not all of this diesel would actually be delivered within the Portland city area. A lot of it would actually go outside the Portland area. And so from that standpoint, there was a pretty big concern on that.
 From there, we kind of moved to the business license tax surcharge based on the number of vehicles. When we took a look at the data based on the match that we did with the Oregon State Weight Mile Tax Database, we found that there was some other fairness issues in terms of there's businesses that actually have a lot of trucks operating
 But they really didn't have trucking as their main activity, and so that's not where their net income was derived, their gross sales was derived. So there's some fairness issues on that account, which kind of led us into the heavy vehicle use tax based on a state weight mile tax paid, which is more reflective of how much the trucks actually use the actual street system. And with that, I'll turn it over to Mark Lear.
 Just two more slides. I want to just talk a little bit about how we'd administer the program to make sure that we efficiently meet the goals of the program and have proper oversight. One thing that we're doing with this ordinance is that we're creating basically the same structure for oversight, the oversight committee, the annual reporting,
 a four-year program that we have in the local gas tax measure. So if the local gas tax measure were not to move forward, we would still have the same creation of a street repair and safety program and those other requirements to make sure that we're able to effectively manage the program. If the local gas tax measure passes, obviously those will be the same groups working on this combined income. Again, the things that we really highlight and have been important to the committee are,
 is one, that dedicated resources to safety and repair was a common refrain that we heard from that committee. The role of an oversight committee, the freight community also recommended that we make sure that we're checking in on a regular basis with the freight committee as well as any oversight committee that we would have as we talk about future projects. That seems to make sense.
 In addition to that, we will have annual reporting and a four-year program with specific goals and objectives we're trying to achieve.
 The last slide is just a quick update of what the next steps would be. If this effort moves forward, we think that revenue collection could begin no sooner than September 2016. We'd work to form the oversight committee sort of as soon as possible. We've also set up a process where the Revenue Bureau, after one full year of tax collection, can start to look to see whether we are generating more revenue than we anticipated initially.
 And if that's the case, so we could adjust the rate to make sure that we are keeping that 13.3%. And finally, we'll begin that process of establishing the program and those reporting requirements that come with it. Thank you. Can you go back to the very first PowerPoint slide? So, yeah, I guess, you know, I am the one who has proposed the idea that this be contingent upon passage of the local 10-cent temporary fuels tax.
 And I guess I'm struck by the text here. It says a heavy vehicle tax ensures that heavy trucks pay their corresponding fair share in relation to a potential 10 cent temporary fuels tax. Now, I hope the fuels tax passes. But if the fuels tax turns out to not pass, that is zero. So shouldn't the local freight share also be zero? In other words, as much as I hate to relish the thought, shouldn't we have to go back to the drawing board on the whole issue of how we pay for road repairs and safety improvements and so on?
 And I realize I understand your political calculation, Steve, that this gives them even more impetus to oppose it. But I guess to me it's just a fundamental question of fairness. And I always thought the efforts here to come up with a corresponding fair share for freight movement was always contingent as part and parcel of a package to tax regular motorists like ourselves. So I guess I'm just hung up on that. Well, Commissioner, first of all, I would remind you that
 Even if the fuel tax passes and this passes, still none of us will be paying what is actually necessary to repair the streets and address our safety issues. These taxes combined would address a fraction of our street repair and traffic safety needs. And the trucks would be asked to pay a fraction of what they would pay if we were really trying to address all of our street repair and traffic safety needs.
 So I do not think that $2.5 million a year as a contribution from the heavy trucks is unfair under any circumstances. But I also think that it's important to note the extremely cynical game that is being played by Paul Romaine and the Trucking Association, where Paul Romaine's lead argument against the
 the gas tax is that it left the heavy trucks off the hook, and the Trucking Association is contributing to Paul Romaine's campaign, basically paying him to argue we're letting heavy trucks off the hook. In that context, to say, we will give you an extra incentive to oppose the gas tax by saying that one is contingent on the other, I think would be giving in to extremely cynical politics, and I don't think that's appropriate.
 And also, it's important to note that if the gas tax fails, the problem will not go away. And I fully intend to bring forward another mechanism by which Portlanders will be asked to pay to fix the roads. And assuming that Mr. Romaine's polling is correct, Portlanders are going to want to hear that heavy trucks are paying their fair share. And if we've already passed a tax on the heavy trucks, then we'll be able to tell them, yes, they already are.
 Any other questions? Great. Thank you very much. Thank you. Do you have any other invited testimony or panels to call, Steve? I believe that we're hoping to get Robert McCullough here. He's here. Oh, there you are. And Noel McIverry of Oregon Walks and P.O. Welch, the co-chair of the Portland Freight Committee. Okay. Come on up, please. I'm such a stranger to this room. Yeah, yeah. I'm surprised. Don't be nervous. Yeah, right. Thank you very much.
 commissioner am i first second or third i believe you're first thank you very much robert mccullough representing southeast uplift i had the honor of sitting in the subcommittee it was very interesting the it's rare these days i get to talk about something i'm actually an expert on this is what i do for a living i've testified on fuel costs and oil prices at the u.s congress federal court state courts regulatory commissions
 Bottom line is we were paying twice as much two years ago. The question is how are we going to spend that dividend? At the same time, vehicle traffic on our roads went up 3% last year. Gasoline use went up 4%. So we have more need than ever to have a working system. This is the freight hub of the Northwest. We are where two railroads meet, two superhighways meet, two rivers meet.
 As I drove here, I crossed the Holgate Bridge. I passed two bobtails going to pick up loads and two heavy trucks dropping off loads. That was one trip. I was probably the only car on the bridge, but I had four heavy trucks in evidence. In this case, we have a pretty simple calculation. The equity issue is not perfect, but it's about as fair as we're going to get. There is no perfect answer to the equity question.
 Frankly, I would ask for higher taxes for both automobiles and trucks simply because we have a big problem in front of us. In this case, we're using the Portland license tax. That's about as fair as we can get. We do not have a count on trucks. We do not know where the trucks are. We do know that there is a highly successful tax at the state level, and so we're leveraging off of that.
 So given that a perfect answer is impossible, what we have here is a practical answer. And then let me just talk for a moment or two to the political question. Why does Southeast Uplift care about trucks? Well, number one, trucking, freight is one of our major employers. This is something we care about as a business matter, as an employment matter. But the fact of the matter is we're not going to get...
 voters to vote for a gas tax if they believe a large component of the problem. According to our numbers, 40 percent of the fuel use is exempted. It's important that everyone pays. And if we're going to start getting roads repaired, which we have to if we're going to maintain employment and maintain our role as a transportation hub, then we actually have to make sure everyone has a little money in the game. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who'd like to be next?
 Just swing that microphone over towards you. Okay. Well, first off, I want to say thank you to Commissioner Novick and Mark Lear and Ken Lee and Shoshona and Alicia for all the time that they have spent with us. We've had a subcommittee. Put your name on the record, please. Oh, Pia Welch, chair of the Portland Freight Committee. I'm here on behalf of the Portland Freight Committee, not my employer. Okay.
 So I wanted to thank everyone for the time that we've spent in very engaging meetings, talking about taxes, which is not anyone's favorite subject matter and is not an easy issue. Currently, trucks already pay for the wear and tear on trucks.
 roads, and that's the weight and mile tax. And we've gone through quite a few different iterations to come up with what would be a good mechanism, what would also be a good mechanism that wouldn't cost 100 FTEs to collect
 the money. And that was one of the things, some of these mechanisms would only cost an FTE to collect the money. So, you know, and I'm very happy to hear that there's going to be an appeals process because there are businesses that are based in Portland that maybe travel three-quarters of a mile and then get on a highway. So if there could be some sort of, that really needs to be established to help those businesses, especially the smaller ones.
 that aren't on the city roads a lot. So an appeals process, glad to hear that that's going to be incorporated. We stress an independent oversight committee. And, of course, we would like the revenue from the heavy vehicles to be used to leverage transportation maintenance costs
 and safety improvements with an emphasis on freight-related projects. Recently we had a presentation that showed some of the worst streets in the city are actually in industrial, in freight areas. And I work in an industrial area, and I can tell you there are a lot of potholes to get to work.
 The other concern is that the vehicle road capacity, when this repaving is done, is maintained, that we don't lose – you know, there's a measurement of what we need to make good turns for school bus, emergency vehicle. A lot of times when projects come to us, that's sliced beyond what is a recommended measurement. We ask that capacity in those lanes be kept in place and not shortened. So –
 While we would prefer to have no tax, we realize this is a difficult discussion. Our committee monthly meeting is tomorrow, so we'll be discussing further which tax mechanism we prefer. But those are the suggested items that we have. The biggest thing is we'd like to continue this conversation because we think this is just a short-term measure.
 And we'd like to see some long-term measures go into place, looking at the additional funding from the state or changing perhaps the percentage that the cities get from the state off the heavy vehicle mile tax. Yes.
 I know it's not politically correct to say this, but buses rip up the roads more than trucks do. So I know no one wants to talk to TriMet about it, but there's that, and there's also studded tires that we can look at, and there's a list of some other things that we brought up with oversized trucks that could be additional revenue generators. Again, this is not an easy subject, and we appreciate everyone's time.
 effort in this endeavor. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Hi. Thanks for hearing from me twice today. My name is Noelle. I'm the Executive Director of Oregon Walks. And I'm here as well to testify in support of passing the heavy vehicle use tax as a mechanism to fund the maintenance and safety of our streets. Oregon Walks has been involved in the quest to find funding to fix our streets for a couple years now.
 And we really believe it's imperative that more dollars go towards our roads with a focus on safety for all users. And we really want to see an equitable and a comprehensive solution. There's unfortunately no silver bullet for transportation funding. And I think we all, though, agree that something needs to be done.
 With a modest investment by the heaviest vehicles that rely on and benefit from and also put damage on our roads every day, it shows a commitment to the ongoing livability of our city that is the reason why we are in such a growth boom right now. If we continue to neglect our streets, it means an even more expensive and complicated solution down the road. It also means that more lives will be lost from preventable crashes. This is not the type of future that I think we all want to see for Portland.
 We support this proposal and we feel it's a responsible way to ensure that all business that benefits from our roadway network helps support the sustainability and quality of life for all of our residents. We're pleased to see the same safety and maintenance breakdown as the proposed gas tax, as well as the oversight to ensure that there is transparency and accountability on how this money is spent.
 As a member of the city's Vision Zero Task Force, we really believe it's necessary to secure funding to ensure that this goal and also the strong tactics that are being developed are actually implemented. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. Thank you. Mr. Novick, could you remind me about the point about TriMet? Why doesn't TriMet, is TriMet going to pay this? No, it is not. And why, can we make them? No.
 that they're generally exempt from state taxes. And I think that the question, but the policy question is, given as you've noted yourself frequently, that users of buses, I mean, that we don't want to
 put too much of a burden on poor people who are reliant on transit, forcing – I mean, forcing TriMet to pay more would force them to raise their fares. And we need to make a – I mean, we could have a talk about that, but I kind of assume that you in particular actually would not be in favor of taking an action that would make TriMet raise their fares. Well, as you know, I want to find a mechanism so that TriMet doesn't charge fares.
 So we pay for it by a different mechanism. But what I'm taking from your comments is that, yes, you're open to have continuing conversation on that issue and that it has to be taken up separately. They're not subject to this wait mile? Yes. Thank you. Okay. Any other invited testimony? I think that's it. Okay. Then let's go to the sign-up sheet, please. We have 18 people signed up. The first three, please come on up, are Buck Cullen now, Daniel Kling, and is Crystal still here? No.
 i think given the number of people if you could try to keep your comments to two minutes that'd be very helpful and let's go with jaina jarvis good afternoon whoever would like to go first that's fine sure um my name is uh buck lechnan and i'm the owner of tp freight lines in portland um i appreciate the opportunity here um commissioner commissioner and mayor and to give you a little background my company is family owned
 I have been in the company now for 42 years. It's going on 94 years old. This is really important to us. When I looked at how the rates were on the weight mile, how they came up with that, I was kind of concerned because in my case, my corporate is in Tillamook, Oregon. It's a small community, about 4,000 people, and a small county too. We have seven locations outside of Portland.
 The furthest being would be Medford and Klamath Falls, Eugene, North Bend, Brookings. And my problem with the way the rates were set up using the fuel surcharge or the mileage rate that we use is the fact that that rate doesn't include
 really much of the Portland rate. The Portland rate is small to how much our trucks are there. Our trucks are also in Astoria, Tomac, and Lincoln City. And so the mileage that these rates were taken from
 Actually, it shows the total rate of miles for all those places together. It didn't take the Portland outside of those rates, and that has me concerned because also when the trucks are used in the Portland area, it's to pick up the freight in smaller trucks, 28-foot trailers, bring it to our dock, and then put it in triple trailers at night to go to all those places I mentioned.
 The thing is, as it leaves Portland, maybe 10 miles of that was Portland-driven. And the weight mile tax was used, how they came up with that, was by the weight of those triple trailers over 105 feet long. And so when you take that 2.8%, right now, my cost to the city of Portland –
 is $6,600, that would be the new rate going in effect, if this goes in effect, a year. Do your trucks have GPSs in them, so we could find out how much they were in Portland? They don't have GPSs. We have cell phones that we tell, and the mileage we show on them is from the time they leave Portland until they go to destination and return. Thank you. Sure. Thank you.
 So did you say that your calculation shows that the cost to your company would be $6,600 a year from this local surcharge? That's correct. Okay. So that means, say, that you pay $235,714 a year in state weight mile tax? What it means is last year we paid $236,499 in weight mile tax. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you.
 Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Janet Jarvis, here today on behalf of the Oregon Trucking Association. I have been before you to talk about these proposals before. I'm going to leave you with some written testimony that has a little more detail. In the interest of time, I'll just highlight a few of these points. And I also want you to know that I'm bringing some testimony to you from a number of members around the state who were not able to be here today, although there are several of our members here today as it is.
 I think the biggest point we want to make to you is that we understand that Portland has issues with their roads, and we are interested in helping Portland with that. And our objection to the gas tax and to these proposals is based on our concern about the ability to get a transportation package. That may be a different perspective, but that is our perspective. Okay.
 So with that in mind, let me tell you how I'm concerned. If you move forward with this, this is probably the least fair of the proposals we've looked at. If this ordinance passes, if the gas tax doesn't pass on May 17th, the talk has been all about equity.
 So it doesn't make sense to move this forward if the gas tax doesn't move forward. Light vehicles are responsible for 87%, according to the commissioner's calculations, of the use of Portland City roads, and heavy trucks are 13% of that. So if you want to talk about equity, we need to highlight that.
 We also talked about, and I was glad that the Commissioner mentioned an appeals process. That's extremely important for us because there are a number of situations where that would be very important to my members. And I think lastly, I want to mention that, you know, there was discussion about a surcharge on the business license tax, and that would have affected private carriers adversely. And for that reason, the committee backed off of that. But a great percentage of my members are for hire carriers. Okay.
 and a surcharge on the business license tax would be a much fairer proposition. So if you offered both options, that would probably be the best way to address that within the trucking industry. I do want to let you know that I'm interested in working with you, and I thank you for your time today. Thank you very much. Welcome. Thank you. My name is Daniel Kling. I'm here representing Redaway Trucking. We're a less-than-truckload freight carrier based in Tualatin, Oregon.
 founded in 1919 in Oregon City. I believe we're the oldest trucking company that is based here in the state of Oregon. We employ about 3,000 people across the West Coast, 500 of which belong here in the state of Oregon. I'm here because I think we clearly understand that there's a need to repair the roads in the city of Portland. The issue at hand is how do we do that in a fair and equitable way?
 And as I have read through the ordinance, and forgive me, I was just made aware of this ordinance on Monday, so I'm trying to get up to speed as fast as I can. But as I look through this, it is not a fair or equitable way to fund the repair of Portland City streets. For example, for a company like Redaway, and I'm going to use some rough numbers here, we could say do approximately 10 million miles in the state of Oregon.
 500,000 of those miles would be potentially in the city of Portland, so 5% of the total miles in the city. You could have another company that does a million miles a year, all of those miles in the city of Portland. They would pay one-tenth the amount that Retaway would pay, yet use or consume, if you will, two times the resource in terms of
 usage of Portland City streets. To me, that's not equitable. The other concern I have, which I heard that there was mention of an appeals process, which I think that makes a lot of sense, my concern is that the appeals process is not defined, it's not outlined, and it's not part of this ordinance. The other issue I have, and I have to disagree with comments that were made earlier, is around the
 What was that? It was around the fact that you could have the – I'm sorry, I'm forgetting here what he had mentioned there. It was – Let me ask you a question. You might provoke the memory. So I understand the critique about this not being equitable. Mr. McAuliffe said at the outset there's no such thing as perfect equity in taxation. He thought this was pretty close. Have you got some suggestions for how we could get closer to –
 to equity, then this model of revenue collection would get us. I mean, that's a common problem in taxation. You know, I don't have kids in school anymore, but I pay school taxes. That's not very equitable, but it's how it works. So how do we get there to a close? How do we get closer to there from here? To be honest, having only heard about this since Monday, I haven't had an opportunity to give that a lot of thought. Okay.
 But I do agree with what Jana here had mentioned earlier around perhaps looking at giving companies options of either or. Again, I am concerned that there's not an appeals process in here. I did recall one of the other items that I did have a concern with, and that's around the fair share. So we talked earlier about fair share of trucking versus public. And I still don't understand how you would not want to have the two tied together.
 It does not seem fair or equitable to say that, hey, I'm willing to pass this ordinance without having another ordinance passed that would fairly tax the general public for the use of the roads. So then you would end up with only taxing one entity, which I can't remember what the percentages were, 13 or 20, 13 percent, which really isn't going to address the issue at all anyways, right?
 And my concern would be that that funding may not go towards – I guess there's no outline here that that funding would go 100 percent towards road repair, which is the whole premise on which we're talking here in terms of taxing the trucking industry. I think it has to, but.
 May I ask you a question? Yes. Ms. Jarvis is opposed to both the gas tax and any truck tax, so she believes the appropriate contribution of heavy trucks to any local mechanism for addressing our streets is zero. What do you think the appropriate contribution of heavy trucks to fixing Portland streets should be? I'll defer that to Ms. J. I'd like to answer that question, if I might, Commissioner. I don't think that my message ever has been that the appropriate contribution is zero. No.
 What I should have mentioned in my testimony is that Oregon's weight mile tax is the most expensive form of taxation in the nation for the trucking industry. So for companies that operate in all other states, it is more expensive to operate in Oregon than in any other state. So they are already contributing a great deal to the roads.
 That's, of course, a consequence of our state tax system. It is what it is. We are having this conversation because I was talking about Ronald Reagan earlier. At the end of the Reagan era, Oregonians passed Measure 5. The local newspaper here at the time argued that we should do that so we would have a sales tax. How's that worked out? We don't have one. They just passed a...
 four-tenths of a cent sales tax in Phoenix that will pay for $31 billion worth of transportation improvements there. San Diego just sent a half-cent sales tax to the voters that will pay for $18 billion worth of transportation improvements there. This is Oregon. We're cussedly resistant to an easy tax that would pay for these things, so we have to do it in less generalized ways than they do in other states. That's unfortunate, but those are the cards that we've dealt ourselves.
 But the industry does already pay a great deal. Well, I understand. Yeah, I understand. And that's why we overburden business and wait mile to make up for the lack of sales tax. So, Mr. Jarvis, do you think that heavy trucks pay more than their share of the total safe fuel taxes, vehicle taxes? If you look at the Cost Allocation Studies, Commissioner, you will see that those calculations are done on a fairly regular basis and,
 And the last time I looked, trucking paid slightly more than light vehicles for the use of Oregon's roads.
 Overall, you mean? Overall, yes. I thought that based on cost allocation methodology, the trucks were paying about 30% of the total weight mile in fuel taxes. I'm happy to bring you the report that I took a look at, and I don't remember the numbers off the top of my head, but I know it was a little bit more for the trucking industry than for, in terms of share, share of the roads, their share of the roads. Thank you all. Thanks very much. Thank you.
 three are mike lake diane diatra tremont and lanny gower good afternoon who'd like to go first i'm mike lake i'm with mccracken motor freight i'm the fourth generation we've been around since 1927 as well um we're a portland-based company and uh this it would be about a six thousand dollar hit for us we have 40 drivers and we paid a hundred and approximately 189 000 and heavyweight
 taxes last year. It would be basically an extra burden for us. We would be able to bring on another person and pay for part of their wages and they would pay taxes to the state of Oregon. That's kind of how we look at it.
 Not that we're against repairing the roads, but we do maybe a quarter of our business on the city streets. The rest are on highways. We are in the industrial area, and literally we hop right on the highways, and that's where we usually are going. So our usage of inner city roads is very minimal to what we pay for the whole state of Oregon on a yearly basis. Thank you. Thanks very much. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Yes, please. Sure, I can go. Diane Teotremont. I'm president and an owner of Lyle International Companies. We're a trucking company that specializes in moving and storage, relocation for household goods, businesses, government entities, and the like. We have nine locations in the Pacific Northwest, five of which are in Oregon. One serves the Portland metro area. Okay.
 The proposed surcharge on the weight mile tax would cause us, we would not be subject to appeal because we do indeed operate in the City of Portland, but a small portion of our business is conducted here. I should not say a small portion, but a minor portion of the business.
 there would be no practicable way for us to determine what is Portland generated revenue or miles versus, you know, everything else that we do. So we would be opposed to that. Further, you know, it's just been a –
 tough few years for companies like mine, another tax is going to hurt us. There's no question about it. I have people that have not had raises for 18 months, and we're watching every penny we spent. So it's hard to support this. Okay. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome.
 Good morning, or good afternoon. My name is Lanny Gower. I'm with XPO Logistics, formerly Conway Freight. And our statistics as a company on what we pay and what amount of tax would mirror a lot of the people that have already spoken. So I won't go into the details other than to just reiterate. Most of our miles are run on very large trucks which pay a high heavy vehicle use tax on state highways, going to California, going to Washington, going east. A very small number of our trucks are smaller trucks that distribute in smaller loads,
 in within the city. So the percentage of operations that we pay our weight model tax in the city are very small compared to our overall, but that would meet a lot of things. I have heard many times today. It mentioned that this is not a perfect tax. Uh, I'm the tax manager for XBO and we pay taxes in every state, uh, Canadian province and every local jurisdiction in the United States. And, uh, there's nothing similar anywhere in North America to this, uh,
 most use taxes, you know, I've heard fair share mentioned more times than I could count, and most use taxes try to address fair share. And really there's two parts of fair share. One is between the user groups, which this proposal actually totally ignores. It doesn't even try and address it, and it's easily addressed. Tie them together and that part of fair share is addressed. But another part of fair share is between the users in a user group.
 And this proposal does absolutely nothing to try. I know nothing can be perfect, but this does not try to address it. Every mile run in the state of Oregon gets the same surcharge. And that doesn't attempt to address that issue. The fuel load fee was said to have been thrown out because much of the fuel delivered here in Portland goes outside of Portland.
 Everybody knows most of the miles run in Oregon are not run in Portland, yet there's no attempt to say that that doesn't make this fair also.
 So from our standpoint, this does not try and address that. A question was asked, what could make this more equitable or fairer? And the honest answer to that, at least from my experience, is it can't be done with a mileage tax at a city level unless or until the federal government required GPS on all heavy vehicles. Thank you. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much.
 The next three are Ron, I believe last name is Chown, Bill Frith, and David Braulier. Welcome. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is David Braulier. I'm with Gordon Trucking, and good afternoon. Thanks for having us. I'm one of the big guys that's going to pay a disproportionate amount of money if this thing is elected. We ran $26,500,000 roughly last year in the state of Oregon.
 And while I don't have the exact calculation, I'm confident in saying that 99.95% of that was up and down the interstate, I-5, 84, 97, through the state of Oregon. You'll see our trucks out on Rivergate. You'll see our trucks delivering to local Home Depot, Lowe's stores. You won't see them plying the streets of Portland. They're 53 feet long. They just don't work. So we are a very large carrier with a very small footprint on city streets.
 This tax, based on our mileage, we paid $4.6 million to the state last year in weight mile tax. It's an additional $128,000. It's the equivalent of one Class A truck. It's the equivalent of three entry-level positions. It's the equivalent of just stifling our ability to grow and manage our fleets here. So we feel it is a tax that is not well supported yet.
 and a tax that really exerts an extreme burden on a carrier of size such as ours now you may think we we have huge revenue sources and we do we're a very large company but we manage our pennies as well as anybody else and this tax at 128 800 if it's just dollar for dollar is unreasonable thank you for your time thank you welcome afternoon excuse me ron scholen stinger transport prime
 We run the West Coast for the most part. We run 53-foot trailers as well. 53-foot trailers are not allowed on the city streets, other than going in and out of shipping points and the truck stops, and a couple of the main marine drive and that kind of stuff. I heard somebody say something about $15 a month, and I don't know where that number even could have come from. Our expense, based on our weight mile tax that we pay, it would cost me about $2,400 a year.
 for less than 10% of my business volume. If this passes, then either our Portland-based customers will have to increase their rates to cover that, or we just won't haul for them anymore. It just won't be worth it for us to do that. Thank you. Welcome. Bill Frith, Commercial Trader Leasing, Commercial Employers here in Portland. We are a 51-year family-owned business.
 employee 30 people we our primary business is leasing dry van trailers we don't haul freight we just deliver trailers and we are located where I for and I five meet because two-thirds of our customers are located outside of Portland Madras Brightwood Salem Astoria that sort of thing the originally we did not pay the the weight mile tax because we were not a trucking operation we were contacted by ODOT a number of years ago
 and we were simply told it wasn't much of a tax. We need to be included even though what we're delivering, I think somebody mentioned earlier that the weight mile tax was the delivering of a product by a truck. Our product is air because they are storage trailers. They sit in yards.
 We've been paying that tax. It wasn't supposed to be much. It has increased. Our weight model tax has increased 764% in the last six years. So it didn't seem like a big tax when it started out, and now it's, of course, snowballing, and we have a fear about this as well. Our concern is that because most of our customers are outside of Portland, we're paying a tax on roads we're not using. Again, we're using I-84 and I-5 to get to our customers.
 we don't have we don't have downtown city street exposure our trailers are not loaded number two this would impact our business health uh just like the other testimony you've been hearing today it's a duplication tax we're already paying a tax for on the on the weight mile tax and this is attacked on top of what we're already paying
 for road usage that we're not doing. Number three, this is a boiling of the frog, we feel, because it starts out small, and our concern is that it's just going to continue to snowball and snowball. This impacts our ability in a very competitive environment where the cost of trailers has doubled and tripled for us in the last 10 years, yet our rental rates have stayed the same or inched up. We want to add jobs. We want to grow our business and help the tax base. And so...
 these paper cuts are impacting our ability to thrive thank you for your time thank you i don't understand help me i don't understand the mechanics of why your weight mile burden has gone up so much when i look at the taxes we paid going back to 2009 when we started paying it was just a few hundred dollars and now it's a few thousand
 Our operation is basically picking up and delivering dry van trailers to those that don't have tractors themselves. And so if you just look at the pure tax we've been paying over the years, it's gone from a few hundred to a few thousand. Okay, but the rate hasn't increased that much.
 Well, I guess the point is that we were exempt from it originally until ODOT tried to include us into this deal. Oh, I see. All right. The rationale is even though you're not delivering the product, I can't remember who made the testimony earlier that said that the wait-mile tax
 was for those who deliver a product by truck. Our product is air. We're delivering a trailer, an empty trailer, picking up, dropping off, for those that do not have tractors. They reclassified that. They reclassified it to include us in that. And so this non-issue is now becoming a very significant issue, which impacts the salary and benefits of our employees. So that's why we're concerned. Good. Thank you. Appreciate that clarification. Thank you all.
 okay let's take the next group are jim johnson jeff lorenzini and greg galbraith welcome go ahead if you're ready good afternoon commissioner mr mayor thank you for having us and thank you for the service you do the city my name is greg galbraith i'm representing market transport limited we're a full truckload carrier
 based in the city of Portland, and we've been in business in the city since 1969. And in the interest of time, frankly, some of my remarks and comments are very consistent with what we've already heard this afternoon. And listen, I know the world isn't always fair, and it's not easy to come up with fair practices, but when I look at this ordinance, fairness and equity comes to mind. And again, we're one of those players where we're based in the city, we employ about a
 We paid about $1.2 million in Oregon white-mile taxes, so this would be about a $33,000 additional tax. And the issue isn't about...
 Whether we should have to pay it or not listen. We are very much in support of safety safety practices Improving our roads so so the things that come to mind for me Commissioner Salisman your comment about listen if the light vehicle tax does not pass and our minds The fairness is really called on the question the heavy-duty trucks are going to be paying a lot more than their fair share so zero versus 13% of the road usage
 And two, again, like some of the other folks that spoke before me, we are largely an interstate provider. We are based in the city, but most of our usage is just getting to and from the freeway. We're based right off Interstate 5, so when you look at usage, while I, again, just became
 became aware of this ordinance on Monday as well. I haven't done a lot of homework yet, but I would be quite certain that if we looked at our technology and we have the ability to do some of that, we're not doing a lot of city driving. It's mostly interstates and getting to and from. So I would just ask you to consider that as comments from us. Thank you.
 Thank you. I do want to say something about that, which is that the state assumes that heavy trucks should bear 30% of the cost responsibility. And we went to Eco Northwest and asked, should we ask the heavy trucks to pay 30% of the cost responsibility in Portland? And they said no, because we think they spend a bunch of their time on interstate roads or state roads. So they reduced it to 13%. Another comment I want to make is,
 We are asking the people of Portland to pay a 10-cent gas tax when the state gas tax is 30 cents. So we're asking the people of Portland to increase their contribution to street repair and traffic safety by 30 percent, whereas we're asking truckers to increase their contribution by 2.8 percent.
 So I think actually that probably some Portland drivers would think that we're letting the trucks off too easy. We have a rationale for what we're doing, but I just wanted to point out that perspective. Yeah, thank you, Commissioner. And let's let the people tell us, okay? I mean, that's Commissioner Salsman, I agree with your comment earlier. And one last thing I should have mentioned earlier, and again, I don't know statistics, but I've heard that dollars have been moved out of transportation for other uses, and let's make sure that these dollars are actually going to go to repairing roads that are generated about being safe. Thank you.
 Thank you. I hope you say hello to your now retired colleague and my friend Bill Marris. Good guy. Superman. Thank you. To your point about dollars being moved out of transportation, that's another clarification. People need to remember the history. I guess I'm kind of a history buff around here, but, again, remember we passed Measure 5.
 in 1990, being told by some pundits that that would lead to the passage of a sales tax that would fund public services like schools in Oregon. That hasn't worked out in 26 years. But the city has traditionally collected a utility franchise fee from the public utilities, you know, the PGE and the gas company, all those folks. And it used to be that the city put those funds primarily into the streets. But after the passage of Measure 5, previous city councils, for understandable reasons,
 shifted those funds to pay for the core city services of police, fire, and parks, because that's what the general fund pays for. Actually, Mayor, I have to correct you there. The collapse in the amount of utility license fee that went to transportation started and accelerated in the late 80s. And I've asked not after the passage of Measure 5, which is in 1990.
 and i've asked her of luminar to give me an explanation for that and he doesn't really have one he wasn't here in the late 80s either yes yes he was here in the late 80s so um i mean i think the more salient point is that the money now goes to police fire parks and housing and nobody ever comes in here asking us to cut police fire parks and housing and put money into transportation
 Yeah. So that's the problem we face is that there used to be a source way long ago before us that was funneled into that purpose, and those days are gone. Yeah.
 Actually, I think the budget office will tell you they only did it for two years. Put it in the janitor's office. The utility license fee, right? That was supposed to be – it was looking at the gas tax was already starting to fall off, costs were rising, and so that was something that they tried in which they couldn't – That's why we have to check on history because I always get it right. That's why we have a city budget office to tell us. But I think that, to your point –
 and to Commissioner Novick's, no, there isn't a whole bucket full of money. But if you think there is, we have our next budget hearing coming right up next Thursday evening. Come and find us the bucket because we're more than happy to dig into it if you can find it. Yeah, and to be more precise, we have over the last few years been putting some amount of general fund into transportation, including when we had a really big surplus year, we put a lot of it into transportation. Okay.
 And even this year, I'm still proposing that we put about $5 million of the general fund into transportation, into paving, repairs, safety improvements. So with the dollars we have, we're putting what we can into the streets, again, understanding that the federal government hasn't increased the gas tax since 1993, and the state, I think, with the most recent increase there in both the weight mile tax and the gas tax was 2006, I believe.
 Thank you. Sorry, I got myself off on a tangent, but thank you. Welcome. Hello, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. Thank you very much for hearing us. My name is Jeff Lorenzini. I represent Old Dominion Freight Line. We've been in Portland for 12 years now. If you drive down MLK and know where the Portland Speedway was, you'll see our new facility there. We have a
 very significant investment in Portland. And I'm a Portland native. I'm a former vice chair of a school board. So on a smaller scale, I can really appreciate the challenge that you have with limited funding and lots of things to do. I'll be brief just to summarize a lot of the points brought up by my peers and
 Our company is a very large company. I have very many drivers and trucks based in Portland, but for the most part, the minority of their time on the streets is actually spent in the city of Portland. We built our terminal where we are at due to easy egress onto the freeways.
 And I guess what I would propose, because I know you need solutions, not just knows why things won't work, I would ask for more time and comment. My company and a few other companies I've heard mentioned have the technology and the resources available through GPS to track our actual time in Portland. But I also feel for a lot of my peers that have smaller companies that don't have resources and that technology, they can't do that yet.
 And so I think maybe with some collaboration, we could find a solution that might be more fair. The other point that I wanted to make
 Was about the appeal process. I could I can just see and I appreciate the mention of an appeal process, but I feel like if this can be more well thought out on the front side, the appeal process won't be so muddy. I can see carriers standing in line with multiple issues trying to appeal and that doesn't do the city any good with that revenue tied up or not yet paid or having to refund anything.
 Mr. Lawrence, I just want to say that anything we pass can be changed. I think that it's very important as we're asking that we pass something to make it clear that we expect heavy trucks to pay a share of the cost. And I think that this is the best option we've come up with after a number of months of looking at it.
 But if in the future somebody comes up with another mechanism that seems better, I, for one, would have no problem considering it and altering this ordinance. I appreciate that, Commissioner. I think speaking for our industry, our concern is, and it was brought up before, that once something starts going, it's hard to change or undo things.
 And I'm not sure if you're aware of the changes going on in the state of California, but every major national carrier operating in the state of California now is placing a per-shipment surcharge because it's becoming so expensive to do business in the state of California.
 And our company might be challenged with having to consider that same thing for shipments delivering in or out of the city of Portland. And that's going to place a burden on the people that ship goods and services within the city. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Welcome. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and Council, for this opportunity. Jim Johnson, I'm from Woodland, Woodland Truck Line.
 It's a known fact that our country is in need of family wage jobs and usually means manufacturing and distribution jobs. Every time you increase the tax on service providers that provide service for such firms, you're hurting the creation and retention of those kinds of jobs. This proposed tax is one of those taxes. First, it hurts the trucking company by having to pay the tax, but all taxes will affect the price of their service. You're probably thinking that this amount is so small that it will not make any difference.
 but i can tell you it is not the large cost items that hurt companies because those costs they know they need to cover it is the many many many costs small costs that turn a profit into a loss we're located in woodland washington and our service area is washington oregon british columbia and part of idaho we're not a large user of streets in portland therefore
 The cost to ship in raw materials and ship out finished goods will increase, making Oregon and Washington businesses less competitive in the world market. It is true our roads are in need of repair. However, I believe we would have that money for repair if less was devoted to mass transit and other uses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you all. The next three are Ron Bowers, Keith Wilson, and Shelley Beauchart. Welcome. Good afternoon. Hi.
 Thank you. My name is Keith Wilson. I'm the owner and operator of Titan Freight Systems. And so I was going to say I'm uniquely qualified, but I have a lot of peers. And I'm from Portland. I grew up in Portland. Our company began in Portland. And I just want to speak to the fairness of the tax. I've heard a lot of perfect and or. We must have something. And perfect is something that's not going to be achievable. I'm a supporter of the gas tax, no doubt. As a user of the road, from the roads,
 It's fair. It's equitable. There's no doubt about it. But with the weight mile surcharge, we began 50 years ago, and I needed this tax 50 years ago because as a small carrier, it would have unfairly burdened the larger carriers, my competitors. As a mid-sized carrier now who've grown throughout Oregon and Washington, anybody who's short haul based in a more local has an unfair advantage over Titan now. So...
 While we've grown, for sure, this tax is going to put a burden on us versus a smaller carrier who's in the market, and that's really not what is designed. I'm all for taxes, no doubt, because as long as they're fairly assigned across a large platform, I think it's great. And you've made some great decisions here, the sick pay.
 It was for the hours worked in Portland. While I'm based in Milwaukee, I'm all for that because I calculated the hours based in Portland. It's assigned. It's fair. If a competitor is working in Portland, it's fair. This is uncompetitive. It puts me in an uncompetitive position with up here. Thank you. What would you think might be fair? The other larger carriers had mentioned they all have GPS, and they do.
 The smaller carriers are mandated to have GPS by January 1st of 2018. And I know you're looking for revenue streams today, but this is not fair. So we know that each truck federally is mandated in an interstate environment to have ELDs, electronic logging devices, January 1st, 2018. Then you essentially say, well, it's the miles you drive in Portland, and you're looking
 are taxed. That's fair. You cannot find a more user-based tax than that. I know the need is now, the gas tax. I hope it passes. I know you may have something up your sleeve if it doesn't, and come to it because I'll be your supporter, no doubt. But on this one, I've never appeared before. I'm not here on behalf of the Trucking Association, so there's no political agenda. It's just the perfect is elusive.
 But this is neither perfect nor right, and I know you have to be challenged with that every day. Thank you. That's very helpful. Thank you. Thanks a lot. You're welcome. Mayor, commissioners, my name is Ron Bowers. I'm from down South Willamette Valley. I have a small company. We drove 979,832 miles last year, 633,126 in the state of Oregon.
 Less than one-half of 1% of our miles are in Portland. So, you know, I paid $103,654.78 for the privilege of driving on state highways. You're going to add $2,902.33. And I don't use that much Portland Road. We do utilize it. We appreciate it, you know, as does the general public, because we deliver a product they want. So...
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate the precision. Welcome.
 thank you mayor hills commissioners i'm listening here today i'm going to be i'm going to call myself a baby we've only been trucking since 1983 and i'm also a baby in size compared to some of these um trucking companies we have 34 trucks i'm a third generation grassy what's your name in the record oh sorry shelly bossart with bossart trucking uh second generation in the trucking industry third generation grass seed farmer uh we're uh
 really close to Mr. Bowers here, actually. And we truck agricultural products for shipments both locally and internationally. We use the ports of Portland, Tacoma, and Seattle, more so now Tacoma and Seattle, unfortunately, with some of the issues we've had here at Terminal 6 in the last couple years, but
 We don't see that taxiing trucks who utilize Portland roads being fair, which you've heard many before me. We travel mostly to Northwest Container. We deliver some wheat to the terminal in Port of Portland, and every once in a while we go to Terminal 6 with Westwood coming in or Conglobal. We literally use five miles every trip, and that's it.
 We are one of the smaller companies that have been referenced before that we don't have GPS yet in our trucks. We will be getting it soon. And you mentioned the mandate that will be coming up. As I'm sitting here thinking, you know, I've only known about this since Monday as well, possibly that could be an incentive to get GPS sooner. That could possibly be an option for you guys. Thank you.
 We currently pay a weight-mile tax to ODOT of an estimated $72,000 annually. That's very small comparatively, but like somebody else said before, every penny counts. We pay additionally because we don't have that container service here in Portland. We pay additionally because of some of the mandates we've gotten, regulation over the last couple years. And so it's been a real hardship on us. Most importantly, it's not fair to put the burden on heavy vehicles if the gas tax measure addressing light vehicles does not pass.
 I overhear you guys saying corresponding fair share. I appreciate you taking those words into account, that fair share. We do a lot of trucking throughout. We do a lot of trucking in the agricultural industry, which I feel has been under attack in this state, and this is just one more burden that would be put on us and wanted to bring that to your attention. So thank you. Thank you all very much. The last person I show is Bob Shortt.
 good afternoon i'm bob short i'm a member of the portland freight committee and was on the heavy vehicle use task force that that debated over this i am basically today speaking on my own behalf and i don't want to repeat a lot of the testimony that's been heard before i could tell other stories but there's no point uh i'd just like to offer a couple of suggestions i don't know if it's possible to implement this or not uh
 Would I appreciate First of all, I appreciate Commissioner Novick taking this issue on head-on. I mean it's been kind of whispered about in in
 For some years is that we need some way to address Portland's street maintenance problem That knows the whispering has been more shouting than was probably go ahead well, but commissioner nobody's gotten as far as Commissioner Novick has and I think he deserves a great deal of credit for For for getting it this far down the road and I appreciate the work particularly Ken Lee and Mark Lear City staff working with the freight committee and and trying to come up with with some of
 reasonable way to to include the heavy truck component I am favor the gas tax I'm in favor of heavy trucks paying their share but I don't think this gets us there I would I would what I would like to suggest a council is that if there's a way to amend this to at least put a
 the mandate that Commissioner Novick mentioned about putting an appeals process in the system so that it's actually in the ordinance that there will be an appeals process established. The second thing I'd like to see, I understand the political reality of it and that you feel the need to vote now, is some way, if you can't delay the vote until after we know about the gas tax, at least
 perhaps put a clause in there that delays implementation until there is a light vehicle mechanism in place. And that's about all I have to say. Thank you for the opportunity. Thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else who wants to speak on this item? And then questions? I have a question. So why don't we put in the ordinance that there will be an appeal process per rules promulgated by the Revenue Division?
 I don't think we know at this point exactly how that would work. I mean, we don't know what information is going to be available for people to present to prove that they only spend a few miles on Portland roads given that not everybody has GPS. So we're asking revenue to work with the industry to figure that out. But it is our intent to have an appeals process. It is our intent to have an appeals process if one is practicable. Okay.
 How about we add something in the now therefore the Council directs? I understand, Commissioner Novick, your point that we don't want to provide further opposition or we don't want to influence the gas tax vote. So what if we put in an F? If the gas tax passes, this ordinance will be revisited to look at factors including a potential appeals process. Thank you.
 We have heard some compelling testimony today that might be other ways of doing things. We want to provide some incentive to get the gas tax passed and fix it afterwards. Well, I would want to look at an appeals tax regardless of whether the gas tax passed. I have no objection to what you said, but I just want to make it clear that even if the gas tax does not pass, I would still like to figure out if we can do a reasonable appeals process. I'm going to help you out here, Commissioner. I appreciate that. So I would have no objection to that amount of money.
 I assure that the interest in that, Steve, I think your fundamental point is sound, which is we need to make it clear that we're going to tax heavy trucks, particularly since there are some who are arguing against the gas tax on the grounds that it might not. So that needs to be clearly established. I've certainly heard some thoughtful testimony here today, and I'm intrigued particularly by this electronic logging device issue
 threshold that's going to come along a couple years from now, seems to me that might be another opportunity for revision or for refinement of the approach, you know, down the line. I actually would be happy to add some language saying it is our intent to re-evaluate this tax once all trucks, every trucks have GPS devices. Yeah, I mean, obviously there's been a lot of
 experimentation about that idea with respect to private cars, and there was even a pilot project with ODOT, but we seem to be still some distance from the day when we start charging by the mile for ordinary citizens using the road system. But it sounds like the trucking industry is going to have ubiquitous data
 pretty soon. We're in a smart cities challenge with the U.S. DOT about how to use technology to make the transportation system more equitable and transparent. So hopefully we win that contest and this would be one more way in which we could
 try to work with a part of the business community that's going to be adopting technology. So I'm really interested in that. So I guess I would reassure people that maybe the federal government and the state government are kind of slow to change things, but we actually do revise things around here fairly often when there's some new information or there's a better way to do it. So I would be open to trying to have those kinds of windows open in this later on.
 I think what we're trying to do here is be clear that we do want this something to be passed so that it's clear. We're hoping that everybody will be paying their fair share. What if we added an F that said after May 17, 2016, this ordinance will be revisited and potentially refined? I think that that's way too open-ended. All right. I think that suggests that we might just forget the whole thing. Not unless we vote to forget the whole thing.
 I don't have any interest in that, but I do have an interest in tuning it. Well, that possibility exists regardless of what's in the language of the ordinance, so I get that. Okay. I actually want to ask Mark Lear, if we were going to add language saying it is the intent of council to re-evaluate this tax once all affected trucks are equipped with GPS devices, where would you add that language? Okay.
 I might need help from revenue on that one. Scott, do you want to? You just put a report back to council in 2018 regarding additional refinements. Scott Carter with the Revenue Division. I would probably just add it at the end in number five, at the end of the proposed language. I don't think it's that critical where it ends up, but I think that to me that seems like the most logical place for it.
 Sorry, I'm not sure if I know where you're referring to. Exhibit A. Exhibit A. It goes on the page. Oh, you don't move that in the code. I don't think you put a direction to the Bureau to revisit it in the code. I think you would go in the ordinance. Yeah, you can put it up in the findings or the direction. Now, counsel directs. Just add an F? Yeah, I think that's going to put some instructions into the ordinance. That would, to me, be the place to put it.
 And you could put there PBOT will return to council with an appeals process and adding further refinements after GPS is available or something like that. I think they're two separate things. I think that we could say that as of X date, revenue in PBOT will report to council on their exploration of an appeals process. So they do that by –
 for a report at least on August 1st so by August 4th first revenue and P bot will report back to Council on their exploration of a possible appeals process a commissioner if you were to do that I would recommend that that be put in as directive F yes right exactly that's where I'm ready yeah and then directive G would be
 Council instructs PBOT and Revenue to explore the possibility of changing this tax if and when all affected vehicles are equipped with GPS devices. Second. Okay. I'm writing down my sense of that. So F would be by August 1st, the Revenue Bureau and PBOT will report back to Council with findings about a possible appeals process.
 And G would be that council directs PBOT to return to council with possible revisions to the ordinance based on the implementation of universal GPS in the trucking industry. What did I say? I think you had it better. Sorry. And G, you had better language than I had. Somebody try it again, Steve. Sorry. Council directs PBOT to –
 I think you'd start, Commissioner, with after GPS devices have been implemented in all vehicles, that we would return to council. Okay. PVAT and revenue will return to council with any recommendations as to whether that should result in a change in the tax. Okay. Got it. Okay. So Commissioner Novick moves those amendments, and Commissioner Fritz seconds them. Okay.
 Further discussion of those amendments to the now, therefore, the council directs portion of the ordinance. Okay, let's vote on those two amendments together, please. Councilman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Hales? Aye. Okay, I think that's helpful. Is that clear enough for you? Okay. So this doesn't get voted on today. It comes back for a second reading. Well, I guess I did want to explore with my colleagues. I mean, I still very much believe that this should be enacted contingent upon amendments.
 voter approval of the 10 cent temporary gas tax so does anybody have any interest in seconding that amendment i don't especially if they're coming back by august 1st so um i think that's that strikes me as being fair i think we uh we need to make it clear that we're moving forward and we hope that the gas tax passes okay so no further amendments then uh again this is the public hearing portion of this this will come back for council action next week thank you all very much
 Thank you.