Yes. Very good. Good morning, everybody. This is the Wednesday, May 9th, 2018 morning session of the Portland City Council. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Udaly. Here. Britt. Here. Wheeler. Here. It's always a surprise, Commissioner.
 Good morning. Good morning and welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The Presiding Officer preserves order and decorum during the City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. To participate in Council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the Council Clerk's Office for Communications to briefly speak about any subject.
 You may also sign up for public testimony and resolutions or the first reading of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time. When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. Presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated.
 When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on. If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do a thumbs up. If you would like to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Thank you very much. Obviously, Eli was being very efficient with his time this morning. First items are communications. Carla, could you please call the first individual up?
 Item 431, request of Paul Rippey to address council regarding proposed expansion of I-5 in the Rose Quarter. Good morning, sir. Good morning. I'm Paul Rippey. I live in St. John's, and I wrote you a song. Induced demand in the 60s. We built the interstate in the 70s and 80s. They were working great in the 90s and odds. We said, well, let's add another lane.
 And now, by God, they want to do it again. But it should be clear the system is broken and adding more lanes is just a futile token. Because the thing we need to understand is induced demand. Oh, we all like to drive around town, but you can't help noticing how much it's slowed down.
 And adding more lanes is never done Cause if we build them, they will come And the thing we need to understand is Induced demand I wish Tom McCall were still alive He tore down Harbor Drive And now Dennis Buchanan has gone away He blocked the Mount Hood Expressway But don't let us ever forget
 that these brave people took a lot of shit. People of courage, people of goodwill. Well, I know we've got that kind of leader still, but the thing they need to understand is induced demand. Oh, I know we'll need more buses and Macs. That's just the hard, cold facts. But the way to get the highways off our backs is with a comprehensive plan.
 Congestion tax and the thing we need to understand is induced demand. In the 60s we built the interstate. Let's stop the madness now before it's too late. And the thing we need to understand is induced demand. Thank you very much. Can we suspend the rules?
 And I believe the next two would like to come up together. Is that correct? Yes. 432 and 433. Please, Carla. 432, request of Alan Kessler to address council regarding transit improvements. And 433, request of Paul Lightman to address council regarding transit improvements. I promise, Paul, he could watch the person in front of him to see how this goes. Okay.
 Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. I'm not sure the mic is on. Can you check and make sure the light's on? It's good? Okay, sorry. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and Commissioners. My name is Paul Lightman. I'm a co-chair of the Portland Bus Lane Project.
 With the new funding TriMet is receiving, it is positioned to make significant investments in transit service. By the middle of next decade, it can expect to receive at least $40 million of additional funding from HB 2017. I'm sorry, if you could back up from it. Back up, actually. By the middle of next decade, it can expect to receive at least $40 million in additional funding from HB 2017 and $43 million from the payroll tax annually.
 This is great news for the region, but especially for Portland. Transit use in our city accounts for seven-tenths of TriMet's ridership. We have most of the region's frequent bus lines, and we have the highest concentration of homes and jobs, which makes transit viable. It is critical that we seize this opportunity to advance our mode split goals. Although Portland will not directly spend these funds, our cooperation and leadership is essential to deploying them effectively.
 The City of Portland needs to commit to improving and critically reapportioning its streets to get buses out of car congestion. People who have a choice will only choose to take the bus if it is reliable, fast, and frequent. It has to be reliable and hassle-free. And that is why we are asking the City of Portland to prioritize transit on our city's streets. It should be as invisible to the end user as Portland Water Bureau services are to its residents.
 Tremont provides the service for the region, but it is up to the individual cities to ensure the road network is sufficient for that service to operate quickly and reliably. If Portland is to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, reduce congestion, reduce the cost of living, and provide increased connectivity to jobs and services for all its residents, transit is a necessity. If buses are stuck in the same traffic caused by vehicles, and if buses are not reliable and dependable, people will continue to drive cars. This will be true despite the expenditure of tens of millions of dollars.
 None of this is news to you. This council has already identified transit as an integral part of Portland's transportation future. The 2035 Transportation System Plan has several policies that identify the importance of transit.
 For example, Policy 9.22 indicates the city will create conditions that make transit the preferred mode of travel for trips that are not made by walking or bicycling. And Policy 9.24 says Portland should develop a public transportation system that conveniently, safely, comfortably, and equitably serves residents and workers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The plan also identifies a transit priority program that is meant to improve transit speed, reliability, safety, and access.
 Now it is time for you to act on these policy statements and help Portland live up to its vision as a city that prioritizes people over vehicles. Please be bold. We are asking for four commitments. Bus lanes, traffic signal improvements, walkability and accessibility, and stop rebalancing. First, focus on implementing bus lanes and queue jumps to provide riders with a congestion-free bus trip. This would improve the speed of service, save travel money, and increase ridership.
 The draft Enhanced Transit Corridors Plan indicates TriMet spends between $1 and $2 million extra each year to keep up with increased congestion. Travel times on Portland's busiest bus lines have increased by more than 7% over the past decade due to the congestion. Dedicated bus lanes and queue jumps are an inexpensive solution that can dramatically improve transit service.
 The second improvement we'd like to ask you to look at is traffic and signal improvements. We should increase the number of traffic signals that hold the green light for buses. Traffic signals slow down buses and reduce reliability. Holding the signal will make the trips faster and more dependable. Director Treat has testified here that buses will move 100 times as many people as cars, and that should be our goal.
 Allowing one bus to get through reduces travel times for many people. And to make full advantage of this investment, we think that the city should move all stops that are located on the near side of signals with these improvements to the far side so the bus can get through then to the signal and then do its load-unload process.
 For walkability and accessibility, importantly, East Portland does not have a connection network. There's not safe infrastructure to give people in East Portland, especially, a world-class transit system. The GTC plan, the Growing Transit Communities plan, has identified this as a problem, and we encourage the city to use this across the city, use the same methodology.
 Uh, the fourth point is stop rebalancing. Uh, in my privileged neighborhood of Richmond, our stops are far too frequent, and we have plenty of sidewalks, we have plenty of connectivity, and you should take away, uh, or move around the stops to let buses get through that region faster. As soon as East Portland has the same level of, uh, connectivity, you should do the same thing there. Likewise, the entire city. Uh, where-where buses are stopping every two blocks, uh,
 we should extend that and we should move the stops to location so that we can improve the level of service, improve the quality of transit service, rather.
 These aren't novel suggestions. These are all part of the policy proposals you already have. But in order to make sure that these are happening, you have to take a more active role. This body needs to take a more active role in overcoming institutional inertia, especially at the Department of Transit. I want to talk about a recent opportunity. I've mentioned this before, but this is an opportunity the city missed to dramatically improve transit in the city. On the west end of the Hawthorne Bridge...
 It's a mess. There's car, bus, bike congestion. There's a weave that goes on. And recently we spent half a million dollars to fix the pavement there and made no configuration changes. I talked about this at the time, and then I talked to Director Treat at the time. And when nothing was done, I followed up with a public records request to sort of see the decision process.
 And I've attached three emails that I'd encourage you to look through that I got out of that that I think summarize that Director Treat is trying to implement the policies you're giving her, but engineers are conservative. And unless you give them things to measure, they're going to measure vehicle trips.
 We're going to hear things like we need more public outreach, we need more traffic modeling, we need more capacity analysis, meaning single occupancy vehicle capacity, before we can do anything for bikes or buses or other modes. Those concerns never come up when we're making car improvements. Thanks. Very good. Thank you. I appreciate that. Could you just clarify one point? I want to make sure I understood it.
 Moving stops to the far side, you mean through the stoplight, is that correct? So you would stop after you've gone through the stoplight? Yes. So that location at 2nd and Main westbound is a really great example of that. Years ago, right after 9-11, the federal government asked us to move that stop to the east side of 2nd. And because of that, the bus gets stuck there.
 behind a row of cars trying to turn right, and those cars get stuck behind pedestrians trying to cross the street. And I've watched three cycles go by before the bus moves. That could be fixed by moving the bus over in front of the courthouse. Thank you both. This is a great document. I appreciate it. Thank you. Next individual is, let's see, Bree Kemp, 434. Request of Bree Kemp to address council regarding downtown safety from the perspective of a woman. Okay.
 Good morning. Good morning. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to testify before you today. My name is Bree Kemp. I'm 38 years old, and I moved to Portland from Chicago in 2010. I live downtown with my husband just four blocks from City Hall. I'm not fond of public speaking, but recent events have compelled me to come here today to share my experience as a woman living in downtown Portland.
 I no longer feel safe in our city and I am no longer proud to be a Portlander because of the condition of our downtown streets and sidewalks. Two years ago, I was assaulted on my way to work at Southwest 6th and Clay Street. Out of nowhere and unprovoked, a homeless man approached my car, reached in through my window, and grabbed me by my hair. Terrified, I had no other option than to step on the gas to get away from him, losing a handful of hair in the process."
 This has left me nervous to the day. During my wedding reception in late 2016, a panhandler spit on one of our out-of-town guests because our friends wouldn't give this person money. They were terrified having just read about the fatal stabbing near Coin Tower by a transient a few weeks prior.
 Recently, walking downtown with girlfriends, an aggressive woman, obviously on drugs, approached us and began making obscene gestures and statements. We said nothing and made no eye contact, but she continued to follow us for several blocks. This is just one of numerous such experiences of general harassment by street kids, sidewalk campers, and other unhinged individuals that seem to be everywhere downtown these days.
 It's a shame that as a taxpayer living in Portland, I no longer feel like these streets and sidewalks I help maintain are mine to use safely. Every time I walk downtown, I literally am making tactical decisions about my walking path to avoid sidewalk campers, shopping carts, piles of trash, human excrement, needles, and crazy screaming people.
 I applaud Mayor Wheeler's efforts to increase police staffing, and I'm appalled and disappointed, along with all of my friends, that there seems to be little support for this initiative from the rest of the council. It's clear there isn't enough police to enforce basic public safety. Portland Street populations seem to be growing unchecked, and from the experience of my friends and I, they're becoming more aggressive, violent, and unpredictable.
 I am happy to support efforts to provide housing and social services for those who legitimately are in need. But compassion that is misdirected helps no one. As a city, we need to distinguish between those who need help and others who abuse our goodwill. My parents taught me, help those who help themselves. The first and foremost duty of elected officials is to provide safety and rule of law for citizens,
 I insist that our streets and public spaces be restored as clean and lawful environments so that all residents can enjoy them equally without fear and without concern for their safety. I speak today on behalf of all my female friends and family in Portland. Please.
 I implore you, support the mayor's proposed budget that will allow for hiring of more police officers and give those officers the tools they need to restore basic public safety. Thank you for being here. We appreciate it. Thank you. Next individual, 435, please. Request of Owen Christofferson to address council regarding Transportation Network Company Drivers Board. Good morning. Thank you for being here.
 Good morning and thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Owen Christofferson. I'm an Oregon native, a student at Portland State University, and I drive for both transportation network companies, Uber and Lyft. I've driven over 40,000 miles for them and worked through many snowstorms and holidays over the years. I'm here before you today to say that although those of us who drive for TNCs enjoy 21st century technology, we face 19th century working conditions, and we need a voice. Thank you.
 We need a voice because we face a perilous work environment. Our earnings are erratic and often fall below minimum wage after driver expenses. We have no guarantee of protections from future rate cuts, so at a moment's notice we could be earning even less. We serve the transportation needs of this city with the fear that our inadequate insurance protections could push us into poverty or homelessness in the event of an accident.
 We need a voice because we have no recourse in the event of an unfair deactivation or other grievance we might have with a company. The TNCs are judge, jury, and executioner, and us drivers have no ability to hold them accountable for their actions.
 We need a voice because, as drivers, we fall under the classification of independent contractors and not employees. This means that we are exempt from federal labor laws, including minimum wage, workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, and the right to collectively bargain.
 On May 23rd, there will be a hearing to begin the process of legislation to give us a driver's board here at the city. This board will give us that voice. It will allow us as drivers and other members of the community to truly have a seat at the table when it comes to determining what TNC policy will be best for all Portlanders. I strongly encourage you all to support the creation of that board. Thank you.
 Thank you. Can I just say, Owen, first of all, thank you for the organizing and advocacy that you and the coalition have done. And there will be a proposal before council on the 23rd, and so it's important that the community come out and support it. Thank you. Thank you. Have any items been pulled from the consent agenda, Carla? We have 439, 441, and 442. Please call the roll on the remainder of the consent agenda. Thank you.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. Consent agenda is adopted. Next item, time certain item 436. Proclaim May 7th through 11th, 2018 to be Digital Inclusion Week in Portland.
 Colleagues, last July we heard from the Office of Community Technology and Partners about progress being made under the Digital Equity Action Plan. The DEAP, as it's referred to, or DEEP, is a collaboration of the City of Portland and the Multnomah County Library that lays out strategies and actions to ensure that all residents are digitally connected.
 We also heard about the collaborative energy and the momentum of the Digital Inclusion Network participants who represent organizations from the nonprofit, public, and private sectors pursuing digital inclusion opportunities and implementing strategies to serve our most vulnerable residents. Despite our successes, however, many Portland residents still face a stark digital divide.
 They don't have the skills to search for and apply for a job, check their kids' report cards, access critical health services, and much, much more. And increasingly, economic and social opportunities and advantages are available most easily to those who have consistent, affordable, high-speed Internet access. My vision for Portland is one where every resident has access to opportunity.
 It will take a community effort to move the needle. No organization or government entity can tackle this important issue alone. And that's why I commend the participants of the Digital Inclusion Network for their commitment of time, resources, and passion to this important work.
 Digital Inclusion Week is an opportunity for us to emphasize Portland's digital equity commitment to our residents, recognize those who are getting involved, and foster new collaborations to make digital tools and services available to those in our community who need it the most.
 I'm looking forward to hearing from the various speakers this morning, but first I'd like to call up Rebecca Gibbons from the Portland Office for Community Technology and John Rona from the Multnomah County Library. Thank you for being here today and welcome. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mayor and Council. I'm Rebecca Gibbons, Digital Equity Program Coordinator with the Office for Community Technology.
 In this role, I'm tasked, along with staff at Multnomah County Library, with overseeing the implementation of the Digital Equity Action Plan, or as we call it, the DEEP, that was adopted by the Portland City Council, Multnomah County Board of Commissioners, and the County Library Board.
 A primary responsibility of ours is to foster and engage partnerships and community efforts that align with deep goals. With over a year of deep implementation under our belt, the momentum and commitment of our community partners to bridging the digital divide remains steadfast. I'm excited to be here today on behalf of our local consortium called the Digital Inclusion Network, or DINN.
 With OCT and library staff support, the DIN members continue to come together to leverage resources, share learnings, and develop new services for residents, with a focus on serving low-income individuals and families, older adults, people of color, people with disabilities, and people with limited English language proficiency.
 Digital Inclusion Week is a nationwide effort to raise awareness about digital inequities and the strategies to close those gaps. It's sponsored by the National Digital Inclusion Alliance, a professional association representing more than 300 affiliated organizations in 38 states that are working towards digital equity.
 Throughout the week, organizations across the country are hosting digital inclusion events, sharing stories, and highlighting the role digital inclusion providers play in meeting these needs. Locally, our DIN partners, nonprofit, business, and public sectors, are promoting existing digital inclusion programs throughout the county, using social media to spread awareness, and collecting and sharing our own local digital inclusion stories.
 Our community partners are working tirelessly to develop and provide digital inclusion services throughout the year. Digital Inclusion Week is our opportunity to highlight some of that work. In addition to being here today to share with you some of the exciting partnerships that have formed and events we have planned for the week, our DIN partners have helped us put together a calendar of local trainings and classes for residents and learning opportunities for digital inclusion providers.
 Our Digital Inclusion Week Calendar, which is available on OCT's website, includes classes about online safety and privacy, STEAM and coding classes for youth, basic computer literacy, and tech support. These classes are offered in a multiple of languages, including Spanish, Russian, and Chinese. And the host organizations include the library, Frigii, Hacienda CDC, Portland Community College, Outside the Frame, to just name a few.
 I'll turn it over to John now, who will share a little bit more about our work. Thank you, Rebecca. Sorry. Thank you, Rebecca. And thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Good morning. I'm John Worona, Director of Content Strategy for the Multnomah County Library. Incidentally, you will find many of this week's digital inclusion activities on the library's website, multcolib.org. It is this kind of collaboration and the coalition building that we've been focusing on this year that we're here to highlight today.
 Rebecca and I and a small group of our colleagues at the city and county convene weekly in county offices as the de facto digital inclusion network steering committee and share the work of implementing the DEEP where we are lead partners and supporting other partner organizations where they take the lead on strategic actions outlined in the plan that you mentioned. We plan the agenda for monthly network meetings and we have appreciated the city as a venue host for the DIN meetings.
 One of the 17 strategic actions identified in the DEEP is to convene a Digital Inclusion Summit to provide an update on DEEP implementation, share learnings, network, and recognize good work. The first Digital Inclusion Summit in November of 2014 launched the creation of the nationally recognized Digital Equity Action Plan, and tomorrow we will host the first Digital Inclusion Summit since the City and County adopted the DEEP. Along with OCT staff,
 County staff are leading a small working group of DIN members to organize the 2018 Digital Inclusion Summit. The summit theme is economic opportunity, and the day is shaping up to include inspirational keynotes, panel discussions, and networking breaks to help advance our collective efforts to build a digitally connected, prosperous community. We look forward to seeing you there tomorrow, Mr. Mayor.
 The summit is a great example of our partnerships in action. A diverse array of different organizations have come together to create a space for discussion, collaboration, and networking. The summit planning team itself is a model of what we hope to accomplish with the convening of practitioners and facilitation of conversations. With the help of Open Signal, Nonprofit Technology Network, NTEN, the State of Oregon Program for Women, Infants, and Children, WICC,
 Pacific Northwest College of Art, PNCA's Make Think Code, Oregon Citizens Utility Board, CUB, and Metro East Community Media. We will put on a full day program at PNCA tomorrow for more than 150 participants from about 100 organizations. We've lined up a variety of facilitated panel discussions to spark conversations that are inspired by the challenging issues we've worked on in the DIN.
 By reaching out to philanthropic organizations, the tech community, service providers, and technical education and career guidance organizations, we will be bringing more areas of expertise into the tent to add awareness and capacity to the work that is ahead of us in this region. We know from our regular meetings and conversations among active participants in the DIN that connections lead to partnerships that lead to inspiring outcomes for residents.
 For example, the library has an active earn a computer program ongoing now at Hacienda CDC to serve their impacted population in need of digital skills and devices. A natural partnership formed based on one of the key tenants of our work and that is working with community organizations that are deeply embedded in the communities we want to serve. They have already identified the needs in their community but don't have the skills and resources to meet them.
 Thanks to our proven partnership with FreeGeek, the library is able to bring the training and computers to help grow capacity in these organizations to build upon what we bring to them. The summit theme, as I mentioned, is economic opportunity. And so we value our relationship with the technology community because we believe that digital inclusion can lead to employment and other opportunities to advance society.
 Fittingly, Mozilla is one of our summit sponsors. Tomorrow night after the summit, many of us will be at the Technology Association of Oregon Awards Night to continue to connect with technology companies in order to build diversity into the tech workforce pipeline.
 Many of these companies have signed the Tech Town Pledge to, quote, advance workplace diversity and inclusion in order to grow industry while broadening prosperity. At TAO, we will all be inspired by our Director of Libraries, Bailey Elke, who will provide the keynote address on the issues of digital equity and inclusion that are essential to solve if our region is to grow and prosper.
 Today, it is our partners who continue to inspire us. Next, I'd like to introduce Sarah Rasmussen from Free Geek, followed by Sam Pastrick from Oregon Cub. Thank you, both of you. Good morning, Sarah. Good morning, Sam. And if you wouldn't mind just repeating your names for the record, please. Good morning. My name is Sarah Rasmussen, and I'm representing Free Geek. Thank you.
 You're going first. Sure. You're going first. Thank you, Council, for having me. Thank you to the Office for Community Technology in Multnomah County Library for the opportunity to be here. I am here to share a little bit about how the technology that you use here today is creating opportunity for youth, families, and nonprofits tomorrow.
 So I think a lot of the folks here in the room today recognize that digital tools are as necessary as transportation, housing in the 21st century. I don't need to cover that anymore.
 Since 2000, Free Geek has been committed to digital equity for all, regardless of socioeconomic status, race, gender, ability, age, or any other factor. And at Free Geek, our programs are founded on a unique circular model where we're taking
 tackling excess electronic waste, convening community members and technologists, and actively creating access to those basic technologies as well as technical skills among vulnerable populations.
 What I think is neat about this approach is it allows us to use resources effectively to turn e-waste into opportunity and has created a vibrant model that's proved successful for almost 20 years now. Freak is definitely a special part of what makes Portland, oh I'm too close, Portland. But we literally couldn't do that work alone.
 And across every sector here in Portland, the cycle of reuse and the culture of reuse is an ongoing and collaborative effort. So I just want to say thank you. The technology that Free Geek receives from the city and from the county significantly, positively impacts our community.
 And so we're so grateful for your support. And we're grateful for the support of businesses like AWS Elemental or First Tech Federal Credit Union who provide the resources that we need in order to protect the environment, refurbish and give away computers, and ultimately help people reach their goals with technology. So every week organizations like Impact Northwest, Slavic Family Radio, Street Roots,
 Rose City Rollers are picking up technology from Free Geek and saving resources, allowing them to stretch their budgets even further. And every day we hear stories like Angela's who reached out to Free Geek on Facebook recently to say, I am so grateful to earn a computer through volunteering. I didn't have one but needed one to finish my degree. I definitely couldn't have afforded one at the time. Thanks to Free Geek I was able to graduate.
 So this is what it looks like to transform technology into opportunity. So thank you for helping us include everyone in our digital future. Thank you. Appreciate it, sir. Thank you. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 For the record, my name is Sam Pastrick, Outreach Manager at Oregon Citizens Utility Board, or CUB as you folks probably better know us as. At several points over the last handful of years, I've spoken for City Council regarding work in the city, either around digital equity and inclusion or information and communications technology policy more generally.
 The focus of my testimony today is how the Digital Equity Action Plan, or DEEP, and the Digital Inclusion Network member participation has already driven and will continue to drive good and impactful public policy. For instance, goal number five of the DEEP reads, build a policy framework that supports digital equity and meaningful Internet adoption, leading to better community outcomes. This goal is followed by a set of core objectives and strategic actions.
 For the purpose of this testimony, however, I do want to highlight two key objectives. The first is elected officials advocate for digital equity and suggest community-centered and delivered solutions. The second is statewide legislation mandating transparency and clarity in broadband contract language.
 The good news is that I can sit here today and report with confidence that elected officials, present company included, do in fact advocate for digital equity and support community-centered and delivered solutions. Probably a prime example, I would say, of this is advocacy on Mayor Wheeler's part around network neutrality.
 Indeed, if elected officials failed to advocate for digital equity and endorse a community approach, I in all likelihood would not be here today. And there would certainly be no Digital Inclusion Week proclamation or 2018 Digital Inclusion Summit.
 Elected officials serving the City of Portland, Multnomah County, and the state at large have come, I would say, a long way since the 2014 Digital Inclusion Summit and then passage of the separate 2016 City of Portland and Multnomah County Deep Resolutions.
 And to be clear, this quantifiable and qualifiable progress is due in no small part to the Office for Community Technology, especially irreplaceable staff like Julie O'Melchuk and Rebecca Gibbons, as well as committed staff at Multnomah County Library, as well as a litany of other community groups of which there are simply too many to name.
 The not-so-good news is that we've still a long, long way to go. Far too many Multnomah County residents live without reasonable and reliable network connectivity. 15,000 people do not have access to 25 megabit per second wired broadband. 8,000 county residents do not have access to any wired broadband at all. 24,000 residents have access to one or fewer wired Internet service providers.
 But we can get there as a city, as a county, and as a state. Yet the best way to get there is first and foremost to buoy and strengthen and acknowledge the structures and expertise on which we already rely, starting, I would say, with the city's Office for Community Technology. As regards the second objective I mentioned, statewide legislation, mandating transparency and clarity in broadband contract language,
 We, and by we, I mean the state of Oregon, in fact, accomplished this goal earlier this year. CUB, in partnership with ACLU Oregon and Majority Leader Williamson, and with the backing of several DIN members, passed House Bill 4155, which is Oregon's answer to the federal appeal of the 2015 Open Internet Order.
 First and foremost, the legislation requires public bodies like the City of Portland to only enter into contract with Internet service providers attesting to uphold network neutrality. Yet a lesser discussed provision of this required attestation ensures that Internet access service providers shall publicly disclose information regarding the provider's network management practice and performance characteristics and the commercial terms of that provider's broadband Internet access service.
 My point here, of course outside of highlighting Oregon's continued leadership with regard to network neutrality, is that CUB's leadership advocacy efforts around issues like net neutrality or data protection or right to repair is in no small part a direct outcome of the Digital Inclusion Network forming in 2014 and then creating a space at the table for organizations like CUB or FreeGeek or any number of other groups.
 In short, the Digital Inclusion Network and the Digital Equity Action Plan directly inform good public policy. This public policy improves digital equity outcomes to Oregon communities because advocacy groups with lobbying clout can better tap into a network of ally organizations.
 I'll close my remarks by once again commending the very, very, very good work of the Office for Community Technology, because without staff like Julie and Rebecca and Mary Beth Henry before them, as well as an expert group of volunteer cable regulatory commissioners, there would be no digital inclusion network. There would be no digital equity action plan, and there most certainly would be no digital inclusion network.
 at week proclamation. Thank you for your time and I'm of course happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much both of you. Thank you. And last but not least we'd like to invite up Betty Dominguez and Rania Ahmed. Very good, come on up. Good morning. Good morning Mayor Wheeler and Councillors. I'm so sorry, I just wounded our guest. Betty Dominguez, the Director at Home Forward.
 Nearly a year ago, I was here before you, Home Forward being a DIN member. We were celebrating the first anniversary of the DEEP, the Digital Equity Action Plan. And I was sharing with you some of the work that we've been doing at Home Forward around promoting digital equity with our residents. And at the time, I had one of our residents with us. And if you recall, she – which you probably won't, but –
 She was so pleased to have received a computer through Free Geek and have learned how to use it, how to access the internet, and have an email address, which enabled her then to look for work and apply for jobs, which she was very limited at doing prior to that. And she went on to become a teacher in one of our classes, and we were paying her to do that.
 But today I'm here with a different narrative. When Home Forward began our digital work, we were aware of an initiative out of then President Obama's administration in partnership with HUD called Connect Home.
 HUD, in collaboration with an organization called Everyone On, and other stakeholders, began to build local partnerships and gather commitments that would increase access to the Internet for low-income Americans, especially students and children who are living in public and assisted housing across the country by bringing broadband access, technical assistance, and digital literacy training to them.
 The initiative started in 28 pilot communities in 2015. In 2017, the initiative was expanded to include 27 more communities, and at that time, Home Forward, in partnership with the city, applied and was accepted into this new cohort.
 So it's my pleasure now to introduce you to Rania Ahmed, the regional director in Northern California for Everyone On, who flew up from San Francisco yesterday to be here. She's going to tell you more about the program and our partnership, and then she has an announcement to make. Thank you.
 Very good. Thank you. Hi. Good morning. Happy spring. It's my first time in Portland, and everything and everyone is in full bloom. It's always this nice. Yeah, we ordered the weather. Yeah.
 On behalf of Everyone On, I would like to thank the city of Portland and Home Forward and Betty Dominguez for having me here. My name is Rania Ahmed, as she said, and I am the California and Northwest Regional Director of Everyone On. So what is Everyone On? It's a namesake situation that should make it really obvious, but we are a national nonprofit that creates social and economic opportunity by connecting everyone to the Internet.
 We aim to leverage the democratizing power of the Internet to provide opportunity to all people in the United States, regardless of age, race, geography, income, or education. We've connected over 500,000 people across America since 2012, and we aim to reach 1 million people by 2020.
 As we all know, the Internet has transformed the way we engage with the world around us. From jobs to education to health care, more and more resources are being made available on the education superhighway. And those who are unconnected are being left behind.
 Just in the workforce, we know that 90% of people in the United States who have looked for a job in the last two years use the Internet to research jobs, and 84% have applied to a job online. In education, nearly all students say they are required to use the Internet to complete homework assignments outside of school. It's about 96.5%. And in terms of wellness, a Pew Internet report revealed 59% of caregivers –
 with internet access say that online resources have increased their ability to provide care and support for the person in their care.
 Rosalba Naranjo, a wife and mother of three children, wrote us to say, having internet at home will help my husband excel at work. He is required to complete an online food preparation training, and on the same day we subscribed to the adoption event, he completed his online training. Additionally, my son is in high school and needs access to the internet and a computer to complete his homework. We're so happy to have had the opportunity to enroll and receive a donated computer.
 She also shared that as a neighborhood ambassador, she'll now be able to connect with her neighbors and other community leaders online. So let's switch topics and talk about Connect Home USA for a moment. We've talked about how technology has transformed the way we live, creating new ways to access education, health care, jobs, and connect with friends and family. Yet 62 million people remain isolated from the digital world.
 Connect Home USA is an effort to bridge this digital divide in HUD-assisted communities around the country.
 Under leadership of the national nonprofit Everyone On, that's us, and with support from HUD, Connect Home USA aims to assist selected communities to bring affordable digital resources to their residents so they can connect to the Internet at home and enjoy access to digital literacy, affordable devices, as well as educational content. Ultimately, Connect Home USA will scale throughout the nation and connect 350,000 HUD-assisted housing residents in 100 communities.
 The program creates a platform for community leaders, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and private industries to join together to produce locally tailored solutions for narrowing the digital divide. Since its launch, as Betty mentioned, as a pilot in 2015, Connect Home USA has helped connect over 36,000 households across 28 pilot sites, provided over 10,000 commuting devices, and held over 350 trainings.
 Now, on behalf of everyone on, we welcome Portland to the Connect Home USA cohort. And we thank you for being such an incredible example for other members. Betty is always on the phone with other members in the cohort, explaining how to do things and being an example that we had no idea we were bringing in. So I hope we can help you as much as you've already helped us. Portland's commitment to connecting Portland
 Portland's commitment to connection and commitment, two words I'm struggling with, through the Digital Inclusion Network and the Digital Equity Access Plan are setting an incredible example for other counties across America. And the commitment to bridge the digital divide for the community citizens is truly remarkable. NDIA has recognized the Digital Equity Access Plan as a digital inclusion trailblazer. If I say digital one more time.
 DEAP has also won the National Telecommunication Office's Advisory Community Broadband Strategic Plan of the Year Award. It's no easy to create an inclusive plan to connect a community, and we at Everyone On would like to thank Mayor Ted Wheeler, the Digital Inclusion Network, Home Forward, and the City of Portland for leading us to a brighter and more connected future. Thank you. We really appreciate your being here today.
 Thank you for the partnership. Thank you very much. Are there any questions? No? Colleagues, any Commissioner Udaly? I have some comments. Great. Yeah. First, I want to give a shout-out to Outside the Frame, who's sitting in the back of the room here. One of my favorite local nonprofits. They provide homeless youth services.
 with a creative outlet and technological training. They learn how to make movies from start to finish, and I believe they are here to support or celebrate this proclamation. So thank you for being here. And thank you to the Portland Digital Inclusion Network for all that you've done for digital equity here in Portland. I'm sending multiple staffers to the summit tomorrow, and I'm sure they're going to come back with enthusiasm,
 and ideas around, new ideas around this important initiative. So thank you for the invitation. The National Digital Inclusion Alliance rates U.S. cities on eight key indicators of municipal digital inclusion leadership, and I'm proud to say that Portland has six of those eight indicators.
 I'm going to skip the ones that we are doing because I want to keep my remarks short and just say that the two areas we're lacking are supporting a community wireless network for residential areas and providing discount internet service for low-income households. So I'm hopeful that we'll be able to achieve those last two areas of digital inclusion as soon as possible.
 and that digital equity will remain a top priority as we work to develop our smart cities framework. So I want to encourage everyone interested in contributing to this project to attend a digital inclusion. You do have to say digital a lot. Yeah, it's hard. You say a word too many times and it begins to lose its meaning. I've tried to find new words for it. Yes.
 attend a Digital Inclusion Network meeting. They may meet on the fourth Wednesday of every month. You can also join their Google group through the website for digital updates. Also take a look at the Digital Equity Action Plan strategic actions. And you can become a DIN slash DEEP partner by submitting your own project description. So congratulations and thank you to all our DEEP partners.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you so much for being here, both of you. Thank you for making the trip up from California. Thank you to my Metro Council as well as the leader in the community, and I hope you continue to be so. Commissioner Saltzman, I was trying to think of, you've been here for 20 years and this is my 10th, and this is one of the projects that you and I work together in partnership, because I think we both feel a lot of pride of ownership that
 that this plan is doing everything that it promised to do and will continue to be used as the foundation for how to do an inclusive internet outreach programme.
 And we do, in partnership with our providers, have to recognise that Comcast provided $10,000 to do the outreach to communities of colour that helped inform this plan and have been partners in giving computers and lower-cost services. I'm not quite sure what the status of that is now because I'm no longer in charge of what used to be the Office of Cable Communications and Franchise Management.
 and now the Office for Community Technology. I do know that it's going to be a public-private partnership because Commissioner Saltzman did do an exhaustive look into can we provide municipal broadband, and we were just not able to do that.
 and it still means that people need to be able to find other ways to get that. So I know we'll be a partner on that. I want to thank also the Matt Hood Cable Regulatory Commission for their volunteer leadership and work ongoing, Julia Melchuk and your staff, and David Olsen and Mary Beth Henry, the former leaders of the office, for their vision and insistence that this needed to happen. And now you're the communities grasping the documents and...
 implementing and looking at implementing every step of it. So it's a true public-private community partnership, and I'm very, very happy to be having been a part of it. Well, Commissioner Fritz, Comcast is not out of the picture. We are home forward right now. We're in the process with Comcast of being one of their national research partners. So they're going to be working with us. We're working with the PSU Research Lab right now and designing a survey.
 For our 6,500 units, it's a very complex project, but we'll be able to pull a lot of data out of that, which I think will help Home Forward and its work going forward and certainly will help Comcast. And they're looking at things like how the Internet impacts people from a health perspective, employment, education, but even social media, political awareness, all those kinds of things that we take for granted when we're on the Internet. So more to come on that front.
 Are they and other providers still providing or looking to provide super low-cost basic service? Yes, they are one of the providers that can offer services to low-income residents at just under $10 a month, $9.95. And how would people find out how to get onto that plan?
 I'm sorry? How would people find out about that plan and sign up for it? Well, that's part of what our outreach is with our residents, first through the classes that we've been doing, and then certainly through Comcast. We'll be sending letters out to all of our households about the research project and then letting them know. They'll divide it up. There'll be cohorts. There'll be a control group, not a control group. So like I said, it's complicated, but more info to come, I hope.
 And I'm assuming that information is on the Office of the Community Technologies website. Yes, I'm getting a nod on that. So you can go to the city's website. No, it's not there yet. We're still pricing the cost of the survey work and, you know, working out non-disclosure agreements, all those kinds of things. Okay. Coming soon, then. We'll watch out for it. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Very good. All right. So one more item, and that is I get to read the proclamation. It's the best part about being mayor.
 It has the word digital in it about 45 times, so let's see how I do. Whereas digital equity means everyone has adequate access and understanding of information and communications technologies, regardless of socioeconomic status, physical ability, language, race, gender, or any other characteristics linked with unequal treatment.
 And whereas digital inclusion is the activities and supports necessary to ensure all Portlanders have opportunities to obtain digital equity and to fully participate in the education, the economy, health care, and civic and cultural life of our community.
 And whereas, through the city's Digital Equity Action Plan, DEEP, we learned digital equity for our residents means access to relevant technology training and tech support, affordable or free high-speed internet at home, and affordable computing devices, and
 And whereas the Digital Inclusion Network, a consortium of community-based organizations leading the collective effort to provide programs and activities aligned with deep strategic actions and focused on serving our most digitally marginalized residents, such as seniors, those with disabilities, and low-income families.
 And whereas this collective community effort has led to new and unique collaborations and partnerships, such as Multnomah County Library, Free Geek, Home Forward, and the Metro East Community Media collaborating on an Earn a Computer program, or the City and Home Forward partnering to gain Connect Home Nation membership,
 And whereas the digital inclusion networks demonstrated ongoing commitment to digital equity has elevated the City of Portland as a national leader in digital inclusion efforts, keeping our residents economically and culturally healthy in a rapidly changing communications technology landscape.
 and whereas by participating in Digital Inclusion Week, the City creates a unified national voice for digital inclusion and shows support for our local organizations, public institutions, and businesses on the front lines offering digital inclusion programs.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 7th through 11th, 2018, to be Digital Inclusion Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you. Appreciate it. We have a tradition. We love the people who presented. Maybe some of the people who had the signs in the back of the room, why don't we come up here and we'll have a photograph. Thank you.
 Trayvon, would you mind taking the photo? Thank you. How are we doing this? Where's the camera? What do you think? Is it working? Yeah, it's working. It's working.
 I don't know where this is. How many people can we fit in this room? Because everyone else needs to be outside of it. I'll stand in the back. I need to stand in the front. The proclamation. I'll do it. Would you like to do that? I'd love to do that. Thank you. Hi, Bob. Hi.
 Thank you.
 All right, say digital. Analog's better. Everyone knows that. Two, three. Stay down. I'd say look at the middle. Middle one? Can we do that a third time? Standing. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. One, two, three. One, two, three. All right. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.
 Hey, Ted. Hey, Ted. Hey. Woo! Yeah, you got a good cut. Actually, you know what happens? I always go first. That'll be your great advantage. I'm just hoping to get through the second one. Thank you. Yep.
 All right, next item, 437, please. Proclaim May 2018 to be Older Americans Month. Commissioner Fish. Actually, I think you're setting it up, I hope. Hold on a sec. No, I have no TPs here.
 But I can do it. We're tag-teaming. I think you're teeing it up. Very good. So we are proclaiming May of 2018 to be Older Americans Month in the city of Portland. As everybody is well aware, Portland takes great pride in being an age-friendly city. Thank you.
 And I want to be very clear, that is an aspirational goal. While we do many things right today, there is a ton of work ahead in order to truly be an age-friendly community for all.
 Many people here, including Commissioner Fish, who is going to take over in just a minute in this tag team effort, have been involved for many, many years on the vital aging process that was started back in 2007 at the Multnomah County level, and I had the privilege of participating in that effort.
 The city of Portland became officially designated as an age-friendly community. We seek to find opportunities where generations can mix, mingle, and benefit socially and culturally and economically from each other. And as we noted when we were out the other day, and I met with some of the folks who are here in the room who are going to be speaking today,
 In many regards, we are trying through policy to get back to a community value which used to be innate in our culture, which was older adults and young people would live and work and share together.
 immediate proximity. Young people could benefit from the wisdom and the experience of older adults, and older adults could benefit from being participants in helping to shape a young person's life and help them to grow to be successful adults.
 And so that's the spirit in which we're all gathered here today with many of our partners who have worked with us tirelessly on the age-friendly community. And we're delighted to be able to honor that this month. Commissioner Fish. So, Mayor, what we're going to do in the run of show is ask you to first read the proclamation. Then we have two invited guests to come forward, and they're going to say a few things. Thank you.
 I just want to put in the record that the reason that Ted and I have co-sponsored this is we've been getting the most solicitations from AARP. And so we just thought it was just... I've been getting them since I was 40 years old. Yeah, but you're still 40-something. I have two years to go. So I'm going to read this proclamation. It probably does not have the word digital in it. And I am reading it as a proud member of the AARP.
 Whereas the Portland City Council and our partners at Multnomah County, Age Friendly Portland, Elders in Action, Portland State University, SAGE, and AARP Oregon are committed to a shared vision of a Portland that is welcoming and inclusive to people of all ages and abilities.
 And whereas Portland is proud to be one of the nine original cities accepted into the World Health Organization's age-friendly global network, the only city from the United States, and whereas the city of Portland supports livable communities for people of all ages and continues to support the work of implementing the Age-Friendly Portland Action Plan,
 And whereas, as Portland's population grows older and the cost of living rises, the City of Portland is committed to supporting efforts that ensure older adults are able to continue to afford to live here and age in place. And whereas, older adults play a respected and invaluable role in our community by contributing their time and energy to help redefine what it means to age.
 by providing mentorships, starting businesses, getting actively involved in their neighborhoods, volunteering their time in schools and on causes, and pushing us to challenge our concepts of getting older.
 And whereas communities flourish when people of all ages contribute their experiences, their time, their respect, and their service, and now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Older Americans Month in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this day. Hear, hear. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Alan and Jerry, would you please come forward and get settled at the dais? And I want to just say a few other remarks. As the mayor noted, this year's theme is Engage at Every Level and focuses on the importance of civic involvement, volunteerism, or as some refer to it as returnism. Did I get that right? And playing an active role in your community.
 We've coordinated our proclamation with our colleagues at the county who will be doing their proclamation tomorrow because they're on a different schedule. With us this morning are Dr. Alan Delattore from Portland State University and the Age-Friendly Advisory Council, and Jerry Cohen, State Director for AARP. Gentlemen, welcome. Thank you.
 Mayor Wheeler, commissioners, it's great to be here today. Even though I'm not quite 40, I hit that mark in July. I've been an appointed volunteer for AAC. You're dismissed. I'm dismissed. Oh, no. I crossed that important threshold. As of July, I'll be covered by the Age Discrimination and Employment Act. So watch out. Yeah. Sorry.
 So I just really quickly want to highlight some of the important aspects of the Older Americans Act, which was passed in 1965. It allows for essential services to be delivered to older adults to age in place in a healthy and independent manner. It's important to note that in 1965, the average...
 age at birth in the United States was 70. Since then, that's risen to close to 79. This is important for a couple of reasons, but I wanted to point out this intersection between age, disability, and race and ethnicity, which I'll get to in just a moment. So of those age 65 to 74, only about 26% have one or more disabilities. When you get to that next cohort, the 75 to 84, approximately 45% of the population has one or more disabilities.
 And when you get to 85 and older, which is the fastest growing cohort here in Portland and across the country, 73% of all of those older adults, 85 and older, have at least one disability, with multiple disabilities being common among that population. Older blacks and Hispanics with a disability had higher rates of poverty. Older blacks and whites with a disability had higher rates of living alone,
 So moving forward, it is critically important that we continue to look at quality of life in later stages, which is going to become increasingly prevalent as the boomers continue to change our age structure and as the disability rates among older adults continue to rise.
 I think that this is important because we have a community of haves and have-nots. This is happening here in Portland and nationally. Whether you're able-bodied or not able-bodied, whether you have the income to live where you choose to live, whether you have the ability to find the services that keep you independent and healthy are all really important. So...
 I'd like to say that it's important we support the Older Americans Act moving forward, that the community of Portland understands that older adults are an asset, and that engagement of older adults is important as we continue to move forward, as we continue to build a community for all ages, where Portland is a place where we can grow up and grow old. I'm going to turn it over to my colleague, Jerry Cohn, at this point. Thank you very much. Thank you for the introduction.
 Thank you. Jerry Cohn, State Director of AARP Oregon. But in a past life, my first job out of law school 41 years ago was working under the Older Americans Act as legal services for the state of Missouri. And as a quick aside, I did want to let Commissioner Udaly know that, indeed, you can't join at any age, as I in chagrin found out when my bride 41 years ago joined AARP because the digital Internet had not been invented yet, and she wanted the publications. So.
 So look forward to those letters coming. I'm still going to save that treat for later.
 Quite right. My 50th birthday. Thank you. I would like to move forward on Dr. Delattore's remarks, but add a few things. Because we know, and as Mayor Wheeler just pointed out, building communities for all ages and ability takes tremendous leadership. And here in Portland, we've been blessed with such leadership. And it's been reflected globally, nationally, to state, and at the community local levels.
 When the World Health Organization was formulating the concept of age-friendly some years ago and identifying cities that would meet that criteria of age-friendly, it was Dr. Margaret Beth Neal who was at the forefront of that work.
 and she helped assure that Oregon was the first U.S. city, sorry, New York City, they were number two, that was so recognized. Ultimately, that led to also AARP's work in this field and working with WHO to create AARP's age-friendly network, which here in Oregon includes Portland, Multnomah County, City of Springfield, and others that are showing expressed interest as well. In fact, I should add Salem, Oregon, has also joined us recently.
 So we're among 170-plus cities and growing that have embraced the aspirational goal.
 Dr. Neal's work on this, the creation, and recently the relaunch of what AARP's Public Policy Institute calls the Livability Index, which is a very practical tool for any community and neighborhood to look at what are those aspirational goals, how do we measure currently, where can we go to? It was her cutting-edge work that's helped AARP's Public Policy Institute create that nationally for all cities and communities nationally.
 And most significantly, she's combined her skills of research with educating disciplines for students, interdisciplinary work for students, public and private sector policy makers, and across generations, all of us to build a community for all ages and ability. So I've had the privilege of knowing and working with Dr. Neal for 21-plus years,
 as we first created the AARP State Office 21 years ago. So I'm proud to both call her a great leader and a friend. Well, Jerry, this is a big surprise that you mentioned Margaret. So since she's here, Margaret, would you please come forward and take a seat at the table with your two colleagues? Thank you.
 And we did not want to miss this opportunity, Margaret Neal, to thank you for all that you've done for our city. And we want to surprise you with something. And we're also pleased today that we're joined by Dean Percy, the Dean of the College of Urban and Public Affairs, Cora Potter, who's a fan, who is our go-to person in Lentz, and some other folks here who are here to cheer you on. And it's my great honor to read a proclamation which the mayor is issuing today in your honor. Thank you.
 Whereas June 30, 2018 marks the retirement of Dr. Margaret Beth Neal from Portland State University, and whereas 2018 marks more than 40 years of service to Portland State University, and as an extension, more than 40 years of Dr. Neal's, quote, knowledge serving the city of Portland, end quote,
 And whereas the Portland City Council recognizes over a decade of international, state, and local leadership of Dr. Neal to the Age-Friendly Initiative, which has seen Portland become the first U.S. city included in the World Health Organization and AARP Age-Friendly Communities Network,
 And whereas the city of Portland can take pride in her civic leadership as she now explores, quote, what's next, end quote, and continues to define retirement to returnment. And whereas Dr. Neal embodies the spirit of building communities for all ages and abilities as we age.
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim that the City of Portland honors the service and contributions of Dr. Margaret Beth Neal and encourages all residents to honor her service to our community. Margaret, would you care to share a few remarks with us before we take some pictures?
 I would just say that I am speechless. I didn't see this coming. It's been an honor to work with all of you, with the city of Portland, with Multnomah County. It's been the highlight of my career to work on the Age-Friendly Communities effort. It takes knowledge and puts it into practice, and it has been a joy with all of our community partners and our government partners. So thank you all very much for everything you've done.
 Well, Mayor, perhaps we could ask Jay Bloom and Dr. Percy and Dee and Cora and all of our friends to join us for a picture as we hand out both proclamations. That would be great. Wonderful. The octopus. Okay.
 I have colleagues from the Institute and OGA, if you could come up as well. We'll have to coach her. Jerry, let's go back. Jerry, can I get you a question? Not that you can see her. How would God correct us? Why don't you come right back here in the middle. Okay. That's fine. Okay.
 Thank you.
 Let's scratch that. I might scratch it. We can do it. We can do it. All right. Remember, you say digital. One, two, three. One, two, three. Keep taking great smiles. One, two. Thank you. All right. Thank you, everyone.
 Thank you guys for helping with the surprise. This has been wonderful. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, Carla, could you please read item number 438? Proclaim May 5th through 12th, 2018 to be Girls, Inc. Week. Colleagues, in a moment, I'm going to invite up Executive Director of Girls, Inc., Elizabeth Nye, to speak. Is Elizabeth here? Yeah. There she is. Come on up, Elizabeth. And I'm going to go ahead and read this proclamation. Please come on up, all of you.
 Whereas girls today face a broad range of mental, social, and emotional health challenges stemming from the pressure to please and succeed, the effects of media, prejudices, and inequality, and violence. And whereas many girls, particularly those in underserved communities, do not receive the services that they need.
 Girls with unaddressed mental health problems may withdraw from classes or activities and lose access to critical development opportunities. Whereas promoting girls' mental and physical health in a safe, supportive environment leads to positive outcomes for girls.
 And whereas the Girls Inc. experience takes an approach to inspiring strong girls by addressing their mental and physical health in a comprehensive and interconnected way, and whereas Girls Inc. advocates for policies and practices that help girls get the physical, mental, and reproductive health services they need the most.
 And whereas Girls, Inc. provides girls with a sisterhood of support, long-lasting mentoring relationships, and programs and experiences that help girls foster positive mental health,
 Now, therefore, I, Ted Wheeler, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, do hereby proclaim May 5th through May 12th, 2018, to be Girls Inc. Week across the City of Portland, Oregon, and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you for being with us.
 Good morning, Elizabeth. How are you today? I'm well. Thank you so much, Mayor Wheeler. Thank you so much also for proclaiming this week Girls Inc. Week 2018. Our goal for this week across the country, across all Girls Inc. affiliates and the communities that we serve, is to focus on issues related to girls and mental health. So thank you for addressing this important need in our community. My name is Elizabeth Nye. I'm the Executive Director of Girls Inc. of the Pacific Northwest Association.
 I will be brief in my comments today because I feel like our highest honor at Girls Inc. is the ability to lift up girls' voices, and we have some girls here today who will speak on our behalf.
 As you mentioned, girls today face a broad range of mental, social, and emotional challenges stemming from the pressure to please and succeed, prejudices, inequality, and violence. We also know that today in the United States, girls, before they reach the age of 18, one in four girls will experience sexual violence in their lives.
 And we also know that girls who experience this violence are at higher risk for depression, anxiety, alcohol and drug use, and risky behavior. It's also important to note that girls who live in high-poverty neighborhoods experience sexual violence at a much higher rate and are at more risk for the subsequent effects.
 Mental health is an important stage of life and is critical for a young person's short-term and long-term success. And unfortunately, one in five teens today report suffering from a mental illness, and many do not feel comfortable asking for help. Unaddressed mental health issues do have dangerous consequences. We know right now that the rate of girls committing suicide has tripled in the last 15 years.
 At Girls Think of the Pacific Northwest, our goal is to help girls grow up to be healthy, educated, and independent. We also, through our policies and our practices, advocate for girls getting the health services that they need, and we work actively with our school partners and community partners to ensure that girls are supported. Thank you.
 The past few months have seen an increased awareness of sexual violence and harassment towards women. We know this. We've seen it through the hashtag MeToo movement. At Girls Inc., we are committed to making sure that the community remembers that it's hashtag Girls Too, that our girls are affected by the same things that are happening to women, whether it's at school, whether it's on the street, whether it's in their interpersonal relationships.
 We also are advocating for disciplinary practices that take into account and address the underlying causes of girls' behavior at school.
 Right now in Oregon, 78% of girls in the juvenile justice system have experienced sexual abuse in their lives. So when we think about the school-to-prison pipeline, we are wanting to make sure that everybody that is involved in girls' lives have the tools and the knowledge to work with them effectively. Okay.
 Mental health has a huge impact on young people and their ability to lead healthy, fulfilling, meaningful lives. It's critical to the health of our nation as a whole. This next generation is counting on us, and with you in her corner at Girls Inc., we believe that all of our girls will succeed.
 At this time, I want to introduce Ani. Ani and Hazel are both Girls Inc. girls. Ani has been a part of our national girls action network and has been working with a group of girls across the United States and Washington, D.C. to highlight the importance of mental health and girls this week. So I'd like to turn it over to Ani. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you.
 Dear all girls, we need your help. We need your help in erasing the stigma surrounding mental health, depression, stress, and anxiety. With your assistance, we can create a world where nobody walks alone. We can create an atmosphere where people feel safe enough and comfortable enough to seek help. Sometimes, when we feel our worst, we choose to go through it alone.
 It is our responsibility to clear the air about mental illness. We need to change the shame because talking to a therapist isn't weird. It's normal. It's natural even to want somebody objective to talk to, to advise you, to be there for you. We need to change the stigma because too many are battling on their own and because for many, suicide is still an option.
 With proper education and services, we can help those who can't help themselves, and we can help each other. So, we need you to join us in our cause of eradicating the stigma of mental illness and bringing hope for our fellow girls into light. You are not alone.
 According to Mental Health America, the rate of youth with severe depression increased from 5.9% in 2012 to 8.2% in 2015.
 Even with severe depression, 76% of youth are left with insufficient treatment. Over 1.7 million youth are facing major depression and are not receiving treatment, which is enough to fill every major league baseball stadium on the East Coast twice. According to the Telegraph, 1 in 10 girls are being referred for specialist mental help.
 Just know you are not alone. Mental health issues exist everywhere. We know that you deal with a lot on a day-to-day basis. We know that sometimes you feel like you can't fight or you can't love yourself. But always remember that you are enough. We're writing this letter to remind you that you are strong and more than capable to fight through your battles. We understand that everything hurts, but everything can heal with time.
 We're also here to tell you that it's okay to feel sad. It's okay to feel emotions because that shows that you are human with the ability to feel things. You are loved. You are valued. This life you have is worth living. You are and will always be glorious. You are strong, smart, and bold. You can absolutely overcome anything that you are going through. Don't think about checking out of the battle.
 You are strong enough to get through this. You have support from your Girls Inc. staff members and community, and we love you dearly. Your brave, powerful soul is inspiring. This world can be too dark to dream in color. However, you can bring that color back. You are one in a billion girls who is not sorry for burning too brightly. Sincerely, Girls Inc., Girls Action Network. Excellent. Thank you, Ani. That was wonderful. Appreciate it.
 Hazel, did you want to add anything? She brought a gift for all of you. That's nice. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks, Hazel. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues? Commissioner Daly? Yes. I want to read the Girls, Inc. Bill of Rights into the record. It's our favorite. Yeah. Yeah.
 Number one, girls have the right to be themselves and to resist gender stereotypes. Two, girls have the right to express themselves with originality and enthusiasm. Three, girls have the right to take risks, to strive freely, and to take pride in success.
 Four, girls have the right to accept and appreciate their bodies. Five, girls have the right to have confidence in themselves and be safe in the world. Six, girls have the right to prepare for interesting work in economic independence. And I just want to thank you for your work. I would have greatly benefited from an organization like Girls, Inc. as a teenager.
 I turned out okay, but it was a really long, difficult path, and I think you're doing amazing work. Thank you. And thank you guys for being here today. Thank you. Can I ask, what's the age range in the organization? So nationally, we serve girls beginning at age 6 all the way through 18, and here in the Portland area, we do focus on predominantly age 8 through 18.
 with some schools asking us to start at younger ages because the issues that are affecting girls increasingly are working their way at earlier ages. That's terrific. Thank you. We appreciate your being here. Would you mind if we had a photograph? We would love that. Proclamation. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thanks, all of you. Thank you. We should go back. That's the problem is you're going to just go back. Here we go. Okay.
 I'm not going to tell you. They're right in the center. Right in front of the center. All the way in the middle. There he is. All right. I'm going to zoom in a little. You ready? Yeah. One, two. Right here, this camera. One, two, three. Perfect. All right, come on. We're going to be comparing. We'll see.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for being here. Thanks, Abby. Appreciate it very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. All right. To the regular agenda, item 447, please. Thank you.
 Vacate portions of Southwest Hall Street, Southwest Lincoln Street, Southwest Grant Street, and Southwest Sherman Street at Southwest Nato Parkway subject to certain conditions and reservations. Commissioner Saltzman. I will turn it over to staff for presentation. Okay, thank you. Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. I'm Carl Arruda, right-of-way agent with the Bureau of Transportation.
 This is a street vacation ordinance currently before you, which was initiated by PBOT in cooperation with the Oregon Department of Transportation. PBOT and ODOT own several parcels of land along Southwest Nato Parkway in downtown just north of I-405.
 And this land was previously used as a portion of the Harbor Drive Highway, which is also Highway 99. And as you may recall or know, that highway was the highway that was removed to allow for the creation of Waterfront Park and other redevelopment. And so this is part of the route of where that highway previously traveled.
 So several years ago, PBOT determined that these portions of Hall, Lincoln, Grant, and Sherman streets had not been vacated as previously was thought. So they are still public rights of way. And PBOT and ODOT own the land in between the street areas.
 And they are no longer needed for street purposes, and so vacation of these streets will allow for future development projects. While you're on that slide, though, it looks like on the Lincoln Street one, it's over the street. Is that not correct? Yes. So that is actually the Orange Line light rail. And so on the...
 most of that Lincoln Street area for vacation, there's already an agreement with TriMet to transfer most of that piece of Lincoln Street and a little piece of the area north to TriMet. That was an agreement between the city and TriMet back when everyone thought that had already been vacated. And so anyway, so that piece will be deeded to TriMet because TriMet wanted to own that land underneath their structure there. Thank you.
 And then the piece of Hall Street will revert wholly to ODOT because they own the land immediately north and south of that little piece of Hall Street. And then the pieces of Grant and Sherman will revert to joint ownership of ODOT and PBOT. And that's...
 PBOT has no specific plans for Grant and Sherman right now. As I said, most of that Lincoln Street area will go to TriMet. As part of the process, in addition to working with ODOT on this, we contacted the usual city bureaus and outside agencies and utilities for comments, feedback,
 PBOT development review folks asked for walkway easements along Lincoln Street and Grant Street, and those have already been reserved. And so those will maintain pedestrian connectivity in case the land is ever sold or transferred. Along Grant and Sherman Street, there are sewer lines, and so BES asked for...
 sewer easement reservations in those areas. And again, those have already been reserved. So as part of this process, those documents were already negotiated, signed and recorded jointly between the city and ODOT with input with the city attorney and the attorney general's office.
 Since ODOT was involved, everyone thought it was better to get those documents negotiated and completed in advance. The one last little thing is that after this is done, PBOT will issue a permit to TriMet for a storm drain under the orange line structure there that they constructed to facilitate stormwater drainage there.
 And so after that is transferred, some of it will still be on city-owned land, and so they will get a permit. So there's a few photos here. So this is the Hall Street area. And so there's not much street access through there right now. It's mainly a little valley sort of between Nato and Harrison Street there.
 Lincoln Street, again, as I said, most of it is the orange line structure there. And then Grant Street down here. The piece that we're vacating is the undeveloped grassy and dirt area. The street vacation ends before you get to the paved street and the cul-de-sac. That will remain as public street.
 And then the Sherman Street piece, again, is a grassy, gravelly area that is no longer having any transportation uses. And I'll be happy to take any questions. So I have a couple questions. I think I was on council when we passed Ordinance 184517. But can you remind me, Carla, are we going to pull up the –
 Can you remind me, was the proposed transfer of property in consideration for the city's local match? Yes, I believe that's correct. You need to put the photo up there. Or just turn it off so we can see you. Should I close out this, Carl? Yeah, we'll bring it back to you now. Is the slide you're trying to see? No, no. No, just the screen was black. It was dark.
 There we go. There you go. So was the intent here to serve – these properties were to serve as the city's – partially to serve as the city's match for that –
 For the orange line? Part of the match, right. Yeah, so the value of the deeded land was, I think, included in the city's match, the city's contribution to the orange line project. So that much I get. To what extent did we reserve any continuing role in terms of how the land is developed? You mean outside of the orange line project?
 Yeah, I mean, the in-kind portion, I'm guessing, is as much a formality as it is an artifice. So we've done that. But the land, if it's to be developed, how do we ensure that any future development is consistent with what the city jointly with ODOT believes is in the best interest for that neighborhood? Right. Well, I think, I mean...
 Before anything happens with the land, it would go through the city's administrative surplus process rules of whether it would be transferred to another city bureau or ODOT or a private owner. I don't think there are no specific plans for any of the land right now.
 I don't see anything in the ordinance which suggests it goes to our surplus property designation. It just seems like we're vacating property because we are, in a sense, transferring this property to some of this property to ODOT. Well, the Lincoln Street piece would be going to TriMet. And then the other pieces of land are land that we thought had been vacated and has not been vacated. And that's...
 So the Hall piece is the one piece that would be going, to our understanding, solely to ODOT, because they happen to own the land immediately north and south of Hall Street up there. The other pieces would be jointly owned. So anything that happens with the remnants of Grant and Sherman Street will be a conversation between the city and ODOT, and there's surplus processes. I see. And have any of our partners...
 their intent for how they may develop or dispose of any of these properties? No. I mean, the only interest that we've had relating to that is from the International School, which I think they submitted some written testimony. They may be here to offer public comments also. But they have mentioned to PBOT several times that they would like to
 would be interested in purchasing some of the vacant land next to their school property. But other than that, I don't know of any current interest from other bureaus or agencies. Okay, thank you. Very good. Is there any public testimony on this item, Carla? Yes, we've had two people sign up. Very good. Catherine Simmons and Veronica Bernier. Good morning, campers.
 It's about time for the Rose Festival to launch again. I just left this out of the air. I'm sorry, would you mind just stating your name for the record, please? Oh, certainly, ma'am. Thank you. Hi, I'm Veronica Bernier from Portland State University, Public Health and Safety, graduate 2005, and a dedicated MICU nurse, retired, but not shy, and into the inclusionary body of the whole Portland, even as we speak.
 I want to bring up to you something interesting. When I came on here with former Mayor Vera Katz, an echo of the Save the Trees Foundation said this about that. We need to save the trees, number one. Dan Saltzman says, call before you cut. And I said, because I like hanging out at Starbucks, call before you cut, but also let's keep the West End soft.
 as it comes to mind, softening the approach, softer traffic, and a little less concrete and steel. Because of that, I know the roads, how people come in. We've watched traffic. Sixth Avenue Suites Hotel, way over in the distance there, we watch that traffic pattern all the time. But I wanted to show you something, this. This is a bingo. Bingo.
 Bingo's got it. You know, this is Friendly House's response to all that we're talking about. They put the bingo on the map. Bingo means that Friendly House will be there watching, too. And I'm speaking as a person from Friendly House. We need to stay friendly and keep our borders open and affirming. And I think we need to really, really, really slow down on progress here. Help the people that are homeless right now. That's our biggest issue.
 Building, yes, we are pro-building, but we cannot stop. Now, the last thing I have to say about this is St. Mary's. The lady wrote me a note. That's Sister Gail Berkey Kingsley. She's from a Catholic church. The Catholic church is pro-growth. They're also for the youth that just came up here. Very, very pro-girl growth.
 At a CYO dinner, a spaghetti dinner recently, they all voted to respect our mayor and his progress. And Commissioner Salzman was giving kudos. And Commissioner Nick Fish was supporting the young girls. Girl Scouts Amanda Fritz was giving kudos. And also, they couldn't remember how to spell Chloe's name, but I can't either. I'm kidding, Chloe. Okay.
 You're over there, not smiling. But I know how to spell it. I just need glasses. When you need glasses to see, I can spell pretty well. I think it's an interesting name, and I support that, too. This is a filibuster. Keep those gates open. The world's safe for democracy. Okay. And we're still there pitching it as Red Cross DATS, D-A-T-S. If something happens, we'll be there before you get there. Thank you. Thank you. We're listening. Good morning.
 Good morning. My name is Catherine Simons, and I speak to you on behalf of the International School as both a senior administrator and as a parent of three students. Joining me is our head of school, Robert Woods.
 Morning. The International School is an independent school whose campus is located completely within the affected area boundary between Southwest Carothers, Southwest Grant, and Naito Streets. You can see Exhibit A. We have a current enrollment of approximately 420 preschool and elementary students, ages 3 through 11. Our mission is to foster global citizens. Yes.
 We offer an international baccalaureate approach in full language immersion programs in Chinese, Spanish, and Japanese. We were founded in 1990, and our campus has been in the current location for 26 years, since 1992. As a result of our time in this area, we have the distinction of being the owner of the largest assemblage of privately owned parcels of land between Southwest Carruthers and Southwest Grant. Thank you.
 We as a school are not opposed to this proposed street vacation to consolidate city and ODOT property. However, we do request that we are part of the conversation moving forward. Any change in land use will have a direct impact upon our school community. On a daily basis, 420 students travel both to and from campus for morning drop-off and afternoon dismissal periods.
 Our young students are outside daily as they move between buildings and play on playgrounds directly adjacent to the consolidation areas. Keeping the safety, traffic impacts, and overall well-being of our school children in mind, we therefore request to have a voice in land use planning and decisions that are adjacent to our campus.
 We would also like to publicly express our interest in having the right to purchase surplus land within the affected area boundary, especially those parcels that are adjacent to our school's property. We have long taken stewardship over those land parcels. In 2009, we obtained a permit to occupy or perform operations upon a state highway on the ODOT parcels.
 In 2016, we entered into a partnership with Friends of River Place in accordance with the PBOT Adopt a Landscape Agreement that includes the entire affected area and beyond, as well as an ODOT Adopt a Highway Agreement in 2017.
 We perform landscaping, cleanup, and safety reporting activities on those parcels multiple times a week. We have been active caretakers of those parcels and therefore request the first right to purchase any surplus land adjacent to our privately owned parcels if or when they become available through the city's surplus process.
 Finally, we wish to request that the City of Portland review its policies of notification for the Planning and Sustainability Commission hearings and notifications to the private property owners surrounding city-initiated street vacations.
 Our school believes that global citizenship begins at home. We desire to be good partners and neighbors within the city and share your vision for a Portland that supports long-term sustainability and fosters well-being and happiness for all of its residents. We look forward to collaborating with you to help meet our shared goals.
 Thank you for your time. Very good. Thank you for being here. And I think your request with regard to being in the loop is a very reasonable one as the immediate commercial abutter. I did have one question that your testimony raised. Did the Planning and Sustainability Commission not notify –
 The international school, you said we needed to do something differently around notifications. I'm wondering if you could give me one more sentence or two on that. Apparently, they sent us a notice quite recently. I don't know what the letter is. You might have it. And then we had apparently sent some sort of notice in 2016, but we do not have record of receipt of that notice. Okay.
 Very good. Yes. If I can answer that question. D. Walker, Right-of-Way Acquisition. So I oversee the street vacation program. And last, so pursuant to our city policy and practice, state statute requires us to do notifications for city council hearing, but not planning and sustainability commission hearings. I've recently reached out and talked to planning commission at one of our last meetings.
 and have talked to them based on her comment. I have talked to them about the possibility of doing notifications for the Planning and Sustainability Commission hearing as well. So I'm actually setting up a meeting with Sandra Lundgren
 and Julie Auchin to kind of talk about how that would work and what it would look like and who would send out notifications. So it's something that I'm looking into. Great. I appreciate that. Commissioner Fritz? Don't you send out notices to the Neighborhood Association before the Planning Commission hearing? Okay.
 We send out, in our process up front, when we do the formal notification, when we send out to other bureaus, it also goes out to the neighborhood association, the district coalition, and any business association in that area as well. So, yes, they all get up front notices.
 right away. Under city initiated, because the petition phase for collecting neighborhood signatures is bypassed, we do notifications at the end of the process for when the city council hearing is. So even though we go to planning commission, we don't do
 notifications twice. So that's what we're looking into is should we and would it be good to do notifications twice to the people in the affected area once upon planning commission hearing and then again we would do it again for city council. We always have to do city council because that's state driven. But the planning commission we could do also. Right. My preference would be that even though you don't need the
 signatures if everything around is city-owned, that you do the same notification to the nearby property owners that you do if it was a private property owner. Right. So if we add notifications for the Planning Commission hearing, Planning and Sustainability Commission hearing, that would give them notification a lot sooner. Right. Thank you.
 And thank you for doing that, and thank you for raising the issue. The last thing we want to do is have 450 families freaking out, thinking something's amiss and that they're not included in it. So I appreciate that, and I appreciate your bringing that to our attention as well.
 And then I assume in answer to the other question that if it was declared surplus, that it would follow the city's surplus property regulations as far as who gets offered which first. I don't believe that there's anything in there that gives any particular party a right of first refusal other than government entities because part of that is getting highest and best value for whichever entity owns it.
 But certainly you would get notification of that, I would assume. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, anything more before I move this? Very good. This is the first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Next item, please, is item 448. This is the second reading.
 Authorize a contract with Parametrics, Inc. for professional engineering services for the Lombard Pump Station Upgrade, project number E10920, in the amount of $959,746. Colleagues, this is a second reading of an ordinance. During the first reading, we took testimony and had a presentation. Is there any further discussion? Please call the roll.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Udaly? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Wheeler? Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 449, also a second reading.
 Vacate a portion of Southeast Claiborne Street, east of Southeast 122nd Avenue, subject to certain conditions and reservations. Any further issues here, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Item 450, please. Aye.
 amend the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program and the City of Portland Health Reimbursement Account Plan document to reflect necessary plan design changes as recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and as administratively required by the Bureau of Human Resources for the City's self-insured and insured plan offerings beginning July 1, 2018.
 Colleagues, while the plan documents represent the legal requirements of the health plan and the health reimbursement account, by approving this ordinance, we're also approving plan design changes recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and for administrative requirements, which BHR and the Benefits Office are responsible to fulfill. We obviously have Kathy Bless here. She is the Health and Financial Benefits Manager.
 Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. I am Kathy Bless, Health and Financial Benefits Manager, and I'm here this morning to actually talk about two ordinances. But we'll start first with item 450 in amending the health plan documents for the new plan year beginning July 18th.
 Within the, as Mayor Wheeler stated, the plan documents are just the legal framework as we do business in a health plan. But I wanted to call attention to the actual plan design changes moving forward this year for July 1. And these are recommendations by the Labor Management Benefits Committee.
 The first one would be lowering the city's annual out-of-pocket maximum under the city core plan from its current $3,000 per person to $1,800 per person. We think that this is a significant savings and benefit enhancement to employees.
 We had originally put in place a much higher out-of-pocket maximum because of all of the ACA requirements, which required that health plans include co-pays, deductibles, co-insurance, prescription drug medications within those out-of-pocket maximums.
 We, as the LMBC, the LMBC committee had recommended initially a $3,500 out-of-pocket max. We've lowered that previously to the $3,000. And now we'd like to dial it back to where we had originally had it at the $1,800. We really built too much capacity in that, and the added cost didn't.
 impact the plan as we had originally anticipated. So I think this is an important benefit. Also, implementing the Smart 90 program within Express Scripts
 We currently offer a much broader network in allowing a retail 90-day prescription refill. This narrows the 90-day refill prescription benefit to most of the grocery store chains. It impacts very few individuals and prescriptions, and it provides greater discounts. So employees benefit from that, as does the city. Okay.
 We also will waive any of the coinsurance for inpatient chemical and alcohol substance abuse. We think that this is also important given the opioid crisis and want to support employees in that way if they need treatment. We also are changing the way in which some infusion therapies are provided. Okay.
 This was a recommendation through the health plan, and it allows a much greater savings for some very specific medications that require infusion at hospitals. Now those can be provided in-home, much more comfortable for the patient, much less cost for the patient and the city.
 We'd also increase the orthodontia benefit slightly to keep up with the times and the cost of orthodontia, both on the city self-funded plan and under Kaiser. And then Kaiser has offered to add a dental implant coverage, which it had not previously covered. There are no other recommendations the LMBC committee could agree to regarding the Kaiser health plan,
 The Kaiser plan costs will increase by 7% for the 2018-19 plan year and is the most expensive plan for all of the non-PPA tiers and groups. The LMBC will need to work toward a solution that addresses the rising cost of this plan should they continue.
 And we'll definitely take that on as a committee in the coming months. The CityCorp plan available to all benefit-eligible employees except the PPA will increase by 2.34%. The overall non-police city increase combining the Kaiser, the CityCorp plan rates, and excluding the PPA is 3.41%.
 The self-funded city net plan that is available just to the sworn police and is a self-funded plan will decrease by 3%. And there is no material increases to dental or vision plans. Based on these final health premium costs and self-funded rates, the citywide benefit increase is about 2.34%.
 which would save the general fund about $1.5 million and the entire city an additional $200,000 for a total of $1.7 million. These savings represent the difference between the current budget load at 4% and the finalized rates. Could you please say that whole sentence again because I think it's really important. Absolutely.
 Based upon the final premium costs and self-funded rates, the citywide benefit increases about 2.34%, which saves the general fund about $1.5 million in the entire city, an additional $200,000 for a total of $1.7 million.
 It's music to my ears. I've been listening to that all day. It's music to mine, too. And it's not a new song from Kathy Bless. I'm really very, very impressed. And this is a time that what kind of increases are we seeing nationwide in insurance costs? Very large increases. Some are double digit. And everyone is struggling anywhere between 7% and 10%.
 Most of the savings came from the 3% decrease in the PPA rates. The general fund, the police bureau absorbing most of those savings. Last, I want to take a moment to talk about the preventive care initiative. Over 98% of city employees met the preventive care initiative standard and chose to seek care.
 The success of this rollout is attributed to Kaiser, MoDA, and Aon for their collaboration, assistance, and advocacy, as well as the dedicated benefits staff and each union. The unions have worked very hard to protect their members, ensuring members received the required services, and were not impacted by higher premium shares.
 The Preventive Care Initiative's goal is to ensure employees establish relationships with their primary care provider to maintain and monitor risk factors or to address health issues early so they don't turn into complex chronic conditions impacting an employee's well-being and their quality of life. I have heard from many employees over the past six months who were glad they got the nudge to go see the doctor and are working on maintaining their health.
 Healthy Foundations and City Strong continue to be impactful programs working to support employees and their families as they address health concerns. Lastly, the Health Operating Fund budgets include appropriations in support of these health plan costs associated with this ordinance, and I ask your support in authorizing this ordinance, and I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have. Colleagues, Commissioner Saltzman. Could you explain that prescription benefit?
 Sure. Lay language, please. Currently, you can get a 30-day supply prescription anywhere. And pretty much right now you could get a 90-day supply of maintenance medications anywhere. So July 1...
 We are narrowing where you can get a 90-day supply of pharmacies at retail. And really it's that you can't use a CVS pharmacy, which would be Target, and you can't use Walgreens. But you can use pretty much everything else. So Safeway, Costco, Fred Meyer, Rite Aid, Albertsons. Can you also use – sorry. Okay.
 Well, I just wanted to just echo a concern I've had personally with Express Scripts. I find them practicing medicine or trying to practice medicine, and I assume they don't have licensed physicians providing them advice. But in the way they suggest to me that, have you tried this or should you try this? Please go to your doctor and ask for this. You know, I have a doctor. I talk to the doctor. The doctor makes a prescription. I don't really appreciate it.
 the secondary tertiary line of questioning, which results often in delay of weeks in getting the prescription filled. And the prescription only gets filled because I go to battle and my doctor goes to battle. So I'm really kind of concerned about they are putting their judgments between me and my physician. And I'd like you to take that concern to them, and I'd like to know what their response is.
 I absolutely will take that concern to them. I'd like to address it a little bit. So when we moved to Express Grips, we adopted a formulary. So it is a closed group of medications that offer the city the best discounts. So it helps the city and it helps plan participants. When a...
 They also manage the formulary. So when new medications come in, they may change the tier from a brand name to a non-preferred medication. So they manage that formulary throughout the year. So when those changes happen, it can be impactful to an individual person.
 Some of the medications also, because of their side effects or because of their cost, require prior authorization. And so there is a criteria that needs to be met for those medications.
 Express Scripts does have clinical pharmacists and medical directors as part of their program. So it is science-based as they make their decisions. However, I do understand when it's impacting you directly that you don't care. Well, I would say also, I mean, I have no problem with the prior authorization, but it shouldn't be associated every time I get a refill.
 And that's the game played, though. I would agree with that. They want to drag it out, and so you will give up. And so I see the comments really is how customers are treated, right? And that I will absolutely take back and make sure that we get back to you directly. Okay. Thank you. Okay? Commissioner E. Daly.
 Oh, I was just curious if they would still be able to use independent pharmacies. Yes. Okay. The ones that they can currently access, yes, they just would get a 30-day supply, not a 90-day supply. Okay. Very good. Is there public testimony on this item, Carla? Veronica Bernier signed up, but I believe she left. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. Thank you for your good work. Saltzman.
 Yeah, this sounds like a very good package and cost increases less than what we projected, which is, I assume, where we're getting our savings that way. So good work. All right. Hugh Daly. Aye. Fritz. Thank you, Cathy Blass, for your ongoing great work on this. And again, over several years, the city has done far better than national standards.
 providers and insurance systems in keeping costs contained. And this year, we have this innovative preventative care initiative, which former Bureau of Human Resources director Anna Kenwit spearheaded and insisted upon in all of the union contracts that says that if employees don't want to get a preventative
 health care checkup once every two years, they will pay 90% they will pay 10% of their premium if the city pays 90. If they get that minimal checkup, then it remains at 95.5. And I'm delighted that 98% of city employees have chosen to do that and it
 With a couple of months to go, I think we were at something like 70% or 80%, and there was an extension. So thank you for your managing that process. Thanks not only to the providers and to the benefits department, but also to the unions and certainly my bureau director and other staff were instructed to announce it multiple times so that people knew that we really were serious. So getting to 98% is what we were expecting and hoping for, and now we...
 have to keep doing that, which is in the taxpayer's best interest, because preventative care helps find things when they are both treatable and treatable at less expense. And so I encourage everybody who's watching this, who's thinking to themselves, hmm, perhaps I haven't been for a checkup in two years, to invest in that so that you too can be part of cost sharing and cost savings. Thank you again, Cathy Bless. Aye. Wheeler. Aye.
 Improved benefits, decreased cost escalation, more people taking advantage of it. All good. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you. Good work. Next item, please. 4, 5, 1.
 Authorize agreement between Wage Works, Inc. and the Bureau of Human Resources for flexible spending account, self-pay plan participant direct billing, and health reimbursement claims services and administration beginning June 1, 2018. Colleagues, this ordinance authorizes a new vendor for flexible spending accounts, FSAs,
 They are voluntary accounts employees can elect during an annual enrollment process. Employees can elect to participate in the medical FSA, the dependent care FSA, or they can participate in both.
 FSA accounts allow employees to set aside money from their paychecks on a pre-tax basis to pay for out-of-pocket medical expenses or to set aside money on a pre-tax basis to reimburse eligible daycare expenses for qualifying dependents while the employee works. This contract will also allow retired terminated employees.
 retired or terminated, employees who purchase health care coverage from the city to track the payment of their monthly premiums online.
 And again, we have Health and Financial Benefits Manager Kathy Bless here to discuss this. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Again, this is a new flexible spending account contract with WageWorks. Benefit Help Solutions has been the city's prior contract as an FSA vendor for many years.
 there had been shared concerns with regard to their service we went and issued an RFP and WageWorks was the selected new FSA vendor beginning July 1 of 2018 the upcoming plan year
 Employees will be able to submit claims reimbursement requests in many ways under the new vendor. They can submit a paper form with documentation. They can pay a provider directly from a WageWorks online portal. They can load a mobile app, take a picture of their documentation, and upload it so that WageWorks can adjudicate the claim.
 And employees will be issued a new WageWorks MasterCard effective for July 1.
 So we're excited about all the new functionality and their web presence and their technology associated with making flexible spending accounts easier. As you may know or may not know, the federal government allowed employees or participants of FSA to carry over money from year to year. It's a rollover of up to $500, so it really minimizes costs.
 what an employee puts at risk by participating in flexible spending accounts. And so we look forward to having a new vendor and ensuring that folks really understand how to use the plan and the offering so that they don't put money at risk.
 The not-to-exceed amount in this contract is quite high. It's $19 million over a five-year contract period. SAP requires that all of the monies within the contract are represented within the not-to-exceed limit, but it is important to note that all but a small amount of this total is employee contributions.
 So the city will pay Wage Works administrative fees for the adjudication of claims and services, and we will pay anywhere from $3.25 to $4.75 each month per participant depending on the services.
 over a five-year period of time that amounts to about $550,000, so a little over $100,000 per year, of the $19 million. The remainder of the dollars are employee elections, which are expected to be about $3.5 million per year over the contract period.
 Again, the Health Operating Fund includes the appropriations in support of these administrative costs for the employee-funded program. And I ask support in authorizing this ordinance, emergency ordinance, and I'm happy to answer questions that you may have. Colleagues? So, Kathy, first of all, thank you for digging deep into this. You and I have had a number of conversations because I –
 I opted out. I'm on my wife's policy at Portland State, and so I have a flexible spending account that allows me to cover a portion of my unreimbursed medical expenses. My experience with the previous vendor was frustrating. I know you heard from a lot of us. And one of the things that was frustrating is after you –
 submitted your claim, it was typical to get an e-mail that contained a lot of legal gobbledygook explaining why your claim was insufficient without much helpful guidance as to how to cure the problem. And it just seemed like it was designed to wear you down and not solve the problem. So I'm looking forward to this.
 new agreement. It sounds like you've fixed a number of problems at the front end, making it as easy as possible to submit claims, but I think the proof will be in the pudding in terms of how they resolve claims. What I'm hoping is
 Instead of length, extensive boilerplate explaining why they can't resolve the claim, I hope we get something that's more encouraging and positive about what's missing in order to process the claim. Because I have found from time to time the old vendor set up a system to wear you out.
 And I spent an inordinate amount of time trying to figure out what was missing. So that piece of customer service, in keeping with what Dan said in another context, is very important to me, that we get plain English responses and that it not be just a denial function, but it be a –
 you know, no-but function that says here's what we need to actually process your claim because life is short and most of us don't have the time to endlessly go back and forth with these vendors. So my experience was maybe an anomaly, but it was so bad that I would welcome any new vendor. But knowing the care and time you put into this, I have a feeling this is going to be a really significant improvement. So thank you for that.
 Yeah, we are attempting to make it nearly foolproof. So we are working with our vendors to send claim files so that as online claims come in, they will be able to auto-adjudicate with the claims information that they have available to them.
 And the new functionality of actually being able to go in and send a payment directly to a provider, I think will also help eliminate some of that back and forth. Yeah, and I'm just reminded of one example that illustrates the problem. Rather than getting an email that has page after page of gobbledygook saying the claim is denied and then citing all this code,
 I think I'll give you an example of where a claim was denied and a simple plain English response would have been more helpful. And that's where the bill that I submitted, which I got from the provider, did not have all the dates of service on the bill. Now, sometimes that's a function of which bill you submit. Right.
 The reminder bills often don't have all the dates of service. An earlier bill does. And really, it would just be so much easier if someone said, please send us the first bill, which includes dates of service, so we can match up the dates and verify. Rather than page after page of gobbledygook, it was almost impossible to decipher. And, you know, I'm smart enough to know that if someone says, you're missing dates of service, then I'll go back through my file, get that earlier bill, and submit it. Okay.
 Again, I remain very hopeful that this will be a more satisfactory customer experience, and I know you put a lot of time into it, so thank you. I'm hopeful as well. Very good. Public testimony on this item, Carla. I think nobody signed up. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. I enthusiastically vote aye. Saltzman. Good work. Aye.
 fritz thank you aye wheeler aye thanks again thank you appreciate your excellent work item 452 i'm going to move it but could you read it for the record please
 authorize a competitive solicitation and contract with the lowest responsible bidder, and provide for payment for the 1900 building toilets project for an estimated $1,325,792. Colleagues, I know that people are eagerly awaiting this particular item to come before the Portland City Council. However, I have to build some more suspense.
 This item will be moved to May 16, 2018. Please call Item 453. Declare properties at the block surrounded by Northwest 3rd, Northwest Gleason, Northwest 4th, and Northwest Flanders, commonly known as Block 25, as surplus real property, and authorize the Deputy City Administrative Officer to convey the property to Prosper Portland for reuse and redevelopment purposes.
 Colleagues, I'm very happy to sponsor the sale of Block 25, which is before the City Council right now. It's an important step to the city's commitment to the Old Town Chinatown community. Four years ago, City Council approved the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan.
 The plan is a cross-bureau collaboration and commitment to one of the city's oldest and most historic neighborhoods, and it involved Prosper Portland, the Portland Housing Bureau, the Portland Police Bureau, and today the Office of Management and Finance.
 The Office of Management and Finance Facilities Services Division has declared property in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood as, quote, excess to its needs, unquote, and would like to convey title to Prosper Portland for reuse and redevelopment purposes. For many years, this property has been used to support Northwest Natural's presence in Old Town Chinatown. I'm pleased Northwest Natural Gas has decided to stay in downtown Portland.
 With their relocation, Block 25 can now be redeveloped in a way that furthers the community's priorities. The property consists of four parcels in total, known collectively as Block 25, which are surface parking lots bounded by Northwest 3rd, Northwest Gleason, Northwest 4th, and Northwest Flanders.
 that were acquired in 1999 as replacement parking for Northwest Natural Gas when their parking was displaced due to the city's development of the incredible Lansu Classical Chinese Garden. At the time, the city and Northwest Natural Gas entered into a 99-year ground lease and parking easement agreement, which included a provision for the city through the Portland Bureau of Transportation to manage the parking lots evenings and weekends.
 The ground lease and parking easement agreement will be assigned to Prosper Portland at the same time the property is conveyed to Prosper Portland. The Facility Service Division property manager will describe the process for disposition of City Real Property, and Prosper Portland staff will provide an update on recent and upcoming activities and developments in the Old Town Chinatown neighborhood. This sale and the opportunity that unlocks...
 complements the city's work within the area, from working with businesses along Ankeny Alley to a joint task force with the community on safety and livability to the Broadway corridor and visioning for future Union Station development and its surroundings. So today we have, it looks like Pauline Goebel from OMF, Lisa Boff from Prosper Portland is here as well.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. Thank you. If you could all introduce yourselves for the record. My name is Pauline Goebel, Property Manager in the Office of Management and Finance Facilities Services Division. Good morning. I'm Lisa Abouaf, Development Manager with Prosper Portland.
 Eric Jacobson, Project Manager with Prosper Portland. And I apologize, Eric. I just was having one of those moments as described earlier today. Thank you, all three of you, for being here. Great. So I'll go ahead and start. I am here to provide a brief overview of the city's real property disposition process, which is also known as Administrative Policy 13.02.
 which was followed by OMF in preparation for the disposition of the Block 25 parcels to Prosper Portland. So that process first begins with OMF internally evaluating the property and deeming it as excess to its needs. Then the Office of Management and Finance made a written recommendation to the mayor for disposition of the property, which the mayor approved.
 Then the Office of Management and Finance real property coordinator notified other city bureaus, offices, and council offices that the property was available. And after a 21-day waiting period, no bureau or office expressed interest in the property.
 So then the coordinator also confirmed with the major landowning bureaus that there were no easements or infrastructure concerns, such as sewer or right-of-way easements, that needed to be preserved. And finally, an ordinance was brought to council and placed on regular agenda, which is why we're here today. So that's my brief overview, and if you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Colleagues? Commissioner Fitch. On the disposition process. So I'm looking at the map, a couple questions. There's been some...
 conversation about the Lansu Chinese Garden at some point expanding its footprint. I'm assuming based on the location of this property that this transaction would have no bearing on any future plans they may have. That's my understanding as well.
 Is the long-term goal to demolish the old structure on this footprint, the old Blanchet building, and create a single lot, or will that remain? I think that's a response from Prosper Portland, so –
 So that property is owned by the Blanchet House. It's not part of this transaction. And we've been in discussions with them. We'll continue to coordinate with them over their plans for that building. We don't know exactly what their plans are for the building at this current time. And I might have missed this, but what's the plan involving Northwest Natural going forward? Okay.
 Northwest Natural has entered into a lease for a building that's currently under construction, and they'll be relocating from their current location in Old Town to the new building sometime between late 2018. No, I'm sorry, late 2019 and mid-2020. So they're building on this site? No, they're building actually just a few blocks from here. I see.
 So they're relocating into a building, an office tower downtown. And so they are both giving up their lease in Old Town Chinatown. So they'll be relocating out of Old Town Chinatown. And when that happens, it kind of terminates the parking obligation that exists on Block 25 today. So it's a surface law today.
 that Northwest Natural has rights to park on for a very extended lease, or we would have to replace them as a city or as Prosper Portland. And so that terminates when Northwest Natural leaves the district. And has Prosper Portland made any preliminary determinations about possible reuse and redevelopment?
 We'll talk about that. There's a whole PowerPoint. That's next. We still have to go over that, but we'll talk about that. If you have any other questions about the disposition. Okay, I apologize. Getting ahead of ourselves. Great, thank you. You're well done. Lisa, are you next? Yeah, I'll. That sounds great.
 So we did want to set the context for exactly kind of in anticipation of those questions. So, again, I'm Lisa Abouaf, Development Manager with Prosper Portland. And what we thought we would do is provide you with a brief kind of context and status update for what we've been doing around the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan that did come before council in 2014. So we're in year four, and how we see Block 25 is a key opportunity for unlocking some of those commitments that we made to the community back in 2014. So next slide.
 So just as a reminder as to what the action plan involved, it was developed in collaboration with the Old Town Chinatown Community Association. We attend their meetings on a monthly basis, kind of have an exchange with them, provide an update on how we're implementing the action plan, and gather their input on an ongoing basis together.
 It did make a commitment across multiple bureaus, as the mayor referenced. So it committed $57 million in Prosper Portland Tax Increment resources. That's divided across two urban renewal areas between the downtown waterfront and the river district urban renewal areas. It also committed the Housing Bureau to pilot an expanded system development charge exemption program, and it was for middle-income housing.
 So whereas elsewhere in the city, the SDC exemption program is available for low-income housing, in Old Town Chinatown, given that three out of four units are preserved as affordable units and that the average income in Old Town Chinatown is about $15,000.
 the community is really interested in middle income, new middle income housing coming into that district and we'll talk a little bit about how that program, we've seen that program being used. And then last but not least I think you'll see this for the last year was actually last fiscal year. There has been a match of $30,000 over a three year period for a total of $90,000 to the community association to hire a district manager that they have used to kind of
 co-market the different attributes of the community. So anything from the garden to the Nikkei Legacy Center to some of the Chinese cultural events that occur. So the community priorities that were outlined in 2014 are captured here. So again, they cover kind of a range of interests, anywhere from safety to livability issues to ensuring redevelopment of both publicly held assets at that time as well as privately held assets.
 An interest in parking to support the district, particularly the historic buildings that don't have parking and so are more difficult to tenant when they go to sign a lease with some of the commercial tenants, as well as making sure that we're supporting the small businesses that are in the area.
 Based on the fact that we are in year four, I would call out also the community association themselves has looked to the action plan as their framing device for their priorities, and they're actually doing a relook of the action plan to kind of determine if they'd like to extend it, adjust it, et cetera. So next slide. Okay.
 So what we did is we took the community priorities and kind of allocated them into three major areas of activity. One was around neighborhood investment that involved both, at that time, PDC, but Prosper Portland properties as well as private properties. The second was around business vitality, so a lot of work that we do with small businesses as well as attracting new jobs into the district to tenant some of the buildings, and we'll walk through some of the projects that have been realized as a result of that work.
 And then last but not least is district livability that touches both on the role that the district manager plays as well as making sure that we're preserving the important historic and cultural attributes of Old Town Chinatown as a unique district and neighborhood within the community.
 So the next slide at a high level just captures what have we seen in terms of progress made on the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan since you approved it in 2014. We've actually realized over 800 new employees in the district. That's across employees from Multnomah County to PNCA to some of the software companies that have rehabbed some of the historic buildings in the area.
 Of that SDC waiver, 65 new middle income units have come into the community down at First and Davis with new construction, and it does have preserved affordability at that middle income range. We've seen preservation of multiple historic buildings.
 And we've seen about $2.8 million of the $57 million committed and reserved for Old Town Chinatown spent within the district. So clearly there's an opportunity for additional investment via Prosper Portland funds as we think about the future, including on Block 25.
 So I'll go. Then we just briefly are going to kind of touch on each of those three areas that the action plan outlined for our activities and investment. So around business vitality, we have made a significant amount of small business grants that have supported businesses.
 supported folks anywhere from kind of some of the larger software companies like Movell coming into the district to smaller retailers either growing or moving into the district. And then this summarizes kind of who are some of those larger employees. Okay.
 or larger employers who have moved in. What you note in terms of the measures of success, we actually committed to the community association when we did the action plan, two particular measures of success. So in business vitality, we committed to over the five years realizing five new retail stores and 500 new living wage jobs.
 Clearly, kind of the second goal is well underway to being accomplished. The first goal, we have ongoing work to do, particularly as some of the businesses have struggled within Old Town Chinatown and moved out. So we've seen new businesses, but we've also seen some businesses close in the district. Thank you.
 The next goal is around neighborhood investment, and this is clearly where there's alignment directly with the Block 25 transaction. We've seen a significant number of historic rehabilitations, both through our grant and loan programs occurring. That includes everything from Society Hotel, that has become a really key anchor, for the community to the Erickson Fritz, which is an affordable housing project, within the community to the Overland Warehouse, which is a historic commercial building. Thank you.
 very close by to Prosper Portland's offices at 4th and Davis. Clearly, there's also a pipeline for ongoing opportunity and additional placement of the remaining tax increment resources that we committed, and that ranges from Block 25 to we own the old fire station over on Gleason, and we also own 4th and Burnside.
 the smaller lot at 4th and Burnside. And then we have been in discussions with private property owners for redevelopment of their properties, and the community very often will call out what's called Block 33. Between 4th and 5th, Davis and Everett, that I believe has been before council as part of Central City 2035 recently, as a key opportunity site for the community.
 And then the last goal is our district livability goal, which really focused on kind of the cultural, the historic and kind of the community development aspects
 of Old Town Chinatown. We're happy to state that we've placed about $800,000 worth of community livability grants in the district, and that has supported anything from Central City Concerns Employment Access Center on Northwest 2nd that helps affordable housing residents seek a path to self-sufficiency through employment, all the way to supporting the Portland Chinatown Museum's redevelopment of property that they're purchasing. Thank you.
 at Northwest 4th and Davis, that they're actually looking to put into a permanent gallery space that celebrates Portland's Chinatown, its past, its presence, and its future. And on their behalf, we would like to invite you to a soft opening that they're actually going to be hosting on June 7th during First Thursday festivities from 4 to 8 p.m. So they are going to be the permanent housing collection telling the history of Portland's Chinatown.
 So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Eric, who will talk a little bit more to your direct questions, Commissioner Fish, regarding kind of what do we anticipate doing with the property, what kind of redevelopment potential does it offer, et cetera. Thank you. So on the screen, you can see the location of the property. It's about just under 27,000 square feet, so just short of three-quarters of a block.
 As Commissioner Fish noted, it's on the same block with the Blanchet House, both the new Blanchet House and the old Blanchet House, which is located on the northwest corner of that block. You can also see where it's located, proximate to the Lansu Chinese Garden, just to the southeast, and also to the Broadway Corridor study area to the northwest.
 Following the transfer of title, Prosper Portland will continue to operate the property in accordance with the lease agreement with Northwest Natural, where they have rights to park during weekdays, and will continue to operate public parking weekday evenings and on weekends.
 As Lisa mentioned, Northwest Natural Well plans to relocate out of the neighborhood sometime late 2019 or mid-2020. At that time, the lease agreement will terminate, and the obligation to continue to operate it as surface parking will terminate with that.
 So what that does is it gives us basically two years, about two years to plan a redevelopment for that property. And we've already started the process of doing that in terms of stakeholder outreach with Old Town Chinatown Community Association, the Blanchet House, and we would continue to sort of roll that out over the next six to nine months, possibly solicit a development partner, and over the course of...
 2019, begin to look at development opportunities and potentials for that property.
 We would conduct a market study to evaluate what the likely highest and best uses are for the property. And then we would also, you know, as part of that, consider what the community association's priorities have been. And as Lisa mentioned, one of those has been market rate housing. That's one of the areas that's sort of been unfulfilled to date in terms of the action plan. So that's something we'd be looking at. But also employment opportunities.
 for creative office space, and possibly for district parking to support some of those older buildings that don't have surface parking or parking available for them. So that's what we would look at over the next, you know, nine to 20 months or so would be coming up with that development plan. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Carla, I'm sorry to interrupt. Is there a public testimony on this item? Yes, we have. Mary Seip. Come on up. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Yes, it is. Good afternoon. My name is Mary Seif, and I will make this brief. I'm excited about this, and I really support it. I think this is what – turning this over to Prosper Portland is really, I think, just the perfect answer to this.
 I'm just really excited to see this opportunity to perhaps get some development in Old Town Chinatown that's much needed. I am a little curious. There was the emergency shelter plan on 4th and Hoyt that was abandoned, and I'm wondering if that piece of property is going to kind of be folded into this whole thing.
 whole plan. I hope so. And I'm really excited to hear about more housing. Middle income, I'm always pushing for affordable, but we definitely need more middle income. We kind of have this gap between luxury apartments and affordable.
 And speaking of Prosper Portland, I just want to take this opportunity to share some news with you. Mayor Wheeler, you were at the announcement, Homer Williams and Don Masiotti, Oregon Harbor of Hope's announcement about the Navigation Center. And I was there and shared with them my support, my experience in emergency housing when I lived in Eugene.
 And so I may not be at City Council every Wednesday for the next six months because I'm working with Oregon Harbor of Hope as their community liaison and community involvement coordinator. Great.
 really excited to we're really reaching out to the community to help them you know to bring them in as a part of what's going to make that program a success and I think that it's it it has the potential and it is the vision that it is going to become a model program and you know prosper Portland's part in it with the property and all of that hopefully we will
 put something together that will be replicated all throughout the city and who knows where. So, Mary, they have made some very good choices. Hiring you is probably the best decision they've made.
 Thank you. I'm very happy to hear that. I'm so excited about this opportunity. And the first thing I thought of, though, is, gosh, I wonder if I'm going to be busy on Wednesday mornings. And so I'm working my schedule out so that hopefully I will be able to come. And I'll be bringing information to you periodically, I'm sure, as we progress. But this is a great move. I think turning this property over to Prosper Portland is the right thing to do in a long time.
 Thank you. Commissioner Fritz? Just in answer to your question, the fourth and white property is privately owned, so it's not positive. Oh, it is. So that's why I wasn't sure if that was or not. But, yeah. Okay. Well, anyhow. Thanks. Way to go. Thank you. Appreciate it. Was that all the public testimony, Carla? Yes. Veronica left, I believe. Very good. Please call the roll. Fish. Fish.
 You know, I've now been on the council long enough to remember that the last time we had a big presentation on this particular block was when it was being considered for the Bud Clark Commons, and it was a location that did not generate a lot of support within the neighborhood, and ultimately the council settled on Block U or whatever that block is. Okay.
 So here we are coming full circle, and we have a chance now to activate this space. One observation about this site is that it is incredibly prominent, because when you come off the bridge, it's what you see.
 I'm so proud that the Blanchet House built their new building on that corner and built it to such high standards. It's a beautiful building that also serves the community very well. And the city, as I recall, bought an extra floor to make sure there was some affordable housing on that site. So now to have an opportunity to build out the rest of the site is very exciting. So I'm very pleased to support this. Aye. Saltzman?
 Well, I think many of us on the council were concerned about the impact on Old Town Chinatown of Northwest Natural's departure, just in terms of the employees being down there and their economic impact and eyes on the street. But I do think that this shows that out of every kind of a crisis comes an opportunity. And this really is a very interesting opportunity. I think there's – I really like –
 some of the ideas and concepts that you've outlined, and I really like your very precise listing of the benefits and the commitments that Prosper Portland and the city have made to that neighborhood. And so this sounds really promising. Aye. Udailey. Aye. Fritz.
 Thank you for the very clear presentation and particularly for the update on the outcomes so far of the 2014 plan. That was good to see, and you helped tie all the contexts together, and so I appreciate that very much. Happy that many things are working, and it's very clear which things we have to continue to focus on. Thank you. Aye. Wheeler. Well, needless to say, I'm very excited about this. Thank you all for your very, very hard work. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted.
 Next item, 454, I'm going to move that too, but Carla, if you could read it, please. Authorize limited tax revenue bonds in an amount not to exceed $10.5 million to finance replacement of aging fueling system infrastructure at multiple locations across the city. So this item is also being moved to May 16th, 2018. Next item, 455, a second reading.
 verify income of subsequent homeowners receiving a property tax exemption under the Home Buyer Opportunity Limited Tax Exemption Program. Any further discussion, colleagues? Please call the roll, Carla. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. I want to thank everybody who was involved in this process. I'm very optimistic about it going forward. I vote aye. The ordinance is adopted. Thank you.
 Next item is number 456. Amend contract with Just Bucket Excavating, Inc. in the amount of $141,860. Accept contract as complete, release retainage, and authorize final payment. Commissioner Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Teresa Elliott, the Chief Engineer of the Portland Water Bureau, is here this afternoon to give us a brief presentation. Welcome. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Thanks for being here. That doesn't sound like it's working, or at least my throat is not working. Sorry about that. I will be brief. Basically, this is a Water Main project contract where we replaced an old line that was in poor condition with a new line on Cornell Road. And parts of it were in McCleary Park.
 We encountered a little bit more rock in the hillside than we were expecting, so we had a couple change orders. One of the change orders is in this ordinance package for you to approve. It was a just bucket excavating is a MWESB contractor that was participating in the prime contractor development program.
 and that's what this contract was bid under. They performed most of the work and had MWESB participation for both themselves and subcontractors of 93%, and we believe the project to be successful and ask for your acceptance of the project as complete and authorization for this change order. Thank you. Very good. Colleagues, any questions? Yes.
 Any public testimony on this item? No one signed up. Very good. This is a first reading of a non-emergency ordinance. It moves to second reading. Thank you. Thank you. Last but not least, colleagues, we had a couple of items pulled off the consent agenda. I believe it was 439 was the first one, Carla. Is that correct? Yes. Was it?
 amend administrative rule to reflect the 2007 update to City Code Chapter 20 regarding non-park use permit applicants' right to a review of the denial of a permit. Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. This is correcting a...
 It's a clarification of the code for non-park use permits that the director can approve or disapprove or deny. And currently it could be said that the appeal of that decision would come to council. Of course, we don't generally hear appeals of permits at council. It usually is the appeal is to the commissioner in charge, and that's what this ordinance clarifies. Very good. Public testimony?
 Joe Walsh pulled this, but he had to leave. Please call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted. Next item, I believe, is 441. Reappoint Maxine Fitzpatrick, Jennifer Marisik, and Justin Wood as members to the Development Review Advisory Committee for second three-year terms. Commissioner Udaly. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 The Development Review Advisory Committee is a citizen advisory body representing those with interest in the outcome of policies, budgets, regulations, and procedures that affect development review processes. These are three reappointments which we have decided to put on the consent agenda. But since it was polled, I will give you a brief rundown of each person.
 Maxine Fitzpatrick fills the low-income housing developers position. Maxine is the executive director of Portland Community Reinvestment Initiatives, or PCRI, a Portland nonprofit that manages a portfolio of over 700 units of affordable housing and focuses on helping low-income families achieve stability and self-sufficiency. Jennifer, sorry Jennifer, I'm not sure how to say your last name. I'm going to say Marsechek.
 Which is probably wrong. My apologies. Ah, yes, okay. Alright. I think I might even know where that name comes from. Anyhow, she fills the design professional's position. Jennifer has 20 years experience in the field of architecture and is presently with Scott Edwards Architecture. Jennifer also has significant community involvement experience.
 Justin Wood fills the home builder's position. Justin has over 15 years' experience as a home builder with fish construction, no relation, and has served as an officer for both the Oregon and National Home Builders Associations. Mark Fetters from BDS is here to answer any additional questions the council may have, although I do believe the person who pulled this is now gone, and I want to extend my thanks.
 Thanks and apology to Mark for having to unnecessarily sit here to respond to a very non-controversial item. Colleagues, do you have any questions for Mark? None. Public testimony on this item? Call the roll. Mr. Walsh, you pulled it. Call the roll. This is a report. We need a motion. Move the report. Thank you. We have a motion from Commissioner Fish, a second from Commissioner Fritz. Please call the roll. Fish? Yes.
 It's a stellar group of people. Mary Helen Kincaid did an exemplary job as the chair of the DRAC. I understand Justin Wood is now the chair. His father-in-law, Jeff Fish, is no relation.
 And I take great pleasure in pointing that out. But Justin is, in my experience, one of the bridge builders from his profession. And he's been very effective in helping the council understand the industry's perspective. So I think we're fortunate to have him. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Well, thank you to Maxine, Jennifer, and Justin for your continued service on the DRAC. And thank you once again, Mr. Fetters. Aye. Aye.
 Friends. Aye. Wheeler. I am very happy to support these reappointments. I vote aye. The report is accepted. Last item, I believe, is 442.
 Authorize additional funding for an intergovernmental agreement with Oregon Department of Environmental Quality for funding of Portland Harbor stormwater source control coordination not to exceed $90,000. Commissioner Fish. Mayor and colleagues, the City of Portland has been working with DEQ to develop a comprehensive stormwater management plan for the Portland Harbor. Thank you.
 The intergovernmental agreement, first authorized in 2004, provides DEQ with resources to evaluate and control stormwater discharge from upland industrial sites. The IGA was renewed in 2016 and 2017 and will reach the authorized spending limit by June 30th of 2018. The annual cost of this agreement is estimated at $30,000. Public testimony? Yes.
 Lightly pulled this and he has left. Call the roll. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Udaly. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Wheeler. Aye. The ordinance is adopted and we are adjourned. Thank you, everyone. All right, Carla, are you ready? Yes. All right, this is the Wednesday, May 9th, 2018, afternoon session of the Portland City Council. We're in session. Carla, please call the roll. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Aye.
 Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. Please call item four. Actually, I guess we need to have the statement read first. Good afternoon. Welcome to the Portland City Council. The City Council represents all Portlanders and meets to do the city's business. The presiding officer preserves order and decorum during City Council meetings so everyone can feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe.
 To participate in council meetings, you may sign up in advance with the council clerk's office for communications to briefly speak about any subject. You may also sign up for public testimony on resolutions or on the first readings of ordinances. Your testimony should address the matter being considered at the time.
 When testifying, please state your name for the record. Your address is not necessary. Please disclose if you are a lobbyist. If you are representing an organization, please identify it. The presiding officer determines the length of testimony. Individuals generally have three minutes to testify unless otherwise stated. When you have 30 seconds left, a yellow light goes on. When your time is done, a red light goes on.
 If you are in the audience and would like to show your support for something that is said, please feel free to do so, to do a thumbs up. If you want to express that you do not support something, please feel free to do a thumbs down. Disruptive conduct, such as shouting or interrupting testimony or counsel deliberations, will not be allowed.
 If there are disruptions, a warning will be given that further disruption may result in the person being ejected for the remainder of the meeting. After being ejected, a person who fails to leave the meeting is subject to arrest for trespass. Thank you for helping your fellow Portlanders feel welcome, comfortable, respected, and safe. Very good. Carla, could you please call Item 457? Okay.
 Council to convene as Prosper Portland Budget Committee to receive the proposed budget for fiscal year 2018-19. Very good. I'm now convening the Prosper Portland Budget Committee for the purpose of receiving the budget message. The budget committee members received copies of the budget on Thursday, May 3rd. I assume the roll call we just took suffices for this meeting as well. Is that correct or do I need to call the roll again? No.
 I think it would suffice. Very good. As we approach the one-year mark for Prosper Portland's new identity and its deepening commitment to building an equitable economy for Portland, it's clear that the agency has evolved its practices. Notably, Prosper Portland has engaged in an equity-centered development process for the Broadway Corridor Project, led by a 41-member steering committee.
 They've expanded the inclusive business resource network and launched My People's Market, both focused on assisting entrepreneurs and small business owners of color. Prosper has launched the affordable commercial tenanting program in multiple locations to help small and underrepresented businesses, specifically at Alberta Commons and Lentz Commons. Prosper has formed the Council of Economic Advisers,
 and racial equity to advise the agencies it works towards its equity goals. It's put forth a new enterprise zone policy that requires a public benefits agreement for every tax abatement approved by the Portland City Council. PROSPER has collaborated on community-centered and community-driven efforts for the North Northeast Community Development Initiative and for the Hillblock,
 They've implemented internal work to advance the agency's development of an inclusive, anti-racist culture.
 The Prosper Portland budget we're considering today reflects nearly a year of internal and external review and revisions. I want to thank the Prosper Portland staff, the stakeholders, board and city leaders in developing a budget that will allow Prosper Portland to advance its strategic mission to create economic growth and opportunity for all of Portland. I'd now like to welcome Chair Cruz and Executive Director Branham to make their presentation. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, and thank you for being here. Thank you, and good afternoon. Thank you, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. Thank you as well to the staff and community partners involved in the preparation of this budget. It is truly a collaborative effort. Prosper Portland reviewed the fiscal year 2018-19 draft budget with its approximately 20-member budget advisory committee, which met four times over the course of the budget cycle, and whose members represent a diverse array of stakeholders.
 The Prosper Portland Board of Commissioners held work sessions in January and April to review general fund decision packages and URA spending plans that were incorporated into the requested budget. The board prioritized the inclusive business resource network and appreciates the mayor's inclusion of the network in the proposed budget. Since then, staff also reviewed specific URA requested budgets with a dozen community, business, and neighborhood organizations to receive input.
 As we walk through the presentation, we'll address input we received on specific items during the process. The Board is also aware that as the sunset of specific urban renewal areas draws closer, the agency's 10-year Fiscal Sustainability Plan implementation will begin in earnest. We are committed to partnering with you to implement a framework that ensures public benefits and financial returns.
 As you'll hear, we've directed staff to examine new ways to generate revenues and resources to sustain the agency's ability to deliver on its mission to create economic growth and opportunity for Portland. We have several critical tasks ahead of us that are part of the fiscal year 2018-19 work plan to meet the financial sustainability plan objectives, including updating, streamlining, and expanding investment products,
 fully implementing a comprehensive investment and asset management approach, monitoring and adjusting the agency's administration and overhead, and exploring the expanded use of urban renewal to meet community needs. I'm very proud of the agency's work and look forward to our continued contributions as we build an equitable economy that benefits all Portlanders. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Chair Cruz. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler, commissioners. We're really pleased to be here with you this afternoon to present our proposed budget. I'm Kimberly Branham, Executive Director of Prosper Portland, and I'm joined by a wonderful team, the people who have helped us put this budget together, Lisa Abwaf, Development Manager, Tori Campbell, our Entrepreneurship and Community Economic Development Manager, and Tony Barnes, our Finance Manager extraordinaire.
 And so the majority of our budget this afternoon that we're going to dig into will focus on the urban renewal area budget sits. We will have time for discussion, and we will discuss the general fund and non-TIF funds as well. But we wanted to complement the earlier work sessions that we had in which we were able to dig in a little further at that time onto our economic development priorities. Next slide, please.
 Is it showing up on your? Yes. Yeah, you can go all the way through. So in the nearly three years since we adopted a new strategic plan, we've applied our business development and technical assistance, community capacity building, and commercial and mixed-use investment work to build a more equitable economy. In the last year, as Mayor Wheeler mentioned, we've produced significant results from the types of efforts that were mentioned.
 We've increased access to high-quality employment, helping to support the creation of nearly 1,200 jobs and another 350 employment connections through our business development industry initiatives and e-zone tool and workforce navigation.
 We form collaborative partnerships to address cross-sector and cross-functional challenges. In partnership with Mayor Wheeler's Council of Economic Advisers and with work systems and with program investments through Prosper Portland and the City, 1,200 adults and 490 youth who face barriers to employment have received workforce development services. 65% of adults have completed these multi-year programs in the last year and have received employment.
 And 80% of the youth have been placed in jobs or gone on to post-secondary education. We've advanced wealth creation opportunities for people of color and people in East Portland, supporting diverse long-term business owners and property owners to stabilize or increase the competitiveness of their business interests.
 We've awarded 31 grants, for example, as part of our Prosperity Investment Program, which has rolled up our Storefront Improvement Program and other small-scale grants, with 74% of the $1.5 million awarded to business owners and property owners of color.
 We've supported access to healthy, complete neighborhoods and launched new tools, as was mentioned with the affordable commercial program pilot. We now have over 10,000 square feet of ground floor retail space in Alberta Commons, Lens Commons, and Oliver Station.
 And finally, we've endeavored to be more effective stewards ourselves and to continue to evolve as an organization and to become a learning organization. Our financial programs have leveraged $2 from the private sector for each dollar we've invested. Prosper Portland staff has engaged nearly 8,000 Portlanders through our outreach in the last year, and we've built a team that's more reflective of our city, of the 18 new people that have been hired. Sixty-four percent identify as people of color.
 So the budget before you represents a continued commitment to delivering on the five-year strategic plan and to making progress on some of those challenges that we haven't yet been able to address. Increasing access to capital is one of those areas of challenge and doubling down on those efforts that are showing results. Prosper Portland's total estimated resources are $359 million for the next fiscal year with $737 million over the five-year period.
 This pie chart shows that over 86%, about $600 million of the five-year forecast resources are TIF-based, which means that they are available to be invested within urban renewal area districts. Forty-five percent of new TIF debt proceeds, about $150 million, flow to the Portland Housing Bureau based on the housing set-aside policy.
 About half of the resources next year and about a third in the five-year forecast come from existing cash balances, from prior bond sales or land sales or other program income. And about one-third of urban renewal area resources will be from new tax increment finance resources, mainly in interstate, Lentz, River District, and North McAdam urban renewal areas.
 While city general funds seem to make a small portion of the pie, about 1% of the total resources, these are really important resources for us to deliver our citywide economic development programming and together with our...
 Federal grant resources and enterprise zone fees make up nearly all of our resources to support economic development programming citywide and 30% of our operating budget. The next slide slices the budget in a slightly different way and shows you our anticipated budget expenditures in the coming year and over the five-year forecast.
 About 47% of the programmed investments, or just over $300 million, are planned for property redevelopment. So this includes major projects such as the convention center hotel garage, finishing that, the Rose Quarter master plan, the post office in the Broadway corridor.
 ongoing investment that you heard about this morning for the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan, the Multnomah County Health Department building, and investing over $13 million across the urban renewal areas in small-scale prosperity investment program grants.
 24% or about 154 million as I mentioned will be invested by the Portland Housing Bureau. There's another $42 million that's available after the five-year forecast as districts close out. 9% is available for economic development purposes. It's about $55 million. It represents our programming as well as our business finance lending within urban renewal areas. Okay.
 And then there's about 4% or $27 million that's dedicated towards infrastructure, which includes Lentz Botanical Gardens and street improvement projects on North Lombard and Southeast Foster.
 We have about $13 million in annual administrative costs, which we have brought down from about $18 million just a few years ago. It also includes repayment of the 1999 PERS bond, as well as our internal functions, IT and finance, our communication and our engagement work. And also specifically called out, you'll see in the chart, is the repayment of the River District General Fund-backed line of credit.
 That's total principal and interest of $41 million, which will be paid back to the city with the phase one proceeds from a portion of the post office site.
 In the next slide, you'll see a deeper look at affordable housing set-aside expenditures, which I'll remind the public while the affordable housing resources, the TIF portion of it shows up on our books. City Council does direct, along with the Housing Bureau, those investments and the stewardship of those resources. But a deeper look at affordable housing set-aside expenditures show that the Housing Bureau is projected to invest more
 $158 million of new TIF resources in active urban renewal areas between 2015-16 and 2018-19, with an additional $135 million in programmed resources through the life of the urban renewal areas.
 Based on the projected fiscal year 18-19 budget, the housing set-aside is exceeding the 42% goal in Lentz and the 70% goal in Interstate, just below the goals in North McAdam and River District.
 And essentially, Site and Gateway are spending under the goal, but the programmed resources will catch up within the five-year forecast. So these resources are available, and they're earmarked. The timing of the projects is what is impacting that number.
 In total, there's about $540 million that's projected to be spent between 2006 and when the affordable housing policy was adopted and the life of the districts. As you well know to date, this has created 4,543 units of new or preserved affordable housing, and currently there are another 1,300 units in production.
 As Chair Cruz mentioned, the board also ensured that the proposed budget aligns with the high-level financial sustainability framework to be implemented over the next 10 years. When fully implemented, we anticipate being able to maintain a $30 million per year operating budget and backfill for the reduction of TIF funding.
 The four major actions are intended to be implemented in sequential order. So at this point, we're really focused in the immediate term on pursuing and adopting an impact investment model for the remaining tax increment finance resources and existing real estate assets, which means optimizing both financial returns and public benefit with a blended rate that's consistent with our agency values and informed by market performance.
 Assumptions for the second, third, and fourth priorities, which effectively is about applying our core real estate and business development expertise to support our economic development and community development programs, are not explicitly forecasted in the proposed budget due to timing and lack of uncertainty. So things like new market tax credits, which we will actively seek to secure, are not shown within the proposed budget because we aren't clear as to whether we will get an allocation.
 So my final contextual slide shows you a summary of our capital spending budget through an impact investment lens, whereby we have assigned our TIF investments into three categories, grants and infrastructures, which have high public benefits and no repayment or return. In the five-year forecast, this represents 20% of planned investments and about 27% through the 10-year plan.
 Program-related investments, which also produce significant level of public benefits, where we anticipate a return of capital but a modest return on capital, represents 50% of plan investments over the next five years and 44% through the 10-year term.
 And then mission-related investments, which also meet policy goals, but we hope to and anticipate a repayment and market return of an average of 6%. Over the five-year budget forecast, we've allocated $85 million, or 30% of urban renewal area budgets towards these investments, with a focus on Broadway Corridor, the ODOT blocks, and the Oregon Convention Center.
 As Lisa will demonstrate, each urban renewal area has its own unique mixture of these types of investments in line with market realities and strategic priorities. So with that, I'll hand it over to Lisa to walk through each of the urban renewal areas. Okay.
 Good afternoon. I'm Lisa Abloff, Development Manager with Prosper Portland. As Kimberly mentioned, for those of you who have seen kind of our presentations in the past, I'll flag two new things that we have called out as part of our presentation and that we discussed with our Budget Advisory Committee. The first, as Kimberly referenced, is that you'll see the diagrams on the right actually map
 our project activities and priorities against our financial sustainability goals. So you see them kind of complemented as we go through each urban renewal area, and you'll see it at a bit finer grain than what Kimberly kind of had shown in an aggregate or portfolio level.
 And then the second thing that I would flag is that we have started the conversation with our community partners around the importance of our role in asset management of properties as we continue to hold and maintain certain properties, particularly as we think about commercial affordability. And so you'll see those called out at the bottom of our key activities list. So starting with Lentz Town Center, this is one of kind of the three major areas where many of our activities are guided by an action plan.
 So, our priorities for the coming fiscal year and a few of the subsequent five-year expenditures are guided by the Lents Action Plan. We are in year four, so kind of towards the end of that action plan. What we have seen to date as a success of that action plan is early development within the Lents Town Center. So we recently completed Lents Commons and Oliver Station is being completed by a private partner.
 Those units are being occupied and we are signing leases. For the commercial space into next fiscal year, we will continue development and support to the Asian Health and Services Center as well as to Rose CDC for the Woody Guthrie Project.
 We are actively partnering with the Office of Transportation on foster improvements that they have expressed will get under construction in 2018. And then our role is also to provide small businesses support along Southeast Foster as that construction is designed and gets underway. And then I would also call out we have a program that we've been working on with longtime property owners within Lentz,
 to realize redevelopment in their property and the wealth generation that can come off of redevelopment of their property. Some of the things that we heard from the community certainly align with the action plan, given the community's involvement in putting it together. They also expressed kind of the priorities of making sure that there were sidewalk and safety improvements along 122nd.
 as their community grows, and that Prosper Portland continues to move forward development on other properties that we hold in Lentz Town Center, particularly at 92nd and Herald. And then I would call out that many of the projects that I just mentioned are partnerships with the Housing Bureau, particularly in Lentz. We have been strong partners with the Housing Bureau so that they're mixed income, kind of affordable together with market rate projects.
 The next area we wanted to present was the Gateway Regional Center. Similar to the Lentz area, there is an action plan within the Gateway Urban Renewal Area. The action plan focuses on three geographies in and around Halsey-Weidler, where we have a strong business district at the Gateway Transit Center, and then kind of towards the south end.
 of the urban renewal area, kind of the midway for the Gateway neighborhood. Along Halsey-Widler, our investments have been primarily in small businesses, also as the Office of Transportation looks at improvements along the Halsey-Widler couplet.
 We are also working actively with the Housing Bureau on a property at 106th and Halsey that's right next to the new park that is just completing construction. It will be an affordable housing together with market rate housing and commercial.
 development that's a partnership with both affordable housing and market rate developers. And then the second area that we're seeing a lot of interest amongst the community as well as the development community is at the Gateway Transit Center. There are joint property owners between the private sector and David Douglas School District who's very interested in redevelopment of a 10-acre site out there.
 And we have heard from the East Portland Action Plan that they would love to see kind of a long-called-for education and workforce component be located within proximity to the transit center, and we're continuing to work towards that.
 The final area that has an action plan that I presented earlier on to you regarding Block 25 earlier today is the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan. As we mentioned, the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan crosses two urban renewal areas, one of which is downtown Waterfront, which is an area that has been in existence for quite a long time and so is at the end of its implementation period.
 In downtown Waterfront, all of the resources that we have available are committed to Old Town Chinatown, with a focus on both small business support as well as Block 33, which is the property at Southwest 4th, 5th, and Everett Street, is within the downtown Waterfront urban renewal area. So we'll continue negotiations and discussions with that property owner as they seek redevelopment of that property.
 The second urban renewal area that the action plan overlaps into is the River District Urban Renewal Area. While this is an area that has seen great success from an urban renewal perspective, it also has kind of great demands upon it. Both within Old Town Chinatown and the opportunity sites of Block 25, 4th and Burnside, as well as the old historic fire station that Prosper Portland owns,
 at the Steel Bridge head. It also is where Centennial Mills is located. So as we brought to you over the past year, we have posted that property for sale and are actively seeking working with a private partner for redevelopment of Centennial Mills. And then finally, there's a lot of activity underway in the Broadway corridor area with both a master plan and it's also the area where we do own and operate Union Station.
 And so making sure that as we think about the next phase of Union Station's life, we're both thinking about its seismic integrity as well as the activity that it can bring to this community. Thank you.
 With that, we'll shift focus to urban renewal areas that we like to think about more from a jobs and an economic development perspective. The first three were much more community development focused. In the Central East side, we have seen great success, and so you'll see a significant amount of resources committed to both our grants and loan products within the Central East side, and then you'll see there's a significant amount of resources committed to strategic sites and the ODOT blocks,
 We were successful at negotiating with ODOT for transfer of the ODOT blocks over the past year. We are happy to announce that later this afternoon, we will be bringing a recommendation to our board of commissioners for the selection of a local development team led by Beam Development and Colas Construction to select them for redevelopment of the three blocks at the ODOT blocks. We would anticipate it being redeveloped for job density, industrial affordability, and other projects.
 Goals within the Central Eastside that came through are discussions with the community as part of the Central City 2035 process.
 Willamette and Airport Way are also both urban renewal areas that have a jobs focus and an industrial focus. Both are in their closeout phases. In Airport Way, the majority of our resources are tied to land assets that we hold or have transacted on in the recent past and really are tied to a strong partnership with the Port of Portland.
 And then in the Willamette URA, we have about $4 million that we have programmed to assist small businesses either through loans or through land development. That's .4, right? Not 4. No, it's 4 million. But it's not programmed because it says .4. Oh, yeah, yeah. Can you explain the difference in uses versus programming? Sure.
 No. So we have $4 million available to put out via our programs. But what we do is we have it spend out over multiple years. And we already finished that URA, right? Yes. That URA is closed out. And so it's the resources we have in hand over the life of the district. But we also know that our spend rate is lesser than that $4 million. Thank you.
 And then North McAdam is also a jobs related and an institutional support for our higher ed partners, both between the Oregon Health and Science University as well as Portland State University District.
 We do have two development agreements that guide the majority of our investments in this urban renewal area. The first is with Zydel Yards around the master plan that they anticipate moving into implementation on. They just wrapped it up this past year. Their goal is for vertical development that would include both housing as well as commercial development. Through the master plan we have gotten greater clarity as well on kind of the park sequence and the timing.
 of development of Southwest Bond. And with Portland State University, we have just closed and transacted on the Forth and Montgomery project that will have a city presence on it. And then they have an interest in moving forward with the TriMet site that is up on Lincoln that TriMet had bought as part of the Orange Line transaction where they would like to increase their educational and commercial presence in that area.
 and then last before i hand it off to tori who will um wrap it up with the the remainder of our urban renewal areas is the oregon convention center similar to airport way in willamette this is a an urban renewal area that is towards the end of the life of its district of the district the good news is we have a convention center hotel that has been successfully transacted on and is under construction we have a sizable investment in the garage that is being developed
 to support that hotel as an important regional anchor and economic development contributor. We also have heard from the community that they would like to see ongoing investment and activity either in the Rose Quarter or along MLK and Grand. And then we also do hold
 and own and operate the Inn at the Convention Center, which was a property that we bought in preparation for the Convention Center development. So we do foresee that in the next five years we'll hold that asset awaiting the Convention Center to stabilize, and then we would put it out for redevelopment to the private sector. Good afternoon, Commissioners, Mayor. My name is Tory Campbell. I'm, again, a manager of our entrepreneurship and our community economic development teams at Prosper Portland. And I'm going to walk you through the remaining...
 urban renewal areas, and then I will also begin to transition into our general fund budget. So the last one is our interstate corridor, which as Lisa's pointed out, it's again geared towards kind of community development and growth. With this one, it is a balance of a 70-30 split. Seventy percent of the urban renewal dollars have gone to the housing efforts. And so the remaining, we have utilized that in terms of education.
 economic development. And some of the work that has gone in really stems from the outgrowth of an action plan that was developed almost two years ago, our North Northeast Community Development Action Plan that really started with a look back on the first 15 years of the life of the district
 and took into account who had really benefited from the programs and the investments, recognizing that not all those who it intended to benefit had. And so as I look forward, the action plan really guides our efforts, in particular ensuring that African-American members as well as long-term property owners of color really have a preference in terms of really ensuring that they benefit from programs.
 Some of the areas that we've seen in terms of key activities to date have been Alberta Commons, commercial affordability, where we have a master lease there of over 5,000 square feet, which we are currently working to tenant with businesses. Particularly, we have really made a concerted effort to ensure that entrepreneurs of color who are looking for a new commercial tenant space have access to that.
 We've also worked with our small business and long-term property development assistance, which has primarily come through our prosperity investment program, our PIT program for short, which provides, again, opportunities for facade improvements externally within a retail space, as well as TI improvements and feasibility studies. Again, all of this is with the golden thrust of creating wealth by way of either...
 improving on one's current property or reducing some of the startup costs and starting a business within this urban renewal area. And then also we have our community livability grants, which again are intended to support nonprofits in the community who serve longstanding community members and continue to work tirelessly to support underserved Portlanders throughout the city. But really their base of operation is in the northeast area.
 And last but not least, our Cultural Business Hub, which again is the effort around the Action Plan of finding ways to create catalytic investment in terms of place building and particularly ensuring that there are activities that are fostering opportunities for synergy with African American business owners and entrepreneurs of color in the area.
 We, as has already been mentioned, in other urban renewal areas we also have assets to manage. The first one is the Alberta Commons, which again is a master lease that we hold for the next 10 years, as well as our Nelson properties in the Kenton area. Again, the focus overall within our programs has been around wealth creation with an emphasis on long-term property owners as well as supporting small business growth and development.
 And then the last area is our Neighborhood Prosperity Network. The funding is a little bit different here. It's tax increment versus revenue sharing and journal fund e-zone. Within our various neighborhood prosperity networks,
 districts we find the key activities again have still remain true as we're roughly about halfway through the funding support of these programs which is to be over a 10-year span and what we're seeing is actually tremendous growth and maturity of many of the MPIs as you would hope many of them now stepping into new and more sophisticated work around property development but overall the primary investment has been with the intent of starting with capacity building and training which as they have grown they've been able to navigate and move into
 uh more meatier and gnarlier projects to continue to support their respective communities and partners within we've also seen funding go towards district improvement as well as the promotion of grants to allow them to have more the freedom to have self-determination on what seems right and appropriate in terms of facilitating and creating economic opportunities within their respective neighborhoods
 Next, I want to transition, if you will, and talk a little bit about our proposed budget. The first slide here just shows two different conversations. The first one on the left really highlights all of our funding sources for our proposed expenditures for 18-19, which is roughly $9.7 million. That would be our general fund, our federal dollars, as well as our E-Zone. And then the image to the right shows what will be our general fund proposed by the Mayor,
 which is just our general fund dollars, which I will walk through now, both our ads and our cut packages and what that looked like for us. So overall, we broke up our work into four distinct areas of focus. The first one is on small business support, which we have entitled that program, the Inclusive Business Resource Network, or IBRN, just another acronym.
 an acronym for you to remember. And within that, there are four different areas of focus. And again, as I go along, there's several things I'll note. One is I will call out whether it's one-time funding. And I'll also highlight that many of our programs that we are presenting in this budget are also about not just continuing the work, but really expanding the work of supporting, again, underserved entrepreneurs, in particular entrepreneurs of color in our city and women.
 And so within our small business support, a couple of those examples are our small business growth programs, which are currently being led under Accelerate, as well as our Increase project.
 are ongoing. And again, that's the goal of expanding this support to help businesses that are stable and healthy but are wanting to scale and grow, both building their know-how, helping them understand how to break into new markets and continue to grow and expand their business. And the funding of this program would help with serving between 45 to 60 new businesses with a growth-oriented approach.
 The next area is expansion on our small business technical assistance, really with a focus on tax and financial support. And again, this would be expanding a program that's already in place, and it would fund and provide one-on-one assistance to serve over 140 underserved small businesses with financial and credit counseling, tax preparation, market research.
 and bookkeeping to ensure clients' success. Again, many of the baseline elements that one needs in order to have a successful business, this program would help to expand that work to reach more. The next one would be our My People's Market, which the mayor has already highlighted, which was a marketplace done in partnership with Travel Portland to highlight and celebrate many amazing businesses that are already resonant and resilient within our city and giving them fresh access
 access to new markets, as well as to celebrate the good work. The program funding for this would be an expansion of that market to allow us to continue to grow this as a way for them to ensure that they have traction and access into new areas within the city, nationally, and internationally. And so the hope is to continue to support over 80 businesses with each market that is being hosted, which we will plan on doing two a year.
 The next area is our traded sector inclusive business growth. Again, this would be expanding our traded sector diversity and inclusion programs for one or more of our priority traded sectors. Again, the intent of this program is to help companies with not only the recruitment of a more diverse workforce, but also with the retention. So I think the goal for us is to
 to not just have a small door in and a big door out, but actually to have a large door in and a small door out, meaning that the way in which the environments of these businesses, that their culture shifts and is more inclusive, that more of those that they recruit actually stick around and actually continue to support the growth. So that's what this program is designed to do. The next area is our Portland Film Office. And again, this has primarily been devoted towards the regulatory work around permitting for the use of public right-of-way in film production.
 And we are continuing to find the industry and community benefits from this, and we're looking forward to, with the permit program, that is better responding to the needs and the production, as well as better funds the long-term health of the local film community and keeps Portland at the forefront of arts, culture, and community. Could I just interrupt you there and ask about that? Have you resolved with the other bureaus about the permitting issues?
 Commissioner, I'll try with this one. I think we have a process. And I'd like to acknowledge CBO and their leadership on convening this and Commissioner Fish for championing this. So I think we have an agreement that the budget would be
 the film office would be fully funded with general funding in the coming year, that there would be the creation of an omnibus film permit that potentially would increase revenue, would pay for fully the film and video office in year three. So 50% of the resources would be general fund in year two, and 50% would be permit funding. We have not gone through the process of negotiating specifically with agencies
 This allows us to complete those negotiations. So this is the same amount? Yes. There isn't a cut in here? There's not a cut. It is a maintenance of the funding level as it is today. Thank you. But it's one time only? One time only, yes.
 I'll continue. So the next area, we've talked about small business, traded sector, is now workforce. And in particular, this is actually a cut that we received this year, which is for our healthcare cluster. This package would reduce funding originally allocated to implement Prosper Portland's work in a new healthcare cluster. Historically, we've had four clusters, industries that we focused on, athletic and outdoor, gear,
 gear and apparel, green cities, products and services, technology and media, and metals and machinery.
 But in 2015, the agency added a fifth cluster, which was HealthClear, to connect residents and employers to jobs, as well as supply chain opportunities at local hospitals and medical institutions. This new cluster and its design would serve Prosper Portland's focal point in terms of strategic work with OHSU related to the Knight Cancer Institute, as well as emerging sectors such as the medical devices and health sciences. Thank you.
 Prosper Portland does not regard health care typically as a traded cluster in the same way in which we do the other four, because it does not bring in significant dollars from outside of the greater Portland region. However, the aim would be to apply some of the approaches that we've developed with traded sectors to work with health care, including extending the retention and expansion of work, some of the financial assistance to underrepresented businesses, which actually is –
 really would be great and in line with our inclusive business resource network efforts around and creating more markets as well as connecting large employers to small one-on-one supply chain and mentoring opportunities that being said this program this particular role as we were uh wanting to fill it with a hiring a full-time person is being cut at this time the next areas are going to look at our community and biz district development and the first one that received
 It was initially a cut, but now has had add a portion of those dollars, the $33. Now there's $25. That's a carryover will be for Alberta Main Street. The next one is Venture Portland, which we made a slight change initially that showed that there was a cut, but there actually is going to be a $200,000 investment to Venture Portland in terms of their work moving forward.
 And the last one, which we just noted here, it's going to be a one-time funding, which will be for the Portland brownfields. And, again, this will allow for program development to really help us figure out how do we fund the cleanup of those respective properties throughout the city. Okay. That's it. So we are happy to take any questions and hear your comments. Commissioner Fish? Yes.
 Well, first of all, a superb presentation as always. I don't know how you managed to get it all out there and carved up among the panelists, but thank you very much, and the report is very clear.
 Because we have the chair, the distinguished chair of the board, and because you're going to get a recommendation on the ODOT blocks in the Central East Side. I guess I would say to the executive director, are we confident with whatever proposal the board adopts?
 that there will be affordable creative space as part of the requirement in the development plan? Yeah, we had a really great process, and Lisa and Kira and the team worked with a number of community stakeholders. Maker space, affordable commercial space, affordable industrial space was really a high priority, and I think it helped make the proposal rise to the top.
 I want to caution that we are in early days, right? So we are responding to a proposal and we will be able to come back. But what the board would be supporting is our negotiation with them. It's certainly our priority as well. Okay. So we'll have plenty of time to have this conversation. Yes. And the second question I wanted to ask you is where are you in the negotiations on Zydale Yards and do you expect to conclude them at some time in the near future?
 So thank you for the question. We have a development agreement that was adopted by city council in 2015. As Lisa mentioned, with the new master plan, we have reopened the development agreement negotiations because they are changing the sequencing of their investments, and so infrastructure investments and the like need to be reimagined.
 in terms of the prioritization. So we are in active negotiations. We've extended the date to amend the development agreement to the end of June, and we are working hard to get there. I think it's an optimistic date given the level of change that's occurred, but certainly by this fall we should have an amended development agreement. Okay, thank you. For your consideration.
 Commissioner Fritz. Or not, and then it'll either be what we have on the table or no development agreement at all. Is that correct? Yes. Those are the three options. Yes, those are the three options. Thank you.
 The healthcare cluster is proposed to be cut. Is there still funding in Gateway? I think you said that there is for their portion of that healthcare piece that they're interested in and with education. Yes. And so I would like to just add that I think with the additional resources for the Inclusive Business Resource Network, we can achieve all of the...
 aspirations that we had to have businesses, small businesses, access the health care industry in the anchor institution strategy. So I think we have a good alternative there. We have a lot of resources within both Gateway and within the North McAdam Urban Renewal Area to support anchor health care institutions. And we have also been...
 Sorry, I just lost my train of thought. Anyway, so those are basically the ways that we will be meeting those objectives. Thank you. And then my final question, we didn't fund the study for looking at central city development rights in the budget, in the bump. Is that part of this budget? Tony...
 Tony, I think we, in the spring bump, I'm sorry, yeah, in the spring bump for 17-18, I think we secured $35,000 for the FAR analysis in this year's budget. I'm not sure. Are you sure that was in there? Commissioner, I'm pretty sure it was an ad for the spring bump, but we'll go back and double check. If it isn't, we'll need to talk, and maybe before we vote on this, make sure that that is the allocation. Understood. Yeah, we are actively planning to do the analysis, so we're hoping.
 Hopefully we're right on that one. And then I remembered my train of thought, which was that in the interim time period, work systems also received a $9 million federal grant that really bolstered the level of resources available to support the health care cluster. And so I think we have collectively as a community put together resources to meet the original objectives. Fabulous. Great. Thank you.
 I'm just going to add one thing to it, because it's been an important partner. And it's not somebody I mentioned. Mount Hood Community College is very interested in the Gateway Transit Center development to be an anchor for that development. And they would focus it all on their health care workforce development component that they offer to students today. So they would grow that program and anchor that program at that location. That's certainly something that I would support. I think that would, along with our Gateway Discovery Park, really make the area take off.
 Thank you. While I have it fresh in my mind, I just want to remind you we still need to have a meeting with the developers and the East Portland Action Plan. Yes, we are actively scheduling it for June or it's been scheduled. We worked with your assistant. I got some feedback from them the other day that we hadn't nailed down a date, and I'd like to do that. Commissioner Fish. Two other things. Yes.
 We have begun to evaluate a bold new vision for the Rose Quarter, and there's a question that at some point will have to be decided about whether a new authority is created to drive that vision or whether we used existing systems. Can you give us a sense of timeline of when this may be a live issue that we weigh in on? Two years from now.
 Yeah. Sorry, we're conferring. Commissioner, we anticipate that it's in a two- to five-year time frame. I think that, you know, we have...
 also been inspired by the albina vision want to be supportive in the way that we can I think that there is a Sense that there does need to be a new structure in order to make it happen, but I don't anticipate that that would be Concluded in the in the in 1819 so probably two to five years Okay, thank you and final question is We have a little bit of time although. We probably have some testimony, but the the
 You've been warning us for a number of years about a so-called TIF cliff. Yes. And that has, in turn, driven some of your strategic planning around how to become a more sustainable agency, less reliant on tax increment financing funding to drive economic development and the things you want to do.
 If you were to give us just a quick progress report on where are we towards the kind of long-term sustainability that you're looking for, have we made progress? And what would you give us? What kind of interim report card would you give us? Yeah.
 Yeah, it's a great question, Commissioner. So it is a 10-year plan, and so in this first year of the plan, we are focused on ensuring that we have a truly comprehensive approach to asset management, and so that's a priority. We have new policies that are coming to our board in June. We have a new software to make sure that we are managing those assets in the optimal way. And...
 We, with this budget and with the ODOT blocks and with Broadway Corridor, I think we'll have our first projects that meet our mission-related investment criteria. So we have begun in earnest to think about it. You know, it's still early, but we are, I think we are on track to meet our objectives. Good. Thank you very much. Yeah.
 Just wanted to also comment, I hadn't been in Lentz for a while, and that area is really taking off, and so I want to thank you for all of your work in partnership with the community there. I know that it hasn't been easy a lot of the time, and it's really starting to take shape and be exciting. Thank you, Commissioner, and we would echo the appreciation to the community members who, you know, kept...
 kept with us for a number of years and we're excited to see the mix of incomes and the mix of uses and so we're pleased at the progress. Thank you. Carla, do we have people who have signed up to testify? One minute. I asked another good question. He's right there. I'll throw a question. Do you want the gavel, Commissioner Fish? I think I have the gavel. Well, I guess, you know,
 Don't accuse me of playing to the audience, but what role, if any, does Prosper Portland or other economic development authorities play in helping bring buildings into seismic conditions?
 compliance. Yes, so I'll start and then Lisa can continue. In places like Old Town Chinatown where there are a number of unreinforced masonry buildings, we have earmarked $5 million to support seismic improvements and we have helped to make improvements in some of the investments to date. We have tools within urban renewal areas that can support improvements.
 We also have a tool that Shelley Hack is prepared to talk about during the URM discussion. That's CPACE. So it's a financing mechanism that we received authorization at the state to include not just commercial energy improvements, but also seismic improvements. So those are great tools. That's called CPACE? CPACE, yeah. Okay.
 And so those are great tools when there is a mechanism for financing and repayment. I think that it's more challenging to find resources, and we will likely have to find new sources of resources for those improvements where there really is no repayment mechanism. Other than the $5 million, we haven't really earmarked resources for that. Have economic authorities elsewhere reported?
 come up with any intriguing ideas that we looked at or we need to look at? So, CPACE is one that we have borrowed from other jurisdictions and is a helpful mechanism for that. In California and other places where you have insurance premiums that provide a cost savings, you have urban development authorities that have played that role.
 that's not our market reality, so it doesn't quite work for us, but I think we would be happy and have made sure that Shelley is at the table to be able to provide that expertise and thought partnership alongside your capable staff. Okay. Thank you. Great. So, colleagues...
 We had intended to continue this hearing and take public testimony tomorrow night. However, if there are people who showed up today specifically to testify on the Prosper Portland budget and you were here, we'd be happy to take your testimony now. Is there anybody here tonight who would like to testify on the Prosper Portland budget?
 I don't see anyone. Therefore, the meeting of the Prosper Portland Budget Committee is continued to Thursday, May 10th at 6 p.m. right here at Council Chambers in Portland City Hall where we'll hear public testimony on the budget. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, we'll take a five-minute recess. We have a time certain at 3. Thank you. What percentage of the budget?
 You already know this? No, good question. You can probably ask. But I think whether it's a grant program or a loan program, I think for some people, these tax credits, the developers came and told me that these tax credits have limited value. You have to essentially finance the whole thing. I think a loan program, on favorable terms,
 that allowed people to do the upfront work and probably where prosper for them to be helpful. And by the way, if they're charging a low market interest but still an interest, presumably they're generating some return on the top line. So what do you mean when you're striking this amendment? Are you striking any price? Well, I'll just give you my quick overview of all three. This is designed to highlight
 I guess we're not doing amendments to the bill. We're going to put amendments on the table. We're not going to vote on them. But the Mayor's going to just put them on the table so people can read them.
 This one just focuses a little more attention on the fact that a portal of housing should be a priority. I actually disagree with the idea that we should dilute the standard and stick it out further because I think these are people that don't have choices. And I think, therefore, I think they become morally more compelling, I think. This one says this is the cart before the horse. This is because a number of people came in and said to me, if we say we're imposing the mandate but we haven't figured out how to pay for it,
 they'll have trouble getting refinancing. So what this does, it says go do your one year, go do your process to figure out how we're going to pay for this for class three and four buildings. But don't establish, don't declare the mandate until you come back with the way to pay for it. And I'm told that it has more to do with the fact that we're not changing the sort of, we're making clear to people that this is not a negotiable over time, it's going to happen.
 But I don't see the point in putting in a marker. To prep you guys for this? So that's why you come back here. I just don't want to be in the whole race of the marker. Well, that's a good debate. That's what the committee, I think that's what a majority of the committee decided, put a marker down and then figure it out. And...
 And this one came out because there was ambiguity about whether it's actually going to apply. I think after all the work we did, I want to make sure that this committee that's established is down by our rules. People declare conflict of interest. Since someone didn't get a clear answer for that, I just drafted them out. I'm not going to fall on my sword on this. We're not going to vote on it today. But again, the intent is...
 is not to let them off the hook, but to say, don't adopt the mandate and put the marker down until you've figured out how it's going to be financed. That's a one-year proposition. Yeah, I guess...
 Your view, my point is, we don't have a total obligation to help them figure it out. We do have many generations to get this problem taken care of. And regardless of which side of the ledger falls on it, whether it's a public or a private, it's got to happen. There's probably going to be some planning of those two. This just means not understanding. Go ahead. Okay.
 If you disagree with it, I'm just putting it on the table. And if there's no support for it, so be it. But it's not intended to signal that I disagree with the end. It's about me. And I'd prefer not to put a cloud on a property until we've figured out what is the suite of tools that are available to people. I also think it's an easier pill to swallow. Are you sure you have everything you need? I think we're good. Okay. The binder? No, Chief Myers came to see me the other day. Oh, that's cool. I have a question for you.
 Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you for your patience. And I want to particularly thank those of you who are in overflow rooms or in corners.
 This is obviously an issue of high interest to the people in this city, and I regret we don't have more space in the chamber, but we'll just ask everyone to bear with us. By way of run of show today, I just want you to know that we're going to start with a couple of statements. I will make a statement. I will ask Commissioner Udaly, who's my co-sponsor, to make a statement. We'll hear the formal presentation.
 from the committee, and I'm told that lasts 30 to 35-ish minutes. And after that, my colleagues and I will have an opportunity to put some amendments on the table. I know we already have some interest in amendments. I intend to put one on, and I know some of my colleagues do. And after that, what I propose is we open this right up to public testimony and
 The council will not deliberate tonight. We want to hear from the public, and then we'll get everybody in, think two minutes for testimony, and then we will continue the hearing to another day where we will do the deliberation and take the vote. But today is really going to be about hearing the presentation and hearing from the public at large.
 I have one bit of housekeeping that I'm required to do since we were just in a special committee hearing environment for the Prosper Portland. I now have to reconvene us as the Portland City Council, which we are doing, and I need to call the roll again, Carla. Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Udaly. Here. Fritz. Here. Wheeler. Here. So, colleagues, we have the burden of knowledge. Yes.
 A hundred years ago, when many of the masonry buildings were built in our city, they did not know that they were building those buildings in an environment that is subject to potentially lethal earthquakes. Now we do know that.
 We also know, and one of the reasons there's a lot of people here in the chamber and in the overflow rooms, that there is a substantial cost potentially to mitigating that risk. The costs range from relatively minor for certain kinds of safeguards to potentially very significant.
 for other kinds of safeguards. The focus from the committee and what we asked them to do was predominantly focused on life safety issues, knowing what we know now about living in a fault environment, what can we do to protect people's lives and protect property in the event of the inevitable, which is a large-scale earthquake.
 So as we looked at the proposals which are being offered up by the committee, and I will tell them many times over the course of this process, I'm really, really exceptionally pleased with the hard work and the diligence that they put into this task. There's lots of weighing that we have to do, including the timelines. We don't know when a big earthquake will strike this city. It could be tomorrow.
 Or it could be a hundred years from now. We don't know.
 We do know there will be a large-scale earthquake at some point. And so part of the analysis that my colleagues and I have to do is to figure out what is a reasonable timeframe and what makes sense from a probabilistic perspective. We also have to balance the various costs, particularly costs that might be incurred by those who can least afford the medication measures.
 We have questions about what these costs mean in terms of protecting life safety. We have questions about what it means in terms of the affordability of commercial space. We have questions about what it means in terms of the affordability of housing.
 We have opportunities around incentive programs to help mitigate those costs. We certainly have opportunities around other types of financial strategies, and we can talk about that later. So keeping in mind that we now do have this burden of knowledge, I believe we have an affirmative responsibility to be prepared for when the big one does strike.
 I want to begin by calling attention to the seismic risks that Portland faces. I understand, as I just said, that the chance of a large earthquake may seem negligible to many people, but I also understand that there's people who tell us that we need to approach this issue with urgency. We have the opportunity to make some major changes now so that we can preserve the most lives.
 We can protect buildings that are both old and historic, and we can prepare for economic resilience. I have heard over and over in the last few weeks that this is not the right time, and I've got to tell you there is never going to be a good time. We have to move forward. The question is how do we do it and how do we minimize the fiscal impact on people who own and people who lease the properties that we're discussing.
 I've made no secret that some of my priorities as mayor include housing and homelessness, and I want to do everything in my power to ensure that whatever policy comes forward is intentional and well thought out and does the best that it can to preserve housing and avoid displacement and maintain affordability. My goal is, of course, to make Portland a great place for everyone to live and to live securely and to live safely.
 An earthquake is not going to discriminate based on age or race or income level or anything else. It may discriminate based on the kind of structure that you were in at the time that the earthquake strikes.
 I say that to highlight that I hear different people prioritize different things. Let's all start with the assumption we know there is a life safety issue. Do we all agree on that? There is a life safety issue, and we should address it. And I think everybody I've heard agrees with that. There are different priorities. I've heard many people say the front of the line should be schools. Right.
 that we should do whatever we can and make whatever kinds of investments publicly to protect the kids who are in our schools, who are in fact required to be in our schools. Protecting children should be a priority, but that doesn't happen only by retrofitting schools. That also happens by making sure that the buildings in which children live or buildings in which their parents work are also protected.
 I do not want to in any way minimize the financial burden that retrofitting could potentially impose on building owners and renters. And that's why I've now said it three times. I know this because I want to direct city bureaus to get serious about retrofitting our own buildings, right?
 We are the largest single owner of URM, Unreinforced Masonry Buildings, so I understand the challenge we face. We're not going to require the public to do something that we are not going to require of ourselves. We're going to be right there. A cascady event here will not only be a natural disaster, but most importantly a failure of the infrastructure that will result in the loss potentially of many lives.
 increased blight, and the potential to halt our economy. It's our responsibility to make Portland a great place to live now and to protect this city into the future for future generations. We obviously have a lot of work yet to do on resilient infrastructure, and it's going to take dedication, time, and partnership with Multnomah County, the state of Oregon, and other willing partners to get us to the place where we need to be.
 This is merely a first step to direct more work to be done. And I want to emphasize that. This is merely the first step.
 Today you're going to hear from the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management. This policy is one of the many initiatives that the Bureau is working on to increase resilience in Portland. They've also dramatically increased the number of neighborhood emergency team members. They've increased community resilience efforts, and they continue to guide the City of Portland in emergency plans and continuity of operations planning.
 I want to thank all of the members right up front of the Retrofit Standards Committee, the Support Committee, and the Policy Committee. You've collectively worked for over four years. You've conducted many meetings. You've heard from various stakeholders. And you've painstakingly negotiated the policy that, for the most part, represents all of your diverse interests.
 I'd also like to thank the staff that worked with the committees and shared their insights to bring this policy here for our consideration.
 I'd now like to give my co-sponsor, Commissioner Ewe Daly, the opportunity to share a few introductory remarks as well. Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. I'm afraid I might be reiterating a little bit of what you've already said, but I'll keep it brief. First, I want to acknowledge that this has been a long, difficult process, and everybody involved deserves credit for continuing to work through these challenging issues.
 I have had more conversations about URMs than possibly any other topic since taking office. And as the mayor mentioned, this current conversation has been going on for four years. So we're really coming in midstream and having to look backwards and forwards at this issue. Okay.
 It's been a real challenge to figure out how to balance life safety and resiliency with the potential financial burden on building owners and impacts on affordability. And I think if there's any consensus in the room today, it's that we haven't figured that out yet.
 So today will hopefully be a great opportunity to reflect on the status of this conversation, to talk about the work that has yet to be done, especially figuring out how to pay for all of this. So, as the mayor also mentioned, I think we do all agree that
 That life safety and keeping our streets clear of debris in the event of a large earthquake is something we all care about. I personally strongly support the public's right to know about the seismic safety of buildings that they occupy, which is another...
 issue that's up for debate, but I'm certainly looking forward to hearing more about how we can best accomplish that this afternoon. And now I have several thank yous. First, I want to thank Amit Kumar, Senior Structural Engineer at BDS, who's been a tireless resource for all the committees providing guidance and historical evidence.
 He and his team have done a great job of boiling down complex engineering info into clear policy choices with consequences that are understandable to most everyone involved.
 Thank you to Shelley Duquette and Eric Thomas, structural engineers at BDS. They have supported this work with technical expertise and local experience working on seismic upgrade projects. Thank you, Jake Brown, BDS GIS analyst, who has been instrumental in making URM information available for all via the Portland Maps website. His work has made up-to-date information accessible to building owners, residents, tenants, and the general public.
 Thank you, Shelley Hack from Prosper Portland, who has led the city's work on financial incentives and financing tools that are going to be crucial to the work that still needs to happen. Thank you to Margaret Mahoney, former director of BDS, when it was the Bureau of Buildings, I like that name, who's chaired the policy committee. And finally, thank you, Reed Zimmerman of KPFF Engineers.
 who has provided great insight from his engineering perspective. Very good. Thank you. So we'll start with Jonna Papa-Efthimiou to share the staff recommendations for unreinforced masonry seismic retrofit. Good afternoon. Excuse me, Mayor. I haven't read the title. Sorry?
 I'm sorry? The title. I need to read the title. Oh, very good. Go for it. Item 458, Direct Bureau of Emergency Management, Bureau of Development Services, and Prosper Portland to develop unreinforced masonry building mandatory retrofit implementation steps and return to council for adoption within one year. Very good. Thanks, Carla. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, Jonna. Thank you. Good afternoon. For the record, I am Jonna Poppeff-Thimiu, the Planning and Resilience Manager at the City of Portland's Bureau of Emergency Management. I am joined today by Amit Kumar from the Bureau of Development Services and Shelley Hack from Prosper Portland.
 I am delighted to be here this afternoon to present to you the culmination of four years of work on the subject of unreinforced masonry buildings. This is work that was done by myself and my colleagues, but also supported by many staff within our bureaus and led for many years by Carmen Merlot, the previous director of PBAM. It was also guided by generous and well-informed stakeholders who have held on through what proved to be a much longer process than we initially anticipated.
 And there are their names. I'd particularly like to thank Margaret Mahoney, our chair, who will speak after the staff presentation. I'd also like to acknowledge the Standards Committee, and Brian Emrick is here to speak on their behalf. And finally, the Financial Support Committee, which is today represented by Walt McMoneys.
 We've been to Council several times in the past two years to present our work on risk, building science, costs, and financial tools. So the presentation today will just summarize all the work we've done up to this point. But I invite you to ask questions if I gloss over anything that deserves more attention. I'll start by providing an overview of our risks and an inventory of the buildings that are most at risk.
 I don't want to spend a long time on process, but I would like to take time to really explain the elements of a URM retrofit that we're asking building owners to do, how much we think it'll cost, and the financial supports that we believe are necessary to move that work forward. I sincerely wish I could close by presenting an ordinance ready for you to adopt which would solve this problem.
 But instead we'll end with a resolution that's intended to provide direction to city staff as they continue to work in several realms to address this complex issue. I do hope that by directing these next steps, we'll provide some welcome certainty to everyone involved in this project.
 Of course. All our work is predicated on the fact that Portland can expect a major earthquake in the future. So I'd like to ask Dr. Chris Goldfinger, who is director of the Active Tectonics and Seafloor Mapping Lab at Oregon State University and a foremost expert on the Cascadia subduction zone, to present a few moments on our earthquake risk. Dr. Goldfinger. Thank you for being here.
 Thanks. Thanks, Jonna. Mr. Mayor and commissioners, I'm happy to be here. And it's really a pleasure to see this under public discussion. I've been working on this problem since 1987, and we started out wearing tinfoil hats and people thought we were crazy. And now here we are. So I could just put up an image of the old bumper sticker that says, Nature bats last, and ask if there are any questions. But...
 It is really that simple. Your jobs are complex. My job is very simple. I essentially just speak for the Earth as we interpret it. And to get across a little bit of how abrupt the Earth is when it does speak, I was at an earthquake meeting in Kashua, Chiba, Japan, on the day of the last earthquake.
 And we were in the middle of changing slides, changing PowerPoint slides, when the earthquake started. And in the space of three minutes, we saw not only a magnitude 9 earthquake unfold during an earthquake meeting, but we saw a magnitude 9 earthquake unfold during an earthquake meeting.
 we saw a paradigm change because Japan was completely unprepared for, not for an earthquake, but for the size of the earthquake that they had. And at that moment when it starts, all discussion ends. There's no more, everything that you've done up to that point, that's what you're going to have as a result. All the building codes, the preparation, all of that. So although it's just another issue, it's an issue like no other. This is, it can start, it could start in the next five seconds in this building.
 And so having been there and ridden through it, I actually get a little bit nervous coming to Portland because I look around and I see a lot of URM buildings and I give a lot of earthquake talks and almost every one of them is in a URM building. And when I head down I-5 towards Corvallis, then I can relax a little bit because it's not going to happen that day. So with that, let me just run through a little bit of...
 the nuts and bolts of Cascadia earthquakes. First of all, one thing you should know is that even though we're unprepared in the sense of building codes and preparation aspects, Cascadia has gone from
 one of the worst known faults in the world in 1985 to one of the best today. And so we're in a good position. We're actually far better off than Japan was in 2011. And so we have pretty very reliable numbers. We've had a lot of people working on this for a lot of years. And because it's so enigmatic and we didn't have a... We haven't had an instrumental recorded earthquake in history, it sort of prompted people to dig into how we can unearth the past records. And so we're in a really good...
 place from that perspective. So essentially we have three hazards here. We have the subduction zone that's underneath us. We have crustal faults that are closer to Portland, the Portland Hills fault, the East Bank fault, and others that are probably unknown. And then we have the Juan de Fuca plate underneath us about 50 kilometers down that has its own faults as well. And it generates earthquakes like the Nisqually earthquake of 2001.
 Unfortunately, those other faults are very, very poorly known. Their repeat times are unknown, which means when you try to calculate a probability for those, you can't. There's just no data whatsoever. And so when we talk about probabilities for an earthquake, we're really talking about only Cascadia, where we have lots and lots of data. And that's...
 That's good. The problem is, though, that numbers I'm going to give you are minimum probabilities because they don't include the other two earthquake sources. So they're the absolute minimum. The true probabilities are much higher, but we just don't know how much higher. So the subduction zone, the subducted slab, and crustal faults.
 So mostly I can really only talk about the subduction zone. So this is a map of subduction zone ruptures, seven different types that have been outlined over 30 years of paleoseismology, working offshore and working in coastal bays. And so we have 47 earthquakes in total over 10,000 years.
 about 30 of them reach the latitude of Portland. So there's some that are confined to the southern part and won't affect us here, but about 30 of them reach the latitude of Portland, and so the probability numbers you'll hear refer to those 30. And about half of them run the full length of the subduction zone, the upper left box in that image.
 And so the minimum magnitudes for those are thought to be about 8.7 to 8.8, and the maximum tops out at about 9.2. So that's about half of them are very, very big earthquakes. Just for reference, the earthquake that destroyed San Francisco in 1906 was a 7.9. So it's not quite a fair comparison because the San Andreas Fault was one mile from San Francisco and Cascadia is roughly 50 miles to the west of us.
 But what Cascadia lacks in proximity, it makes up for in duration. So subduction zone earthquakes tend to go for two to three to even four minutes. The 2004 earthquake in Sumatra went actually for six minutes. So shaking a fragile infrastructure, even fairly gently, for that long, makes up for that distance. Thank you.
 So down to the numbers, the probability for a magnitude, you hear a lot of different numbers for probabilities. And one number you hear a lot is 10 to 15%. And that number refers to magnitude 9 earthquakes. That is the top end earthquakes of those 47. So there are a lot smaller ones. Okay.
 And if you look at probabilities for anything big enough to affect Portland that is essentially magnitude 8 or greater, the range is 22 to 26 percent in the next 50 years. And 50 years is the usual time span, a sort of customary time span that people can understand, and it's statistically meaningful.
 But remember, that's the minimum probability. It doesn't include the crustal faults. It doesn't include Portland Hills fault, East Bank fault, or slab earthquakes like Nisqually in 2001. So these are absolute minimum numbers. It also doesn't include earthquakes smaller than about magnitude 7.5 or so. And so there may be some of those that are from the subduction zone as well.
 So magnitudes are highly variable, and we know the timing of these earthquakes pretty well. We know the length of them pretty well. We don't know their magnitudes all that well, so these are fairly crude guesses. Okay, so the last Cascadia earthquake was 317 years ago. It was a magnitude 9, which we know quite well from a tsunami that propagated to Japan. Okay.
 And so the average repeat time for anything in Cascadia, magnitude 8 or greater, is about 240 years. So we're 317 years into an average repeat time of 240. So we're past the median. In Portland, at the latitude of Portland, since we're dealing with a bit smaller number, the average here is about 335 years, and so we're just about exactly at the average repeat time. And just for reference...
 We all think we understand probabilities, and none of us, including me, really do. But just for reference, in Japan and Tohoku, people thought the probability of an M9 earthquake there was zero at the time it happened. It turned out it was really about 20%. So on the day the earthquake happened, their probability based on past records was 20%.
 And so what will it be like in Portland? And I mentioned that the earthquake that destroyed San Francisco was a 7.9. It was much closer, shook the ground much harder, and it was a lot closer. But it's still a good reference point. Cascadia is further away but shakes longer.
 And I've kind of already said everything on this slide, I think. So the maximum ground motion here is thought to be about 0.3 g. That's the unit we use for ground accelerations. And 0.3 g is fairly light. You know, you pull more g's when you hit a speed bump in the parking lot. It doesn't seem like much. But that gentle shaking for several minutes is more than enough to dismantle most URM buildings. It's more than you need to.
 And so I'll just wrap it up with a picture of San Francisco. And when you think about analogies for Portland, San Francisco in 1906 is really not a bad analogy. Although we've got a lot of new buildings here and modern buildings, if you remove those from the picture, then you get something like San Francisco in 1906. And this is just one of millions of pictures that were taken of the city at the time.
 And so the level of destruction is nearly complete in that kind of situation when you have a large building stock. This is not just damaging buildings. We're talking about large piles of debris is all you have left. So I think my five minutes are up. Thank you. Can I ask you a question? Yes. Is it Dr. Goldfinger? Yes. Okay. So you mentioned you were in Japan when they had their last major earthquake, and you said at that point the debate was over.
 Am I quoting you? I wanted to ask you if the debate was over in regard to do we need stricter codes or not, or was it some other... Do you mean for here? Yeah.
 I got the impression you were in Japan. They had an earthquake, and I think you said it ended the debate. What debate did it end? Well, so in Japan, up to 2010, they were debating the geology. And geologists were starting to present new information that there were much bigger earthquakes than historically. They'd had 1,000 years of magnitude 8.4 or smaller earthquakes.
 And so the debate was going on. TEPCO, the nuclear power plant operator in the government, were saying, well, this is national policy. This is 8.4. It's all we've ever had. But the geologists found evidence of magnitude 9 earthquakes. And so there was a debate. And essentially the geologists were sort of shouted down in that case and told that their evidence wasn't strong enough and come back later when you publish more evidence and so forth. But obviously the debate ended on that day. And so it wasn't so much a debate about the need for stricter –
 seismic codes or anything like that. It was really more just the probability of that large of an earthquake. Yeah, well that led into the debate about codes because their maximum magnitude was 8.4. And so if you're engineering, as Kent would tell you, for an 8.4 it's a very different thing than engineering for a 9 that might last three times as long. So there was significant debate. And in their case, you know, we're 100, well we're 50 miles inland, but in their case they had nuclear power plants right on the beach.
 And so the size of the tsunami was a very big issue as well. Okay. Thank you. So earthquakes shake all the buildings. So why are we focused on URM buildings? To answer that question, I'd like to introduce Dr. Kent Yu, who's a structural engineer, the former chair of OSPAC, the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Committee, and the lead author of the Oregon Resilience Plan. Welcome. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, commissioners.
 What I want to do is before I start, I'd like to invite you to watch a movie. On the left-hand side, what you see is a modern construction building. On the other side is an unreinforced building. Alright, so what is an unreinforced missionary building? By definition, unreinforced missionary means that there is no reinforcement in the wall.
 And a long time ago, when contracts built on reinforced masonry buildings, what they normally do is they lay down bricks for every five or six courses, and then they turn the brick by 90 degrees and add another layer over there, tie the interior face and exterior face of the wall together, and they repeat the same process all the way to the floor level.
 Once they reach the floor level, what do they do? They create some pockets in the wall so that they can accommodate floor beams. And then they continue the process to the roof, and past the roof level, they stop at the top of the parapets. So generally there is no positive connection between the floor to the wall and between the floor to the wall. Go to Nick.
 So during the earthquake, what happens is that the wall tends to fall away, move away from the building. In order to prevent the wall from falling off, we have to rely on the ties connecting the floor to the wall, connecting the roof to the wall.
 And then once the forces is transferred to the roof and floor, then we are relying on the connection between the roof to the side wall, floor to the side wall, down to the forces to the side walls, and from the side walls we dump the force down to the foundation. So what happens is that during the earthquake, because there is no positive connection between the floor and the wall, and so...
 What you normally see is these walls tend to fall away from the building. On the slide what you see is the 1993 Scotts Mills earthquake. On the top is the Malala High School. The earthquake took place during a spring break. Because at the top of the building we normally see very high acceleration, so the parapets together with the wall on the top level, they just fall away from the building.
 In 2001, I went to the Squally earthquake a few days afterwards. And as you can see, we see the same phenomenon. Essentially, the parapets and the wall on the top level just peel away from the building. And if you happen to be in the building next to one of the buildings, you could get hurt. I also want to show you a few slides we got from Christchurch earthquake. This one is before the earthquake. This one shows after earthquake. This is before the earthquake.
 This is after earthquake. So it is very, very critical to make the positive connection to brace our parapets to tie the roof to the wall. Now, once we tie the wall to the floor level, to the roof level, there is another potential deficiency we have to address. If the wall is too tall, if the wall is too thin, the wall could blow out and collapse on its own.
 This is a photo also taken from Christchurch earthquake. If we put this building in Oregon, in Portland today, how should we brace this building to prevent pulling out failure? We cannot simply tie the roof diaphragm to our exterior wall. We have to make multiple points of connection to prevent pulling out of our end walls here.
 So these red dots represent the location we have to put all these attachments, tie-ins. So over the years, in the United States and in many parts of the world, we have implemented different levels of retrofits. And I want to talk about those retrofit techniques, ideas, and also an associated performance as well.
 First thing you can do is that you simply tie your roof to the exterior wall and also brace the parapet. That helps you prevent the parapet from falling onto the street. However, because the floor is not connected to the wall, so the wall can still blow out and cause the building to collapse.
 So next thing we can do is that to the right is we add additional tie, tie the exterior wall to the floor, and that will help us prevent the wall from blowing out at floor elevation. However, if we have wall too tall or too slender, the wall still can blow out and collapse onto its own.
 Third level, we said well, since the wall can blow out, let's add some strong backs made of steel or timber. So we can prevent the wall from blowing out between two floor levels. This retrofit has clearly addressed many apparent deficiencies in our buildings. But there are many other deficiencies. If we don't address other deficiencies, the buildings still could collapse.
 So this retrofit, as a structural engineer, we don't recognize this as a full blown life safety retrofit. If we want to go
 for life safety retrofit, we have to go to the right-hand side. Essentially, look at the building, look at the building configuration, look at the building condition, look at the quality of construction, look at the stiffness strength distribution over the height of the building. Once we do the analysis, then we can be able to properly retrofit the building so that makes sure the building will perform in a life-safe manner.
 So as I mentioned earlier that unreinforced masonry, if they're not retrofitted, they pose significant life safety risk to the occupants in the building, to the pedestrian on the sidewalk. In addition to that, it also could delay our post-event response recovery and affect our citywide economy as well. So the photo on the left is taken from Napa earthquake. As you can imagine, the building has partially collapsed after the event.
 the area around the building was cordoned off. The distance between the yellow tape and the face of the building is roughly about one-half times of the building height. Until we put an emergency shoring or demolition in place, we cannot get close to the building. So if we have max line, if we have a broken water pipe, if we have downed power lines, we cannot go there to restore those utilities.
 So that is a major concern for us. Because of those concerns, the Oregon Resilience Plan published in 2013, we identified unreinforced masonry as the single most dangerous type of building in our society. We must take aggressive measures to address the threat to our society, not only from a life safety point of view, but also for the post-disaster response and recovery point of view.
 So in conclusion, as a structural engineer, we strongly support we need to take positive action, aggressively address the threat to our community to protect our people and to protect our community. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 Thanks. So early in our work, the Bureau of Development Services undertook a comprehensive update of our URM building inventory, and we feel that we now have a robust accounting of all our URM buildings. There are about 1,650 of them in the city, not including single-family homes.
 More than 85% are commercial buildings, offices, warehouses, retail. And there are also about 7,200 residential units in URMs. About 1,800 of these are publicly financed affordable housing. The city itself owns about 40 URMs from Union Station to the Kenilwork-Parth restrooms. The average URM is nearly 90 years old, and more than 550 of them have some type of historic designation.
 More than half of URM buildings, fortunately, are just one story. The complete URM inventory is available on PortlandMaps.com. URM buildings were constructed between about 1860 and 1960, so they're clustered around historic main streets and town centers. The Northwest District is the neighborhood with the most URMs. That's followed by Buckman, Downtown, and Old Town Chinatown.
 This knowledge of our earthquake risk and the special risks that you are imposed in Portland are what led the City Council to direct the Bureau of Emergency Management, Prosper Portland, and BDS to initiate this effort in May of 2014. We developed a phased project that reflected a commitment to do work fundamentally based in good science and best practices in the development profession.
 So we designed a process that started with a technical committee that was charged with providing recommendations on retrofit standards, then a support committee to develop financial options, and finally a policy committee that was intended as a sort of conference committee that would knit together the recommendations of both groups into a coherent program to address this issue.
 The policy committee included members of both the financial and technical committees, as well as stakeholders representing schools, churches, affordable housing, and historic preservation interests. The committee was intended to meet for about six months, but ended up meeting for nearly two years.
 And again, a reason we owe a special debt of gratitude to these volunteers, who worked on a consensus basis to make their recommendations. They organized their own subcommittees on affordable housing and not-for-profits and historic buildings, and they hosted open house events for both tenants and building owners, and they invited and received a great deal of public testimony at every meeting. Their work also generated significant media interest, and staff took the committee's work on the road, presenting at more than 20 different community venues.
 Something you know if you came to one of our presentations is the fact that URM retrofits work. This is a URM building in Paso Robles, California. It was destroyed in the 6.5 San Simeon earthquake in 2003. It's the Acorn building. The building collapsed and two people inside were killed. This is a retailed store three doors down on the same street. It's also a URM building, but it was retrofitted a few years before. It sustained minor damage and it was able to reopen the same week.
 Retrofits, like Julia's gifts, just aren't happening in Portland right now. Here, the code says a partial retrofit is required when you replace more than half the roof. You have to brace the parapets and tie the wall to the roof. That's good because it protects passersby from architectural elements that could fall off and hurt people on the sidewalk, even with light shaking. But it doesn't protect people inside the building from a stronger earthquake. That kind of retrofit to a life safety standard,
 It just happens when there's a major renovation or a change of use. The building goes from warehouse to lofts or a historic hotel gets totally renovated. Since 1994, only 5% of URM buildings have been retrofitted to that standard. Based on this information and a review of retrofit programs in other cities, the committee concluded that Portland's current code is not sufficiently effective and that in general, passive triggers and incentive programs alone are not sufficient to address our risk.
 They recommend that all Portland URMs be retrofitted to improve safety to a standard that is appropriate to the building's use, the number of people inside, and the purpose it is expected to serve both before and after the earthquake. Towards this end, the committee designated four classes of URM buildings, from fire stations to storage sheds.
 The categories themselves were not very difficult to agree on, but the level of retrofit appropriate to each category was the subject of debate for over a year within the committee. To understand the tradeoffs of risk and cost inherent in the choice, we need to see what actually happens when we retrofit a URM. So here we go. We're looking at a section of a wall through a URM building, and I'm describing a typical retrofit to the American Society of Civil Engineers standards. It has these key elements.
 First we brace the parapets. That's what we talked about. It's already required by code. This is what keeps them from falling off. Next we tie the walls to the floor. Again, this is required in the current code and it can be as simple as it sounds. It's a bolt and some glue.
 Then we strengthen the roof diaphragm. Now this sounds a lot more complicated, but think about it this way. URM buildings are old. They were made before plywood was invented. So the roof is just boards nailed to the rafters, nailed to the beams. All those different pieces of wood nailed together 50 years ago can move independently in an earthquake. That's no good. So we make sure they're tied together, and then we cover the whole thing with plywood so they move as one unit during an earthquake.
 That means they can shore up the rest of the building. Next, we attach the wall to the floor. That's like attaching the wall to the roof. Next, we do the out-of-plane wall bracing. This is what Kent was describing with the strong backs, where we prevent the wall from moving out-of-plane and falling out or into the building during an earthquake. And finally, we do other upgrades that could be required. This includes cross-bracing, strengthening the foundation, or resheathing the interior floors, the same as we did on the roof.
 So those are the steps of a URM retrofit. When we do a retrofit, we do all those steps to meet a performance standard. That's a level of performance we want to see in the building during an earthquake. The American Society of Civil Engineers recognizes four performance standards. The highest is immediate occupancy. This is where you want your hospitals. The next is damage control. This is a building that can be repaired and reoccupied fairly quickly.
 The next standard is life safety. This is the current standard for existing buildings that are new construction or retrofit of a URM building. If you're in a life safety building during an earthquake you should duck, cover, and hold on. Then you should be able to exit the building safely but it may not be repairable so you may never go back inside. Finally the lowest standard is collapse prevention. You can't build a new building just to meet collapse prevention standards but with an old building you can retrofit it so that
 It may be badly damaged, you may not be totally safe inside, but it isn't expected to come down all at once. The policy group agreed pretty early on that critical buildings should be retrofitted to immediate occupancy. Then schools and community centers that would be essential to earthquake recovery when we're trying to provide relief to citizens and get back to normal life go to damage control.
 They initially looked to have most other buildings meet something like a life safety light standard because that's what's been used in California and that's what's been proposed in Seattle. This is a price that really gave building owners sticker shock because it can still cost a lot to perform all the steps that I just described. Thank you.
 That's why in the course of their deliberations, the policy committee eventually reached the consensus that life safety was just too costly for most building owners given the resources available. While they felt that this should continue to be a long-term goal for the city, they listened to building owners and honored a commitment to collaborate with each other.
 So they had to invent a new level of retrofit that was appropriate to the amount of resources available. This standard is not a performance standard that's recognized by the American Society of Civil Engineers. It's not a performance level at all, where buildings set a performance goal and then do whatever it takes to achieve it. Rather, it's a prescriptive standard where all building owners follow the same steps to reduce the likelihood of collapse, regardless of the design of their particular building.
 So to be really clear, some buildings retrofitted to the collapse risk reduction standard might still collapse. But it's a lot less likely, and doing the retrofit is a lot cheaper, and the costs are more predictable. So what's in the collapse risk reduction standard? Okay.
 Well, we keep the parapet bracing, which is already required by code. We keep attaching the wall to the roof, which is also required by code. We also keep the diaphragm strengthening. This technically is not required in the current code, but when building owners do a re-roof of a historic building, they generally will always do this because you need a level, flat substrate to adhere your new roof to. If you don't do this, you can't get a warranty on the roof. So we're seeing a lot of resheathing of old buildings already.
 D, attach the wall to the floor, is the one element that's not commonly being completed that we propose to add. The out-of-plane wall bracing goes away. This can be important for some buildings, but it's also really disruptive to do the work because you have to strip out everything inside the building, the cabinets, the wall finishes, the paint, to get down to the wall and apply those strong backs. So we said, okay, we're going to let that go.
 And similarly, we let go of all the other upgrades that would be required. Those are the things like cross-bracing, strengthening the foundation. Those can be important for some buildings, particularly buildings that either have a weak first story, so they have a lot of windows and openings and they're prone to twisting during an earthquake, or buildings that are irregularly shaped, like an H or an L-shaped building that has uneven forces acting on it. Those are...
 retrofits can be important, but they also are unpredictable in their cost because when you dig into an old building you can find a lot of other work you need to do. So we took them out. Okay, so now that the retrofit standards are hopefully matched in our minds to the work we actually do on a building, here they are again matched with the building class and the number of buildings in each class. This is the hard part. We're almost, we're like halfway through.
 Now I'm going to talk about timeline and cost. First a word about cost. So the committee spent a lot of time trying to figure out how much it costs to actually retrofit a building to different standards. And they were mostly totally frustrated in this effort because seismic retrofits are almost always done as part of a larger project. So if you're doing a major remodel and you're having all your tenants move out, you're hiring a contractor and an architect, you're pulling permits, you're getting a loan, you're doing all this work,
 then that's a time that it makes sense to do the work. But if you're doing it as a standalone project, it's hard to figure out how much it would cost to do just that.
 We did find a few examples of these case studies in Portland. So we looked at them, we averaged them, and then we compared them to numbers published by FEMA for a national average for cost of URM retrofitting. And what we saw is that they mostly matched up. So the numbers I'm showing you here are from FEMA. And what they say to do a retrofit to immediate occupancy for those six Class I critical buildings, we expect to cost between $70 a square foot. That's just the hard costs.
 up to $110 if we put in a contingency and some soft costs and relocation attendance. And we've agreed that 10 years is a reasonable amount of time to complete those steps for those six buildings. For Class 2, those schools and community centers that we think should get to damage control, the committee agreed on 10 years to brace the parapets and do the interventions required by current code, and then another 10 years to get to a full retrofit. And again, the cost estimates I'm showing there between $48 and $81 a square foot come from FEMA.
 Alright, for Class III buildings, the committee agreed that 10 years to meet the current code and another five to do the wall-floor ties was reasonable. To be clear, these are still much longer timelines than were used in other mandatory retrofit programs in California, but it's another area where the committee was working to accommodate the concerns of building owners and recognize the limited resources that are available to them. They also felt that this level of retrofit, although novel, was the correct minimum given the resources available.
 And how much do we estimate it would cost? $11 a square foot if you do it when you re-roof the building. How do we come up with this number? After the committee made the recommendation, Prosper Portland and the Bureau of Development Services selected a representative sample of URM buildings, 20 across the city. They produced standard details for the retrofit we've proposed and they asked a professional construction cost estimator to tell them how much it would cost to do the work. What we saw is that number one, re-roofing a building is really expensive.
 Next, the existing code requirements are adding already incrementally to that cost, about $4 a square foot. Next, if we require everyone to do the sheathing, it'll cost $8 or $9 a square foot more to do the roof. Again, that's a cost many people are already incurring because it improves the quality of the re-roofing job.
 And then doing the wall-to-floor attachments, which is only required if you have a building that's two or more stories, would cost between $3 and $5 per square foot additional. So on average, meeting this requirement would add $11 per square foot to do the work. And then finally, those 200 URM garages and storage sheds. We recommend they have 10 years to comply with the current code, and it shouldn't cost anything extra because it's the code that's already in place.
 The committee also recommended strengthening triggers in the current code to make it harder for property owners to avoid doing upgrades when they are already re-roofing or doing a major remodeling project. So we're not proposing to change the standards here, we're just lengthening the timelines in which the cost or the coverage of the project is considered. Thank you.
 It was also very important to the committee that the code be implemented in a fair way. And that starts with property owners being given adequate notice and a free opportunity to appeal their building's designation as a URM if they think it was done incorrectly. It's also important for building owners who have newer roofs, who have life left in their roof, to be able to apply for a timeline extension until it makes sense to replace the roof. Because when you do the parapet bracing and other things, you've got to pull it off or poke holes in it, and that means you're losing your warranty.
 Based on input from the committee, the city also commissioned a cost-benefit study from an independent economist. This study was completed about halfway through our process when we were still looking to implement a life safety standard. So that's the one that gave a lot of building owners sticker shock. But even looking at these high costs, what we saw is that the cost outweighs the benefit by a good ratio.
 and that the ratio went up as the retrofit standard went down. So we expect that if we repeated this study now with our simplified standard, that the cost-benefit ratio would be even higher. Again, this was a study that just looked at the most tangible costs. We looked at how much it costs to permit the work and do it versus avoid the damage, injury, and deaths. We didn't try to count anything like historic character or quality of the neighborhood or even the
 benefit to the local economy of hiring people to do this work, which could be significant. To be fair, we also weren't able to calculate the value of lost rents, which could also be significant. But we see this as being a good study, and also what it tells us is that what we're buying here is mostly lives and human suffering, because 55% of the calculated economic benefit is avoided death and injury.
 The committee recognized early on that the ownership structure and financial position of building owners can vary greatly. There are large property management companies, there are small investors, there are family businesses. They have different access to capital, they have different amounts of equity, they have different tolerance for risk. So a variety of financial supports is needed to make this work happen. The list I'm showing here represents concepts that the committee found were both financially feasible for the public to support and would have significant value to owners.
 The first one mentioned is Seismic Seapace, which is being rebranded as PropertyFit, but it's a financing tool. So it's a lien structure that can be used for improvements to private property that provide a level of public benefit. It's a financing mechanism. It's not free money, but it doesn't require an upfront investment, and it transfers upon sale. So it can have value for a lot of property owners if they have cash flow to support doing the work over time.
 SB 311 is money. It's a property tax exemption for up to 15 years on the value of the building to offset the cost of seismic improvements. Many members of the Urban Policy Committee and staff traveled to Salem to lobby on behalf of this legislation last year, and we were really happy to see it passed.
 This state authorizing legislation allows us to implement the program locally, so the next step is to work with Portland Public Schools, Multnomah County, and other people that receive tax receipts in our jurisdiction to set up a program that can work here. And that's a recommended next step for the staff.
 Is there any pushback from those jurisdictions to doing that? We briefed Portland Public Schools Legislative Advocacy Committee about it and our colleagues in Emergency Management in Multnomah County. They certainly wouldn't want to agree to a program which has cost to them without having a longer discussion. But they're currently working on a Brownfields tax exemption that this was modeled after in those programs.
 negotiations have been progressing and it seems like they're going to agree to something, I think Portland Public Schools definitely sees the nexus between protecting students at school and at home. So I'm hopeful that we could reach an agreement on this, yeah. The other two items that have a legislative component are the State Historic Tax Credit and the Seismic Tax Credit. The State Historic Tax Credit came forward in 2014 and it didn't pass but we'd like to try again. It already exists in 38 other states and it's been valuable for property owners and retrofitting.
 Similarly, a seismic tax credit. We think this is novel. Other states haven't implemented it yet, but it seems like there is a public value in many jurisdictions in Oregon to promote seismic retrofits, and so we think this could have legs, and we'd like to take it to Salem. Thank you.
 We also think it's important to recognize there are some folks that don't benefit from a property tax exemption, like not-for-profits, and that may have barriers to getting commercial financing. The city could establish a capital pool that could provide things like revolving loan fund or an interest rate buy-down and that would make money available for folks to do that. We'd like to figure out how to fund that pool and how we would administer it and bring a program back to city council to look at.
 And then finally, it was an important recommendation of the committee that property owners know that they have advocates they can come to, both at the Bureau of Development Services and at Prosper Portland. So staff people that understand URMs, that know the codes, and also know the resources that are available to people. And it's our recommendation that we develop a proposal to do that and bring it back.
 So, these are the recommendations from the committee. I'd like to thank them again for their commitment to work on this contentious issue. And at this time, I'd also like to know that I think we owe sincere thanks to the folks we might call our local opposition. I mean, on behalf of myself and the policy committee, it was obvious that they demonstrated
 really intelligence and commitment to this issue and they came to all our meetings, they challenged our work and they changed it and they made it better. So we really recommend moving forward on these committee recommendations. I'd also like to show you two staff recommendations, both of which are related to public notification.
 The committee recommended that the city promote a state law to require all URM owners to notify tenants of a building's URM status. Staff feels like we need to explore further to see whether a statewide law would be feasible, but it's possible to move it forward with a local ordinance now and we support doing that.
 It supports the public right to know. It lets people make informed decisions in their own interests. It could spark some good conversations about what to actually do in an earthquake. And we also saw that at our tenant open house, the majority of people who came did not know that they lived in the URM until after they signed the lease. So we don't have something like that in place right now or the county? Nope. We have it with lead and other things, but not for URMs.
 The other recommendation is related to placarding. Placarding comes back to the fact that 85% of URM buildings are commercial buildings, so the people inside are employees, they're students, they're shoppers, and they'll never look at the lease. This placard also supports a public right to know, encourages that conversation about safety, and lets people just make their own decisions.
 This is an example of a placard in California where these notices are common because they're required by state law. There's some evidence that this has increased the rate of voluntary URM retrofits, and there's been no data demonstrating it harmed building owners. The signs are very widespread. All right, that was a lot. I'm almost done. I'd like to review the resolution before you right now, which is to direct staff to return to council within a year with changes to the building code to implement the mandatory seismic retrofit program I've described,
 to work with Multnomah County, Portland Public Schools, and others to implement the property tax exemption for URM building retrofits, to develop the proposal for the revolving loan fund, to develop a program of staff to assist unreinforced masonry building owners, for the city to assess its own URM buildings, the cost to retrofit them, and really to develop a strategy about how we would approach that, and to have a legislative agenda around historic and seismic tax credits.
 We also can bring forward, not necessarily yoke to those, the proposal for placarding and for disclosing the URM status to renters. All right. Are those in the proposed resolution, Mayor? Those two steps? They are. They are in the proposed resolution. So that concludes the staff presentation. But before I finish, I would just like to introduce two other people who have been important stakeholders in this discussion. And the first is Portland Fire Chief Mike Myers.
 Fire is an important public safety partner for our bureau in terms of our neighborhood emergency team training and in other efforts to assist Portlanders after a national disaster. Welcome, Chief. Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I'm Mike Myers, Fire Chief for the City of Portland, and thank you for your time today. I have a brief statement about unreinforced masonry buildings to read for the record. Speaking from a fire perspective, URM buildings pose a significant public safety risk
 When the ground shakes during an earthquake, these buildings are known to partially or completely collapse, resulting in deaths and injuries and endangering first responders and volunteer rescuers. Even in recent moderate quakes along the West Coast, such as the Squally in Washington State in 2001 and Napa in California in 2014, URM buildings suffered the most damage.
 Following a major Cascadia earthquake, we expect PF&R's response will be at a level without precedent in the city's history, immediately involving all of our resources and those of our partner agencies around the region. We also expect getting around the city will be difficult because of debris in the roadways, from buildings, bridges, and other damaged infrastructure. Collapsed buildings may yield a fire danger and require response from PF&R. We will need to search all of them. And at the same time, the demand for our regular services will continue. Thank you.
 In addition to saving lives and reducing injuries, actions we take now will lessen the need to rescue people trapped in URM buildings. Our first responders will take action without hesitation. The search and rescue following a quake comes at great risk to rescuers, especially from aftershocks causing more damage. There is also a danger to neighborhood emergency team volunteers and other members of the public attempting to rescue people from the debris. We know Portland will experience an earthquake at some point in the future.
 Each retrofitted URM building lessens the potential harm this quake will cause to the community and increases our community's disaster resilience. They will reduce the chance of deaths and injuries, lessen the amount of debris in the roadways, and lower the number of calls we need to respond to. I appreciate that you are taking this issue on, and thank you for having me here today. Thanks, Chief.
 Thank you, Chief. Thank you. I'd now like to introduce Margaret Mahoney, the Chair of the Policy Committee, together with Brian Emmerich, who served on the Technical Standards Committee and the Policy Committee, and Walt McMoneys, who served on the Financial Support Committee and the Policy Committee. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Mayor Wheeler, members of the Council, I'm Margaret Mahoney, and I served as the Chairperson of the Policy Advisory Committee. With me, as Jonna noted, are Brian Emmerich and Walt McMoneys.
 who represent not just the policy committee, but Brian served on the technical committee as well and served eight and a half years on the Landmarks Commission for the City of Portland. Walt served on the policy committee and the resources committee or support committee. We gave a couple of different names. And is also a member of OSPAC as well as the committee that recommends distribution of funds to schools from the state seismic fund.
 I have prepared comments, but you've had a long afternoon already, and you've got more time to go, so I just want to emphasize a few points. Jonna did an excellent job describing the work of the committee and the struggles we had, and I really appreciate her and all of the staff in the three bureaus who worked on this. They never protested when we sent them back after a meeting with requests for more research. Faithfully brought it back.
 Um, clearly the, uh, the reason I think that it took us longer than initially anticipated, two reasons. One was the job was bigger than anticipated, I think, by the staff initially. The other was that the committee really struggled with this balance of public safety and financial impact. And we spent a lot of time on it. And I think we got to a pretty good consensus about
 We did spend some time in that period also talking about affordable housing, the city's commitment to affordable housing and the fact that it houses many of our most vulnerable residents. We talked about extending time for retrofits for affordable housing and concluded not to do that. But two members of the committee...
 Javier from PHB and Sean Hebert from Central City Concern did commit to the committee that the Portland Housing Bureau could look at what the requirements would be to address that housing stock and what would happen over time with the resources reasonably available. So I'm hopeful they'll come forward with that. We also spent some time specifically talking to Portland Public Schools and had a member of our committee from the school district staff discuss
 We agonized over that as well, given that schools not only house our children during the day and during recreational activities, but they also serve as gathering points theoretically during disasters. We felt that it is necessary for the schools to be brought up to a good retrofit standard.
 but felt that at least they had the benefit of the existing seismic funding source from the state, inadequate as it is, but also the potential for voters in Portland who think this may be an important thing to spend money on could look at a local option. And in fact, the current local option levies are doing some of the seismic work in some of the schools.
 Our biggest concern was the Class III buildings. It's the largest segment of our URMs, roughly 85% of the stock, quite a bit of it residential, other parts office. And as Jonna noted, people in them that may not realize what they're working or living in. We felt finally that the standard that we came up with,
 The collapse risk reduction one was the best one we could get to with the resources that were currently available. I think at various meetings we agonized that it should be a higher standard, but with the resources couldn't get there. So we strongly urge the council to put your political support, both personal and collective, and your staff resources towards pushing for additional incentives.
 at the state, particularly the seismic tax credit and the historic tax credit. And I think, you know, as you drive south from Portland or east from Portland, you'll see lots of signs advertising historic downtown districts.
 They're historic because they have URMs. So with your leadership, I think you can bring a lot of mayors along to make this a statewide issue. Chair Mahoney, if I could just jump in on that point and give you the answer and the affirmative. We're focusing on Portland, but this is not a Portland-centric issue. There's an interest at the state level in this as well. So you have my word that I'm interested in pursuing that. Thank you.
 I think of that every time I pass these signs as I'm driving around. As I said, I spent 19 years with the Bureau, and it was originally the Bureau of Buildings, then the Office of Planning and Development Review, and then the Bureau of Development Services. I led the effort in 1993 that resulted in the adoption of City Code 2485.
 which is the voluntary seismic upgrading. We had hoped to be at this point in 1993. How many years ago is that now? Too many. So I'm glad that you're here today, and I was really pleased to hear the opening comments and support for addressing the public safety. I did have a chance to look at a revised resolution
 that I think you may be considering, although there may be other ones. And the one that I reviewed expressed support for the proposals, but called out wall ties as something not to go forward with at this point.
 I would urge you not to do that. I think those are really critical to preventing collapse. Clearly, there are still lots of questions to be answered, but I would urge you not to take that off the table at this point. Chair Mahoney, if I could, because that is my amendment, I want to be very clear. We have to work in that direction. I just think there's more work to do in terms of the financing and the incentives on that piece. And we're getting a lot of...
 conversation from the community saying we're not ready. So you've worked on this four years. I'm prepared to take that piece out and refine it over the course of the next year and bring it back. But I want you to know we're not deep-sixing it by any stretch of the imagination. I just think we need to work on that a little bit more, specifically regarding incentives and financing models. I appreciate that. Thank you. I want to offer you...
 a little prayer that I said most days when I was in the job, and that is, I sure hope an earthquake doesn't happen on my watch. I offer you good wishes in following through on this and hope that you're as lucky as I was. Thank you for your time. Thank you for your leadership. We appreciate it.
 Thank you, Margaret, Mr. Mayor, and commissioners. I appreciate the time and consideration being given to this important issue. Again, I'm Brian Emmerich. I served on both the technical committee and then most recently on the policy committee. I'm representing the technical committee if you guys have any questions on those recommendations. Also, as Margaret mentioned, I served over eight years on the Portland Historic Landmarks Commission and was chair when this endeavor kicked off about four years ago now.
 My firm, Emmerich Architects, also has about two decades of experience working on historic buildings, including mini seismic upgrades. And as the lone architect on the technical committee surrounded by engineers, no offense to those in Amit, I knew at the time that those requirements, the recommended standards, were going to be really hard to get to implementation based on working with a lot of private development and property owners. It's a big ask, and it's expensive. Yeah.
 And I also know that you're going to hear a lot of testimony today from property owners of the Type 3 buildings that say the policy recommendations are too severe. And that if they're adopted, it's going to lead to bankruptcy of the small mom and pop owners and demolition of historic resources.
 And I've spent more hours than I can count delving deep into this issue over the last three years. If I believed that was going to happen, I wouldn't be here fully supporting the recommendations of the committee right now. And to be fair, I think the original recommendations coming out of the technical committee were much more severe, and a lot of the cost estimates that I've seen presented by the private committee
 property owners represent that higher standard. We've really worked hard and I fought hard to actually help roll back those technical requirements to get to something that was reasonably achievable with the funding that we were getting, you know, and what tools we had that were available.
 So I know what we've ended up with isn't enough. We need to go further. But there's urgency to take action now, actually, and kind of get on that test track transform process so that we can get this ball rolling and then add to the tools and hopefully the requirements as we go forward, too, to make things safer.
 So, and I would just second what Margaret said about the wall to floor tie is really important. You know, basically 85% of the buildings fall into that type three category and the roof upgrades are already required. So if we take that off the table, we're essentially providing.
 proposing no upgrades to those. And in the studies, I encourage you guys to dig into the Prosper Portland cost estimates because I also looked at that as well independently with our firm and found that really in a lot of cases what we saw was that the House Bill SB311, if implemented, and I've urged these actually wouldn't go forward until that is implemented, would actually offset the cost pretty much fully in a lot of cases of that estimate.
 ask for getting the wall tie in. That's the low-hanging fruit. Every engineer will tell you that if you had one extra thing to add, that would be it. And what was the timeline that the policy committee recommended?
 For the wall-to-floor tie? It was 15 years. 15 years. And that's one thing, too, I think, and that's why I say the test track transform is this isn't happening tomorrow. I think if you're finding that you're getting a feedback loop from property owners that this is not achievable and here's the data supporting it, there's going to be time to have that conversation still at council. But we need to kind of get something moving, though, so we can get that data in. Yeah, and just to be clear, and I probably sound like a broken record –
 We're in agreement on that, that we need to move forward. I'm just not convinced that we're there today on that piece. There's a lot of supposals here around revolving loan funds, around grant funds, around SB 311. I agree.
 I would like to actually have a fully cooked proposal come back to the city council. But philosophically, in terms of where we need to go, I think we're in agreement. We may just be disagreeing about an additional year here. That makes sense. So consider us within 20%. You've been at it for four years. I'm proposing on that piece to extend it one more year. Fair enough. So, Mayor, you're suggesting that that issue not be looked at by the committee that's being set up
 Through your resolution? No, I think it should be. But not to come back within one year? Yes, to come back. Yes, to come back. To come back one year with a proposal on wall-to-floor? And specific financing strategy. Let me ask you, Ben. I want to hear from Walt, too, although I've met with him a couple times. I like my IQ in this issue has gone up dramatically because of the time I've spent with him. My understanding of the issue has gone up dramatically. Okay.
 So some might argue that with respect to Class III and Class IV buildings, that we're putting the cart before the horse here and that we might want to take a look at what are the flaws in the 1995 law. And I know you've identified some of them, including the fact that permits were bundled and there was a lack of enforcement and other things. It explains the fairly anemic results.
 So some might argue that before you impose a mandate that potentially has significant costs and could lead to demolitions and other unintended consequences, that we'd first strengthen the existing law and see whether that accomplishes the goal that we have for Class III and Class IV abilities. What's your view on that?
 Well, my view is that that's basically Title 2485 that Margaret referenced, and that's basically an active trigger legislation. So that's the most common thing we experience as architects working on adaptive reuse in historic buildings. You own a warehouse, you want to make a creative office, you're adding occupants in there, there's the trigger for a full upgrade or a partial upgrade. So what we're really talking about –
 And so we are seeing that working for those types of buildings. And that does work in areas like, say, the Pearl District, where the finances of the pro forma support that amount of investment because you get the rental rates on the back end. It's harder to pull that offset out on Southeast Foster or something where you just don't have the rental rates.
 What we're talking about with this is really, so there's two parts to that, Commissioner Fish. The first one is closing the loopholes on the roof upgrades because that is in Title 2485 that when you replace a roof, the intent was to do the roof upgrade. However, the way the code reads is like if you only take off half of it now and do the other half in 10 years, you can kind of skirt around this.
 And I don't think that BDS was actually enforcing it, to be fair also to property owners. They just weren't even aware that was in their legislation. So that piece is already really in there. The only piece that we're talking about adding is a passive trigger for a building owner that's never making a change, so there's no reason for them to come in for a permit that would trigger a 2485 requirement. And that would be then tying that floor to the wall or perhaps going further if we do have additional funding tools. Okay, I appreciate the explanation. Thank you. Yep.
 And just to be clear, the amendment, the second paragraph of the amendment seeks to explicitly strengthen that code, and it directs the bureaus to come back within a six-month time frame with the strengthened code. Yeah. That's right. Oh, should I jump in a little bit? Yeah, hi. Walt McMoneys. My claim to fame is that I own a couple of URM buildings, and I actually managed to upgrade one to life safety standards.
 out of my own pocket. I mean, my pocket is much less heavy than it was before. But I did manage to do it. And I think maybe the most useful thing is to give an example of how I was able to do it. It was uniquely easier for me because I had a portfolio of buildings so that I had cash flow I could take off one building to apply to the building I was retrofitting. I had a historic status on my building, so that allowed me to get the 20%.
 federal rehabilitation tax credit, which when you spend $1 million doing a renovation, that means I get $220,000 of tax offset. Also, I have the special assessment freeze under 458, which is the so-called historic freeze, which locks the assessed value of your property. It's somewhat analogous to Measure 50, but it's better for a historic owner because it goes for 10 years and then it's renewable for 10 more, although they do bump up the value.
 but with that thing we were able to hold this building which is probably a 12 million dollar building now we were able to hold the the value to 600 000 for the first 10 years so we were shoveling money into our pockets but we were saving it up to do things like seismic upgrades so that was a really wonderful program which is somewhat i think it's probably going to be sunsetted but it was a really good program because it did give you unlike unlike measure 50
 the money you put into the property didn't raise your assessed value. It stayed level no matter what you did to it. I mean, not what you did to it, but anything reasonable you did to it, it wouldn't affect your assessed value. So those were some incentives that really helped me. Now, a lot of the people who own these buildings do not have historic status for them, although I think many of them would qualify if they wanted to. Then the basic economics of it are the cost of the seismic upgrade on that building was $1.1 million, which turned out to be $23 a square foot. It's a 46,000-square-foot building.
 We figured that we would get a payback as follows. We saved $10,000 a year in insurance premium by having a seismically secure building that the insurance company was not going to charge us a high premium for because they said, gee, you've done things to it. It's not going to fall down. The insurance claim isn't going to be so high, so we'll reduce your insurance costs by $10,000 a year. We also got more favorable financing on a refinance because we would qualify for Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac
 which is significantly better financing. And on that alone, we probably saved $20,000 per year versus a higher-cost loan. And then we were able to... And this is the hard thing, because people don't really know your building is seismically safe. But we proformed $100 to $150 a month more in rent from the units because people who appreciated the safety of our building would be willing to pay that increment in value. So that gave us...
 And then you can throw in the $220,000 of ITC investment tax credit.
 So we were – I haven't really factored that into this calculation, but we were getting $73,000 of savings from the market, basically from cheaper insurance, from cheaper loan fees, and higher rental rate. That's a 15-year payback from $100 million. When you throw in the historic tax credit, that's $100 million.
 tax credit that makes it a 12-year payback. Typically, an apartment owner or commercial property owner would not enter into any kind of transaction that had a payback much worse than 10 years. Anyway, that's what happened with us. It's not something that everybody else can do because our building didn't have to do diaphragm strengthening for the floors because we had old growth
 cross timbers that were extremely strong, stronger than plywood, believe it or not. So we saved a lot of money there, and we also had a very efficient management company, and we had a tremendous architect who sort of thinks outside the box. We, for instance, drilled cores from top to bottom in the walls, and we were able to strengthen our walls by dropping rebar and concrete into those cores.
 And that's something they've only done at the train station and at Crystal Ballroom, I think. So we're a little bit cutting edge there. But anyway, it's very tough sledding to finance a seismic upgrade. It's theoretically possible if you're nutty about your building and you have money to throw around. But it's these people who the mom and pops definitely need help.
 They can't do it on their own. Walt, can I ask you the hard question based on the general pro forma that you just gave us? Assume for a moment you are a mom and pop, so you don't have the benefit of the cash flow from portfolio properties. Sure.
 and assume that the tax credit approach is not as helpful to you because you actually have to come up with the capital to make the – You have to front the capital, yeah, definitely. You need the capital, so a tax credit is obviously less valuable. Does the fact that the resolution now, as drafted, declares an intent to establish a mandate without –
 a viable mechanism to offset the costs for a certain class of owners, does that fatally undercut your ability as the mom and pop to get refinancing? Yes.
 Well, yeah, the mom-and-pop situation is really distinct from mine because – I was assuming – I wanted you to pretend for a second you were the mom-and-pop. Yeah, I think it would be really – put them in a tough position. Now, personally, after the policy committee is over, a group of us who have worked on the policy committee are committed to help the mom-and-pops. And I don't mean necessarily by giving them money, but I'm happy to be a resource on how to apply for tax credits, how to do this, how to do that.
 You know, they're going to need all the help they can get. We're talking in here about an ombudsman or a navigator to assist. But, again, I think this is somewhat of a leading question because it came out of our discussion. For someone who owns a single property and not a portfolio, doesn't have the benefit of cash flow, and maybe the same experience that you have,
 Does the fact that the city is potentially declaring a mandate without having the package of tools to help offset the cost potentially make it extremely difficult for that owner to refinance every, you know, in the next four or five years? Oh, definitely. Absolutely.
 But my assumption is that the city is going to come through with significant – I mean, SB 311 is a great provision, and hopefully you can get the county and the school district on board on that one to allow you to give it. But that's a very valuable benefit. It would help the mom and pops as much as the big boys. Right. Well, Commissioner, I think the CPACE now –
 property fit program and the revolving loan fund were two ideas out of prosper portland to assist owners who are facing financing uh availability issues yeah so i because i went off my written comments i want to add one thing that um
 occurred to me after we finished our work, and that is I think part of the research, particularly maybe by Prosper Portland staff, could be also looking at whether the tax bill that was passed last December might offer additional benefits for owners in terms of accelerated depreciation or some other accounting provisions. Thank you. Good thoughts. So I just wanted to ask a couple questions, maybe all three of you.
 So do you believe, well, you just kind of alluded to, you felt that Senate Bill 311 along with the CPAP or C-SPACE. CPACE. C-SPACE and the revolving loan fund. I mean, do you feel those are sufficient economic tools right there? They aren't sufficient by themselves coupled with a historic tax credit or an equivalent state tax credit for seismic expenditures. Yeah, they would help a lot. I mean, you know, it depends so much.
 What's your tax bill? I have a building that I pay over $100,000 a year in property taxes on, and I did do a seismic upgrade to that building. It wasn't a URM, but I seismically upgraded it anyway. It would allow me to... The lenders, Frannie Mae, Freddie Mac, they won't make a loan to you unless you're rated a 20 or better, which is...
 in a 50-year life, what percentage of your replacement value is the max that you would call on in a catastrophe? And if you get down to 20, then they'll loan to you. But to be clear, though, you're talking about pretty much a full life safety upgrade to your building. That's a way different standard than what we're talking about. I mean, we're talking about $11 a square foot on the PDC. But, for instance, on the other building where we did just the $700,000, you know, tying the facade and doing the parapet walls and so on, on that one –
 Because our taxes exceed $100,000 a year, if we did qualify for the SB 311, which we wouldn't because we've already done it, we would have been able to get as much as $100,000 a year against the cost of – because basically you let us basically offset against all your property taxes on that building. I could have gotten $700,000 worth of rebate. Okay. Just one last question. And, you know, we're sitting up here as elected representatives of some 600,000 people.
 And we're going to hear a lot of testimony from property owners, mom and pops, bigger property owners, that are going to say for the large part, don't do this. The impact is too great. Now is not the time. Where does our obligation lie? Does it lie to the life safety of the 600,000 residents? And perhaps some mom and pop owners are not going to be able to swing it financially. And that we should hold everything up until we can assure that the smallest mom and pop owner will not be adversely affected by this. Thank you.
 Or do we go with the standards this policy committee spent four years on, which are a middle road, in my opinion?
 I think that's a great question, and I also think that more than even just – and as important as the lives are, one of the things we're talking about is also the regional – Portland's the regional cultural center. And these buildings are the there-there of these cultural centers because they're the oldest buildings in the city, and it's a huge amount of urban fabric. And the last thing we want to do is lose these buildings in a seismic event because we haven't been going around and strengthening them.
 It's equally or more important, obviously, for the lives, but I think there's a huge cultural aspect to be weighed as well. And I would agree. I'm glad I'm not in your seats. We debated this quite a bit. There's clearly a public benefit and a private benefit.
 But how much are they? We had the cost-benefit study done, and I think the answer to that question is really an artful answer. There's some good resources now with Senate Bill 311. I think, personally, you can get started, and you've got a legislative session coming up. The first thing that owners have to do is really analyze their buildings. So you could stagger improvements over time based on getting more buildings.
 resources available. Commissioner Udaly, did you have a question? I do. Okay. And then what I'd like to do is have us put amendments on the table and get to the main show, which is public testimony. John, I have a question about CPACE. So I was happy to see seismic upgrades added to that program. However, it's my understanding that we haven't or there hasn't been a
 C-PACE loan issued for seismic upgrades, and that that is because unlike clean energy, there isn't a real cost savings associated with the seismic upgrades. However, we've just heard that there was a $10,000 a year savings on insurance. So can we talk about, I guess, where we're at with C-PACE and
 How we make that a more viable alternative? I'd be happy to, but actually I'd like to give the microphone first to Shelly because she administers that program at Prosper Portland. Hello, Shelly. Hello. Sorry about that. Thank you. Shelly Hack with Prosper Portland. I'm the program administrator for the Property Fit Program, which is what we've branded the PACE financing structure. The...
 Financing structure is a playoff of a local improvement district structure that, with the legislation that was passed a while back, allowed the use of a benefit assessment lien to be used as security for projects that provide a public benefit to a privately owned property. And...
 excuse me, it's a property assessment tool. We went back to the legislature and expanded the authority beyond energy efficiency, energy renewal to include seismic retrofit. And you're right. In the energy side, there was a kind of what I call an economic offset. What's the savings associated with your energy consumption and how much could you maybe buy in the form of financing with that energy savings? Okay.
 That's one of the reasons why we were so happy when SB 311 passed, because it provides a portion of that economic offset, is that the savings associated with the property tax exemption can be used to finance a portion of the — either all or a portion. And depending upon the assessed value and your tax bill, it's going to have different impacts on different properties.
 So that was one of the things that we did as we were evaluating the prescribed measures that came out of the policy committee that kind of narrowed down the scope of improvements that would be required. We took that, as John was saying, developed a schematic, had that schematic estimated –
 Cost estimations provided by a professional cost estimator. And that's what you've been handed out as an analysis of that study. You'll see the graphs at the bottom of each of those properties separates out the cost between the cost estimates that were developed for the cost to re-roof the building, which is a cost that a building owner currently would incur as an expense of ownership.
 The red section is a cost to comply with the existing code, which would be the parapet bracing and roof-to-wall tie-in at the point of re-roofing. And then the blue color there is helping to isolate what are the costs associated with those elements of the proposed code or the proposed standard that would be unique to the new standard.
 And then the analysis right next to it is telling you if you were to take that cost savings that was associated with the property tax exemption and use that to make your property fit payment, how much financing could you potentially attract with that cost savings? So you'd in essence have pretty much a net zero cost to the owner.
 then the taller part of that graph on the right-hand side is just the gross value of the property tax exemption over time. Did that answer the question? That's very helpful. Well, that was a great explanation, but I guess how do we get people to actually use the tool? The property fit tool? Or seismic because it's not happening.
 Well, the program rolled out in August, and we do have some applications in-house right now that include a seismic component. Those are more of the larger projects that are going through a repositioning in the marketplace. But I don't know until there's a mandatory requirement that there's really going to be an inducement on the part of private building owners to actually access the program. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Colleagues, amendments? I have an amendment. Commissioner Saltzman. I would propose that we require the wall-to-floor connections in 15 years, as was recommended by the policy committee. Mayor, why don't we just have a policy of seconding it for purposes of putting everything on the table? Second it for purposes of discussion. Mayor, I have three amendments. Commissioner Fish. I'm passing them down to my colleagues.
 Let me just say by way of preamble, I am generally persuaded that the committee recommendation has got it right with respect to Class I and Class II buildings. The disagreements that I'm hearing when I get briefed from various thoughtful people on this question are
 is limited to Class III and Class IV buildings, and I would characterize it as disagreements about means and not ends. I think that's very important. We're talking about broad agreement about what the ends are, but disagreement about how you get from here to there.
 And some of the themes that are of concern to me have to do with affordability of housing and art spaces, potential for displacement of vulnerable tenants, the unintended consequences of large-scale demolitions of historic structures, and other factors. So those are things we have to consider and weigh. And then I have an additional concern about process. So here are my amendments. Thank you.
 Fish Amendment No. 1 adds a new whereas at the end of the whereas, and it states as follows, quote, whereas the city of Portland is experiencing a housing crisis and therefore has an interest in ensuring that all options to preserve affordability have been explored, especially in URM buildings where public dollars have been invested to guarantee long-term affordable housing. This is intended, Mayor, to be just a statement of concern and policy.
 It does not dictate an outcome. I'd seek a second for that whereas. Second. Fish Amendment 2 is a little edgier, but notwithstanding the excellent answers we got from the panel, I would like this to be on the table because I would benefit from hearing people's reaction to it. So Fish Amendment 2 would strike a portion of the second part of the be it further resolved
 that begins that city council directs staff to develop code language to strengthen triggers in the existing code related to seismic retrofitting of URM. So in that resolve, we would keep that language but strike the language that goes on to say and to require mandatory retrofits of Class III and Class IV URM buildings as described in the URM Policy Committee final report, blah, blah, blah. Thank you.
 So you're, in essence, removing the mandatory retrofits for Class 3 and 4? Yeah, and I'll explain why. I just need a second on that. Second. So the purpose here is to pose what I think is a fundamental question, which is –
 Have we decided conclusively that there is no amount of strengthening of the existing law, including the triggers, that can produce the outcome we want short of a mandate? And if the consensus is that you have to have a mandate because the existing law will never get you there and is just inadequate, I would like to hear reaction to that from stakeholders. Thank you.
 And then it deletes the next further resolved that they have 20 years to perform because the idea is you wouldn't need the mandate if existing law was structured in a way to get the outcomes we want. Fish Amendment 3 –
 which adds a be it further resolved that this working group, which is the working group in the Mayor's amended resolution, would take up a number of issues in the next year, shall be subject to the Boards and Commissions reform adopted on November 8, 2017, via Resolution No. 37328, including mandatory conflict of interest disclosures. Thank you.
 Do I have a second on that? The purpose of this is to make explicit that any committee that is formed would be subject to the reforms we've adopted, and that includes mandatory disclosure of conflicts of interest.
 Very good. Oh, and Mayor, just one other. This is in the nature of not so much an amendment, but just offering an interpretation. Be it further resolve that says that the City Council directs city staff to develop a proposal to capitalize and administer a pool of funds to support the retrofitting of Portland URM buildings through loan subsidies or similar mechanisms. It would be my...
 when we take this back up, that staff be specifically directed to look at a number of tools, including Prosper Portland setting up a grant program and a revolving loan program, and that the council further enhance any grant or loan program with proceeds from Bill Portland. Is that a motion? No, it's just a statement of intent. Very good. Was there a second for Fish Amendment 2? Yes, I seconded Fish too. Oh, cool.
 Commissioner Fritz. Thank you, Mayor. And just to be clear, the amendments are being moved and seconded to put on the table for discussion. It doesn't indicate that there's any kind of consensus on the council. Mine is, be it further resolved that the City Council will develop a financial plan to bring all city-owned unreinforced masonry buildings into compliance with the adopted mandatory seismic retrofitting standards based on the assessed costs to retrofit. Second. Thank you.
 Thank you. And the reason for this is we've got a lot of city buildings that don't comply. Some of them are Class 1, some of them are Class 2, and a lot of them are Class 3. And none of the proposed mechanisms of financing work for the city of Portland, the tax credits, all of those other things. So in parks alone, the estimate is $20 million to $40 million to bring just the Class 1, Class 2 up into compliance. Okay.
 And so I want to be discussing with my colleagues on the council how can we ensure that we as a council are not asking property owners, private property owners, to do something which the city isn't going to do. So that's the intent of this. I might even go so far as to discuss whether we would say that private property owners don't have to do it if the city isn't in compliance by the deadline too. Thank you.
 because what's right for one is right for the other. So knowing we're in the middle of the budget season and how difficult it is to find even a million dollars to do something or other, finding $20 million to $40 million just for parks is a significant challenge for the city, and I think we need to have a plan to do it if we're going to do it. Very good. Commissioner Udeli, did you have any amendments? No.
 I do not, and I'm feeling a little left out. No worries. So I am going to offer up an amendment I'm adding to mine. And, again, folks, none of this is in concrete. These are for discussion purposes, and we will have, my guess, a number of weeks between tonight's hearing and our final deliberations. We're putting enough on the table that we have plenty to discuss amongst ourselves.
 So I'm going to read the entire amendment. I'll read it quickly, and I'll pause on the part that's new. Now, therefore, be it resolved that the City Council directs City staff to develop code language for the adoption of a mandatory seismic retrofit program for Class I and Class II URM buildings as described in the Unreinforced Masonry Policy Committee Final Report Return to Council for Adoption with the Year, and be it further resolved that the City Council directs staff to develop code language to strengthen triggers in the existing code related to seismic retrofitting of URM buildings
 and to require mandatory retrofits of Class III and Class IV URM buildings as described in the Unreinforced Masonry Policy Committee Final Report, except not including wall-floor ties.
 and be it further resolved that Class III and Class IV building owners shall have 20 years to perform and describe retrofits, and be it further resolved that the City Council direct City staff from the Bureau of Development Services, Prosper Portland, and the Bureau of Emergency Management to formulate a working group comprised of URM building owners, URM building tenants, and other subject matter experts,
 charged with further evaluating reasonable seismic retrofit requirements, support incentives, and timelines for Class III and Class IV URM buildings, and to return to the Council within a year to report on their findings. This includes identifying specific strategies to achieve wall-floor ties,
 including incentives, financing, and hardship options. This also includes an evaluation of the impact on insurance rates for seismically retrofitted buildings, including floor-wall ties. Second. We have a motion. Second. We're done. Any other amendments?
 Any further discussion? Public testimony. Folks, name for the record. If you're about six inches from the microphone, that works best. They move. Two minutes each.
 Please stop when your two minutes is up. I hate to play microphone police, so please just stop when your two minutes are up. You're welcome to come up if you've already heard your testimony being expressed. You can come up and just say, I agree. My name is whatever. I agree. You don't need to repeat the testimony. So, Carla, why don't you give us the first three names, please? Okay. The first three are David G. Gweither.
 Al Solheim and Ken, I believe it's Unphelps or Unhelp, or maybe it's Unvelisa.
 And they'll be followed by Christy White, Mira McLaughlin, and Roger C. Jones. And we have a tradition, age-old tradition, at Portland City Hall. If you are here with a small child and need to go, or if you have a disability and need to come up early or other circumstances, please feel free to approach Carla at the council clerk's desk and let her know, and she'll work you in early. Carla, is that Ken Unklask, U-N-K-E-L-A-S? Yes.
 Sounds like the handwriting is a little challenging. Okay. Very good. Good afternoon, sir. Hi, thank you. My name is David Weither. I'm here on my own behalf, not lobbying for anybody this time. I wanted to bring the council's attention to the problem that happens sometimes within city government where the city –
 own buildings have not been brought up to the standards that they should be for this type of an amendment. So I want to see the city set a good example. I think the city is already heading in that direction. The building that I was going to bring to your attention is a city parking structure.
 I've got a study that was done for us last year. And you're spending $28 million to primarily enhance the beauty of the structure without dealing with the seismic issues. Now, it's not technically a URM building, but it has a lot of the same characteristics.
 For example, when they built it, they built it with pillars. They put corbels in, which are brackets, and they balanced the beams on the brackets, and they did not attach the brackets to the pillars. So you've got...
 For the first five floors, you have the same characteristics as URM. They also, and this just recently came to my attention, they have panels at the ends of where the cars are parked so the cars don't go off into the streets by accident. One of them did. Hit the panel, broke it off. It fell down, missed a lot of pedestrians and people waiting for the tram by a minute or two.
 And the reason for that is that also is not attached to the pillars. Those panels are not attached to the pillars. What holds them together are ten pieces of rebar and cement. And as the building's getting older, that is less. Well, thank you for your time. Thank you very much. Before we introduce Ken Unkless, the mayor has given me the gavel. Colleagues, the mayor filed his proposed budget today. I'll entertain any motions to add or subtract any amounts that didn't get onto the budget. Okay.
 Hearing none, Mr. Uncliffe, welcome. Thank you. Commissioners, thank you for taking the time to be thoughtful about this. I know the useful life of my attention span has come and gone. My business is renting artist studios. I own and manage over 400,000 feet of URM buildings. My...
 program is an oddball program in that I try not to raise rents. My rents are affordable. I think I'm an essential part of the artistic ecosystem in this town. We have 175 artist studios, up to 450 artists regularly coming and going from those studios.
 I confess total confusion after listening to the last couple hours. I read the report over the weekend. I understood that the low number for retrofit was $51 a foot that was proposed.
 And then I heard $11 today, so I don't know what to make of that. I know that a new roof costs $5.50 a foot, so how do you retrofit a new roof, tie it to the wall on the parapets for $5.50 more? I'm not sure about the numbers. When I heard Commissioner Fritz say that parks is between $20 and $40 million, that kind of gives me the idea that we're just kind of making numbers up as we go.
 I totally agree that we have a life safety issue. We have to get to work. I recommend that we enforce the current code, beef it up, tweak it. If I have 400,000 feet and it's $20 a foot, let's say, pick a number in the middle, that's $8 million.
 I'm not going to keep rents the same if I have to spend $8 million. That's maybe a decade of my net profit, maybe more. I haven't actually looked at that. I would just say that at my age and my stress level and my experience dealing with the city, I'm heading for the hills. It's not a threat, but I won't be doing business as I used to. Thank you, sir.
 Good afternoon. Okay, my name is Al Sulheim. I'll make my comments brief. I'll skip the first page, I guess. Other than that, I will say I'm experienced. I've renovated a lot of buildings. I've met a lot of different seismic conditions and codes. But I'm here today because I want to say that I believe the existing code works, and with considered strengthening, it'll work better. The triggers such as roof replacement, dollars spent, and percentage of the building renovated are pretty well thought out and reasonable.
 Had the city done a better job of existing code enforcement, particularly the roof requirements, the results would have been much better. The mandatory requirements for proposed Category 3 and 4 buildings should not be implemented. Rather than implementing mandatory upgrades, the city should establish a funding mechanism for property owners who can demonstrate need.
 Even today, just replacing the roof can be an expensive proposition depending on the condition of the roof, and adding additional seismic work can be surprisingly expensive and easily exceed the natural resources of a given building owner.
 Each building owner's needs and conditions are different, and the financing structure and capacity of the owner is different. My greatest concern are the unintended consequences of a mandatory program for both the city and the property owner. From the city's standpoint, the unintended consequences range from proposed mandatory provisions conflicting with other city policies, such as affordable housing and workspaces, and policies that...
 are meant to preserve and strengthen the cultural and economic vitality of existing neighborhoods. It is quite likely that a mandatory program could lead to a significant number of buildings being transferred to the hands of developers, possibly leading to increased demolition and decreased ownership of local buildings.
 For the property owner, the unintended consequences of the mandatory upgrades may be such that the mandatory upgrades exceeds the financial reality of the building and the building's economics or the owner's financial capacity, and importantly, the building owner's personal capacity to deal with these proposed provisions. There are a lot of different owners. Many of them do not have the great talents of Walt McMoney's.
 So the property owner may have no choice to sell to the developers, sharing the same unintended consequences that the city faces that lead to forced instability in existing neighborhoods. And what if we have an economic downturn and financing becomes unavailable and the real estate market retracts? What happens then? So in summary, mandatory requirements should not be implemented. The existing code should be examined, but I think it's fundamentally good. Enforcement should be strengthened. Thank you.
 And a funding mechanism should be established to assist building owners who do not have the capacity to meet the existing code requirements, which should be primarily related to the roof work initially. The issue is very complex and there are very few easy answers. It needs to be kept simple. It is the unintended consequences for the city and the property owners that concern me the most. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you.
 Next three are Christy White, Mira McLaughlin, and Roger C. Jones. And they'll be followed by Nancy Chapin, Angie Even, and Kevin Myers. Two minutes goes quickly. It does. Good afternoon. You can go ahead. My name is Mira McLaughlin. I'm executive director of the new nonprofit, Music Portland, that's representing and advocating for the music industry here.
 More than 60 popular music venues are already determined to be potentially impacted by this resolution. Music provides a key cultural value to the city and a significant direct and indirect economic value. As such, Music Portland asks for venues.
 offering live music to be considered collectively for the first time. We understand it's been difficult to consider any kind of music business in a collective sense because it's never been brought together. That's what Music Portland is doing. And music venues already operate on thin margins, and while suffering rising rents,
 Very few of them actually own their properties, so that conversation happens. They suffer rising rents and very short-term leases, which disincent them from improving the facility for the purposes of sound and performance and certainly around seismic. The fear is that many of them would be driven out entirely by property owners that didn't necessarily want to spend the time or money to do that.
 Additional cost requirements for seismic retrofits would be catastrophic for the music industry in Portland. This compounds the city's existing commitment to residential infill, which already presents significant risks.
 Music in Portland has an enormous economic impact. There are more than 1,500 music businesses, including venues. We have nearly twice the number of live music venues as Austin does. And we have an estimated $500 million in direct revenue that we're going to be evaluating and providing you data with.
 The goal is to make sure that the music industry, as it applies to this resolution and in larger strategic ways, is considered as a collective in the ways that it informs and encourages growth, culture, new economic development, all of these other things. It needs a strategic and integrated response. Thank you. Appreciate it. Well-timed, too. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. I'm Roger Jones. I've been...
 doing this kind of stuff for longer than this council. But I want to make a point that public safety is not free. We know public safety isn't free. It's got to be paid for. It's going to be paid for by the public, or it's going to be paid for by private industry in this case.
 considering what we've been talking about. But there's a reason that 95% of the buildings have not been retrofitted at this point. 95% of the buildings had no incentive in 1994. And I talked to Margaret long ago about the incentive issue before 1994. I said, you don't incentivize it, it won't happen. Okay.
 Okay, it didn't happen. We're 95%. We're still at the same point where we were 25 years ago.
 I want to compliment Commissioner Fish on Amendment No. 2. I believe that pulling Class 3 and Class 4 buildings out immediately and not mandating it, just as the last speaker and many other people here will say, do not mandate without having financing in place. No plan, no mandate. And I'm going to give my time back because I could keep talking for a long time. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Ma'am, could we get a copy of your testimony? Yes. Electronically, if you had it. The full length. Yeah. Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. The next three are Nancy Chapin, Angie Even, and Kevin Myers, and they'll be followed by Tim Even, Tom Dyke, and I believe it's Dana Atwood. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Nancy Chapin. Good afternoon.
 Go ahead, Nancy. Portland's my city. I was born here. I completed my MPA degree here, and I've been involved with the business districts of Portland since 1988. Thirty years. Yes.
 I get a kick out of driving through the different districts, some so modern and up-to-date, others almost entirely reminiscent of the beginnings of the last century, in 1909, 1922, 1936, and in between. Either way, my city makes me smile at its built-out similarities and differences. I want my city to be safe, too. However, I want the places where the children are, our future, to be made our current version of safe first.
 Let's not continue redlining nearly 2,000 buildings, destroying livelihood and affordable living space in a period where we desperately need affordable living space. I ask you to slow this process down, which you are doing. Acknowledge that most of these buildings meet current code or don't because of a system error and ease the minds, hearts, and threat to livelihood of the owners of our unique and interesting one- to three-story brick buildings.
 By the way, I'm sure you know developers are already making low-ball offers to beleaguered property owners who are afraid to lose their livelihood and or their affordable housing. Somehow, if you can figure out how to get the banks even to make loans and not redline the buildings that are now being...
 the owners that are being concerned, that would be a help. Thank you. Thank you, Nancy. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Angie Even. I was born here in 1959, and I'm also a community leader in the Woodstock Business District, and I also...
 run a non-profit that concentrates on Woodstock's Main Street. First of all, I wanted to let you know that the Woodstock Business Association Board of Directors voted on this matter, and they voted no on proceeding with the mandate. They're concerned about the small businesses and also the business district. Woodstock's a seven-block business district, of which we have ten buildings on that block.
 street, we see the mandate, if a mandate goes through and there's no funding, that it'll be decimated. I'm gravely concerned about the unintended consequences, but I'm even more concerned about the intended consequences if there's no plan or safety net for buildings.
 24.85 of the code can work if we lower thresholds and add incentives. I ask council to please acknowledge that roof retrofits can cost hundreds of thousand dollars to over a million dollars. And a broad brush approach will not set building owners up for success. I'd like to talk to you a little bit about the financing and funding that's being proposed today.
 I took a deep dive into the funding and this is what I found. SB 311 exempts non-profits and it also defunds schools. And also the CPACE is a 6% loan. It exempts condo owners and it requires mortgage holders to take second position lien. Our mortgage companies have been called and they've declined that they would do that.
 FAR is not available outside of the inner city, and the $5 million for Old Town Chinatown is inequitable. I could talk about this for hours, and my time's up, and if anybody would like to discuss this with me further at another time, I can do that. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate your testimony. Good afternoon. Hello. My name's Tim Even. I've been called a cheater of the code by Steve Novick on this policy.
 And it turns out him and his wife's cousin wrote the article in the New Yorker that started this fear on the West Coast about everything falling off west of the I-5. I've been told that I skirted the code by Margaret Mahoney and her policy members. This code, 2485, would have a much higher capture rate on roofs and parapets, but the city failed. My wife and I took out a permit with a reputable roofing company in 2005.
 It was inspected. The inspector came, signed off on it. No mention of retrofits, no mention of URMs. So the city might know how bad they failed on this policy if they check their records. This happened to many of the owners here in the room. And now the city expects us to catch up with this policy.
 The mandate resolution amendment will destroy Portland as we know it. Oregon City recently won the award of best main street in America. Their main street is made up of URNs, masonry buildings with shops, businesses, cafes, coffee shops. They're not retrofitted. Turns out Portland has many streets.
 many main streets, they are all on old streetcar routes and they are lined with URMs. They have trendy businesses, cafes, coffee shops, bars, gathering places. The URMs provide affordable rents for both residents and businesses in those neighborhoods.
 The mandate resolution will change all that. These buildings will be demolished and repurposed with much higher rents, but that will only happen in the trendiest neighborhoods and the wealthiest people, just like the funding only supports the wealthy. The other neighborhoods that do not pencil out will fall into disrepair and a blight that will fall all over these neighborhoods. Portland will not be Portland anymore.
 In this policy committee meeting, which we had no representation in, the only consistent answer is we received, if you can't afford this mandate, you will have to demolish or sell. Many of these buildings are on small lots with other buildings butted next to them on both sides.
 The 2035 plan took away their height limit so they have no options for development or selling. This is wrong. This is not Portland. Fix the schools and the critical buildings and put the other buildings back in the 2485 code and fix the code. Offer incentives and achieve quicker results. Thank you, sir. Next three, please, Carla. Was there Kevin Myers' question?
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. Then we have to go out of order. Some people wanted to come up together. We're going to go Tom Dyke, Greg Hines, and Alex Roth. I'm sorry. I don't know I have a quorum. Do I? Oh, Commissioner Fritz is here. Very good. So we should have Tom Dyke, Greg Harris, and Alex Roth. Thank you. And then they'll be followed by the Atwoods.
 Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and commissioners. My name is Tom Dyke. I'm speaking on behalf of the Portland City Club, and I've submitted a more extensive written testimony for you to look at.
 In the spring of 2016, the City Club of Portland commissioned a research committee of its members to study the question of earthquake resilience in Portland and to make recommendations concerning improving that resilience.
 The resulting report, Big Steps Before the Big One, in February of 2017, was approved by a 98% vote of the membership of the City Club.
 In that report, there were a number of recommendations, two of which are pertinent today. One is that we urge that the City of Portland adopt a mandatory retrofit policy as developed by the URM Policy Committee final report.
 Secondly, we urge the Oregon legislature to pass Senate Bill 311 to provide incentives to aid property owners in doing those retrofits.
 I'll spare you the reasons for these recommendations. They were adequately covered by Professor Goldfinger and by the other opening statements. We concur with those statements about the need for a mandatory retrofit policy.
 So to summarize, the City Club of Portland and its 2,000 members support the proposed mandatory URM retrofit policy as in the URM Committee's final report.
 and secondly, we support the development of an ancillary property tax offset program under Senate Bill 311 to assist in the retrofitting costs. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Roger Jones. I was here before and I'm actually speaking for Greg Harris of the Hawthorne Boulevard Business Association. I'm a director and he's the president but he had to leave.
 There's written testimony about Hawthorne Boulevard having upwards of 45 buildings. And I did not address that in my own personal testimony. But all of our members are concerned that the sense of place that we've worked for
 to have the kind of shops and the kind of businesses, the small businesses and the unique environment that we've created on Hawthorne Boulevard is seriously going to be decimated if there are not incentives for people to retrofit things. If they don't get financing, they will go underneath. They'll be demolished. The demolishing will happen. Normally, I...
 One other thing is that I have to say this, and it's hard, but in 2016, the city published a list of URM buildings. At that point, you basically created a death sentence for the buildings that you identified in that 1,650 buildings. The next thing that happened...
 The next thing that happened was that the title companies in the real estate industry picked up that list. And now that that list exists in the city of Portland, you can't get a loan. You are physically redlined. Whether you vote for a mandate or not today or next week or whenever, you have basically created a death sentence for those individuals. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Hiya.
 I'm Alex Roth from northeast Portland, and I have a good friend who lives in Santa Cruz, California, and she moved there to go to college before the Loma Prieta earthquake in 1989. And I've been down there several times, most recently just a few weeks ago, and I've been to the downtown there with her, and she's pointed out to me what is now an empty lot where there used to be an unreinforced masonry building.
 that held a much beloved coffee shop that was frequented by college students and young people, including her. And she described to me how she went there, back to that space that she knew well,
 the second night after the earthquake. And that building collapsed, held the Santa Cruz Coffee Company, coffee roasting company, and two people were killed in that building. The first one they were able to find right away. The second one was buried under a pile of rubble, and it took nearly 48 hours for the rescuers to dig through and recover her body.
 And my friend described how she went to that place on that second night and participated in a vigil with a large number of young people holding candles, standing out there, without knowing at that time whether the young woman was dead or alive, in that they knew she was in there. And I could see how deeply this affected her, and to me that underscores really what is at stake in this whole discussion.
 And it concerns me a lot that the standards we're discussing are not up to the life safety standard because it seems from what the engineers tell us that that's the standard needed to protect the life and the safety of Portlanders and Indians.
 We have an opportunity now to require meaningful upgrades that will protect Portlanders in the future when the earthquake comes. And I believe that if we don't take that opportunity, that a time will come when we will regret that. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Next are Dana, Chloe, Asher, and Jim Atwood. And they'll be followed by Terry Jolly, Bill Eastman, and Lisa Burton.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler. I'm Jim Atwood. I'm with my wife, Dana, my daughter, Chloe, and my son, Asher. Welcome. They've designated part of their time to me to expedite our testimony this afternoon. I'll make it as brief as I can. I've been here before. I was back here in February with my lawyer, and we talked about the Glade Hotel, but we didn't get a chance. I didn't actually get a chance to speak at all.
 My dad was born in Selwood General Hospital in 1922. At that time, Selwood was a suburb of Portland. I've lived in Portland since 1947. To avoid homelessness in the early 50s, our family moved into my grandparents' chicken coop for a period of years to not be homeless. We were a poor family. I graduated dirt poor from Jefferson High School in 1965.
 And in 1968, I started selling real estate. And I worked 80 hours a week, and I lived frugally, and I saved as much as my commissions as I could. I scrimped and accumulated a little nest egg to use for seed money to buy old, vacant brick buildings, mostly in downtown Portland, mostly in Old Town. And over the years, I've updated those buildings, brought them up to the code at the time,
 And the reason my family's here today, I'm in my 70s now, and if something happens to me, they're going to be relying on the income from those properties to feed and clothe and educate my family. So it's my survival that I'm talking about, and that's why I'm here to plead my case on a personal basis.
 Chloe and Asher are supposed to be in gymnastics class this afternoon, but if this mandatory seismic upgrade goes through, there'll be no money for gymnastics classes. So that's why they opted to come down here this afternoon. In particular, I'd like to bring you back briefly to the Glade Hotel. This is one of the buildings that I have. It's about a 5,250-square-foot building. It's in Old Town.
 I'm proud to say that my buildings are now occupied by happy residents and small businesses paying below market rents. And if these buildings have to be upgraded, they'll basically be demolished and these people will be put out on the streets. I have people living for less than $600 a month, including utilities, in this building.
 Good people that couldn't be here this afternoon. A lady that works at the flower cart at the Pioneer Square. A sous chef at the Mac Club that's up there preparing for a banquet right now. These people rely on these buildings. The problem with the study and the committee is garbage in, garbage out.
 I was kind of sucked in many years ago by Portland Development Commission, now Prosper Portland, to do a feasibility analysis for a seismic upgrade for the Glade Hotel. This was going to be the poster child of an economical seismic upgrade. I spent many hours marching through that building with photographers, PDC officials, contractors and subcontractors.
 I thought I was going to be a celebrity on a brochure showing how to get small buildings seismically upgraded. And I thought it was going to be a demonstration grant from PDC. I heard somebody say PDC should put together a grant program. Well, this, I think, may have been the beginning of that. And I paid for half the feasibility study, and PDC paid for all of the cost analysis for the seismic upgrade, which are summarized here on this board.
 But basically, I've heard figures mentioned of $4 or $5 a square foot or $11 a square foot, and when the numbers actually came back to PDC, my contact there just quit returning my phone calls. I had no idea what happened. And it was like pulling teeth to get the actual numbers out of PDC of what it would cost to seismically upgrade the Glade Hotel.
 But as you can see, the hard costs, just for the simple part, the parrots and pits and the roof was $259,000. That's over $50 a foot just for the hard costs. Doesn't include soft costs, lost rents, other remodeling that would be necessary if a full seismic upgrade was done. The replacement value at the time of this building was $940,000. The seismic upgrade alone
 The hard costs were $907,000 necessary remodeling costs to accommodate the seismic upgrade, $400,000. You get to $1.3 million in hard costs. You add another soft cost of $100,000, you're at $1.4 million. All this for a building that you can replace for $900,000.
 Frankly, I would not waste any more staff time with category 3s and 4s. If you want to do something worthwhile, you should take a random selection of those 1,600 or 1,700 buildings that are on your inventory and do a cost analysis, an initial cost analysis, so that you know what type of numbers and what kind of costs you are mandating
 I think you're opening the city to a number of claims. You know, this is basically a condemnation, as somebody mentioned earlier, of those 1,600 buildings. When a public agency condemns private property, you have to compensate the private property owner. I think you'll open yourself up to compensation claims for taking. I think you'll open yourself to Measure 49 claims. We're decreasing the value of the property through...
 legislation, you'll open yourself to claims possibly, there's a uniform building code. The state is in charge of the building code, not the city. And if you, you know, buildings that are built according to code.
 At the time, we all agree, new buildings are stronger than old buildings. But the old buildings that comply with code and there's no structural improvements being made are not required to do seismic upgrades under the current law.
 And I think you should honor the current law, and it's fine if you want to upgrade schools and public buildings and properties the city owns. And if you want to buy these 1,600 properties at a fair value and upgrade those too, that's fine. But to mandate, to issue an unfunded mandate through faulty studies and faulty numbers is wrong. Thank you very much. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 The next three are Terry Jolly, Bill Eastman, and Lisa Burton. And they'll be followed by Tricia Saunders, John Frick, and Kathy Rogers. Folks, it's been about five hours since we last had the rules of the chamber read. So I would just ask people not to applaud or boo or shout or any, you know, thumbs up is great if you love what you're hearing. Thumbs down if you don't like what you're hearing. That way we can just keep the testimony moving without interruption. Good afternoon and welcome.
 Good afternoon. My name is Lisa Burton. I'm a family physician. I came today just in support of the small business owner because although I am not, my father was in eastern Oregon.
 for many years and money was very tight. And you pay your bills first, then you pay your employees, you put money away for a rainy day, and last you pay yourself. But I am where I am because of my parents. And I see now the changes that are happening in Portland and my father was always making a bid against a large national company trying to get in there and find a place.
 And now I see what happened is these national companies that have chain stores will come in and Portland will lose its feel. And that's the last 20 years I've lived here and enjoyed it. And each day as I drive down Foster Road to go to work and back, and I see with the gentrification plans and the road plans, I see that street changes.
 changing and all these stores that I have gone to changing. My hairdresser is moving out of the city. My daughter-in-law's dog groomer and tailor have already moved out of the city. And the unreinforced masonry decisions haven't even been implemented. And I see these small businesses moving out and Portland changing. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Bill Eastman.
 I am the proud owner of a CMU building on Southeast Foster. Somehow it ended up on your list. And somehow I've got to get it off, or I've got to sell it, or I've got to tear it down. I don't really have the money to do what you'd like to mandate. I could over time, I guess, refinance my house and get all this done. But at age 68, the clock's running out.
 And I had hoped to use that as a source of funds for my retirement. I had prepared quite a bit to say, more than two minutes. Sadly, I've only got one minute left. I want to help the city fix this problem. I want to be part of the solution, not part of the problem. Okay? I think we all want the same thing.
 In order to do that, we need to learn from our past mistakes and change our behavior. In my opinion, doing business here for the last 40 years, the city of Portland does not have a policy that guarantees transparency. I, as a mom and pop with a small piece of property, was not represented by this policy. I only recently found out about it. So I'd like for it to be transparent.
 I'd like for it to be collaborative. It would be good if we had a voice on the committee. And I'd like for it to be cost effective. Leading by example, fixing the schools is great. But an unfunded mandate is just not going to work. We have to have financial incentives. There has to be a way to pay for it. Because the bank won't loan me money on a building with a gray shadow on it.
 Thank you.
 One of the things I like to point out is the historic value of some of our buildings that we have. One especially that I like to go by is the Weiss Apartments. It's on Northwest 23rd, just south of Everett. It's such a unique building, and everybody is just blown away by it. They don't have anything. I don't care how big a town they're from. They don't have anything like that in their town.
 And then I take them up into Northwest 24th and show them other historic homes and different buildings. And I like to drive them by some of the examples of things we do to preserve our architectural history. Like we will use, repurpose a total building and make it...
 a value in another way than what it was originally built for. We'll also take the architectural outside of the building and repurpose it by building a whole new building around it and incorporating that architectural value. And then we'll do things like the Grove Hotel, where we gut the hotel, keep the outside, and build a new one inside of it. And people are just blown away by the creativity that we have when we're doing that to preserve our architectural history.
 And that really impresses visitors, and they get a really neat idea about what Portland is really all about and where our value system is. And I want to maintain that, and I understand about the life safety standard and how important it is to keep our citizens safe, but also our architectural history is just as important as well. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Could I just ask a question of Dr. Burson? Because you're not a property owner. As somebody who cares about the buildings, cares about the businesses, but presumably also cares about people not being killed by being in a building that falls down, do you think that the people of Portland would be willing to pay more property taxes or something else in order to be able to finance this? Yes.
 Yes, but I think the city of Portland will change. The people who can't afford it will move out. And so we'll have a different city. Yeah, it seems to me what we're talking about is how to pay for this. I hope we all agree we'd rather people not be killed by falling masonry. Right. Thank you. The next three are Tricia Saunders, John Frick, and Kathy Rogers. And they'll be followed by Mark Rogers, Will Prouty, and Mark Strom. Okay.
 Hi. Good afternoon. I'm Tricia Saunders. I'm retired from Amtrak. I now work for Travel Portland with the Visitors Information Center on weekends and also part-time for the Marriott Residence Inn as concierge. For many years, I was coming to Portland on Amtrak, train working here.
 And as soon as I retired in 2004 from Amtrak, I moved here immediately because I love Portland so much. I moved into the most, really one of the most beautiful buildings in Portland. It's the one that Terry Jolie was just speaking about on Northwest 23rd. And in the last few years since I've been here, the rents have just skyrocketed everywhere. I've seen many friends and friends.
 and other people that I know have to leave. They have to either leave Portland and move somewhere way out or actually move to another state because they can't afford it. And I was terrified because I love my building. I love where I live. But I didn't really have to be terrified after all because it turns out that it didn't happen in our building. Pippa Aaron is the owner of the building, and she lives there.
 And she's got a big heart, so she didn't do to us what so many people had happened to them where all the rents were raised. She kept it where it was still affordable, and she didn't kick us out so she could make a lot more money from other people coming in who could afford to pay more. And it's a really happy place. Thank you.
 So I have a couple of brochures here. Since I've been living there in the last 14 years twice, we've been on the cover of the Nob Hill walking map and a lot of magazines.
 If you can see on this one little brochure, there's a balcony on the third floor that overlooks 23rd Avenue. And from that little balcony, I've looked down so many times. Let's set my time up. I'll come to you real quick. We've had models there, professional photographers, wedding parties, all these things. It's a tourist attraction. And the hop-on, hop-off bus, it goes through. They point us out.
 I'm just asking you to please save our beautiful, old, historic buildings and don't take the heart and soul out of Portland. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is John Fricke, and I've been a resident of Portland since 1980. I've enjoyed my stay here. I live in a URM building on southeast Hawthorne. I'm retired, and I live on a fixed income. And my main concern is if you implement...
 the measures on the three or four buildings, I'm going to be homeless. I mean, this is going to have a broad effect on a lot of people. The building is safe. It's well maintained. It's clean. As a matter of fact, it's in better shape than some of the other buildings I've lived in that are much newer. And I just don't want to see this lead to people being in my situation, where I cannot afford to move someplace else.
 That's plain and simple. Thank you for your time. Thank you, sir. We appreciate you being here. Good afternoon. Hi. My name is Kathy Rogers, and I own a URM apartment building on Hawthorne. I would first like to thank Mayor Wheeler and Mayor –
 Fish and Commissioner Fish and Commissioner Fritz, it's a mouthful, for the amendments that you proposed today. I think they're good. I think they're good additions to the resolution. To answer your question, nobody wants to see anybody hurt or killed, of course.
 We would all love to have safe buildings, but I think we're all in agreement that it comes down to how do we pay for this, and we just need more discussion on how to do this. There's been a lot of discussion about costs. I will second the costs of Mr. Atwood. We've spent $8,000 on an engineering study to get real numbers on our building, and it is well over a million dollars to get through step three.
 We've talked a lot about the cost. What I haven't heard talked much about is if you go to step three, which is walls to floors, these tenants will be displaced. What's going to happen to all of the residential tenants that have affordable rents? What's going to happen to our small businesses? What's going to happen to their employees? If a small business is displaced, a restaurant, a coffee shop, a vintage retail store,
 There's every likelihood they may go out of business. You can't just relocate a business for six months and then come back. And I haven't heard much about how are we going to handle all of the tenants. So I'd like you to consider that, and I would very much like to participate going forward on a committee. I'd like to be part of the solution, not the problem. Thank you. Thank you. And Elizabeth, if you could get her contact information, that would be fantastic. She's got it. Oh, great. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Mark Rogers, Will Prouty, and Mark Strom, and they'll be followed by Jay Raskin, Kayla Anchel, and Ann Kilkenny. Good afternoon. Thanks for being here. You want to go ahead, sir? Sure. My name is Mark Strom. I'm a professor at the University of Michigan.
 I'm the owner of one URM building up in northwest Portland. Good afternoon, Commissioners, and also wanted to thank Mayor Fish for his amendment to it. Oh, come on. Now you guys are just – Actually, he's probably more deeply offended than I am. First, I would like to say that, in general, I believe that the city tries to operate in a spirit of cooperation, openness, and transparency. Thank you.
 but I believe the city has failed this test with respect to this measure. Building owners affected by this mandate have been ignored, rebuffed, and not provided an adequate forum for meaningful dialogue to participate in this process, and nor have the affected tenants, whether residential or commercial. Please provide this broader forum before adopting a measure for private owners.
 During this time of intense focus on building our affordable housing inventory, it is baffling to me that you would consider adopting such a nuclear option on our inventory of the more affordable units in our city, those being the older properties of historic nature.
 Let me address my particular situation with you. I own and have been the steward for the past 31 years of an elegant 1910 building on the corner of Northwest 22nd Place and Everett, just off Northwest 23rd. It's four stories over a basement, but has just 16 large units with a total of 20 occupants. I estimate the cost to be near $2 million.
 To do all phases of the retrofit you are suggesting in this measure, including the costly floors to walls, given that there would be four floors of attachment required. Given that this investment would not save the building, but may or may not save lives, I would see demolition as the logical path.
 The mandate you are considering is a complex issue which could have many unintended consequences that have been discussed. I believe it is irresponsible to place this burden on the backs of the small building owners without a funding mechanism in place. I would suggest the council adopt this measure for buildings of critical importance such as schools, fire stations and the like, but send back for further review and public input by stakeholders in formulating a better plan for how to deal with the individual buildings.
 reject any mandate at this time for so-called Class 3 and 4 buildings. Let's let a stronger building code do the job for us. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Thanks for being here. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Wheeler and Councilman. My name is Mark Rogers, and I'm a part owner of a URM building on 19th and Hawthorne. We're talking about earthquake resilience here, and I've been sitting here listening to testimony, and I've been involved in this process since February of 2017.
 In some ways, I feel like a coin got flipped and it lands squarely on URM buildings. If you look at the – one of the biggest concerns in an earthquake is fire. Fire kills – the San Francisco earthquake, fire killed thousands and thousands of people, burned up hundreds of blocks. There's tens of thousands of buildings and single-family residences that are equipped with gas and don't have a seismic –
 shut-off valve on them that would shut gas off to that structure upon a shake. So if we're talking about tens of thousands of individual structures and buildings, to me that seems like that's how you move the needle the quickest in the shortest amount of time for $500 with some type of program to make that work.
 There's also safe rooms. There's also early warning systems that have been explored. I think the city of Beaverton actually was looking at an early warning system or a safe room where they could give up to a minute's worth of notice of an earthquake happening. So if we're talking about protecting a large amount of people, I do agree. We want safe buildings, and we want to do what we can. But it really comes down to safety.
 Costs. How do we make this work? If we can get 75% or 80% of the benefit by doing parapets and cornices and chimneys, then that seems to be a logical way to go about starting this process.
 I think honestly that the committee did an excellent job in presenting you with the technical aspects of ways to protect our buildings. What I do think fell short there was the involvement of all stakeholders or representatives of all stakeholders. Those are condo owners. Those are small business owners that are in a building that they have their business in or the business that has 12 employees in a URM. Those people weren't represented, so I think –
 The proposals you got didn't have that input, and I think that's important. And I think we need a new committee that comes with some innovative ideas and has the stakeholders involved, and I'd be honored to participate in that committee. Thank you for your time. You've got it. Okay, good, because I'm not going to predict where my amendment lies, but it creates just such a committee, and if the council decides that's the direction to go, we'd be delighted to have your participation. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Was there a Will Prouty before I? Then the next three are Jay Raskin, Kayla Anchel, and Ann Kilkenny. And they'll be followed by Jeremy LaLayla, Lee Fehrenbacher, and Ray Van Beek. Thank you.
 So I'm Jay Raskin. I'm the chair of the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission. We've been following this process for a number of years and are very supportive of it and submitted a letter of recommendation for adoption of the policy committee's recommendations. I also submitted an additional letter because we're concerned about the weakening of the measure. And I would actually propose that the committee
 The city council will adopt class one and class two recommendations and then wait for further study for the class three. The RDPO created a study with Dogami that now just was published in March. It's a much finer assessment about what the risk of all buildings are in the Portland metro area.
 and gives additional information to the city that wasn't previously available. A much finer tooth. It was done building by building, and although they aggregate the information, basically you can get a lot more finer policy recommendations out of that than anything we've been able to do before.
 It's also the basis of an economic study so that the city could get information about the effectiveness of incentives, as well as help building owners understand what their investments they need to make in order to protect their own investments. There's a real danger in adopting substandard upgrade recommendations for UOMs because it fosters a false sense of security. People think that the buildings are safer than they really are.
 And I wanted to basically say that two to four minutes worth of a Cascadia subduction zone earthquake basically means that the parapet-only solution really is meaningless. It's better not to do it at all. There is an element of tragedy in the current debate on Class 3 and Class 4 standards. The building owners who rightfully have concerns about the expense of seismic upgrades also have the most to lose if they don't upgrade. So thank you. So you've sentenced that in writing? Yes.
 Yes, it's in writing. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Thank you, sir. Who's next? Hello, I'm Kayla Anshel, and I don't have a solution to this very complex problem, but I did want to share a personal testimony. As I recently bought my first home, a condo built in the 1920s in the Lloyd District,
 This 500 square foot studio is one of the few homes that I could afford in Portland, the city I love and grew up in, since the housing boom and subsequent land grab by developers. I spent all of my savings on a down payment and closing costs. I don't yet know how much it will cost to retrofit my building, but when I bought my home, I made sure that the mortgage was one I could afford. If the cost of retrofits raises my HOA fees too much more than what I'm currently paying, it will be a serious financial burden for me.
 Additionally, when retrofits are being made and I can't be in my home, I cannot afford a mortgage on top of renting somewhere for 9 to 12 months. I'm not a small or large business owner. I'm a single-income working woman fully supporting myself. There is no way for me to offset these costs outside of taking another job on top of my current 40 to 50-hour-a-week job. I'm terrified I'll be forced to sell my home at a devastating loss.
 I think the committee for the time they have put into drafting this policy, and I do recognize the serious need for safety measures. Please consider people like myself, though, who don't want to be forced to sell their home because they can't afford steep retrofit costs. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Good afternoon, everybody. My name is Ann Kilkenny, and I am a lifelong Portlander.
 And I happen to own a small unreinforced masonry building. I also own a building that I have just finished retrofitting at a cost of over a million dollars. I found that the figures given by the committee this afternoon to be absolutely ridiculously low. I don't know where they got those figures, but I have all of my figures and I have all of my receipts, should you wish to see them.
 I will continue by saying that I agree entirely with Al Solheim and the comments by Mr. Atwood. It's a laudable goal to try to improve the safety of the buildings in this city, but this effort must include all of the buildings, not just a targeted few.
 This resolution will negatively impact thousands of people, building owners, small businesses, and those who live in apartments, many of which are considered to be affordable housing. I thought we were supposed to be at a housing crisis, and yet if this ordinance is enacted, it could literally put thousands of people at risk of homelessness, as described by one of the earlier people that testified. Entire main streets and neighborhoods could be decimated as a result of this act.
 There's no mention in this document of Portland's aging infrastructure, bridges, overpasses, the electrical grid, our old sewer and water pipes and gas lines, all of which are at serious risk of catastrophic damage in the event of a natural disaster such as an earthquake.
 Damage to the infrastructure will dwarf any damage to the relatively small number of targeted URMs, and the disruption of basic services will be monumental and long-lasting. These issues need to be addressed in detail. There needs to be a financing mechanism to finance this mandate. An unfunded mandate will do no good for anybody.
 This ordinance could also destroy buildings and apartments and vibrant main streets, disrupting neighborhoods and people's lives as much as any potential earthquake ever would. Should their removal be forced upon the owners because of this resolution? I urge you all to consider further study of this complicated issue and to include small landholders on any future study committees. Thank you very much. And can I just...
 The future you just laid out was pretty bleak. I just want to reassure you that at least with respect to water sewer services, when we're finished with the Washington Park reservoir burial,
 which will be in our lifetime and actually not that far off. And when we build the fortified pipe under the Willamette River, we will actually have a fairly secure system seismically. What are you going to do about the dams up the river that will break and wash water down? Yeah, we can go there. That's a whole other issue as well. Yes, but I'm just trying to get you through tonight's sleep. I want you to sleep well tonight. We'll deal with that later. Okay, fine. Thank you so much. Thank you. Next three, please, Carlo. Our Jeremy Lalehla.
 Lee Fehrenbacher and Ray Van Beek. They'll be followed by Sarah Frisch, Andrew Boll, and Chris Tufts. Good afternoon. Afternoon. Do you want to go ahead and start, sir? Yeah, sure. Thank you. I'm Jeremy Kleila. I was born here in Portland. I've worked here for almost two decades. I've worked at multiple venues around town, Fez Ballroom, Embers that just shut down recently, Dante's.
 This is a balancing act that's really, really huge. This is probably the largest thing you guys have ever had to do, and I understand that. But the problem is, is without tremendous help from the city and the state to help finance these pushes, you're going to watch so many places shut down. I've seen places shut down and just sit vacant. I've seen homeless people just hang out there day and night.
 It's going to get worse unless there is tremendous backing from you to help the small business owners. And it has to be across the board, schools, tenants, everything. It has to be fair, and it has to be completely legit across the board to help everybody. If this doesn't happen, then we're going to get to see more of these outside developers
 move around Portland like vultures and take over. And they are nitpicking. They're basically going for the lowest bids and taking places. I don't want to see that happen. I love this town. I love this community. I love these people. I want to see them flourish and build. But without help and fairness across the board, that won't happen. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Some of these points have already been raised, so I'll keep it brief. My name is Lee Fehrenbacher, and I'm an apartment broker for HFO Investment Real Estate. Our company is the largest apartment brokerage firm in the Pacific Northwest, focusing exclusively on multifamily assets. Many of our clients own unreinforced masonry buildings, and as such, my colleagues and I have been paying close attention to the URM Policy Advisory Committee's work.
 While I don't think anyone would question the importance of preserving these buildings and ensuring their safety, we are concerned that implementing mandatory upgrade requirements, even on a 20-year horizon, will have immediate negative consequences without first identifying adequate financial resources. Many of our clients who own URM buildings lack the equity, funds, and experience necessary to complete a seismic retrofit.
 There is a deficiency of financial incentives proposed by the URM Policy Advisory Committee, and few financial resources are available by private banks. Our company is concerned that, rather than preserving the fabric of our city, the proposed mandates will instead hasten the obsolescence and demolition of URMs. I have already spoken with at least one owner who has resigned themselves to redeveloping their beautiful bricker in northwest Portland, should these requirements pass.
 So I just wanted to provide a third-party perspective on what our office expects to see in the market should the council implement these requirements without additional financial resources. Thank you. Thank you. Can I ask you a question, Mr. Fehrenbecker? Suppose we stick with that and we don't adopt any requirements for tying floors to walls for 20 years, and we get down 10 years down the road and we're no further along in developing any financial tools
 than we are right now maybe we get senate bill 311 implemented what would you recommend to the council sitting here 10 years down the road to do with that mandate it would then be on the books but yet
 No resources. Sure. I think it's a problem. I think it's a difficult question. And the Policy Advisory Committee has been working on it for years. I think they're on the right track and they've done some good work. And I think some of the amendments proposed tonight are also in the right direction. But I think you really need to implement some financial resources to set owners up for success rather than failure. And implementing mandatory requirements...
 that people are not going to be able to complete financially is the same as waiting 10 years for a solution that we don't have now. But is that the only balancing factor in this equation? I mean, what about the obligation to protect...
 The 600,000 people that live, eat, sleep in this city? Yeah, it's huge. I think it's a very good question. I think everyone would agree that these buildings are an asset to our city and that they need to be preserved and made safe.
 not a question. How do we do that? I don't have the answers myself, but I can tell you from a market perspective, without financial resources to help people accomplish this goal, they'll be set up for failure.
 Thank you. Well, and that failure could be a reprise of what happened when we adopted another kind of mandate in 1995, and we saw a very anemic compliance rate, A, because we didn't enforce it in any kind of systematic way, and B, as we've heard from a number of people, there weren't adequate incentives at the time to help facilitate those changes.
 So that's one way of looking at it. And I would say that having read a number of reports, including the city of Seattle's report on URM, I don't think there's a city in the country that doesn't recognize this as a problem. And I don't think anyone's testified today saying that the life safety issues are not urgent.
 But even Seattle has said that they're not moving forward until they figure out a way to fund it. So I think that is at least a question for us to consider. We may land in different places, but I think if Seattle has gotten to the same fork in the road and said until we have that financing mechanism, we don't want to put in place a mandate that's going to ultimately lead to demolitions and bankruptcies, I don't think that's an irrational policy decision. Thank you.
 Yeah, I think to your point earlier, it's a question of are we putting the cart before the horse? Well, that's one of the things we're going to have to debate. But I have to say, and Mayor, I have to apologize. In a couple of minutes, I have an excused absence to represent the council at another gathering. But I will say I think this is among the most thoughtful hearings we've had in a long time in terms of very, very –
 thoughtful, well-reasoned arguments. And at the end of the day, we have to balance a number of things. That's what everyone has said in so many words. I appreciate the quality of the testimony to help us get to the right place. Thank you. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. My name is Ray Van Beek. I had a
 deal set for three minutes, so I've edited as much as I can. A week or so ago, my wife and I took a walk through our neighborhood and identified 20 beautiful old brickers that will have their rent affordability affected seriously by these rules. But the reason I'm here today is that I have owned for over 25 years a small commercial building, approximately 10,000 square feet on a 15,000 square foot lot.
 I am a lifetime resident of Portland, all in the Lower East Side. I went to Holiday Grade School, moved to and became a member of the initial graduating class of Elliott Grade School when Holiday was torn down to accommodate the Lloyd Center. I graduated from Washington High School and at Portland State College. I have lived in the same home in Laurelhurst for over 50 years.
 I bought Jewel Lansing's accounting practice when she became the city auditor, and I practiced under my own name for over 30 years in Lower Southeast Portland. What I'm saying to you is I have very deep roots in this neighborhood, in this city. About 25 years ago, I bought the original East County Portland County Library building, which had previously been converted to offices.
 I manage that property myself, which allows me to keep the rents low, and which helps explain why three of my tenants have been there. I've got six tenants there. Three of those tenants have been there over 20 years. Those tenants employ approximately 40 people. The land value of my property, which is zoned EXD, is enormous.
 The property is very near my old high school, which is now Revolution Hall. I walked through my property with the developers of Revolution Hall. They gave me an off-the-cuff estimate for seismic upgrades of over $1 million.
 not including relocation costs or soft costs. Fast, fast. In addition, the building would need to be brought up to ADA standards, and all the ADA improvements would add additional million dollars to that cost, $2 million on a 10,000-square-foot building because it was built as a library. It wasn't built very efficient. And it still ended up with a Class C building. Okay.
 There's no way rents would justify it, having been an accountant for 35 years. What that property I own will accommodate is 60,000 square feet under current zoning. It can't remain as the property that it is. It's going to have to go if these kinds of rules are enacted. Thank you, sir. Thanks, all three of you. Appreciate it. Next three are Sarah Fritch, Andrew Boll, and Chris Tufts.
 and they'll be followed by Brian Faraday, Leon Drennan, and Tim Holmes. Who would you like to start, please? We'll go this way. Is that okay? However you'd like. Okay. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. My name is Sarah Fritch. I'm a vice president at Schoolhouse Electric. Schoolhouse is a family-owned company just down the road in northwest Portland. Our schoolhouse building is 125,000 square feet of industrial use. It's historically repurposed.
 registered and it's been restored. We have 200 people coming to work every day plus our customers. These people are family to us. Their health and safety are everything. We aim to offer them jobs, career paths, benefits and meaningful positions in fast-growing design driven company that strives to support and protect American manufacturing.
 Keep in mind the advantage that we all have as we sit here today, wrestling with a complex, emotional and important issue. We're all here because we all want the same things. We want safety, we want to be prepared, we want a thriving city, and we want functional relationships between building owners, tenants, small businesses, municipal buildings, general citizens and the city government. There's a lot of smart people on all sides of this issue.
 In a city that works, as well as Portland, I'd hope that we could put those heads together towards common goals, the common goals that I just listed, to determine a path forward that doesn't force businesses like ours to choose between human safety and company survival. I believe that we could and should find a way to have both. We owe that to one another. Our request is simple.
 Please include business leaders, building owners, and impacted tenants as you rethink an approach and timeline that mitigates disruption while maximizing safety. I want to believe that there's an innovative way to protect our citizens and continue to operate and thrive. Thank you. Thank you. Good values. Appreciate it.
 Hi, I'm Peter Bohl, also at Skull House. I came down here 14 years ago to take a job in manufacturing. Skull House had just brought manufacturing to Portland from third-party processing in California. When I started, there were two people in the manufacturing department. Now manufacturing fulfillment is over 100. So like Sarah said, we're about 160. It's been a great economic opportunity to be in a URM. It gave us a great kind of an incubator to grow our business.
 We've been in three in succession. We're now in 125,000 square foot. It's not long for us to have been in that building, and we're rapidly growing.
 This business has allowed me to purchase a home in northeast Portland. It's also allowed me to retrofit it. While I worry about the seismic waves that could knock down our building, I also worry about the waves that could come out of a mandate damaging our business or flattening businesses in Portland in general. Thank you. Thank you, and congratulations on your business success. That's really good news. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Hi, I'm Chris Tufts. I also work at Schoolhouse Electric and want to echo a lot of the comments my colleagues said and to enforce that we really do value our employees, and we're happy that there's a minimum wage increase. And while we don't pay minimum wage, we're happy to push our wages up in line with that, and we think it helps our employees.
 But as we explore this mandate, what it could mean for us in the future, it becomes rather untenable. Banks aren't going to loan on the value of a building when the mandated retrofits far exceed that value.
 And in our case, we're not in the Pearl District. We're in a Northwest industrial sanctuary. And as a manufacturer, we can't sustain a rent that's going to pay for these kind of retrofits. So that ends up having to force us into new places. And that's not what we want to do. Okay.
 we do believe in the life safety of our employees. And in the last year we've, we've invested a tremendous amount of money into the building and into life safety in that building for those reasons that we, that we do value those employees. But this, this mandate is tough to fulfill, but well,
 I also want to say thank you very much for allowing this kind of public commentary and taking our opinions into account. We appreciate your being here. Thanks for your testimony. I have a question. What kind of life safety have you invested in in the building?
 Just in the last year, we've made massive updates to all the stairwells to make sure that they're all fireproof, sprinkler upgrades to make sure that that's fireproof, fire escapes on the outside of the building, electrical upgrades. There's been easily over half a million just in the last year to improve the quality of life for our folks. Were these elective investments or were they required by code? I think there's a bit of both in there. Thank you. Well, thank you. Appreciate your testimony.
 Next three, please, Carla. Are Leon Drennan, Tim Holmes, and Peggy Moretti. And they'll be followed by Pippa Aaron. I believe it's Sonnella. I can't read the last name on Northwest 23rd. And Elaine McArdle. So right now we should have Leon Drennan, Tim Holmes, and Peggy Moretti. And, Carla, is everybody in the chamber now or do we still have over? So everybody is here. Well, that's good news. Okay, good. Thank you.
 And for those of you who were scattered about the building, thank you so much for your patience. We appreciate it. So if you heard your name, come on forward because the other two aren't here yet. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Tim Holmes, and I am, let's see, former president of Central Eastside Industrial Council.
 Chairman of the Urban Renewal District for CEIC and Chairman of the Burnside Bridgehead Committee. Thank you. I own an unreinforced masonry in the IG1 down in 8th and Davis Northeast. And I rewrote this like eight times. My wife then said I had to be nice, so I'm going to just wing it.
 I wanted to talk to you about stewardship and responsibility. We take out building permits to protect ourselves, to protect the people in the building, and to protect future buyers that the building is up to code. And we pay money to have these things reviewed and trust that the city understands and knows what they're talking about.
 I have purchased all the necessary permits since I've owned the building in 1987. And now the building people have changed their mind and put that onus on me. And that seems very unfair. The responsibility should go back to the city of Portland, all included, citizens and the building department.
 I don't feel that the SB 311 is going to help me much because as soon as you vote this mandate in, my price will drop substantially on the value of the building. January 1, I will go into the county and try to lower my real market value. It would only make sense. So I'm not going to have a building real market value that is going to give me any kind of assistance in an SB 311. Okay.
 the last thing I wanted to throw out is funding, offering a loan there's no fun in funding, it's just adding interest onto a cost that is born on me and the last thing I wanted to say is that I really appreciate Commissioner Fritz and her feeling my feeling is as stewardship you take care of the city of Portland's buildings, you get the the
 city staff to focus on taking care of the stewardship of our town and it's not just the buildings, you also have bridges that I believe the Portland, city of Portland is responsible for maintenance. No, we can't see it.
 Pardon me? That's Multnomah County. They own it, but is Portland not responsible for maintenance? No. No? But we all have an obligation. We've got a lot of stuff that we can't pay for. Your larger point is correct. My point is we don't have any bridge that will stand up with a seismic up. Yeah, your larger point is correct. Yeah. Except for the Silicon Crossing. So stewardship first, responsibility. You've got some...
 City of Portland has some responsibility in this, not just the owners. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Next three, please. Is Pippa Arend here? Sanella, I believe it's Ruzini, Ruzani, Elaine McArdle. Elaine had to leave. Okay, thank you. Suzanne Rice. Jim Wilson. Good afternoon. We've got three coming. Do you want to go ahead and start for us? Yeah. Thank you.
 As an owner of a URM and as a founder of PAIR, working in housing and homelessness issues, I want to be very clear, no one wants unsafe buildings, as we've talked about. However, this mandate was created unfairly without representation of small owners such as myself, condo owners, artists, and other stakeholders.
 It's important to realize that these retrofits are very expensive. Just this morning, the Willamette Week quoted the city's housing bureau estimating that the retrofits will cost at least $60 million for just 34 of the city's 73 URMs. That's almost $2 million per building. I agree with that number. My estimates are really similar for my own.
 Instead of enabling small owners to achieve increased safety standards, you are putting us at risk. We don't have access to the financial and engineering resources that Walter McMoneys and others of his caliber or you have. You will achieve the opposite of your goal. You will achieve blight.
 This is because the mandate increases retrofit requirements while on a timeline, while providing no funding, while causing a reduction in access to capital, while not providing that there will be no further mandate next year or the year after.
 This will have a damaging effect on the local owners, who are often non-profits, women, minorities, the elderly, the working class owners who have maintained our main streets for decades. The only winners here are the big developers who have sufficient capital to buy our properties without loans and who will demolish them and will build bigger buildings with higher rent for bigger returns.
 A mandate will create a city owned by those who care more about money than our diverse and creative community. The current retrofit code works. We don't need a new punitive one. We don't need to choose between preservation and safety. That is a false narrative.
 I urge you to retrofit your own buildings, the schools and critical buildings, and then enforce and fund the current code for privately owned buildings. In the words of Jane Jacobs, this is not the building of cities. This is the sacking of cities. Thank you. I'm sorry, can you state your name? I need your name for the record. You just spoke. Pippa Arendt. Thank you. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Sonala Ruzhnich. I live in a waste building on 23rd.
 I came to this country 23 years ago from Bosnia as a refugee. And since I've come from the war, it's been my lifelong passion to study conflict and to understand conflict. And I actually scratched what I was going to say to just raise some questions, talking about resilience, public safety, and mandate to protect people.
 we have listened here lots of technocrats speaking about technical sides of things of earthquakes and how buildings respond to the earthquakes but we do not, the city has not asked for the study or considered the study of what is going to happen to the people and what are the people's responses to
 not just disaster, but to the conflict, because this is going to create conflict. And there is a conflict already in Portland with rising rents, homelessness, non-affordable housing, and so forth. Conflict rises,
 primarily from perceived or real inequality. From these perceived or real inequality, there is a rising of a social conflict and it's not just homelessness and mental health issues, it's people who are dissatisfied with what is going on in the city. So I would like to urge the city consider the role
 Taking the perspective that in conflict, when there is earthquake, when there are natural disasters, people band together. When there is a conflict that is caused by this inequality, it's more conflict that there is violence. There is a social violence. Thank you. Appreciate your perspective on that.
 Good afternoon. Hi. Thanks for having us today. My name is Susie Rice, and I'm a native Portlander and nurse at OHSU. I was born, raised, and educated all in the state of Oregon. I live in the URM Aberdeen condominiums and bought in 2016, and I bought without disclosure that the Aberdeen was URM because the city of Portland sent its notice to the developer's mailbox, which is not located at the Aberdeen. We are a small condo association with only 14 owners, and our building is up to current code. We're quite a big company.
 requiring a full mandate of Aberdeen owners without full financial help would most certainly put so much financial strain on our small association that people would have to walk away from their homes, which would be financially devastating. You know this. This is my first home that I bought all on my own. You can imagine my excitement. I felt buying my first home, a beautiful, historic Portland condo, and you can imagine the sadness I feel now, thinking I might lose it.
 I love my city, but I also wonder what's happening to it that our local government is willing to financially ruin and or displace people for a mandate that is not well thought out. As a nurse that has worked in the pediatric ICU in Doernbecher, a trauma floor at OHSU, and now in emergency services, I see firsthand the consequences of displacement and its impact on families and individual mental health. I am in full support of safety for our buildings, but I'm also in support for our immediate well-being.
 I spent a lot of time around various local government buildings and elected officials, as my grandmother, Betty Roberts, was very active in Oregon politics and in Oregon Supreme Court justice. She taught me about democracy and how people's voices should always be heard. I hope you hear her voices in our stories today and that you don't require this mandate without full financial support and a plan for displacement. Thank you. Thank you. She was a great woman. She was. One of my favorites. Thank you.
 Next three, please. Jim Wilson. Just come on up if I call your name. Jim Wilson. Lisa Ward. Lynn Hanrahan. Marcus Irving. Oh, I think I've got some. Okay. Robert Hunter. Can I just see a show of hands how many people have signed up but not yet had the chance to testify? Okay. Not that many. Good. We'll get through everybody.
 Good afternoon. Hello, my name is Jim Wilson. I moved here 34 years ago from Alberta to purchase and renovate my first building. So I gave up my path to Canadian citizenship and a lot of great access to mountaineering and the Canadian Rockies. We purchased a three-story 1911 brick building at 843 North Knot some 20 years ago. We manage and maintain it. My mother had a stroke three years ago, and the income helps pay for her independent living residence.
 To install a new roof with seismic upgrades according to our bids is between $147,000 and $170,000. The seismic component of that is $70,000. Only one-third of our parapet needs back bracing or the figure would be higher. Our engineer calculates this reduces the loads at that level by a factor of four. This is a significant reduction in the loads for the money spent.
 The walls to floors upgrades would cost an additional several hundred thousand dollars. Oregon Senate Bill 311 would provide $134,000 of property tax relief over a 20-year period. So that would pay for the $70,000 of the roof, but would only allow $64,000 to pay for several hundred thousand dollars of upgrades to do floors to walls. If we could make the upgrades, we cannot afford the walls to floors upgrades.
 If we could, we would make the upgrades and have to change the use of the building or build out higher end units. The problem with Senate Bill 311 is it defunds schools and services and contractors do not take payments over a 20 year time frame. A number of owners will need financial support to accomplish the roof to walls upgrades. We would need significant financial support to accomplish the floors to walls upgrades.
 Upgrading existing URM buildings with affordable or reasonably priced rents, whether it is in the city's inventory or privately held, is an excellent investment. Therefore, we support Commissioner Fish's amendment in an effort to help owners succeed in increasing safety and retain affordable space for residents and businesses. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 Hi, my name's Lisa Ward, and among other things, I'm a native Portlander. I'm an architect. I'm an artist with a shared studio space, which is unreinforced masonry building in North Portland, and I also work in the film industry. I'm a proud member of IATSE 488 and LA 800. I'm a set designer and an art director. And, you know, I think that
 I really want to, I was actually surprised at the thoroughness of the report. I've been here since the beginning, and I wanted to thank the council and thank the committee for all the work that they have done. I think there's more work to be done. I think that no one would argue with the safety concerns that are being raised here. I think we should all look to a financial solution. I think this is a civic issue, and I think that we should be looking to levies to support people
 the improvements to happen to class one and class two buildings as soon as possible, maybe even sooner than the time frame proposed. In terms of class three and class four buildings, I think we should be looking to the developers who are tearing our city apart and to start looking at using fees from those development projects, which are making people a lot of money, to put back into preserving the Portland that older Portlanders love.
 and want to protect. And I'm going to finish my testimony by reading a few paragraphs from Jane Jacobs' Death and Life of Great Cities. This is the need for aged buildings. Cities need old buildings so badly it's probably impossible for vigorous streets and districts to grow without them.
 By old buildings, I mean not museum-piece old buildings, not old buildings in an excellent and expensive state of rehabilitation, although these make fine ingredients, but also a good lot of plain, ordinary, low-value old buildings, including some run-down old buildings. If a city area has only new buildings, the enterprises that can exist there are automatically limited to those that can support the high costs of new construction.
 I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I'm going to have to leave very soon. That's fine. Just to end, as for really new ideas of any kind, no matter how ultimately profitable or otherwise successful some of them might prove to be, there is no leeway for such chancy trial, error, and experimentation in a high overhead economy of new construction. Old ideas can sometimes use new buildings. New ideas must use old buildings. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it.
 Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Thank you for this opportunity. My name is Lynn Hanrahan, and I'm here with my husband, Steve, who's back there. And Steve and I have actually been involved with a couple URM buildings. The first one, the old gas station at Seven Corners, 2106 Southeast Division. We ran a kitchen and home store there for 16 years, and we retired last year. The owner, who's a Californian, who was very...
 very interested in retrofits because he understood the issue more firsthand than we do, wanted to sell the building. So when we retired, the new owner that bought it from our landlord wanted to open a restaurant in the current space. But because of the retrofit and the expense to update it and just in general and what it would take to open a restaurant, he
 He said it doesn't pencil out. So that building is now going to be torn down. So we can see that it's already kind of happening here. And that building needed a lot of work. I understand it's not, you know, it's not like the next building I'm going to talk to. It needed a lot of work. But it's a loved building. I loved that building. Yeah.
 So then move to the other situation, 1529 Southeast Hawthorne. We just heard from Susan Rice, who's the OHSU nurse. So we bought a studio condo in that building in 2006, so a low-income brother would have secure housing there.
 So we did not know we were on the URM list. And so in the time frame from when you first started having meetings, August of 2016 to November of 2017, three people bought units in our building, not knowing that there was a huge financial cloud behind them. And that should have never happened. So when Susie bought her unit...
 She didn't know it was on the URM list, and the realtor didn't, and the bankers didn't. So that's a very unfortunate aspect of this. And the other concern I have is condos. How is a condo association going to manage this? So I think we need a funded mandate if we're going to have a mandate. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks to all three of you. Appreciate it. Richard Larson, Paul Medica, Megan McGuire, Louie Longmire, Susan Emmons.
 Steve Rose. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Thanks for having me here. I appreciate the work that the council's done on this and the committees. I agree with Commissioner Fish's amendments and the work that's been done overall. Just tell your name for the record, please. Richard Larson. Thank you. Sorry. I think I agree with a lot of the testimony about the no financing is the problem, that it's going to put a burden on
 Not only the mom and pop, but I think everybody that looks at investment in real estate as well as livelihood. I don't know about the death sentence issues, but I think if you take a 7,000-square-foot building and add $700,000 worth of seismic upgrades to it, you can't increase your basis in a building by 50% and not expect that the rents aren't going to follow. Yeah.
 So the demolition is probably the likely course for a lot of these buildings. I think there should be some exceptions included in the policy for single-story buildings. Maybe there's a different way to look at those. There's a lot of those in the city. Hawthorne Boulevard is littered just lot after lot with one- and two-story brick buildings. It'd be unfortunate if they all looked like the glass palaces that are happening on the infill.
 So I appreciate the council. I think that funding is necessary for a mandate. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. My name is Paul Medica. I'm a URM building manager and part owner on Belmont, in the Belmont district, which is very close to Hawthorne. And I will echo what...
 The person to my left here mentioned, which is on the main streets, the arteries within the city, especially in the southeast side, they are basically the main areas where the URM buildings are located except where you have schools. I'm affected. My tenants are affected.
 I am not the ordinary manager. I took the time to inform my tenants that they are living in a URM building and also to inform them of what safety precautions they need to take in the case of an event. And then in the past three months, I took some time to examine URM improvement programs around the country. I actually made a trip to San Francisco and Charleston, South Carolina,
 Now, I know most of you don't realize the city of Charleston suffered an estimated magnitude 7.7 seismic event in 1890 and another event in 1921. I researched this on the web into some extensive research in other areas where a municipality or a county successfully instituted a URM seismic upgrade program in an area where there had been a recent...
 or no recent seismic event, excuse me. And I came across FEMA report P774.
 which documents, it's very interesting by the way, and I submit to this council that they should just at least browse it. It was written for the use by non-technical audiences, and the title of it is Unreinforced Masonry Building Earthquake Development Successful Risk Reduction Program. And I'll make this very quick. In the casework that FEMA represents or presents in this document,
 There are two of 12 case studies. There are only two that have a common theme. Local funding, support with local finance institutions, and a program inception after a recent seismic event. That's interesting. Thank you.
 Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hi there. I'm Steve Rose with Bristol Urban Apartments, and I was also on the retrofit support committee. Let's see. I established my business 28 years ago. My company manages 35 mostly historic apartment buildings with over 850 apartment units. Several of them are URMs.
 Also, I was appointed by Governor Kulingowski to the Oregon Seismic Safety Policy Advisory Commission in 2001 and served until 2004. I would like to speak to the public process and the meetings that I was either a participant in or an observer. I did attend some of the standard committee meetings, but was not invited or allowed to provide any input in discussions on establishing the retrofit requirements.
 I questioned the issue of liquefaction as a risk and was told that they were not interested in using it as a factor. That continued throughout the process and is even true today. I also talked about the potential effect on all buildings, including new construction, in a major Cascadia event, and there was little interest in any discussion on that matter.
 I was appointed to the other committee, the incentive committee at the time, which was later changed to the support committee. The support committee brainstormed many different ideas about possible sources of financing, grants, rebates, tax abatements, tax credits, and even FAR transfers. But in the end, we did not make any significant progress on any.
 Bottom line, after meeting for a year, the committee could not come up with any tools that would enable owners of URMs to execute any proposed mandatory retrofits that the standards committee had put forth without severe hardship, probable financial ruin, and demolition.
 Since 1994, code was established to require retrofits as active triggers only. Changes of occupancy, major renovations, and even installation of new roof could trigger a need for the owner of a URM to perform some level of retrofit building. I just have a couple more seconds here. However, to date, nearly 24 years later, very few URMs have undergone any retrofit work to make them safer. And it is not because building owners are cheaters or bad stewards.
 or for that matter, fans of being unsafe. Heck, many URM owners live and work in their own buildings. More progress has to be made for one simple reason.
 its overall cost, and the inability to borrow the money to get the work done. Banks will not lend on URMs. A quick word about placarding, which I know was discussed. Very quick. You're almost a minute over. Okay. Lots of people waiting. I was on the committee. I don't know if that allows me. I'm giving it to you, but just be mindful there's people waiting. We agreed in our committee that placarding could be used as an incentive
 similar to historic building placarding, once a building went through the process of the work being done. However, we were very adamant against placarding unless there was a code compliance after the expired term to perform the work. So I support...
 the Mayor's and Commissioner Fish's resolutions in an important step to dealing with retrofits. However, I cannot impress upon the Commissioners strong enough the need to enable owners by providing financing and financial incentives to comply with any mandate. All set. Thank you. Thank you, all three of you. Next three, please. Sorry, I lost my place here. Let's see. Let's go with Ben Kaiser.
 Oh, what's your name? Robert Hunter. Okay, this is Robert Hunter. We'll go with Ben Kaiser. Is there an Amanda Robithau? Sorry. Good afternoon. Thank you. Good afternoon. You want to go ahead and start. Okay.
 First of all, thank you to the commission. Thank you, Mayor. And I agree with everything that's been discussed today. I won't repeat most of it. I think we've been dealing... Put your name in the record, please. I'm sorry. My name is Ben Kaiser. And I've been studying this issue for about five years now from the private side and digging deep into what we can do as a city around housing.
 early notification systems, and I think there's great advancements around the world in regard to that. So I think if we're talking about spending this amount of money as a city or as private citizens, I think that's something to explore. I also fully support your idea, Commissioner Fritz, around
 A tax that we all pay as city citizens, I think that's a fair way to dispense the costs that we'd all benefit from for both these private and public buildings as well as the public infrastructure. I think that's an important thing that we can all adopt rather than putting it all on the private sector to solve. I think we're all in this together, so I think a tax citywide would be important.
 I think it's also important to dig into the actual facts of the case. So when we're talking about preserving life, let's really study what we're talking about. Since the founding of the United States, since early 1800, about four people die per year in earthquakes around the United States. More people die from vending machines falling on them. More people die from...
 lightning strikes. And really, an opioid epidemic is killing 20,000 people a year in the United States as opposed to four as a result of earthquakes. And it was brought up the San Francisco earthquake. What's fascinating about that, those were mostly wood buildings in 1906. The majority of those burned down in the fire caused by the broken gas lines, not by URM buildings. Those were predominantly wood buildings at the time. The Tukhuku earthquake in 2011 –
 Very, very few people were killed in the 9.1 earthquake. The vast majority, over 97%, were killed in the tsunami. So when we're talking about deaths and what we're actually trying to preserve, let's just really dig into the numbers of what we're actually preserving and the cost spent to do it.
 I think that's the most important part. And with that information, then we can really dig into a solution that will work for everybody. Thank you, Ben. Appreciate it. Mr. Kais, I just want to clarify that I was not proposing a tax. I just asked Dr. Puss in Washington. All right. I don't want to put your name on that. Good afternoon, sir. Good afternoon. Thank you for your patience. Yeah.
 There are about nine category nine, about 12 category nine earthquakes throughout the world each year. Could you put your name in the record, please? What? Tell us your name, please. Oh, Robert Hunter. Thank you. I own buildings here in town. And I rent part of my building out to the person who fixes the fire hoses and valves for the city of Portland. But my building happens to be a URM. Okay.
 It's great that you're listening to everybody here. I think that's wonderful. And take into account what they have been saying and bring them in on your decision-making. I talked to an acquaintance in Southeast, and he has a building, owns his building in Southeast, but he rents in Northwest, which is a URM. And he said, straight out to me, if my landlord raises my rent, I'm suing him.
 and most likely the city of Portland. So it's very important for you to get this right by taking all this in from all these people who have been speaking and include them.
 That's basically all I have to say. Thank you, sir. Yeah. Thank you for being here. Good afternoon. Hi, my name is Amanda Robichaux. I'm an attorney. I am not a building or property owner. I am a business owner with a long-term lease in a URM. We practice out of a 13,000-square-foot building in southeast Portland, the Old City Water Building.
 And I mean, so I want to just start by saying is that, I mean, I care about my employees. I certainly want them to be safe. I mean, I want to be safe. I spend lots of hours at the office, so I want to be in a building that's safe. But I think that the cost, I guess, that you have been quoted, this $9 to $11, I think that's just incorrect. I mean, that lady...
 I'm sorry, and this is the first time I've ever even been in this building. This is the first time I've really even heard about this was like a couple of weeks ago. So I don't really know anybody else that was here, but that lady that was on the end, and she's even told you that that cost doesn't include costs for displaced rents, but it also probably doesn't include displaced wages, right?
 I mean, I brought with me today two employees that live in the apartment building right behind our building. And so for them, they would be doubly affected. They told me that they pay $900 a month for their one-bedroom apartment. The goat blocks, the dumbbells, you think you can get a $900 apartment there? No. It's like $1,500 to $2,000 a month for a studio apartment with, like, the pull-down bed.
 I mean, that's like what we're dealing with. And what we're, like for me as a business owner, I'm trying to keep my wages at a reasonable cost. I've got this minimum wage increase. I mean, we've already talked about potentially like moving out of the city. And I wouldn't want to do that because, I mean, the city that we serve, this is our community, our clients. I mean, we're a disability law practice. We have, you know, 76 employees. We've got four partners worldwide.
 We create a lot of jobs, and then we also have a lot of people that we serve. We have thousands of clients here in Portland alone and in the Northwest, Pacific Northwest. But we have to think about that. We have to think about these people that we help. I just wanted to let you know that that cost that she's quoted you is just not correct. I mean, it doesn't count a lot of these other factors that it asks that you consider. Thank you.
 Thank you. And we don't want you to leave Portland either. So thank you for your testimony, all three of you. Is there Chandler Hicks? Is he still here? Thank you. Okay, we'll go with Rudy Manziel, Fred Leeson, Maya Forti, Dana Hawans. Can I see a show of hands? How many people are waiting? Good, thank you. Denise Pratt and Bill Pratt. Come on up if I called your name. Brad Hamer, Roseanne Romaine. I think I scared them all away. I'm a little person.
 Good afternoon. Hi, I'm Fred Leeson, board member, Architectural Heritage Center. I think more than most people, we appreciate the value of our URMs for the historical context that they bring to our city and our sense of place. We also greatly understand the human safety issues. You've heard many times today that your solution has got to be to find the funding, and we support you in that. I wish I was smart enough to help you.
 I really intended to come with something that I thought was a unique and creative idea. It turns out not to. You've already seen it. That is the placarding thing. I was in California on a trip last November, went to the historic Carmel Mission built in 1797, and I saw the sign that says, you know, this is not an earthquake-safe building put up by the state of California. Okay.
 I think that's an idea you need to consider that does have consequences.
 when and how you do it, but I think primarily in residential buildings, people need to know, do I want to live here or do I not want to live here? Sort of like the package on the cigarette. We know cigarettes kill us, but you've got a warning. Do you want to smoke this damn thing or not? I think that's appropriate. The other thing I just want to end with is those California Mission guys were so smart in 1797, they put the gift shop right at the front entrance. Good afternoon.
 My name is Diana Huang, and I want to thank Nick Fish for his amendment recommendations. I also want to support Commissioner Fritz on putting the class 1s and 2s foremost in terms of higher seismic retrofit requirements.
 work and requirements. But for the class three and four, I support most of the comments and sympathize with the building owners here regarding the need for the financing to make things work. But I would put it toward the Mayor Wheeler and the commissioners.
 I'm making you a bold request to really look at how this seismic retrofit for the Class III and IV buildings can be done with very creative incentive packages and not the use of mandates. The reason I say this, I am the owner of a 1928 three-story beautiful brick building in Laurelhurst. It is not a URM.
 And I pride myself as being a person who does things proactively. My husband and I, in 2016, were actually looking at voluntarily doing some seismic retrofit work. Our building is self-story, not URM. So it has a series of garages.
 We were looking at what we could do to support the structure around the garages, install steel beams such as this. We spent about $10,000 in architecture and engineering work to do this. But as we found out about the city's proposal for mandates, we came to a complete halt.
 We could not proceed further. Nobody in the city could give us... tell us that...
 The work that we would do voluntarily would be grandfathered if down the line you decided to also have mandates for soft story down the road. We are at a complete stop. I looked at a bank for seismic retrofit funding. They said because my building is older than 1940, they wanted foundation work. So to keep my building and...
 to keep my building and do the work that's necessary. Now, seismic retrofit work, if we had to do things like tie in, and I don't have a problem with the roof stuff, but if we had to tie in floors as well as the garages and do foundation work, it almost looks like it'd be better to build a new building. But, again,
 zoning, R5, I asked the development, Portland development, and they said you could not tear down your, if you tore down your building, you could only build two houses. You could not replace the 14-unit apartment building. And to do that,
 You'd have to wait until something happened to it, like an earthquake or a fire. Thank you. Appreciate your sharing that. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Brad Hamer. My family owns four apartment buildings on the URM list. We have come to the conclusion that we cannot justify the cost of doing the retrofits in these old buildings. They are not worth it when the infrastructure of the building is 80 to 100 years old, water, sewer, electrical and heating systems.
 When this mandate passes, we will write it out as long as we can. Then we will probably sell to a developer. We don't want to sell, but we believe the value of these properties will fall to the value of the land, which means loans will probably be defaulted on and developers will pick them up cheap. The bad thing about selling to a developer...
 is affordable rent in these old buildings will be gone. I call it free market, low cost housing. People are only willing to pay so much for these older buildings because they have less amenities. Dishwasher, individual laundry, enough outlets in the units.
 We do not want our buildings to fall down, but we cannot justify the cost. We are torn. We love the character and charm of the old buildings, but also want them to be safe. The best choice for us to make is to sell or demolish and rebuild. Also, will retrofitting the buildings make them usable after an earthquake? There are over 7,000 apartments on the list. I believe if they are not usable after an earthquake, then we are in a worse position. What we understand...
 from the subcommittee is that retrofits are only designed to keep them standing during an earthquake, not so much usable after an earthquake, which means thousands of people without housing in the aftermath. Finally, I would like to see Portland have a comprehensive plan in place, educating the people on the city what to do and where to go if services are needed. I have seen one mailer put out by previous mayor, Sam Adams, which was an earthquake communication node map.
 It also had information about being prepared, like emergency bag with a couple of days' worth of supplies, like a bug-out bag kind of thing.
 I think educating the people on what to do during an earthquake is just as important as having safe buildings. That's all I got. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Haymarathon, you just made John's day because she worked on that with Sam Adams. Say that again? You just made John and Peppa F. the Muse day because she worked on that with Sam Adams. I actually saw this on the news the other day. I got this like seven years ago or something like that. You're more of a peck-pick than I am.
 You saved your best work. Thank you so much. It's been hanging in our building since we got it. Thank you. Thank you. All three of you, thank you for your testimony. Next three, please. Roseanne Romaine, Dorothy Cofield, Lindsay Levy, Shaya Gilligan. Good afternoon. Hi. It's actually good evening. Well, it's getting there, isn't it? Yeah. Thank you. I'm Roseanne Romaine. Thank you.
 I am a small restaurant owner in Portland for the last 18 years, and we are located in a URM building. And myself and my business partner, who is also the building owner, have looked at the mandate and are fairly convinced that we cannot afford to work with this mandate. We won't be able to keep the building. We won't be able to keep our business. And I guess the most important thing to me are my employees and...
 There's 40 people that work for me, and I feel responsible for them. And if we can't and don't have funding and backing from the city, who I feel we have, over the last 18 years, been very supportive of in many ways, and not just by creating jobs and by creating tax revenue, but also by...
 Creating culture and tourism and the restaurant industry, I think, is very important to Portland and brings a lot of money and a lot of people in. These 40 people would be unemployed. They have rent to pay, mortgages to pay. They put themselves through university here. We have graduated doctors, lawyers, nurses, architects out of the restaurant and out of our group of employees here.
 This would be an immediate effect. It would be, you know, we're talking about saving lives and saving our community, but we also have to think about saving people and the value of these people here and now. And I don't see a solution here with the mandate that you've proposed to us at this point. Thank you. We appreciate your perspective. Thank you.
 Hi, Dorothy Cofield. I'm here for my family, which owns 1329 Southwest 14th. It's called the Grandview now. I helped find this building for my dad, who is now 95 1⁄2 and couldn't be here today because he's bedridden.
 And at the time, the building was known as the Glass Staircase. It was built in 1907. And at that time, it had four floors. But in the 70s, a creative owner put in a fifth floor and put in an elevator. And the elevator had glass. And you could see the elevator go up. So it was called the Glass Staircase. It is 48 units. It is five floors. This mandate would be completely unaffordable, as many others have testified.
 I happen to be a land use attorney, and I help clients all the time get through different city and county processes. And I can tell you, their budgets are always sadly, sadly too low. In this day and age, you need a whole team of consultants. These buildings probably end up discovering asbestos. Other people have talked about ADA. Everything kicks in. And if it truly were $11 a foot...
 I think the city could easily set up a fund and do it themselves. But I don't think anybody that's testified here today thinks that figure is anywhere near realistic. So as everyone has said, we have these 48 units. We've limitedly taken care of them. We've met all the city codes all these years. We put in new fire escapes. We did everything that we were asked to do. And we can't do this. And people that have rents of $300, $400, $500...
 are not going to have a place to live. And it will be an 8,000-square-foot lot vacant. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Shea Gilligan. I'm both an architect and a URM building owner. Therefore, I have dual interests professionally to uphold the life and safety and building code compliance, and personally as someone who's invested in the city and lived through how much goes into even a partial upgrade of a URM.
 Based on my own experience and through assisting others in the process, the work, time, and money involved in a renovation always exceeds that of new construction, which reinforces my belief that all URM owners have already provided a great service to the city by being stewards. It's been said many times, and that's assuming that most old buildings need work. Asking these owners to further shoulder the costs and burdens of seismic retrofits without financial assistance should be withdrawn."
 Again, I don't question the need to upgrade URM buildings, only mandating without financing. As an advocate for local and independent owners, those are our favorite clients, I don't know how to advise them when they're worried about how they will afford the impending required retrofits and they'll be forced to sell. As a young professional, I don't know how to mourn the ways this mandate prioritizes large developers and interests over small owners.
 I ask city council to be more inclusive of the needs of those whose pockets are full of tools, pencils, and creativity rather than profit. And I strongly agree with the suggestion of another architect who said that there might be solutions found in creating surcharges on permit fees for new development to help subsidize old buildings.
 That's an interesting idea. Thank you. Appreciate it, all three of you. Next are Ray Johnson, James Bella, Mark Mizrahi, Malia Jensen. Come on up if I call your name. Malia Jensen, Linda Jo Davale-Mincic, Vic Savara, Miriam Portney. Would you like to start, Miriam? Oh, sure. Thank you. I know we're all tired, so I'm going to try to keep it short.
 My name is Miriam Portney. I am a full-time working student graduating next month from PSU with a degree in community development and sustainable urban development. I moved here from New York City in 2012 and found a home in Portland as I shared some values around smart growth design, walkable neighborhoods, entrepreneurial spirit, access to nature, quality of life.
 I've been living in an affordable studio apartment in southeast Belmont, which is a Class II URM building. It is close to public transportation, resources, and has become my home. I have worked as a bartender in a French restaurant for the last six years. That has become my family. They are a Class III URM building. My excitement around graduating and moving ahead in my professional career has quickly turned to anxiety. As come June, I will begin to repay my student loans.
 In one foul swoop, I considered a future of increased monthly bills, the loss of my apartment, of my job, and the health benefits that they have provided, as I know that neither of them have the finances to complete this retrofit. I am proud to be a Portlander and hope for the opportunity to contribute my hard work, passion, knowledge, and skill set to help envision a bright future for our city as long as I can afford to live in it.
 This mandate is around the safety of residents and economic resilience in the event of a disaster. I think we can all agree that these are the desired goals. As I consider my own personal safety and my own personal economic resiliency, I feel that it is threatened. I hope that we do the best to consider our current public safety as much as our future safety.
 This is about more than myself and my specific situation. I represent a host of individuals who may or may not be aware of the situation that they are facing and the impacts that this decision will have on their lives. I have confidence that you will take due time to consider all of the issues presented to you today, and I am hopeful we can move forward collectively, collaboratively, and well-informed. Well said. Thank you. Thank you for your time. Good afternoon.
 Hi, I'm James Biela, Oregon Earthquake Awareness. The only thing we have to fear are earthquake-prone buildings and shear itself. When I think of earthquakes in the Pacific Northwest, I think of earthquakes shaking ground motions, which reminds me of motion pictures. One of the greatest directors of that art was Cecil B. DeMille. Scenes were often great catastrophes, casts of thousands, total mayhem, chaos, clouds of dust, action.
 On one such scene, he knew he could only do one take, so he positioned three cameras at different locations. Action. After the battle, those dust clouds settle. CB runs up to the first cameraman. Did you get it? Ah, CB, I was going to get it, but my film jammed and I couldn't shoot. CB then runs up to the second cameraman. Did you get it? Ah, CB, I was going to get it, but a gust of wind blew my camera over and cracked the lens on a rock.
 One final cameraman, one final hope. As CB approaches, the cameraman yells, Ready when you are, CB. So when will Portland be ready? City councils like to pass laws, but you can't bypass the law of gravity. Confucius say to see what is right and not to do it is lack of courage, not lack of balance, not fully cooked or half-baked.
 The only things we have to fear are earthquake-prone buildings and Shire itself. And what I've heard today is that there's no way to pay for this stuff. So perhaps the city needs to set up a municipal bond program and provide low-interest loans from the proceeds of that bond fund. But, um...
 After the earthquake, these buildings will be gone anyway. Thank you, sir. Good afternoon. Good evening. Yeah, it's getting there. I think it's officially evening. My name is Vic Savara, and I own and I live in a URM building. First of all, I'd like to thank the council members for
 performing the quorum so late in the evening. I was not expecting that, and I appreciate it. Thank you. We appreciate your patience as well, everybody who's here. I'm not going to repeat what other people have said. I was very pleased to hear the position of the Mayor and of the other Council members being so very considerate of the impact on
 single owner URMs. Two years ago, I was the only person in the committee room and I asked the question, I said you're making decisions for 1,500 single owner URMs, how many of you own a URM? Not even one person. And I kept on pushing on that fact that you're making decisions without any representation.
 I want to publicly thank the Ewan family
 and the Roger family for organizing the Safe Portland Building Movement, which has caused all of us to come together to share with you that we need representation. I would like to request the Council that in your amendments, where you have mentioned that we should be represented, that you make it a mandate that the working group, which you have specified, must include
 let's say seven or eight members of the single owner URM family. Thank you again. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you, Mary. Next is Michael Feves. Keith Miller. Dave Bay. Patrick Hilton. Virginia Hankins. Emily Stutzman. Richard Young. Stuart McVeigh. Robert Butler.
 And the last person I showed was W. Johnson. So if you didn't hear your name and you signed up, please come on up. Magic words, the last presenter. All right. Real hookup.
 Good evening, Mayor Wheeler and members of the council. My name is Michael Fevis. I am a consulting geophysicist with a Ph.D. from MIT. But more importantly for today's discussion, our family has owned apartment houses in Portland for over 80 years. Many of our buildings are URMs. We house over 200 people. We have over 200 units that are in URMs. The rents average $981, with some people paying...
 $450 to $500. Some of our tenants have been with us for 35, 40 years. That's the population we're talking about here. I'm not going to go through all the rest of my testimony. You've heard a lot of it here. I just, as I'm sitting here all afternoon,
 I've come away with, I think, a conclusion. It's clear that the city needs to develop some kind of flexible funding mechanism in order for property owners such as myself to be successful in this. It has to be flexible because you see the wide gamut of people that own many buildings to somebody that has one small building that's their retirement. So I charge...
 committee that you're forming, I hope you form it, with that task. And I think until that flexible funding mechanism or mechanisms can come into play, we have to take class three and class four buildings off the table. It's clear class one and two, yes, they're critical and they need to be implemented and the city needs to have a mechanism for doing their buildings.
 I applaud the amendments that Mayor that you made and Commissioner Fritzen you made and that Mayor-to-be Nick Fish made, but I think that's the right direction. You may never show up again.
 It's too big a responsibility. Anyway, I thank you for all the hard work you've done, for all the hard work that the staff has done on this. It's a tough project. Let's get it done, and let's get a decision made. I think there's more light at the end of the tunnel than there was three years ago. Thank you. Thank you. Let's do it right.
 Good afternoon. Hello. You get the final work. Yes. Hello, I'm Virginia Hankins. My husband Danny and I own a building on Martin Luther King in Fremont. We've owned it since 1990. And one thing I want to bring to your attention is that when we tried to upgrade our building and do some things,
 We struggled getting a loan for $60,000. So I know for a fact I won't be getting one for over $200,000 or either a million or millions. Right now in our building we have three small businesses. One is a beauty shop, one is a record shop, and then one is an artist.
 They have employees there, so if this mandate happens, it will cause us to lose our building that has been in our family for 28 years. The three small businesses will have to close, which will affect the employees, it will affect my family, the business owners, and their families.
 And another thing, I think, is that communication. If my property manager did not communicate with me and let me know that this was going on, I would not have known. But they did send a flyer to my deceased father, who's been deceased since 2005, so obviously he wouldn't be able to read it. Okay.
 And my tenant, who said it doesn't affect me, so she just threw it away. And then I noticed on some of the pictures that they were showing of the earthquakes, I don't recall seeing one from Portland or in Oregon, and I know that we've had earthquakes here. And...
 I think it's a good idea where you guys were saying the conflict of interest being revealed, and that's all I have to say. Well said. Thank you both. So thank you, everybody, for being here tonight. This was a long hearing, but it was an exceptional hearing. I think we got lots of good feedback. People gave us very, very thoughtful commentary. I'm leaving with a long list of good ideas.
 As promised, we're not going to deliberate tonight. We're not going to take a vote. I think we want to absorb this. Colleagues, it has been proposed that we continue this item to June 13th at 10.15 a.m.,
 and it is my understanding, based on the master schedule, Carla, that we're all able to be present for that. Is that correct? Currently, I show everybody in yes. Okay. Does anybody have any objections? Continuation June 13th, 10.15 a.m., time certain. All right. Thanks, everybody. Thank you very much for being here. Thank you so much. We are adjourned.