Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the May 6th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Hales? Here. Good morning. Welcome, everyone. We have a full agenda this morning of regular business and communications and also some special presentations and times certain. So we're actually going to start with the first of those presentations even before we do communications, and that's item 435. Okay.
 believe there's a proclamation from commissioner proclamations before all that okay we've got one i'm sorry we have a couple on the agenda and one before all that so yes sorry before we do item 435 commissioner fritz
 Thank you, Mayor Hales. I was getting the large print version, which was why I was a couple of minutes late. Today is May 6th, and many of you may not be aware, it's National Nurses Day. And I worked for 27 years as a registered nurse. And so I have the honour of reading this proclamation. Thank you, Mayor, for letting me do that.
 Whereas there are more than 52,000 registered nurses in Oregon, comprising Oregon's largest healthcare profession. And whereas the depth and breadth of the registered nursing profession meets the different and emerging healthcare needs of Oregonians in a wide range of setting. And whereas the Oregon Nurses Association, of which I continue to be a proud retired member,
 as the voice of the Registered Nurses of Oregon is working to chart a new course for a healthy state that relies on increasing delivery of primary and preventative health care, and whereas a renewed emphasis on primary and preventative health care will require better utilization of all registered nurses.
 And whereas professional nursing has been demonstrated to be an indispensable component in the safety and quality of care of hospitalized patients, and the demand for registered nursing services will be greater than ever because of the aging population, of which I am one,
 the continuing expansion of life-sustaining technologies, and the explosive growth of home health care services. And whereas more qualified registered nurses will be needed in the future to meet the increasingly complex needs of health care consumers in this community, and the cost-effective, safe, and quality health care services provided by registered nurses will be an ever more important component of the Oregon's health care delivery system in the future,
 And whereas along with the American Nurses Association, the Oregon Nurses Association has declared the week of May 6 to 12 as National Nurses Week with the theme, Ethical Practice, Quality Care, in celebrating the ways which registered nurses strive to provide safe and high quality patient care and map out the way to improve our health care system.
 Now, therefore, Charlie Hales, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim May 6-12, 2015 to be National Nurses Week in Portland and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you. Thank you very much. Well, then let's move on to Item 435.
 presentation from the 2015 Portland Rose Festival and Rose Festival Court. Very important time of year here in Portland, or I should say Rosaria, so I would like to call up Jeff Curtis to introduce this morning's presentation, and Frank Chen. Good morning and welcome. You're here. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor Hales, distinguished commissioners. It's great to be with you this morning on the eve of the 2015 Rose Festival, a blooming good time. In a few minutes, the court is going to present some festival highlights, but I thought I would just take a few minutes to share with you a little bit of the who, the what, the why, and the how of the Rose Festival Foundation and what we do and our contributions to the city and the end result of our hard work.
 Specifically on WHO, WHO is the Rose Festival Foundation? It's a not-for-profit organization founded 108 years ago. With very specific principles, a mission by our city leaders decided that it was important to celebrate the quality of life in our great city in 1907, but also to create an event that would provide economic stimulus to the community, bring people together in the spirit of celebration as well, and bring people to our great city under this all theme of the Rose.
 We continue to serve that mission today. An economic activity, most recent study estimated economic activity over $75 million is a direct result of the Rose Festival activities annually. At the same time, we bring our citizens together under this great festival spirit of celebration.
 We do this collectively with 3,600 volunteers, 56 dedicated volunteers that serve on our board under the leadership of Frank Chin and a staff of 12 that grows to 22 this time of year. It takes about 14 months to produce the average festival as we're about ready to produce it.
 But what is this festival itself? Ultimately, it's a collection of 57 distinctly different events that you see in front of you in our calendar of events, some of which you'll hear in a few minutes, some highlights presented by the Rose Festival Court. At the same time, it's a distinctive festival that gets worldwide attention as one of the top festivals in the world, as distinguished by the International Festival and Events Association.
 It's quality events, it's world-class production, and it puts Portland at the centerpiece on a global scale from an event standpoint. But why do we do this? We do it under very specific reasons over a 108-year period. And really, to summarize it, we bring people together with the spirit of celebration. We showcase Portland on a worldwide stage.
 We produce an economic impact estimate at $75 million for the Portland region annually. And we also most recently raised awareness to charitable causes. Last year, the Night Cancer Challenge. This year, we're honored to announce our official charity about a month ago, Boys and Girls Aid. And we do this for the spirit of fun, thus the theme of Blooming Good Time. How does it happen? Well, a lot of hard work.
 A lot of partnerships and a lot of creativity. I have a great group of corporate sponsors that provide about 40% of our funding. The rest of it is generated the old-fashioned way, hard work, dedicated volunteer fundraising, and people, citizens buying pins, attending our events is what happens. And we do this year after year after year after year despite challenges that come our way for things we don't control. And we also rely on our partnership with you as City of Portland as our official festival specifically.
 So in conclusion, you know, it's hard with the hard work, the efforts that we produce will culminate in a 57 event celebration that we're about to get started. And unlike other events that happen in our city, the city of Portland is a direct beneficiary of this thing. We do this for no other reason but this for the purpose of bringing our community together and put Portland on a worldwide stage under the spirit and the theme of the Rose. And it's my privilege and honor to work for such a great organization that dedicates its efforts year-round to do such great work.
 And with that said, I'll transition to the volunteer side of our organization, the Heart and Soul, our board president, Frank Chin. Frank? Good morning. Good morning. My name is Frank Chin. I'm a retired band director after 31 years teaching in the Lake Oswego Tiger Tualatin School District. I've been volunteering for the Portland Rose Festival since 1980.
 I'm really not that old, but I guess the numbers don't lie. Anyway, I've served on the board since 1999, and I've served on no fewer than eight committees per year since being on the board. Having gone through the leadership program, it is my honor to become president of the Portland Rose Festival Foundation and to represent our board staff and the volunteers that work for this organization.
 As president, I have the honor to present the 2015 Portland Rose Festival Court. They are a great group of young women, as you will see, and they will be fabulous ambassadors for Portland's official festival. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you.
 We are the 2015 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'd like to introduce ourselves and tell you what's happening during this year's Rose Festival. Devin. I'm Devin and I'm from St. Mary's Academy. I enjoy helping people in the community by serving on the Dornbecher Committee and the Poverty Awareness Day Committee. The Portland Rose Festival is proud to support children in the community by partnering with Boys and Girls Aid, this year's official charity.
 For 130 years, Boys and Girls Aid has been connecting foster children with caring adults because every child deserves a family. Tabitha. I'm Tabitha from Lincoln High School. I run the Garden Advisory Board and oversee the community garden at my school. Show your floral pride at the Spirit Mountain Casino's Grand Floral Parade on Saturday, June 6th.
 Buy tickets for weatherproof seats at the Veterans Memorial Coliseum. Stake your claim on a spot along the four-mile-long parade route, or you can watch it all live on KPTV Fox Channel 12. Paris. I'm Paris, and I'm from Central Catholic High School. One of my favorite things to do in Portland is walk along the waterfront with my dad on warm summer nights.
 See the ships line up on the waterfront park seawall during Fleet Week, June 3rd through June 7th. Rose Festival is excited to welcome ships from the U.S. Navy, Royal Canadian Navy, and U.S. Coast Guard back to Portland for the largest Fleet Week the Rose Festival has seen in years.
 I'm Kage from Jefferson High School and fitness is important to me so I push myself to sprint while everyone else is jogging. I participated in cheer, track, volleyball, and wrestling. Get fit with the Rose Festival by registering your group for the Bank of the West Grand Floral Walk on June 6th. Walk down the Grand Floral Parade route as hundreds of thousands of spectators cheer you on.
 I'm Tyann, and I'm from Vinson High School. I push myself to break out of my shyness by participating in team activities, including cheerleading, choir, and track and field. Get your foursome together for a little friendly competition at the Rose Festival Golf Tournament on June 8th. Hit the links at the Riverside Golf and Country Club, followed by a dinner awards banquet at the conclusion of play.
 Lily. Hi, I'm Lily from Wilson High School. I enjoy giving back to my community by volunteering as a community mentor and peer counselor. The Portland Rose Festival Foundation has been giving back to the community for 108 years. And one way is through the Rose Garden Store, located at the International Rose Test Garden. And this year marks a milestone, as $1 million have been contributed to the Portland Parks Department since the store first opened in 2000.
 Naomi. I'm Naomi, and I'm from Cleveland High School. I'm a full IB diploma candidate, ukulele player, and summer camp counselor at Camp Nemanu. If you want to see who will be crowned Queen of Rosaria, join us at the Queen's Coronation presented by United Community Credit Union right before the Grand Floral Parade. It all takes place on June 6th at 830 AM at Veterans Memorial Coliseum. We appreciate your support.
 Erica. I'm Erica and I'm from Roosevelt High School. When I'm finished studying for my classes at Roosevelt, I put on my colorful dress and practice Proclorico Mexican dancing. See an array of colors on the faces of the character clown core presented by Union Pacific. Led by the beloved clown prince, the clown core is sure to bring laughter and smiles to many audiences during this year's Rose Festival season.
 Clara. I'm Clara from Valley Catholic High School, representing the Mesha West area. In the future, I plan on pursuing a career as an engineer in the film industry and hope to make animation films for children. Show your support for local kids by joining us for this year's Fred Meyer Jr. Parade on Wednesday, June 3rd. See floats, community groups, baton twirlers, and dance teams having floral fun in the Hollywood District. Or watch it live on KPTV Fox Channel 12.
 Talia. I'm Talia from Lake Oswego High School representing the Metro East area. Throughout high school I have made friends and connected with people from different clubs, sports and schools that have offered me a wide perspective and outlook on life. You can become a friend of the festival and support the Portland Rose Festival Foundation, a non-profit organization. Receive a plethora of benefits to enjoy at this year's festival as we celebrate the 2015 theme of Bloom in Good Time.
 Thank you for hosting the 2015 Rose Festival Court presented by Unitas Community Credit Union. We'll see you at the Rose Festival. I'm Talia from Lake Oswego, and on behalf of the court, we'd like to present you with a poster. Thank you. Welcome to the Rose Festival. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Well, thank you all. We look forward to the festival, and we're really proud of these young leaders in this important role that you play in our community. So we wish you well, and have a great Rose Festival season. Thank you for coming. Let's hear it for them. Can we do a picture? Yeah. Can we do a quick photo with you? Can we do a quick picture? 36 is around. Yes. Yes. We definitely want to take photos. Yeah.
 Thank you.
 We'll move on into the regular council calendar now with communications items. Did you want to do 436, part of the 930? Sorry, yes. We have an ordinance that we need to adopt in order to make this all legal. Item 436. Grant revocable permits to the Portland Rose Festival Foundation to perform activities relating to Portland Rose Festival annual celebration from May 22, 2015 through June 7, 2015. Commissioner Novick.
 Colleagues, the first Rose Festival was held, as we just heard, in 1907 and was designated the official festival of the City of Portland in 2010 by Council. We do things carefully with a lot of process in Portland. It took us 103 years to settle on that one. The Rose Festival is one way we celebrate all the great things that makes Portland a unique place to live and visit, and Alison Madsen is with us today to present Council with more details on this item. Thank you. I have one question. Who is the Grand Marshal of the Starlight Parade?
 no comment Commissioner welcome back Jeff good morning Allison thank you good morning as Commissioner Novick said I'm Allison Madsen special event coordinator for the city and as the Rose Festival Court has done such a wonderful job of introducing the major events of this year's
 season of syllabic celebration. There's a little else I can say about that, but I would like to take just a moment to talk about some of the people who make this event the quality event that it is every year.
 The Traffic Division of the Portland Police Bureau, Captain Kelly Schiffer and her staff, are key and invaluable in making these events happen, especially the three annual parades. While we draw from the entire Police Bureau to staff the events, of note, Sergeant Robert Bopal does the Starlight Parade, Sergeant Aaron Smith does the Junior Rose Parade, and Sergeant Doug Gunderson.
 The grand floral. Gosh, I'm terrible. I know all of you and I'm so terrible at talking. I'm glad I have notes.
 So these officers and many other officers from our Portland Police Bureau, as well as staff from PBOT, Water, BDS, Parks, Fire, work in collaboration with our partners at TriMet, Portland Streetcar, Multnomah County, Oregon Department of Transportation, and the U.S. Coast Guard to make sure that we have a safe and enjoyable route for the citizens and guests who come out to these three annual parades.
 So while I could detail what they do it would take a long time So I'll just say a bunch of stuff and we try to make this a happy and honorable Celebration for the city. So thank you again for the opportunity to present this for my eighth time and I'll present Jeff Curtis with the rest possible
 Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Thank you. Echo what Allison said. This is important to my organization, this action. It's been happening for 108 years where the council says this is important and we're authorizing the use of our streets and our resources, the men and women that work for our city in the spirit of celebration. So it's a very important moment in our annual calendar, and I want to thank you for your support. Echo what Allison said, the men and women that work
 and our bureaus, public transportation sides to public safety, phenomenal first line for us. Specifically, the Portland Police called them out and did an amazing job. We don't have a festival to the success and degree that we do without our friends at the Portland Police Bureau and all the other coordinated efforts that it takes to pull this off. In fact, just last year in the International Festival and Events Association,
 judged our risk and safety plan the top in our industry, and the Portland Police, in collaboration with other jurisdictions, helped make that happen, and coordinated it from the public safety side. And it's important because the reality of the festival, as we sit here today, is the festival is more popular than ever. People are absolutely loving this festival, and it's a collection of teamwork that makes it happen. So thank you very much for your support. Jeff, who are the Grand Marshals again? The Grand Marshal for the Starlight Parade is Petey.
 The famous roll of carpet. He's incredibly popular right now, making appearances all over the community. We get requests every day. And we have not announced the Grand Full Parade Grand Marshal. That's coming soon.
 And also, in the festival, will you be continuing to make the commitment you've made in past years to healthy food options? Yeah. Ultimately, when we select food vendors, we ask them to provide at least one item of those natures. So that's important. We carry that out. We work with Multnomah County as well to carry that forward. At the same time, it's a mix of food options that people love at a festival and a fair. Nice job. Thank you. Other questions for our team? No.
 Maybe just a moment of embarrassment for you, Allison.
 I was out at one of the events last year. This happened more than once, but one in particular just was very memorable. I was talking to the people that organized the half marathon, and they work on events all over the country, and they were effusive not only in their praise of the whole city and the Rose Festival Association, but particularly about Allison and what a star she is for us in being the queen of logistics for this and many other events. So you do great work, and we appreciate you. Thank you. And I'm really excited to be working on the IAAF event for next March.
 Wow. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Questions for the team and anyone else want to speak on this item? Actually, Mr. Mayor, an admonition. Mr. Curtis, I want you to take note of the fact that these are revocable permits, so if the Rose Festival starts acting up and causing trouble, we can take them away. Duly noted. Duly noted. All right. Thank you very much. Let's take a roll call vote then. Fish? Congratulations, Jeff, and your team. We look forward to another very successful Rose Festival. Aye. Saltzman?
 Well, thank you for this presentation, and I'm pleased to help support the Rose Festival. It was a great presentation by the court, and I did want to acknowledge Leslie Goodloe, who is – Leslie, can you stand for a second? She is one of our senior managers at the Portland Housing Bureau. She is. Former princess, maybe? No, I was president in 2007. President in 2007. Okay. Okay, yes, you are. Thank you.
 Thank you for all your help, and I really appreciate you selecting Boys and Girls Aid as your beneficiary charity. They're a great organization that kind of travels under the radar, but they do a lot of important work, as you said, in helping foster kids find permanent families. So thank you. Aye. Novick. Thank you, Allison. Thank you, Jeff. Thank you, members of the court. Aye. Fritz.
 I really love the Rose Festival. It's so Portland, and yet it goes around the world, and I particularly enjoy the court every year. Thank you for being wonderful ambassadors, and also princesses. I think it's great to be both. And I hope some of you will be going into health care, because it's a great profession for men and women. I just hope you have a wonderful time during the festival, and I look forward to enjoying it with you. Bye.
 I had a great discussion this morning at breakfast time with this court. They're an impressive group of young women, had some very thoughtful questions, some good suggestions, like we ought to make sure that our success in the arts tax in terms of music in elementary schools and middle schools is carrying on into high schools. So we ought to build the partnerships to make sure that that happens. So they're already politically awake and giving us good ideas. Yes.
 And also had a very thoughtful question about what the Rose Festival means to Portland. And my answer, at least at that moment, was that we're growing as a city, and that's both exciting and painful. But we're now a city of over 600,000 people, but the Rose Festival makes us feel like a smaller town.
 It brings us together in the way that the county fair or the Pendleton Roundup does for smaller cities, and I think that's one of the most magical things about it. So I look forward to all the events and sharing them with this great court. Aye. Thank you all very much. Okay. Now we'll move on to the communications item. Item 430, request of Joe Walsh to address council regarding communications. Mr. Walsh, good morning. Come on up. Thank you.
 Good morning. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice. Often we have come before you as a representative of Individuals for Justice to warn you of your future. Today is no different. We demand that you follow the spirit of the Charter and stop interfering and delaying citizens' right to offer their views on both communications and items going to be acted on.
 You have now created a system that forces people to sign up in advance, and it may take as much as 60 days to present to this council. You often limit the time of presentations to two minutes because there are many people that want to have their say. Can you not see how ludicrous this position is?
 You are sending the message that if people take the time to come and be part of this democratic process, you are going to punish them by taking away one-third of their time. That would be bad enough, but your appetite is not yet satisfied. You interrupt people you disagree with. And during this very limited amount of time, they are trying to express themselves. This is an old lawyer's trick.
 It breaks the flow of what the opposition is trying to say, and it is very slimy indeed. You have made in the past, we have made in the past, two demands that we continue over the years to be ignored, and they are 1. When there are more than 20 people who have signed up to speak, parents with children in the chambers who wish to speak will be called up first.
 Not sure if we stole this concept from Commissioner Fritz or she stole it from us, but the bottom line is that it is good and a reasonable thing to do. The second, when there are disabled people in the room, there will be often an opportunity to speak after the parents if they so desire.
 Our new request is to do what the county board does and have people sign up in the chambers the day of the meeting so what they present to you would be current and not 60 days old. We have made known that we will work for the defeat of two of you in the coming elections of 2016.
 We have lost all faith in the majority of this council and only see you as a hindrance to the democratic process under this republic. You will go the way of Sam Adams, Jeff Kogan, and another corrupt politician, Governor Kishore. Just as soon as the citizens of this city wake up from their long, deep, dreamlike state,
 We offer these evaluations not in the hopes that you will change, but to go on record warning you of the pending anger of what is to come.
 There is no hope of you acting on our stead. You act only to benefit yourselves, and soon many people will see that trying to convince you of anything is a total waste of time. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz, for the sick leave ordinance. We honor you for at least that.
 And a perfect example is what you did today, Mayor, is to bring up the court first. Mr. Walsh, you're out of time. You took five people who took time off from work to come and talk to you and made them wait because you wanted to have a photo op. That's a big problem, Mayor. Mr. Walsh, you have a problem. You're out of time. So thank you. Good morning. Next, please. Don't thank me. Ever.
 Item 431, request of Nancy Newell to address counsel regarding Joint Terrorism Task Force. Good morning. Pleasure to see everyone here. Good morning. Thank you. It's interesting that I put this in place, I think, about a month ago. And it's very interesting that our U.S. District Representative of Oregon said,
 is now under full investigation, who was the one who promoted the Joint Terrorism Task Force. And I think we had a packed crowd, and a lot of people were pretty upset at some of the things she was saying, which were not true. And that's one of the reasons she's in very serious trouble. She's on leave, sick leave, and she will be retiring early. So my question is to the mayor, and I think it's very appropriate at this time to review this,
 your support and whoever else supported the JTTF, the three commissioners, or two commissioners up here, and you are a police commissioner, so you have extra duties, that's a serious violation. She has violated the Constitution. She has eliminated trust by the people of Portland, once they find out. And you've made a decision based on some of her testimony. And you said, if a citizen brought this to your attention...
 that you would consider a review. I mean, Amanda Fritz gave tremendous testimony on some of the huge mistakes. There's a young man sitting in jail for an uncountable number of years, and he was framed, and the FBI has admitted it. How can we purport ourselves to be part of the UN Charter, operate in this way, and continue to operate this way, rejoin an organization that has operated like that? And now...
 There's a perfect example right here in Portland of an official that makes a mess of things. Four citizens and their lives are altered permanently. So once you're under suspicion, that is public, and it affects your whole life. So I'm really requesting seriously that your better efforts would be President Obama's in town. If you really want to make things safe, have him eliminate the drone activities that drive the people that are so desperate because their children and their relatives...
 are being killed against UN charter policy. We're war criminals and the president meets every Tuesday to recreate these drone activities, send a recommendation to end those drone activities because now we have it on our beach in Manzanita. I stood up and a drone was coming right at my face and I looked down the beach and there's the police officer from Manzanita.
 And the city hall denies that it's even occurring in Manzanita. We don't need this secrecy. We need honesty. Citizens work honestly. They work hard. They are honest on their jobs. We don't need this unethical representation and violation of our Constitution. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Item 432, request of Neal Walker to address counsel regarding post-traumatic stress disorder in relation to chronic houselessness. Mr. Walker? Okay. Let's call the next one, please.
 433, request of Richard Shuler to address council regarding changing the Friday following Thanksgiving to Indigenous Peoples Day. Okay, Mr. Shuler, come on up. Morning. I am an American history teacher of 17 years now, so I've had a lot of time to think about this topic. I would like to establish the Friday after Thanksgiving as Indigenous Peoples Day, and in service of that, I'd like to make two points. First is that politics is the art of the possible. Okay.
 And the second is that politics is the art of the possible. First, a little background information on Thanksgiving. It did happen largely as we're led to believe that it did, and that it was a harvest festival in 1621, attended by 90 Wampanoags and their chief, Massasoit. But as I'm sure you know, in the years that followed, that delicate alliance collapsed, and it resulted in King Philip's War of 1675.
 That war ended with Philip, whose real name was Medicom, by having his head cut off and put on a pole in Jamestown Colony. His son was sold into slavery, and for this, the Puritans also declared a day of Thanksgiving. Of course, the past cannot be changed. The only thing we can do is change what we're doing today. It might be difficult to make Indigenous Peoples Day a holiday, but it is possible. As I understand it, it requires a city ordinance, but I think that's very possible.
 The objections to this is that it might favor one ethnicity or that it might detract from Thanksgiving, but in my opinion, it just commemorates the fact that there were other people here before the United States and that they were displaced. Placing Indigenous Peoples Day right after Thanksgiving is a work of poetic justice, and I think that makes it a work of art. So...
 Thanksgiving is already, excuse me, the Friday after Thanksgiving is already a paid holiday for city employees. And in my opinion, it's just begging for a cause. And I think this would be a good one. I think that's good politics and it's good for Portland. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Item 434, request of David Redthunder to address council regarding Pembina proposed propane terminal. Morning, Board of Commissioners. Yes.
 I am David Douglas Red Thunder, a resident of Hayden Island Manufactured Home Community, an advocate for preserving our shared urban natural wildlife habitat, particularly on West Hayden Island. Last month, I shared with you that this area is my Indian heritage sanctuary, where I find spiritual guidance for my life and my family.
 After seven months of extensive validated evidence that the port's proposal to site Pembina's propane terminal at T6 poses a great risk, the PSC also received extensive lobbying from private enterprises, the port, and members of this council. Despite the known risk from surely devastating earthquakes, terrorist attacks on this high-value target, and catastrophic wrecks from faulty railroad tank cars full of fossil fuels,
 The PSC caved to this political pressure, threw away the proven facts opposing this proposal, and unwisely recommended you override key environmental protections and to approve the siting of this propane facility. Physicists, engineers, seismologists, demographers, terrorist event analysts, environmental scientists, and railroad transportation experts all recognize the great threat this project poses to this region.
 So have my neighbors on Hayden Island, North Portland, Vancouver, and the tribe which I belong. Knowing these facts, we are scared to death of what will happen to us and our supporting environment and community, totally consumed within the blast zone. Instead, we look to the city council not only to expose us to certain death and widespread devastation, but also to protect us from such totally unnecessary danger.
 But to justify the sighting of this propane bomb in our neighborhood, the City Council will have to deny everything you ever claimed to be of high value to you in this community and the natural environment, along with physical, social, environmental, and economic health of this city and your commitment to preserving the livability of this planet.
 And for what? Three dozen jobs? An unreliable revenue stream of fossil fuel money? The total naive belief that propane will be replacement for fuel emerging economies in Southeast Asia, when we know it will be used for almost exclusively in plastics manufacture of products sold back to us in the coming decades.
 Are we in our natural environment worth so little to you? Please save me and my family from this certain death sentence by rejecting the Ports Pembina propane siting proposal. It's the wisest decision you'll ever make.
 Thank you very much. Excuse me, 31 seconds. Last time we came down here, they had a 7-3 vote about putting the terminal on West Hayden Island. And Andre Baugh said, trust me, and Eric Inkstrom compared the Pearls pollution to Hayden Island's pollution. And you said something of that fact right away, Amanda, and I appreciate that. So when they come down here again with this,
 Well, first it was 5-5 the vote, and they said, we'll take it off the table. And then they went back, and two hours later it was 6-4. So once again, they come down here to have you, because I believe that they're the DA and you guys are the judges. And the DAs are supposed to look up all this information before they bring it down. And they were just forcing it upon you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay, so we're going to move back to proclamations for a moment because Commissioner Fritz has a revised version. Well, I have a second proclamation. Second proclamation. Okay, sorry, not a revised version. I'd like to invite Nina Ficaras, the president of the National Association of School Nurses, to come up. Good morning. This is a very valued section of the nursing community.
 Whereas children are the future, and by investing in them today, we are ensuring our world for tomorrow, and all students have a right to have their health needs safely met while in the school setting. And whereas children today face more complex and life-threatening health problems requiring care in school, and school nurses have served a critical role in improving public health and ensuring students' academic success for more than 100 years...
 And whereas school nurses are professional nurses that advance the well-being, academic success, and lifelong achievements of all students by serving on the front lines and providing a critical safety net for our nation's most fragile children. And whereas school nurses act as a liaison to the school community, parents, and health care providers on behalf of children's health by promoting wellness and improving health outcomes for our nation's children.
 and whereas school nurses support the health and educational success of children and youth by providing access to care when children's cognitive development is at its peak, and school nurses are members of school-based mental health teams who understand the link between health and learning and are in a position to make a positive difference for children every day.
 And whereas the NOMA Education Service District, along with the National Association of School Nurses, celebrates and acknowledges the accomplishments of school nurses everywhere and their efforts of meeting the needs of today's students by improving the delivery of health care in our schools and offers gratitude to the nation's school nurses,
 who contribute to our local communities by helping students stay healthy in school and ready to learn, and keeping parents and guardians at work, not just on this National School Nurse Day, but at every opportunity throughout the year. Now, therefore, Charlie Hales, the Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses, does hereby proclaim May 6, 2015, to be School Nurse Day in Portland, and we encourage all residents to observe this day.
 Thank you, Commissioner. Thank you, Mayor. On behalf of school nurses and nursing, it's nice that you're sandwiching health as a message in today's proceedings, and I really appreciate that.
 What I want to ask though is do you know where school nursing started? Back in 1902 in the city of New York, they were experiencing high rates of absenteeism from basically communicable diseases that were easily treated. So they tried an experiment. They hired a nurse, Lena Rogers, and put her in four schools in lower Manhattan. Okay.
 where she taught hygiene, hand washing, food safety, and administered medications. Within six months, they had decreased absentee rates in her four schools by 90%. That basically is the same role and charge that school nurses have today. It's our job to keep kids in school, to help them be healthy, and teach them how to live healthy lives.
 So what I'd like to share with you is just a minute some of the things that we do today. Now I'm a school nurse across the West Hills from you, and in my district 27 years ago we had no children with type 1 diabetes.
 Now we have over 120 that our 13 school nurses serve every day. It's a complicated disease, and we work closely with parents, physicians, coordinating carb counts, lunch menus, exercise, and daily insulin shots.
 You know, life-threatening food allergies and allergic reactions has increased dramatically. We train staff how to recognize symptoms of those types of emergencies and how to treat them effectively. You know, we also supervise our nurses and staff that care for our most medically fragile and complex students who have a right and deserve to be in school with their peers.
 So a recent Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Institute of Medication report mentioned and identified school nursing as the hidden health care system in America. And thanks to you today, we're not hidden. Thank you for this proclamation for identifying and recognizing school nurses as an important part of our health care system and educational system.
 I have just recently been elected as president-elect of the National Association of School Nurses, and in that role, it's my honor and privilege to accept this proclamation to not only share it with the nurses here in Portland, but the 200 school nurses that work in our schools across the state of Oregon and nationwide. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Thank you. Thanks for what you do, and congratulations on your national leadership. Thank you. That's great. Thank you.
 Okay, now we're going to move to the more formal part of our regular calendar. If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, we'll ask that you sign up with our clerk and state your name for the record when you speak. You don't have to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist representing an organization under our code, you need to let us know that at the beginning of your testimony.
 We typically allow three minutes for individual testimony, but we do invite some presentations as well. We ask that you testify only on the matter at hand. And in order for everyone to have a chance to have their say in safety, we ask that if you agree with people's point of view, you're welcome to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, but we ask that people not make vocal demonstrations here in the council in favor or against their fellow citizens' points of view.
 So if you have handouts, please give them to the council clerk and she'll distribute it to us. And with that, we will first take up the consent calendar and then move on to our next time certain item. Are there any, there are some items being pulled from the consent calendar. Like the whole item 440? Yeah.
 440 is pulled to the regular calendar. It looked like there was a request, Commissioner Novick, for 443. Is that right? Yes. Okay. And then it looks like I need to pull 439 back to my office for more work. So without objection, we'll make those changes to the consent calendar and take a roll call on those.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Time's certain. Item 437. Amend the City of Portland Employee Benefits Program to reflect necessary plan design changes as recommended by the Labor Management Benefits Committee and as administratively required by the Bureau of Human Resources
 for the city self insured and insured plan offerings beginning July 1 2015 Good morning. Great. Thank you. Good morning. I'm Anna can wit Director of the Bureau of Human Resources Thank You mayor and council for allowing us to be here Kathy bless is going to present the recommended plan design changes to you and
 And we do need to have those approved today because our open enrollment period starts May 15th. So it's time to move on to that time of year again. So with that, right now I'm going to turn it over to Kathy.
 Good morning, Mayor and Commissioners. As stated, I'm Kathy Bless. I'm the Benefits Manager. And as part of the upcoming annual Enrollment Process Council, Item 437 establishes the 2015-16 City of Portland Employee Benefits Plan, reflecting the necessary administrative and plan design changes for the upcoming fiscal year.
 As you know, the Labor Management Benefits Committee is a collaborative group that meets monthly to discuss employee health, vision, and dental options offered to employees. The LMBC's charge is to make plan design recommendations to Council each fiscal year. The benefits program document you received as part of this ordinance is the culmination of that process.
 This year, the changes include the addition of a dental buy-up option that employees would be allowed to purchase, and that would include a higher level of benefit. It also includes the required changes within the Affordable Care Act for health plans to include all medical, prescription, coinsurance, copays, and deductibles within an individual's annual out-of-pocket maximum.
 As you are also well aware, the ACA has changed the landscape of who is eligible for coverage, and my office has worked through those issues and will continue to do so, ensuring folks that are eligible for coverage get it.
 The health plan experience in this fiscal year has been favorable. Total costs for the self-insured plan will likely be about 6% less than what was projected, and because of the favorable plan design and experience, we will have no increase to the CityCorp medical, dental, or vision plans for the new fiscal year.
 In fact, over the past five years, the medical, dental, and vision costs for the self-insured plans have increased an average of only 3.8% per year. That is something we all should be proud of. While the self-insured plans are holding the line on cost, Kaiser plans and the insured plan for PPA members continue to rise 6% to 8% on medical and 8% to 10% on dental.
 Plan design changes will be needed within these plans to keep them affordable. The PPA and LMBC have been a bit reluctant to make Kaiser plan design changes, and this really will be a focus during the next fiscal year. They've also been happily willing to talk about it. So we will continue to talk about it.
 We need to keep our plans under control and sustainable to avoid the federal excise tax beginning calendar year 2018. Current AON projections show that keeping plan costs within a 5% trend allows us to stay under the excise tax until about 2025. What I would like to do now is spend a couple of minutes discussing the city's unique chronic disease management program, Healthy Foundations.
 We are 2.5 years into this program and the results are important. Healthy Foundations is a personalized program that matches interventions, intensity, objectives, more closely to our participants' individual beliefs, attitudes, and preferences. I'm very proud of the fact that when participants were surveyed about the program, that 100% of them would recommend it to others and that the overall experience was positive.
 I'm also proud of what these 176 participants so far and program graduates have been able to accomplish. Graduates of the program have shown improvements in maintaining healthy behaviors, have decreased depression scores into safe categories such as mild, minimal, or none, and show improvements in overall function and quality of life.
 Claims data shows remarkable improvements for participants as well. And MoDA has begun to compare the aggregate claims data of Healthy Foundations participants against those folks who were asked to participate but then declined. And they've also developed a high-risk peer group within their own book of business as another marker of comparison. Thank you.
 A comparison of first and second year costs for Healthy Foundation participants shows an overall savings of 4.8% just within itself year over year. And what the data also shows that it is very successful at working with folks who have circulatory, respiratory, and diabetes-related disease.
 The costs associated with these claims categories represent savings between 40% and 75% when compared to the invited but did not participate group and also within the MoDA-established high-risk peer group.
 We will, of course, spend more than what our normal population costs in primary office visits, in prescription medication, in durable medical equipment, and in mental health. But those are claims categories where we want to see claims because that does mean progress. The overall savings...
 in those claims categories represents a savings of $87.40 per participant per month. It equates to a 9% savings over the invited but did not participate group. It's huge markers when we're talking about overall health care dollars. Both groups are well above average for the entire population, but over time this marker will continue to improve for Healthy Foundation participants.
 We track our progress and will continue to improve the opportunities for good health and quality of life for city employees and their families. I want to turn it over to Anna for just a moment to share some remarks with regard to healthy foundations, and then I'm happy to answer any questions you may have. And thank you for your support of this ordinance and the benefit program.
 Thank you, Kathy. Mayor and commissioners, I'm now sitting in a somewhat unusual position because of the change in the council agenda today, what we thought was going to be a change. My husband was actually going to be here today to talk to you about healthy foundations today.
 The way the invitations for the program work, it is participants are invited based on the protocols that the benefits office sets, but it is done strictly through MODA. The city benefits office, we don't know who the participants are. It is all kept confidential unless a person self-identifies. So in this case, my husband was asked to participate in the Healthy Foundations program and has been in that program for almost a year now.
 And the personal side of it, I can tell you, is tremendous. The Healthy Foundations program managed to have him be seen by a much more effective treatment provider in terms of his primary doctor. They provide dietician services.
 They provide exercise advice. They provide, let's see, what am I missing? Anyway, there's an entire team. Stress, yes. Stress reduction. There's an entire team of professionals that work with each of the participants. And I can tell you for the first time my husband felt like there were people who were actually listening to him about his chronic health condition, and it has made a tremendous difference.
 Kathy's statistics about the reduction in the depression index is very real. And so while we are seeing, I think, monetary benefits from the program as well, I would guess that my husband's experience is not unique in terms of the really positive benefits on the very human side of this program. So thank you for the continued support. Thank you. Questions? I guess I'm just curious.
 When does the excise tax kick in and how much would that be if we don't meet our goals? Sure. So the excise tax as part of the required Affordable Care Act, it kicks in in January of 2018. If we do not meet our price targets, so what that means currently is that if our single-coverage
 on a calendar year basis exceeds $10,200. The city would owe a 40% tax on the difference. Yes.
 And so if we were $1,000 over our target, we would owe $400 per individual with regard to the tax. And it is an employer responsibility. It's not an employee responsibility. And the way that the tax—
 dollar figure is calculated is it includes what the employer pays on behalf for the medical costs, what the employee pays on a pre-tax basis, and it also includes employees' FSA elections. You said $10,200? For single coverage. For single coverage. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much. See if there's anyone else that wants to testify on this item, want to testify on this. Okay. Then it's an emergency ordinance. We'll take a roll call vote.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Thanks for the presentation, and thanks for doing a good job on keeping our health care costs in line. Aye. Novick? This is something that cities should be really, really proud of, and the success we've had in limiting health care cost increases, particularly the success of healthy foundations in reducing costs and improving people's quality of life.
 I'm very proud of the city today, and you should be extremely proud of the work you've done and the members of LMBC. I think that last year the Oregonian had an article about healthy foundations as an example that other employers should follow. So thank you very, very much for all your work. Hi. Fritz. Hi.
 I very much appreciate the work of the team, particularly the Labor Management Benefits Committee. I know you're looking at balancing cost and containment and also employees' health care needs and doing it in a very cost-effective manner. It was my great honor to serve on the Wellness Committee in my first term and to be part of looking at the workings of how do we put together these programs. I'm very impressed with what you do with a very small staff.
 and yet with a lot of committed city employees who are looking at wellness and reducing costs while helping us all be healthier. So thank you very much. Bye.
 Yeah, I just want to add my comments to an agreement with what we've heard from my colleagues here. I mean, this small team is having to do a pretty complex negotiation with health care providers, with labor unions, and do that in a way that both controls costs and results in the kind of human benefit that Anna just capsulized and Roger and her team.
 personal benefit from better care. And I think your story, again, thanks for sharing it, illustrates that it's not only necessarily the employee themselves whose performance is improved as a person and as a part of our team if they're healthy, but also if their family's healthy.
 So the fact that we're getting these kinds of results, so that our employees and their families are helped to better health, and doing it with carefully controlled costs, and the words no increase on the subject of health care uttered in this room, is all pretty amazing work. And we appreciate you both very much as professionals and the whole LNBC team that's worked to get us to this place. Thank you very much. Bye. Thank you. Thanks. Thank you.
 Okay, let's move to time certain 438. I believe Patrick Quinton is not here yet. Okay, then if he's not, there's some other PDC folks here. Mr. Kelly's here. We'll wait a few more minutes. Let's take the items on consent that we pulled, and if we're ready for those. Want to do that next? Okay, then let's take item number 440. Okay.
 appoint Andrew Colas, Andrew Mago, Maurice Rauming, Michael Birch, Rosa Martinez, and Tony Jones to the Equitable Contracting and Purchasing Commission for terms to expire May 5, 2017. I think we just pulled this off in order to highlight the fact that we've gotten some really amazing people to step up and serve on this. I'm not sure if any of them are here. Well, I also pulled it because I've...
 had contacts, maybe we all have, from different minority organizations such as the Native American Chamber of Commerce and Asian American, that they be considered for appointment to this committee. And I believe there might be some representatives here to
 Speak on that. Okay, are there? Please, come on up if you are. Before we hear from representatives, it was our hope that we could get a presentation on the composition and the representation that is currently before us so we can see what the thinking and methodology was, and then we can hear from others. Okay, come on up then. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor and commissioners. Commissioner Frisch, I appreciate the invitation to talk about the composition of the commission. Brian, put your name in the record, sir. Oh, I am sorry. I'm Brian Tinge, Director of the Bureau of Internal Business Services.
 The composition of the committee was specifically set up to assist us in moving the focus of the ordinance, which is to increase minority and women in public contracting and also to increase the number of minorities and women that work on publicly funded contracts. To that end, we-
 designed the commission somewhat kind of by accident, but it turned out to be the way, I think, a good design. We have three contractors, three minority contractors. In addition to that, we have a minority business consultant. Brian, I think it would be very, very helpful at this point if you walked us through the list and told us who's who and what category they occupy. Okay. The three contractors...
 Andrew Colas is a contractor. Maurice Rahman is a contractor. And Rosa Martinez is a contractor. Andrew and Michael and Maurice are African Americans. And Rosa Martinez is a Hispanic. In addition to that, we have a workforce development specialist in Andrew McGough, who is white.
 In addition to that, we have Michael Birch, who represents union leadership. In addition to that, we have Anthony Jones, who is a minority development specialist.
 And we also have a potential Roslyn Hill, who is a local developer. And so those were people that I would like to move forward in terms of being commissioned or being members on this particular commission, given the specific things we were trying to accomplish. One of the things we wanted to increase, in addition to increasing minority women contractors, was to also increase the...
 the workforce in terms of those on publicly funded contracts. And so the idea there was to have union leadership to participate on the commission so we can specifically have conversations with them in terms of how we get more minorities and women in apprenticeship type of positions. And refresh my or maybe our memory, how many total positions are there on the commission? Seven. So we're coming up against the number as originally constructed. Yes, that's correct. Okay.
 So we've received emails from a number of groups, most recently Fay Birch on behalf of PBDG, but we've received others. And I guess the question that's been raised is to what extent in composing the committee did you consider representatives from Hispanic Chamber, Asian Chamber, Native American Chamber, or other organizations?
 So the Hispanic Chamber, we have, I specifically spoke to Gail Castillo. We do have Rosa Martinez from the Hispanic Chamber. We did, and I cannot recall the Native American person that we wanted to move forward, but that name was then set aside for bringing union representation to the commission so we could talk about the apprenticeship. And so we have Michael Birch.
 And we talked to David Kim from the ODOT perspective, but he would have been an Asian American. So we did look and try to have ethnicity, but at the same time to try to find those folks who would actually have backgrounds in specific areas in order to move the commission agenda forward.
 Now, the names that we have for the proposed appointments, these are all, by and large, these are people familiar to the council. They're people who have been very active in working to expand opportunities for people in our community, so they're familiar to us. One woman out of the six, and yet creating opportunities for women is one of the two primary objectives. And some other groups that don't.
 feel that they're being heard, at least according to the communication we've received. So what options would the council have going forward to address that? For example, could we expand the numbers of seats at the table and include other groups in future action, or does that present a problem?
 That does not present a problem. We have talked about having subcommittees associated with this particular commission. There is also the fair contracting form that this commission actually present reports to. I think the challenge with talking about subcommittees is we're starting to, that begins to sound like there's two classes of membership. So is there, I'm just, I'm asking innocently because I don't remember the conversation earlier.
 Is there something magical about having seven members versus expanding the panel to include more than seven? I think that the desire was to have a small enough manageable committee. There's only myself that actually chairs the commission, and so there's not a lot of resources to work with a large committee. Boy, I think I'm having the same reaction that you are, Commissioner Fish, and we'll hear from people here, but if we have –
 More folks that want to get involved in this work, that's a great problem to have.
 And I'd rather change the number of seats on the commission to accommodate more folks that want to roll up their sleeves and help with the work. So, you know, at some point it becomes unwieldy. But I don't think seven is that, to me, to my mind, seven is not magical in the sense that we can't have a functional body that's larger than seven people. We have a number of important commissions in the city that are larger than that. So I would think that would be an option for us. I appreciate that, Mayor. And I think also consistent with that is...
 we've had presentations about disparities in our community and the disparities extend beyond african americans and women in terms of contracting opportunities there's lots of different groups that have experienced disparities so those voices might actually be very helpful i think in addressing this but perhaps mayor we could hear some testimony that'd be helpful but bryant thank you very much and stand by we may need maybe get you back so so who would like to speak on this item
 Come on up, please. So just stand by, and we'll call you back up if we need you. Thanks. Good morning. Welcome. Good morning, Mayor. Commissioner. My name is Herb Fricke. I'm the president of the Oregon Native American Chamber. I'm Suzanne Donaldson. Excuse me. Owner of Donaldson Enterprises. I'm a diversity workforce consultant. She's also on our board, board of the chamber. So thank you for giving us an opportunity to speak. Thank you.
 ONAC represents several Native-owned businesses, professional services firms, construction firms. You name it, it's a big range. We're a smaller group, but I think we'd like to have our voice heard as well as everybody else. I applaud your efforts to increase the utilization of contracting for minority-owned and minority-owned businesses,
 and increase inclusion of minorities and women in the workforce on city-funded projects. I believe that forming this commission is one more step toward achieving those goals. However, upon reviewing the duties of the commission and hearing up its makeup, I had some concerns. I'm currently on the Fair Contracting Forum, and the forum has done a lot of good work. And it appears to me there's some overlap with the new commission and the forum. Okay.
 My question is, how will the Commission interact with the already established forum? Will it oversee its work or will it work with them as equal partners in addressing social equity contracting issues? Who's in charge of the Commission and whom does it report to? And how will it be supported? The duties of the Commission are pretty broad, so I think it's going to require quite a bit of effort and support for it to work.
 In terms of its makeup, it should be representative of the entire minority community. However, it currently doesn't have a Native American representative, and I believe it should. In addition, only three nominees are actual minority contractors, construction contractors, and none represent professional service firms. Professional service work forms a significant portion of the city's contracting dollars.
 Finally, the 2009 disparity study showed underutilization of Native American businesses and women-owned businesses, hence even more reason to have Native American representation and women representation on the commission. Thank you. Thank you. One of our other concerns is part of the ordinance that we saw talked about this new group overseeing and –
 Looking at firms to determine if they are eligible to be certified. And that's a role that is for the state certification office, not for a particular group. There have been a lot of problems with that in the past in our community. Okay.
 with individuals thinking that they're the certification department and they're not so that's another one of our concerns that And and if we do expand if you do decide to expand the group You're still going to have a majority representation of a particular ethnic group And that's been a challenge in our community not just for our ethnic group for all the ethnic groups. Thank you Thank you very much. Appreciate you coming. Okay. Are there others that want to speak on this item? I
 Then my recommendation, if this fits with Council's interest, is I'd like to take this back to my office and explore the question of the number of people on the commission and work with Mr. Inge and my staff on that question. I appreciate folks highlighting that question. It's really our goal that this does represent the whole community and that it really serve as an opportunity
 as an effective tool of this issue of what are its responsibilities with respect to the fair contracting form. I think we should clarify that. So I think this has been a good opportunity to call some of those issues into focus. And before we move forward with the first set, we ought to go ahead and review that question. I think Mr. Fricke makes a good point. Professional services, we spend a lot of dollars.
 professional services so it seems like we should have that that presence too on this committee so there's no objection then I'll return this item to my office and then bring it back in a modified form thank you very much let's do the other consent item that we pulled off if we can which is 443
 authorized application to the Department of Homeland Security Urban Areas Initiative grant program for a grant in the amount of $3 million to enhance emergency preparedness through planning, training, and equipping of emergency responders. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, Denise Barrett from the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization is here today to address this item.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor, Commissioners. My name is Denise Barrett. I am the Senior Program Manager for the Portland Bureau of Emergency Management, as well as the manager of the Regional Disaster Preparedness Organization, for which the city is one of the partners on an intergovernmental agreement with the five counties and other jurisdictions around the region. For 12 of the last 13 years, the Department of Homeland Security has awarded the Portland Urban Area Grant under the Urban Areas Security Initiatives Grant Program,
 The City of Portland is a subrecipient of the grant and partners with Clackamas, Columbia, Multnomah, Washington counties in Oregon, as well as Clark County across the border in Washington State, as well as TriMet, Metro, Port of Portland, several other cities around the region, as well as the private sector and NGOs. And through the RDPO organization, we strategically plan and spend the funds. The Portland Bureau of Emergency Management is the administrator of the grant.
 The grant program, as was indicated earlier, funds the unique equipment, training, planning, exercise, and operational needs of metropolitan regions like our own to prevent and mitigate acts of terrorism, as well as to respond to, mitigate, and recover from a range of natural disasters, such as what we may face in terms of Cascadia earthquake or Portland Hills earthquake or other earthquakes, floods, landslides, and other disasters.
 We prepare first responders from more than 12 disciplines, including law enforcement, fire, public works, emergency management, as well as community volunteers and the wider public, basically to prepare for disasters. Because disasters typically impact multiple jurisdictions, and we have many interconnections and interdependencies across the region, including our infrastructure, roads, bridges, et cetera, and other things, including a shared media market,
 The UASI fund helps initiatives break down jurisdictional agency and discipline silos to support integrated regional approaches.
 With nearly $75 million in UASI funding since 2003, the Portland urban area has supported the development of a range of specialty teams, such as our hazardous materials response teams associated with Portland Fire, Tualatin Valley Fire, and other fire agencies around the region, the Metropolitan Explosives Disposal Unit, the Metropolitan Air Support Unit, and other teams that work towards response in disasters and other emergencies. Next.
 More than $13 million of those funds have had a direct impact on the city of Portland and her people, but since our goal is really regional assets and outcomes, all of the funds over the years have had an impact in one way or other to the city and its people. UASI-funded capabilities were deployed in response to the Clackamas Town Center mall shooting in 2010, the Reynolds shooting in 2013, and supported the apprehension of, you may know, the Green Laser Bandit.
 who was attempting to cause an air disaster in the region using a laser pointed up at aircraft and trying to blind pilots. UASI assets are used every day because of our 911 centers and all of the response that's done around the region with our fire and law enforcement. And you may also know about the regional JIN, which is the Joint Information System, which our law enforcement has just started to use as its new way of sharing information around the region and actually beyond.
 The focus of the ordinance before you today, the Portland Urban Area, has been awarded a $3 million grant under UASI 2015, which the City of Portland now has an opportunity to secure through the submission of an application through the Oregon Office of Emergency Management by May 9, 2015. They never give us much time. It was announced on April 2. The RDPO Steering Committee, which is...
 excuse me, which is our executive level in which, for example, Director Merlo sits on, operates under an intergovernmental agreement and consists of agency executives that represent the five counties, the City of Portland, several other cities and special districts. We've developed with them and in cooperation with jurisdictions around the region, a draft application that consists of 25 projects under six investment areas.
 With the funds, the $3 million in question, regional partners will focus on building and or sustaining 13 core capabilities that we've been working on, including our plans, our operational coordination for response and for making critical decisions, operational communication, community preparedness, intelligence and information sharing, and a few others. So thank you very much for your support.
 I have a question. Obviously most of this is really great needed emergency preparedness. My understanding from Commissioner Novick's staff is that the current grant application includes a federal requirement for a surveillance related position and intelligence analysis terrorism prevention position at the Oregon Fusion Center. Is that correct? Yes, we do have to by federal requirements support the Oregon Titan Fusion Center.
 And have we allocated funds to this position since we started applying for this money in 2003? Yes, every year but I believe 2012 and then we did not receive, the region did not receive a grant in 2013 so we skipped two years.
 But on our current grant cycle, which is being implemented as we speak, we did fund that position. And how do we know that that person assigned who fills that position operates in compliance with our expectations under the Joint Intervention Task Force discussion? In fact, there's a board of directors and –
 The RDPO's Law Enforcement Workgroup Chair is the chair of that particular board. Also, the RDPO Steering Committee, again, which Portland sits on, is the direct oversight of the grant implementation. So, for example, we vetted the scope of work for the analyst. We review the products that the analyst and the Titan Fusion Center produces, and we feel like we have a very good relationship with the Department of Work
 Oregon Department of Justice as well, which is the agency where the Titan Fusion Center sits. Is that person in that position required to meet with our city attorney, like our police officers were sent to the JTTFR? Not at the moment, but we could entertain that if you'd feel more comfortable with that. Thank you. Sure, thank you too. Other questions or guidance? Thanks very much. Thank you very much. Anyone want to speak on this item? We do. Good morning. Welcome.
 Thank you. My name is Linda Olson-Osterlund, and I'm a reporter with KBO Community Radio. I'm here as a resident, but my background for being here is because I was a reporter. I've had the opportunity as a reporter to both interview and visit, so interview staff related to the fusion centers and reporters.
 tour both fusion centers that Oregon has. I've never heard them spoken of publicly before here today. Locating the second one, the Urban Area Fusion Center for Portland, this region was difficult for me as I kept meeting roadblocks, but eventually they did acknowledge that there was one. At first they denied there was one.
 Then they acknowledged there was one and had been there since 2009. It's located on the Clackamas County Community College campus in Wilsonville. In visiting those locations and in interviewing those people, I became concerned about civil liberties and the role that the Fusion Center plays because law enforcement representatives from all levels, including park rangers,
 tribal law enforcement, any kind of law enforcement you can think of, all the way up to North Comp, participate in these centers. And a Portland Police Bureau person was, in fact, according to Darren Tweet, who is Oregon DOJ person responsible for the fusion center, has been on it since the beginning.
 So what I want to bring up is that's a little background, and I gave you handouts that come from Homeland Security and one from ACLU about what's wrong with fusion centers. It's a really old thing from them, but you can certainly get a flavor for it. I've given those to you so you have some background information on what these fusion centers are, but I want to bring up a more important thing, which is that
 It was discovered by the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, a civil rights organization in New York, that through FOIA requests, that Homeland Security and most of the states participated together and coordinated their response to the crackdown on Occupy.
 So by looking at redacted emails, which I have and anybody can, they archive them on their website, you can see the Portland Fusion Center named and then much blacked out. But it becomes apparent that there was a lot of time and effort put into spying on, surveilling, and communicating nationally about citizens engaged in their constitutionally protected activities. So I understand the need for...
 emergency management and emergency management funds, but I also know that the Salem Titan Center helped train first responders in looking for terrorists when they're out there first responding.
 I have a lot of concern when anybody's name is suspected and the bar for how you would enter someone into the fusion center is much lower than even reasonable thought. You know, it's do you suspect they might someday be planning to be involved in something. It's very vague. That...
 When an Oregonian's name is put into the fusion center, it cannot be removed. We cannot meet the ORS that says that it should be purged. It can't be collected and held for two years because it goes into the national centers, and they refuse to purge any of those. They refuse in court to purge any of their databases. Yes.
 And so every time an Oregon fireman or an Oregon first responder of any sort or law enforcement puts a name in there as something they're suspicious about, it automatically becomes permanent.
 So I really appreciate you bringing all this to our attention, but you've used your time as well. So that's it. So I don't see, and I'm concerned about what the training will be. I hadn't realized there was the line item that forced you guys to help fund the fusion center, but you're funding a center that's operating under our own DOJ out of compliance with our own state laws. It needs to be thought about and talked about, and we need to know what our funding is going for. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Good morning. Good morning. Mayor and council members, my name is Stephen Entwistle from Portland, Oregon. I am a member of Individuals for Justice. Also, I am the founder of the Healing Man Sanctuaries. My concern with this proclamation or money distribution is that community preparedness. Okay. Now, I
 What is in the details of community preparedness? Now, Naomi Klein has a book called Disaster Capitalism. And my concern is with all this and the history that has presented itself up to this point in these areas has me very concerned that community preparedness will turn into community takeover. How do we safeguard and...
 prevent this military takeover of our communities in the event of a disaster. I believe that we should make our communities prepared now as communities, not as directed by disaster capitalism. I have a real problem with that as well as a lot of other folks do.
 What is the safeguard from that happening? That's all. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? So this is an emergency ordinance. Unless there's any objection, we should go ahead and move to a roll call vote. Fish? Well, Mayor, before we go to a vote, since we've had some testimony, I would welcome any comments from the commissioner in charge. It seems to me in reading the description of this item, it looks like on an annual basis for some time we've received this grant money. And so...
 And it looks like it helps us strengthen our coordination with other partners to do emergency preparedness. Do you have any concerns in response to the testimony you heard about how those dollars are being used? And I also understand this is just authorizing a grant, so we're not actually – Application. It's an application, so we're not actually talking about how we will administer the grant.
 I don't have any concerns, but as Denise Barrett said, I don't think there will be any problem with our arranging to have the kind of periodic conversation between the city attorney and the one person we fund in the Fusion Center, as Commissioner Fritz suggested. Thank you. Okay.
 And as a further discussion, it's new information to me that our first responders are asked to report suspected terrorists. So I think we need to broaden our training in the fire department and in the police department is well trained. But I don't know how much the other first responders get training on Oregon law regarding surveillance. So that might need to be a component. Perhaps we could use the grant for that.
 or some portion of the grant for that. Thank you. OK. I want to take a roll call vote. And there may be other comments as well. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Thank you very much, Denise. Aye. Fritz? I appreciate that the citizen bringing the concern to me a while ago and her diligence in observing this grant application. Also, Commissioner Novick and your staff with getting us more information. I appreciate Barrett's information.
 obviously the vast majority of this money is going to be doing things that we desperately need funding for, that this one piece, it's interesting that it's a requirement of the federal government to do that surveillance piece. So I think we need to put some Portland safeguards on it as we accept the grant, which hopefully we'll get again. Thanks to Carmen Merlo and her staff for working on it again. Hi. Hales. Yeah, first of all, this is a modest success story that we're even talking about.
 applying for this and that our federal lobbying program worked really hard to keep Portland even eligible to apply for these disaster preparedness grants because they kept moving the floor for how big of a city you had to be in order to get this money higher and higher and higher. So I want to commend that work because we wouldn't have even been in the game of asking for these federal grants if it hadn't been for that success with our congressional delegation.
 So thank you to Martha Pellegrino and her team for getting us into the game. I really appreciate these very legitimate concerns being raised here and echoed.
 echoed by members of the council it's really important that in everything we do including this that we make sure that our values and our portland sideboards i think is a good description of what we will accept or not accept in terms of our employees interfacing with federal agencies we need to be very clear about that and consistent about that whether it's the joint terrorism task force or this or anything else
 So I appreciate you bringing that up. And if we are indeed given the opportunity to receive these funds and we get a grant agreement from the federal government that requires us to do some things that concern us, we should check out those things before we take the money and sign the grant agreement. So there's still time to do the diligence or the vigilance that you've asked for, and we certainly need to do that.
 for now we should file the grant application see if they smile on it and and are prepared to award us funds then we got to make sure that we spend them on things that we believe in thank you all right okay let's move on back to the time certain item number 438
 accept report on the Portland Development Commission 2015-2020 strategic plan. So I want to welcome Chair Kelly and Patrick Quinton up to give us an update on this work. As you recall, we had a council discussion about this, the previous iteration of this process. We're now farther along, and they're here to give us a report. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Howells, commissioners. Thanks for this opportunity to –
 present our plan and discuss partnership and the implementation. I became chair right before this planning process began, so it provided me the opportunity to think the big picture about the direction of PDC and at the beginning of my tenure as chair. While I appreciate the great work of my predecessor and the PDC staff who struggled through the recession to jumpstart the local economy,
 We face a whole new set of challenges that I and the rest of the board are eager to tackle. The city faces growing inequality in income, wealth, and opportunity. The city is becoming increasingly unaffordable to not just the poor, but to the working families whose income should provide access to housing anywhere in the city. And I know all too well from working in north and northeast Portland my whole life how many of our neighborhoods and residents continue to be left behind and left out of the prosperity –
 that so many enjoy in our city. So it is entirely appropriate to present to you today a strategic plan with an unprecedented focus on creating opportunities for communities of color and fostering healthy neighborhoods for all Portland residents. Before I turn it over to Patrick to walk you through the plan, I'd like to express my appreciation to the citizens who served on our advisory committee over the past eight months.
 This was an extraordinary group, and you're going to hear from a few of them. They provided valuable insight without regard to their own self-interest and really established the values of the plan that you have before you. With that, I turn it over to Patrick Quinn. Thank you, Chair Kelly, and good morning, Mayor Hales, commissioners. I apologize for being late, and I appreciate the effort that was made to...
 To have us on schedule, and so I obviously undermined that. But I was coming back from a tour of Opano and J District's new proposed community center, and just coming back from 82nd. So it was good inspiration for this presentation.
 So, as Chair Kelly mentioned, we are embarking on a new five-year period for the agency with a whole new set of challenges. And I want to walk you through the plan. And you've heard about the plan in its earliest form. And so I'm not going to kind of retread that ground, but I do want to update you on kind of how the plan has evolved over the past year.
 four or five months, and particularly the public input we received, and then kind of maybe preview some of the implementation that will happen with the plan. Just as a reminder, our strategic plan serves two purposes, the document you have. One is more of a strategic plan.
 framework for PDC and our partners around how we address a whole range of issues related to the health of the economy, to the health of our neighborhoods, and to the prosperity of all of our residents. It also serves as the guiding document for our agency, and so it does serve.
 It does kind of filter down through all the planning that we do as an agency. Every year we establish work plans that tie back to the five-year plan. That agency work plan then filters down to team and individual work plans.
 And then, of course, it's used to set our budget. So when our board meets every year to begin to draft our budget, we start by looking at the annual work plan and the strategic plan and try to budget accordingly. And then, of course, this is how we measure the success of our work or the metrics that we establish in our strategic plan. Once again, we've been on this path now for years.
 for roughly eight, nine months. And as Chair Kelly mentioned, I think it's been a really enlightening and fruitful path, a lot of great conversation, and it started with the committee that Chair Kelly mentioned, but also the work of the outside consultant.
 and then working through various iterations of the document and providing opportunities for public input. So we are now at the end of the road here. So we're quite pleased to be at this point and bring this to you. And then next it goes to the PDC board next week for approval. But we are at the stage in which this is meant to be a final document and move on to the good work of implementation.
 When we last met with you, I think we were sharing with you what we referred to as a 40% document. We updated that document to a 50% document before we went out to public. And the percentages are meant to just signify kind of roughly how far along we are in the process, but
 But I think officially the last document you saw was what we characterized as a 40% document. And before we went to share kind of with the broad public conversation, these are the changes that we made. There was some final conversations around issues around sustainability. They got incorporated. We actually, when we presented to you, we were discussing the concept of updating our clusters specifically.
 The 50% document actually presented those clusters. We did some reordering, actually moved our healthy neighborhood objective to the front of the plant as kind of the foundation of all the work. And then we kind of clarified some of the fundamental values of the plan so that the –
 to kind of fill in the context around the actions and objectives. And then lastly, we filled in numbers around metrics. So that's the document that we created that we took out for public consumption. And in a second, I'll walk you through what we heard. But now, just as a reminder, the structure that we went out and presented to the public was these five related objectives. Okay.
 Four, really externally focused. And the fifth one, as we do in our plans, the fifth one was focused on our internal operations, really to how do we as an organization live the values and strive for the objectives as an organization that we have for the city.
 But the other four you can see in front of you, and they go in terms of an order from creating healthy connected neighborhoods, healthy complete neighborhoods. Second is creating access to high-quality employment. The third is creating opportunities for wealth creation for communities of color and low-income communities.
 And then the last one is to create 21st century civic networks and partnerships to address the kind of larger issues that impact prosperity as a city. And all of these objectives come together towards the overarching goal.
 of promoting widely shared prosperity among all Portlanders. We don't believe these objectives stand alone. And, in fact, we believe that the only way that we move the needle toward prosperity is by addressing all these different objectives.
 So we took this plan to a variety of public forums, and you can see them outlined here. Two public open houses, one was held at our offices, the other was held at ERCO's.
 facility in East Portland. We had an online forum, so anyone could come online and enter into conversation around various topics that remained open for several months and received a lot of feedback that way. And then we had a lot of very specific meetings, both with partners that are listed in the plan that are the partners that we'll be working with over the next five years, and
 But in addition, a whole range of other stakeholder groups pretty much met with anybody who wanted to talk about our plan. And so you can see how all the different groups that are listed there. And once again, it cuts across the range of work that we do as an agency, particularly.
 On the neighborhood side, on the placemaking side, redevelopment, but also around economic development, entrepreneurship, the whole range of different facets of our work. And so some of the questions that we asked of our groups, and mainly when we had larger, kind of more open groups like our town hall and the online, we asked –
 whether or not they agreed with the draft goal that was presented in the plan, as well as the draft vision. And you can see they had choices across the board.
 a range of strongly agree down to strongly disagree. And what you see here is that the draft goal, prosperity, shared prosperity for all Portland residents is kind of strongly supported in these forums, pretty much almost universal support for that as a goal. And,
 The vision in the document is, as you can see, is a vision statement is kind of how you view the future. So you state it as this is how we would describe the future state of Portland. And we have in our document that Portland will be one of the most globally competitive, healthy, and equitable cities in the world. And so you see this split on this in terms of the feedback that we receive from the public. And what we determined from conversations with individuals was that,
 The folks who strongly disagree were basically saying we don't think it is right now, and that's true. And so that's what we're aiming for. So as a vision statement, I think people who articulated their viewpoint on where we should be heading, they agree, but there was also a reminder that a lot of people don't feel like we're there yet, and so I think that's a strong incentive for us to undertake this work.
 When we asked about the five objectives of the plan, which I walked through, and this chart is kind of confusing. It was confusing to me, but each of the colors represents one of the five objectives, and then how it was ranked in each of these categories, very important down to not important, is shown. So you can see that all five categories.
 for all five objectives, the overwhelming majority felt that these were all very important objectives. And what's interesting about it is –
 the response shows almost a relative ranking. So people uniformly felt that it was very important to have healthy connected neighborhoods. It was important to have access to high quality employment and equitable wealth creation. Concepts like the 21st century civic networks, I think that we've talked about, this is more of a –
 speculative part of the plan, something that we're going to try and figure out how to address some larger problems. That was, I think, a harder concept for people to grasp. And so you can see that in how people ranked it. And then, of course, our own internal operations, people obviously care about, but it's not going to move the needle as much as the first three. So I think we got strong feedback that the first three objectives, which really are kind of the foundation of our work,
 Healthy connected neighborhoods, access to high-quality employment, access to wealth creation opportunities. There was strong agreement from the public that this was the right direction for us to take. And then if you look through kind of the actual feedback, what people wrote down on sticky notes or what they communicated to us in our meetings,
 You can see there's some common themes that relate to affordability, affordable housing. Maybe when we get to some discussion on this, we can talk about how we should be thinking about our role in affordable housing, but currently it's not a core part of our work, but I know there's a strong sense that PDC should be more involved in
 But then there's also this there's a series of more kind of how we do our work around committee involvement, around making sure that we're aligned with the efforts from other plans and that people like the fact that we're thinking holistically. We've heard feedback from council and we heard as well from the public that we need to make sure that we remain focused. This is an ambitious plan and so we heard that from the public as well.
 Some more specific pieces of feedback, lots of feedback to make sure that we're not only focused on East Portland, but that we're measuring our impact on East Portland, that it's not simply about including in the plan, but being able to demonstrate those actions as we've –
 Talked about this plan in the past. We've talked about how we're bringing the neighborhood concept back citywide so that we use it for all of our work, whether in Old Town or in Lentz or in Central East Side or in North and Northeast Portland. And so there's a lot of, I think, positive feedback on that. We were also reminded that.
 to think about the connection between small businesses, large businesses. I think that's fairly obvious to us, but we do have a small business economy, and a lot of the programs that we offer do focus on small businesses, but the plan needs to remember that there's a symbiotic relationship between that. And then...
 Well, locally, it may not be that important. Nationally, when we've talked about our plan to some of our partners like Brookings, I do think that the topics that we're trying to take on are topics that a lot of cities are grappling with. And so people like Brookings are saying –
 Yeah, go figure that out. And I'm not suggesting that we're going to figure it out in any kind of clear, concise way, but I think cities taking on these challenges in a very upfront, honest way and then sharing their lessons is important not just for Portland but also for the rest of the country because what we're experiencing in inequality and affordability, those issues really aren't unique to Portland. And so –
 as it says here our next step is to go to our board the board will formally adopt the plan well we'll ask them to formally adopt the plan they obviously have to vote on it next week May 13th
 And then we dive into implementation on this, and I can tell you from a staff perspective, we're very eager to move ahead. When we come back to you on the 13th as well to present our budget, and you said it was our budget committee, you will see a budget that is presented along this structure. So you'll see how in year one of this plan we proposed –
 to allocate our dollars to achieve these objectives. And so you'll begin to see how this plan actually lives in the reality of PDC. And then, of course, the partnerships that are key to this, we'll begin to move forward on those. And then a lot of the key initiatives that we've talked about,
 In the plan here, we'll begin to take action on, you know, you see things like the Lentz Action Plan, the Old Town Action Plan, our work in South Waterfront, our goals around what's supposed to happen on MLK or Gateway. All these things are key elements of this plan, and this is work that we are actively doing. So implementation for us is real.
 And I guess I'll end with this, and I had a chance to talk with Commissioner Fish about this yesterday as well.
 You know, people have commented that this seems like an ambitious plan. In some respects, it may be too ambitious. We can agree or disagree on that. I think we as our board and staff like to have ambitious plans. We work at PDC because we like the impact that we can have on this city. And I think we have a track record of implementation. So I sat before some of you.
 in 2009 and presented an economic development strategy that many thought was ambitious. And I know, because I was part of it and a lot of other people were part of it, we did the work. We implemented a plan and we got a lot of it right and some of it didn't work out. That's the same attitude that we're taking to this. So our attitude is...
 Great plan, but we're ready to implement, and that's what we do. We don't let plans sit on the shelf, and I think we have a track record of doing that. And I look forward to, with your approval and the approval of our board, working on this in partnership with you and coming back annually or sooner than that and talking about the progress we're making and how we can make adjustments along the way to achieve these outcomes. So thank you. Questions? Mayor, I have a bunch of questions. First,
 I want to really publicly thank Patrick and his staff for the amount of time they're spending with each of us to walk us through the plan at each of the milestones. That chart you showed earlier with all the levels of touch-ins and communications is really very impressive. And so thank you. And I generally think this is a well-written and pretty clear document. And so I appreciate that.
 I do have some concerns, and I want to just put them on the record and just try to clarify them. Because my concern is not that PDC, when given marching orders, can't get to the finish line. My concern is any time there's the chance we set the bar too high, and through no fault of your own, you don't hit the mark. And I think that...
 We're justifiably criticized sometimes for being too ambitious and then falling short, and that doesn't help anybody's cause. And so when I've expressed to you, Patrick, some concerns about the focus and how ambitious it is,
 It's not in the context of expressing doubts that you can deliver good products. It's that just to make sure that we have reasonable and clear-eyed expectations about what you can accomplish so that in five years you can come back and say, mission accomplished, and take a bow, rather than, gosh, we fell a little short here or there. It may have turned out we set our sights too high. Okay.
 In that regard, let me start by saying I'm delighted that you've included media explicitly as one of the clusters. So I think it's technology and media. And as you described that to me, that picks up things like the creative economy, film, and other things, including software at ALF. So I think that's very important, and I think that's long-term beneficial.
 One of the sort of structural things about the report I want to just offer as a suggestion is it doesn't really reference in any dynamic way the strategic plan that it's replacing.
 And I think in terms of a complete document, it's helpful to say we used to have – we had a five-year plan for economic development. Here's what we accomplished. And now we're embarking in a new plan that builds on that but changes it in certain key ways looking forward. Because I think it tells the story more completely. One of the things I was struck by, though, is I went back and looked at the old five-year plan, and it says to build a sustainable economy.
 The new vision is to build a globally competitive, healthy, and equitable economy. What happened to sustainable? Well, at the time, I think we were trying to achieve two things. One was we were in a recession, and the notion of a sustainable economy, not from an environmental sustainability perspective, but from an economy that was more resistant to the pandemic.
 to the cycles of the broader national global economy, that was an outcome that was important to us. I think we felt historically that Portland and the state would suffer –
 suffer more than most parts of the country during recessions. And so I think we wanted to create an economy that was more diverse and that we continued the evolution from the legacy part of the economy to that. And then the second part was to be more explicit about using our reputation, our knowledge and skills and history around sustainability, around clean technology and green development as a competitive advantage. And so that was why that was almost the mantra of that. And I think we've –
 It's never done, but I think that we've made tremendous progress on both fronts and
 And so the challenge that we're facing now is really around inequality. It's around who benefits from what we see as a very, you know, on a macro level, very prosperous economy. So that's really the emphasis now. And it doesn't mean that, I mean, my board chair here is one of the leaders in our community around sustainability. So we are not going to forget our sustainability roots and that as a value. But this is meant to be an explicit statement about sustainability.
 about equity and this is the challenge we're facing. The last thing I'll say is the word healthy sits in that.
 Because when we met with sustainability leaders and other stakeholders around that and we talked about how do we make sure we don't lose that, the concept that was pushed back to us was not sustainability just for itself, but it's really about healthy communities. That your goal is really to create healthy communities, sustainability as a means to do that. And so the term healthy does actually reference that as well as a lot of other values. I'm pleased to hear that qualification because you have a board member, Mark Evelyn,
 who regularly comes before us and says it's time to double down on sustainability because it's it's it's core to who we are and it's core to our success story and i i don't i don't want changing words on paper to to any way indicate that we're backing off what's been a very effective strategy
 in terms of the green sustainable city, I do hear that there's a more robust focus on equity, but I don't think they're mutually exclusive. And to hear that Healthy picks that up is helpful for me. Let's turn to metrics, though, for a second, Patrick, because this is the area that I have the biggest concern.
 And maybe it's, maybe my concern can be allayed by just understanding the difference between high-level metrics and the kinds of performance measurements you're going to come back to counsel on. When I first read this document and I looked at the high-level measures of success, it just seemed like it was asking a lot of you to be the driver of some of these indicators.
 like boosting significantly resident satisfaction in surveys in East Portland. I mean, you can do a lot of things, but I'm not sure you can be held accountable for boosting that by 40 percent. Or making a significant dent in homeownership, particularly when market forces and things like new underwriting guidelines make it much harder to get people into homeownership, maybe making the affordable housing rental agenda more compelling.
 Or the one that I think really jumped out at me is this idea that in five years you're reduced by half the number of households in high poverty neighborhoods without promoting displacement. That's a wonderful aspiration. It strikes me as being very difficult for you to achieve. Now, the measure of success language says these high-level metrics are not only PDC's efforts but the collective impact of public and private parties.
 So that suggests that, in a sense, you're laying these out as aspirations, but you're acknowledging you can't get there by yourself. But someone's going to read this and look at these and say, this is PDC committing to these outcomes. What will be the difference between these high-level measures of success and the specific performance measures that you've come to counsel on, and what will be specifically PDC's role versus the community's role in helping you get there?
 So if you kind of think back to how we've reported back to Council on the previous economic development strategy, we, you know, in our annual report would summarize that as well in a written document report.
 we would talk about the actual programmatic outputs of the agency. So number of loans, number of businesses that we worked with, and then getting specific programs like our enterprise zone program, dollars that we've, you know, investment that we've attracted, the leverage that we've achieved there, and then the demographic makeup of the individuals or businesses that we've helped, those kind of things. Those are the kind of metrics that we will continue to track. They'll be tailored once again to the outcomes that we're trying to achieve through this plan.
 So in talking about wealth creation opportunities for entrepreneurs of color, women, then we're going to report back to you on how many businesses we're working with, what dollars are invested, what kind of leverage. So we can report back on those. Those are the levers that we will be pulling as a contribution towards these more macro outcomes that you see here.
 And then I think, you know, some of these, there's alignment with where there's overlap. There's alignment with the Portland plan and other plans around these objectives. So some of this is just repeating what's already out there, whether it be the Portland plan or the climate action plan. And so we're all pulling together on that, and we collectively, I think, are accountable on those. And some of them are new objectives.
 that we want to put out there as reminders like let's all we all need to rally around these outcomes because because if we're all trying to achieve a more prosperous Portland then then we should be thinking about this and and not be concerned about who's to blame if we don't get it but but can we all align our work around this so things like reducing the number of households in high poverty neighborhoods
 Right. I don't know that that's something that we've been tracking. That's a relatively new concept. So that's something that I think we're trying to put out there is like, hey, let's rally around. I'm not I'm not worried about who's going to get blamed. PDC has some of your former forebearers have said that PDC stands for pretty damn convenient. So we know who's going to get blamed if you don't hit your mark. I just want to make sure that in in saying things like we're going to reduce by 50 percent the number of households living in high poverty neighborhoods.
 that you as an agency that has a declining resource in TIF, a huge plate, and through this strategic plan an even broader scope, are really in a position to say you can either make that happen or lead that effort in five years. And while it's laudable, I mean, I subscribe to it without hesitation,
 I just don't know whether you can make that happen. And I don't want to have your precious credibility compromised by making commitments to things that sound good politically but that we can't achieve because I know we've been through that before. And PDC has turned a corner, and I don't want you in five years to have to come before us and say we fell far short and maybe in retrospect it was too ambitious. Right.
 This is a very helpful discussion, and I wanted it to continue for at least this far, but if I can, Commissioner Fish, let me get you to hold the rest of your questions until after we hear from the task force members that are here, because we've got at least two of them here. Oh, right, that's my fault. No, that's all right. This is good context, and I saw Annette nodding, and I think she might have a thought or two about just this subject, so that was helpful. Okay. But if we can, if you guys are wrapped, then let me call this up. I know I see at least two, Annette Mattson and John Tapania are here, and I think –
 maybe Sam Rodriguez. So we've got at least a couple of members of the task force that are here, want to hear from them. So please, come on up. Please, Annette, come on up. Thank you. And is Sam here as well? They were on a subject about which I've heard from Annette. Annette Mattson, Executive Director, Council of the Council of the City of New York Never not again. Good morning. Good morning. Would you like to start? Mayor Hales, members of the Council, thank you for the opportunity to comment on the strategic plan. My name is Annette Mattson. I live in East Portland.
 I'm a member of the PDC NED Leadership Committee, the EPAP Economic Development Committee, and I chair the Lentz Five-Year Action Plan. There is much I could say about this plan, but remarks are to be brief, so I'll comment on the things I find particularly meaningful. First, this plan intentionally calls for actions which are to benefit all Portlanders, recognizing that increased prosperity is meaningless if it only applies to those who have college degrees or who are white or who live in certain neighborhoods.
 Committee conversations acknowledge that the Portland of our national reputation does not exist for all citizens. Racial disparities in income and access and socio-economic segregation are Portland's current reality. The plan has goals related to equity and increased prosperity for all. As an East Portland resident, I appreciate that the committee and the plan include support for the needs of East Portland.
 This Council knows well the history of lagging investment east of 82nd Avenue. I commend the strategic plan outcomes of connecting East Portland residents with major employment centers, strengthening East Portland amenities, and of increasing East Portland residents' satisfaction. I do want to call out access to career path employment.
 Internships, apprenticeships, skill development, these are critical items for Portland's economic success. When a person learns the skills they need to help them get and keep a quality job, they can move from unemployment or a minimum wage job to making a living. Investing in people will help address our need for more skilled workers, make for more equitable job access, and increase the percentage of households that are self-sufficient.
 Lastly, I would like to comment on the difficult but important element of the whole plan, forming civic networks, institutions, and partnerships, and the identification of interdependent plans and initiatives. To put all of the work on PDC alone could be a setup for failure. PDC may be the lead.
 but organizations within the entire city, you as elected leaders, your bureaus, you're also a part of these goals and making sure this is a success. The county government, the state government, educational entities, the business community and others, we can all help as well as benefit from the areas of our shared interests. I mean, we're going to know in five years because we're going to measure along the way thanks to some great metrics in this plan.
 how we're doing, and how we have done. And sadly, if we fail in this goal, who are really going to be failing will be our citizens. But to succeed in this plan means that all of the people of Portland are going to have a better place to live and to work and to be a part of. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good morning, John. Good morning. John Toponia, president of ECHO Northwest, sat on the steering committee. Just a few comments. First of all, I wanted to commend the staff. This is a process that I forget how many meetings there were. There were an appropriate amount of meetings. Staff were well organized. Thank you.
 And you saw meaningful change between the meetings, that they had listened both to the steering committee but clearly had listened to the community. So it wasn't like we were just coming back and seeing the same report every time we returned. So great work there. Second point, big picture.
 PDC's role and the important place in terms of economic opportunity, I think just got a huge shot of importance with the report that came out this week from Raj Chetty at Harvard. It's been publicized in the New York times, but really for the first time has estimated what they would argue is causation. How much does place cost?
 either the economic mobility or the lack of it. So I would encourage any time you have this afternoon, if you want to get on the New York Times and play around with their map, it's a fascinating piece, but it speaks directly to this work. And frankly, Multnomah County is kind of in the middle of the pack. It was not the most...
 or even close to the top of the list in terms of a place that delivered opportunity. So I would encourage that. And as you look at it, think about this work, because I think it makes this work ever more important. Third point, I would say that, like Brookings did, I would compliment the staff, again, for working with the community and really injecting this notion of,
 of equality. This is a tough topic. It is. There is always a tension between unbridled economic growth and trying to distribute that growth across a region, across different segments of the population. And that's very hard work. And I think Brookings is right to have recognized that Portland is one of the first to engage in it. And it's important to get right.
 I think one place where you will see there was a change from last time is the addition broadly of the health care sector is something that this plan is paying attention to. That is not what you would typically find in an economic development strategy. It is a local sector strategy that includes also things like the Knight Cancer Challenge.
 But it was that focus on middle-skilled jobs that really drove the staff in that position. So very intentional work to get this right, and nothing but high praise for the folks that worked a lot more hours than we did getting it to where it was.
 Thank you both. Thanks for doing this, and I appreciate your comment, especially about the fact that I watched that too, that you were all, all the steering committee members were influential in shaping the work. It wasn't just they were signing off on what the consultant or the staff came up with, but they were shaping the work, and then the public did too. So I thought it was a very valid process and really appreciated you all putting the time in, and the rest of the committee. The time that you have has made a big difference. Can I ask John a question? Sure.
 This was a question. I was curious how health care kind of crept into the targeted industries. So I guess you tackled that. So it's because it has good middle-wage jobs? Absolutely. So over probably three or four meetings, a lot of debate around sort of the original clusters and how much the original clusters could deliver middle-wage jobs. And that's a tension when you've got –
 what's the most recent? Google is looking downtown. I don't know when and if they show up and fill up their office space, how many middle-skill jobs they will directly create jobs.
 We want them, whatever they bring, but middle-skilled jobs are probably not going to be the highlight of that. And so we kept turning over, turning over, turning over, and ultimately landed on health care as a place where we know the economy is going to grow because of the demographics of the population. But I would also say that in much the same way that this region has been –
 increasingly popular to the so-called young and restless, it is also attracting older immigrants into the region. And they happen to bring Medicare dollars with them from the federal treasury that can be used in our hospitals and physicians' offices. And that's not such a bad thing. Thanks. Other questions?
 Thank you both very much. Appreciate it. All right. Thank you. I just want to comment to Commissioner Nick on the achieving the goals. So, you know, I was a David Douglas School Board member for 18 years. And when I was a fairly new school board member, we put in place the highest graduation standards for the entire state of Oregon. But we didn't just set in place those standards. We then looked at what was needed for students and teachers to achieve those goals.
 assigned those, funded them, identified. And really, this is ambitious, you're right. Our citizens deserve nothing less. So I would ask that all of you, in looking at your budgets, your goals, your bureaus going forward, look for what PDC, or more importantly, what our citizens need for this vision of prosperity and find ways in which all of you can help support that.
 Thank you. Thanks, both of you. I don't think there are any other steering committee members here. Maybe we should take public testimony and then call Patrick back up. So anyone signed up to speak on this item? Yes, we have six people signed up. The first three are Brad Hathaway, Duffy Dufresne, and Dennis McNanny. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales, City Commissioners. Just pull that microphone a little more directly towards you, Brad. Thanks. How's that? Great. All right.
 Again, thank you for this opportunity to address you. My name is Brad Hathaway. I am a resident of southeast Portland. Today I would like to ask the city to give greater priority to the commercialization of bioscience, especially as it sets priorities for the next five years. For the past five years, I've worked as the senior finance leader of the Beaverton facility of Well Challenge, a medical device company.
 During this time, I've seen the benefit of being affiliated with the industry's trade association, Oregon Bio. And through it, I've seen value to our company of being part of a growing community of bioscience companies. And I hope this industry is on your radar screen. I've reviewed this draft of the PDC strategic plan. It's an impressive document. The plan recognizes the cancer challenge, the night cancer challenge.
 describing the opportunity as catalytic. However, and given the recognized need for more good-paying jobs, it seems unfortunate that this version of the plan then takes such an indifferent stance toward the commercial activity that this increase in R&D will generate. Here's how I see it. With a billion dollars in R&D now anticipated at the Knight Cancer and other institutes,
 I think it seems fair to anticipate at least hundreds of millions of dollars of commercial benefit. These are good-paying jobs at companies that tend to stay put because of the high cost of getting processes initially qualified with regulatory bodies. Now, this is a competitive marketplace, and I recognize that there is no guarantee that this economic benefit will end in Portland. But I believe we can and should plan on competing for a share.
 And I believe our single best opportunity is by working together to create a concentration of commercial bioscience right here in the city. By leveraging our good fortune, this unexpected increase in R&D, combined with the soon-to-be-completed Tillicum Crossing, and the relative affordability of the Central Eastside, if we're going to create such a concentration, no other site in Portland offers what the Central Eastside has.
 What I'm describing will take a greater level of coordination and focus and stepped-up efforts from a range of stakeholders. And with the City as one of the key stakeholders, this effort will certainly benefit from the types of tools and resources PDC proposes for the sectors it has targeted. And that is why I'm asking the City to include bioscience in its listing of targeted trade sectors in this five-year plan.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Good morning. Good morning. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Commissioners. My name is Duffy Dufresne and I am a resident of Southwest Portland. I want to start by commending the Portland Development Commission for doing a phenomenal job of coming up with a very thorough and very comprehensive five-year strategic plan draft.
 I also want to echo some of Brad's comments that we'd love to see a tweaking, if you will, of the definition of health care to include not only the services component of health care but the commercial component of health care. I spent my entire career in the life sciences sector,
 I grew up in Portland, but I moved after high school and
 worked for most of my career in the Boston area, also a little bit in the Bay Area. And over about a 25-year span, I served as the CEO of five biotech and medical device companies, and I took two companies public. A little over three and a half years ago, I moved back to Portland for personal reasons and have enjoyed being, again, a resident in Portland. Okay.
 As a very involved member of the Oregon Bioscience Association, as well as the chair of OHSU's strategic advisory group, and also a partner in Alignment Ventures, I've seen the bioscience sector in Portland develop significantly over the last three and a half year period of time, albeit from what was a very small starting point. Okay.
 I agree that the umbrella effect of the night cancer challenge is going to be huge, as was mentioned in the draft report and elsewhere, and will have an impact on dramatically increasing that development seen over the last three years and accelerating that development for commercialization of life science technologies in Portland.
 The opportunities, the employment opportunities in this kind of sector are both high paying and have a very high educational content and a broad spectrum of opportunities.
 skill sets associated with that sector. And I see those as very much in congruence with the goals of this Portland Development Commission five-year strategic plan. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Good morning, Mayor, Councilman, members. Excuse me, I'm fighting a chest cold, so if I break out in coughing, I apologize. My name is Dennis McNanny. I'm the Executive Director of the Oregon Bioscience Association. I guess my comments as a follow-up to my two peers are that the Knight Cancer Institute is a once-in-a-generation and challenges a once-in-a-generation opportunity.
 do economic development every day in my job. In the last three months, I've given two leadership tours to two national biopharma, international biopharma companies. One I was fortunate to give was to John Letlighter, who is the CEO of Eli Lilly, who had never actually toured Portland. He's on the board of Nike, so he flies into Hillsboro frequently but does
 does his business and flies out. And he was literally amazed when he brokered a meeting with Dr. Druker, and it was just an amazing opportunity to watch an international CEO realize for the first time that Portland has characteristics and economic development advantages that he just really couldn't even fathom.
 And he zeroed in pretty quickly in the southeast waterfront. We concluded the tour that day on the steps of the CLSB, on the back veranda of the CLSB. And he looked across the river and he saw a bridge that was going to connect two parts of a city for the first time in a way that could trigger an industry. And certainly he saw potential on that side of the river to really do some great work, maybe position people there to take advantage of what's taking place at the night time.
 And I'm not the quickest study, but after a couple of those tours, I realized that Oregon Bio had to do something very specific. Brad and I have been working now for nine months, and with the help of other members have decided to start a task force
 to help guide to the extent we can for our industry the development of the inner southeast quadrant. So as we talk about the longer, broader goals, I think those are important, and they're codified, I think, well in this strategic plan. But there's really no substitute for tactical industry involvement with all the stakeholders. So our task force is going to include members from Metro, from Congressman Blumenauer's staff. We'd like the city, PDC.
 OHSU and a variety of industry stakeholders to really think deeply about how we want to preserve and leverage this one-time opportunity, I think, because once it starts to be developed for other purposes and with other objectives, we lose that opportunity of locating a nice concentration of bioscience companies next to a world-class center for cancer research and frankly for medical research more broadly.
 I asked the question to John Lechleiter when he was standing there, can you think of anywhere, anywhere on the West Coast that has this combination of attributes? He says, I can't think of anywhere, anywhere that has this combination at this moment for this particular market. So I appreciate the time you took to hear our comments. I'd entertain any questions you may have.
 I just want to thank you for obviously bringing a point to the table here in a very coherent way and with the right people in the room to hear it. So with Patrick and our chairman here and all of us, this is very helpful. We'll get Patrick back up to comment later on what do we think we should.
 do at this juncture versus later. But nevertheless, your point's well made. We also, as you probably know, I think Brad knows that we're in the process now of doing this land use plan for the inner southeast as well. So there's a strategic plan for PDC is how it does its business, but there's also literally what zoning says we want and don't want in that.
 part of the central city as well as everybody else and everywhere else in our comp plan process. So, again, your concern is really timely. Having been on this council when we first conceived of the idea of the south waterfront as a major employment area focused on health care, you know, what goes around comes around, and it's nice to see that we actually have that opportunity now, even though the recession kind of got in our way. But the night's...
 night challenge certainly gets us back into the game, and I think you've made that point very well here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any questions for these folks? Thank you all. Thanks very much. Next three are Mr. Lightning, Barry Sutton, and Charles Johnson. Okay, come on up. We'll go ahead and go with Steve Entwistle then. Yes, my name is Lightning. I represent Lightning Housing X. I think the report is actually quite good. I like the fact that
 You're kind of reaching high in the sky on a lot of these different issues. And, again, that's what innovation and entrepreneurship is really all about, is to try to come up with an idea and go forward and see what happens. So I absolutely agree with this way of doing this report. Now, one of the things where I'm at is that I always want the term healthier city, healthier neighborhoods,
 to really be emphasized because I think really that's where we need to really focus. And the thing that I like is that we have a lot of, we've been talking the shared economy, a lot of different people coming into the area with a lot of great ideas that I think we're going to have a lot of jobs created. We're going to have a lot of incomes increasing, but we need to also focus on
 There's a certain segment of the population that a lot of this may not benefit. And we need to keep focused on that to make sure that they lift up to their best potential within a growing economy also. And we've mentioned again, and I've stated this on that United States Post Office, I'm hoping PDC will look at that more of a mixed income type development, housing units, possibly warehouse,
 some open space in there to really benefit the overall community, especially on the lower income level. And what I'd like to see is that we create something there that allows the people, again, off the sidewalks into a location with the intent that we have a lot of people that are creating great innovation throughout the city,
 will join in an effort to work with them within their startup companies and try to figure out ways that you can lift this segment of the population up at the same time that you're reaching high in the sky on your ideas when you created your companies. Ultimately, the people are the most important thing in this city. We need to keep focusing investment in that area. Buildings are only buildings. Land is only land.
 The greatest potential for improvements are the people of the city. And we must not ever forget that, and we must focus on that and make sure that the people who need the assistance and they want to show some type of improvement are given those opportunities on these type of transactions and the type of deals we're discussing, especially on entrepreneurship.
 We need to keep focusing on that, that everybody has the capacity to offer something in this city, and they can fit within your ideas, fit within your companies, and we must not ever forget that to keep offering improvement for the people that need the improvement and assistance the most. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning. Charles, I think you may be next. Or Stephen, go ahead. Good morning, Commissioner. As you know, for the record, my name is Charles Johnson. Good morning.
 And what we have just seen is closely related to this 31-page PDF from PDC in that we're not doing equity very well here. Before the three of us bearded white gentlemen sat down, three clean-shaven white gentlemen with ties sat down. That is not a good follow-up to remarks that began with somebody talking about APANO and the J district.
 APANO is the Asian Pacific and I can't remember now the exact letters but we know that's talking about our Asian community and Asian Pacific people. Then the speaker went on to mention ERCO the immigrant and refugee community organization. They're not here. We have a concern about an appearance that their voices are tokenized. When we talk about biotech
 We need to talk about getting a diverse group of people working in biotech and in standard technology. We need to know how the PDC, our good friends there at pdc.us on the web, are going to find brilliant children of color at Jefferson High School, get them to OHSU teaching fellowships through the Knight Cancer Institute, and have them have good high-paying, not just mid-level jobs for people of color, but equity.
 where Jefferson High School students and Lincoln High School students and David Douglas students all have equal opportunity to work into the coming life sciences industry. So while this isn't – well, and that's the problem. There's 31 pages of PDF, and I agree with Commissioner Fish that we can't totally abdicate the city council's responsibility to the PDC. We need to have an effective partnership where there won't be scapegoats. There will only be winners.
 And to that extent, I think there's room for both you five commissioners and the people serving on the PDC Commission Board to reengage with how this plan and how when we talk about these plans in public, we're going to have a face of the real Portland. A Portland that is becoming less and less white, but the money is staying in white pockets. Thank you.
 I'm Stephen Entwistle, Portland resident, member of Individuals for Justice and founder of the Healing Man Sanctuary. Well, we've heard a lot of testimony today on this, and PDC bringing all Portlanders prosperity is going to be interesting. In my world, talk is cheap. Thank you.
 Some of the worst conditions for the most vulnerable citizens in the United States is happening right now down in San Jose and San Francisco, where there just happens to be 35 billionaires living. So gentrification basically is a real sweet word for violent displacement, and in some cases very violent.
 Bringing wealth to Portland at almost any cost has had a huge negative effect. We are not doing anything different than San Jose and San Francisco. For example, like zero tolerance policies in the parks that give enforcement officials way too much latitude for abuse of power. OK, we're going to see that here pretty soon. July 1st is when that begins. And you can see the history of what that entails.
 Billionaires don't bring prosperity to the most vulnerable. In fact, rather it's the opposite. And it just seems to me that we're just going the wrong direction on a lot of these issues. And we have broad ethical failure here in our business community. I don't see anything different happening. Like I say, talk is cheap. And we'll see what happens.
 Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? And of course, I did mean to leave out girls, women, female leadership, STEM and STEAM for everybody. Thank you. Okay. Patrick, I think Commissioner Fish had some more questions and others may as well follow up on what we've heard in testimony. Okay. And then maybe just a response, if you could, to the presentation we heard here from the Biotechnology Association. Does that fit into our – I know it was debated quite a bit in the steering committee. So what are your thoughts?
 Yeah, I think we're in kind of what's the term? Violent agreement. So I think part of it's just how people read the document. So in various places in the document, we not only call out the incredible opportunity that we have with the night cancer challenge, but also the opportunity that we believe will come out of the commercialization of the research that happens there. I think we get caught up in this conversation around what's a cluster and what's not a cluster and,
 And I appreciate Commissioner Saltzman asking John Tiponia about the health care cluster because it really was added as a way for us to bring forth the opportunity that exists pretty broadly within health care. So you have the whole opportunity for local jobs.
 middle income jobs and so that's a big reason why we brought forth healthcare. But it also was to give us a placeholder for the opportunities that we think will come out of the work that's happening related to OHSU.
 and other research. As it stands now, and I'm not, you know, this isn't meant to be in any way, this is kind of more of a wonky thing, it doesn't stand, like if you, in the back of our document, we have the chart that talks about our clusters, and so it just doesn't have the stats. If you boil it down to a
 kind of a bioscience cluster. It doesn't have the stats. So we could, you know, I think it would be a disservice to the opportunity to say, well, it doesn't meet these statistics, and so it doesn't qualify as a cluster. Instead, we're saying we have this broad-based health care cluster. We're going to explore the opportunities in there, and we're going to pursue the opportunities across a number of our activities that include entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship.
 our partnership, our ongoing partnership with OHSU and PSU around commercialization, but also in the placemaking work that is called out here on the Central East Side as well as the South Waterfront. So I think it is –
 It is addressed. We're obviously very committed to it, happy to look before the document gets printed up to think about maybe there's some editing we can do to bring it out so that nobody can read this and somehow think that we don't support the industry because we do think it's –
 It is one of the great opportunities we have here, and I think we all view the Central East Side, South Waterfront development there as the place where it really could be a home there. Okay, thank you. Any other questions for Patrick? Thank you very much. Thank you. I take the motion to accept the report as an order. So moved. Thank you.
 and a second second okay any further comments roll call please fish well first um uh to chair kelly and to mayor hales uh who have led this effort thank you and congratulations to the steering project steering committee folks the sponsors advisors consultants implementing bodies we appreciate all the time and energy you've put into this and to patrick and his
 tireless team really appreciate the way that you engage the council on these kinds of exercises. And I think it's a better work product because of the inclusive way that you've sought people's inputs. I also want to acknowledge that three of us on this body were here when former Mayor Sam Adams put out a five-year strategic plan on growing jobs in our community.
 And I think it was the first time that PDC had done a strategic plan of that kind. And I believe we exceeded a lot of the goals. So in a sense, this builds on that framework, but in my view, appropriately expands our focus to shared prosperity and equity. So I think this is an improvement and an enhancement looking forward. The concerns that I've raised about the high-level metrics isn't because I don't like to swing for the fences. Right.
 It's because we have some examples in the recent past of PDC and the council making very bold and very visionary pronouncements and then falling short. And the one I keep coming back to, which is sort of, I think, at the heart of why we're embracing a new view going forward, is the Albina plan.
 And Albina Plan has a lot of similarities. A ton of very capable people linked arms and said they were going to fundamentally change some dynamics in the inner northeast. And we fell way short, and there's lots of reasons why, but I think it cost PDC and the council credibility in falling so short. And I don't want this to be an exercise where five years from now we fall short through no fault of your own.
 How come we haven't moved the needle on some things that also involve huge market forces and huge socioeconomic factors, frankly, beyond your control? I like swinging for the fences. Don't get me wrong. I also want to jealously protect the hard-earned credibility that you have earned by doing really good work under your watch, Patrick. So that's the point I want to make.
 In a perfect world, I would have liked to have seen a little more about the small business opportunities. And I would note that there are cities across the country that are now saying small business, particularly around concierge service, is the future. And I think Chicago in particular, where the mayor has said we want to really go deep with our small business community and perhaps do for small business what we do for film in providing very specific concierge services.
 That's for another conversation, but Patrick, you've told me that this plan does not preclude that conversation, so we'll come back and talk about that. Overall, you, I think, have delivered a really fine product, and despite whatever concerns I have about whether we can reach the metrics, I join with my colleagues in embracing the challenge. Thank you. Hi. Saltzman? Hi.
 Thank you to PDC and all the people. Very impressive list on the project steering committee and all the other people. It's on a great track. I like it. I guess my only caution is that we should not forget that the key to all prosperity is a good job. And as long as that bottom line undergirds everything else here, I'm fully in support. Hi. Nofic.
 Thank you, Patrick. Thanks for the time you spent with each of us. Thanks to all of your staff and the steering committee members. And, yes, these are noble goals, but I think we all understand that you're striving with all of us to achieve them. And if we don't achieve them, it won't be all PDC's fault, despite how convenient that might be. Hi. Fritz.
 I was somewhat nervous when we started the strategic planning process because I was very proud of the previous plan and wanted to make sure that we didn't expand to, well, 13 cluster industries like we had before. I think it's an improvement. I believe it's an improvement. It clarifies what was meant in some of the clusters, and it sets out a very clear roadmap. And as Commissioner Fish noted, it emphasizes equity and emphasizes East Portland in a very appropriate way, and I appreciate that. Thank you for all your work. Thanks to the committee. Aye. Thank you.
 Great work all. Patrick, staff, in fact, Kimberly Branham who worked hard on this I think is tending to a very important family matter today. That's right. So we want to thank her in temporary absentia. And really a lot of great work and a lot of thoughtful discussion with the community. I guess let me just close with some good news, some bad news, and a challenge.
 The good news, I think, is that we've built a place that is now a critical mass of prosperity and livability that's attracting people from all over the nation. That's great. We've built such a great place. People want to come here and bring their companies here and bring their careers here. Good news. Bad news is that the jobs that are coming, many of them at least, require more education and large amounts of venture capital.
 So we have to connect our citizens to that new reality as well as try to make some changes in the structure of our local economy. The challenge, of course, is that a lot of PDC's resources are restricted to sticks and bricks kinds of projects because of urban renewal and the requirement to spend those funds in certain ways. But there are some examples of how PDC can work differently even in that structure. And one of the greatest ones recently, I think we've all been there, is the 401 Mercado.
 which is a project in an urban renewal area supporting small entrepreneurs, supporting cultural diversity, working with a great community partner, the Hacienda Community Development Corporation. It's a real model of how the traditional urban renewal function can work in a much more inclusive, small business-oriented, culturally appropriate way. And I think it's just a great success. And now there's some others maybe in the offing with the Asian Health Care Center and Lentz that can carry on that tradition.
 So those are great partnerships and we have to have a lot more of them to make this plan effective. I appreciate the tip of the hat from Brookings about us really focusing in this plan on shared prosperity and on inclusive growth and that we are pushing forward.
 pushing the envelope with a plan that talks about that. In my previous career, I worked with a lot of economic development agencies around the country. None of them had a strategy that was anywhere near this focused on inclusive growth. So I think the fact that Brookings has noted that gives us validation that we are really trying hard
 and that focusing on shared prosperity is not just checking a box of political correctness, but like a lot of other things we do here, whether it's climate or human rights, we're adopting a deliberate local strategy to work against pernicious national trends. There was a Nicholas Kristof column on Sunday in the New York Times that pointed out the fact that the bonus pool –
 just the bonus pool on Wall Street, so just the people who work in financial services on one street in one city in the United States, just the pool of money available for their bonuses equals twice the annual earnings of all Americans living full-time on the minimum wage.
 That's staggering and awful, and we have to work against those trends here to try to create a more inclusive, egalitarian economy. That's a pernicious national trend, but I think on a lot of things, Portland has countered them. We look at present trends and have to remember that they are present trends.
 They won't continue, and we need to make a new trend, and that's what this strategy is intended to do. So thank you all for great work, and I look forward to making it real in lots of ways and lots of places with lots of help. Thank you. Thank you. Well done.
 Okay, we have some other things queued up here that I think we're breaking. We just have one, Mayor, because we can do the older Americans Month. Yeah, I guess the question is how long of a break do you want to take? Maybe half an hour because we've got some folks waiting. Of course, fine, but I thought we were taking a break. Okay. One other option would be to take a break after we do the next four or five items. Mayor, you and I made a commitment that we're going to do that one. Four or five.
 Well, we got some fairly brief ones here queued up before we get to the bump. So I guess if we could get through 453, if that would work, I think we might be able to satisfy a lot of folks who are here to speak. So let's try that, if that's workable, even if you have to leave, Dan. I don't think there are any emergency ordinances in there except for one. So we might need to take that one up afterwards. But let's do 449 right away and read that, please.
 449, proclaim May 2015 to be Older Americans Month in Portland. Mr. Fish. Thank you, Mayor. Take a seat. As you know, Mayor, I'm honored to serve as council liaison to Elders in Action and proud to live in a city that prioritizes and proudly celebrates being an age-friendly city. Today we welcome two distinguished guests and celebrate Older Americans Month.
 We're joined by Barbara Bernstein, who is the interim executive director of Elders in Action, and George Hawker, my former public advocate who got a promotion, and now is Loretta Smith's public advocate. And before I recognize our two distinguished guests, it's my honor to read the proclamation that the mayor has issued. Whereas May 2015 is National Older Americans Month, and this year marks the 50th anniversary of the Older Americans Act, and whereas this year's theme is Get Into the Act,
 recognizing older adults who are taking charge of their health and being active members of their communities. And whereas Metro projects that between 2010 and 2030, older adults in the region will increase by over 100 percent, and whereas the City's Age-Friendly Portland Action Plan focuses on improving the engagement of older adults by fostering meaningful civic engagement, and whereas the City works with Elders in Action and Multnomah County to enhance the lives of older adults in our region,
 And whereas the city contributes to the vitality of older Americans through partnerships with Portland Parks and Recreation, Loaves and Fishes, Senior Recreation Centers, and so many more, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, the City of Roses,
 do hereby proclaim May 2015, the whole month of May, to be Older Americans Month in Portland and to encourage all residents to observe this month and to support older adults who contribute such vitality to our community and to get into the act. George, take it away. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. I am George Harker, the public advocate for Commissioner Loretta Smith on the Multnomah County Board of Commissioners.
 Thank you for the invitation to be here today as we recognize the 50th anniversary of Older Americans Act Month. Commissioner Shiprack and Smith regret that previous commitments prevented them from being here today. The City of Portland and Multnomah County have been working in partnership with this year's theme, Get Into the Act, by promoting healthy aging.
 and increasingly age-friendly community involvement of older adults, and bringing attention to the need for prevention of elder abuse and fraud. Multnomah County Aging, Disability, and Veterans Services Division, as the area agency on aging, receives and uses federal funding for services such as home-delivered meals, caregiver support, community-based assistance,
 preventative health services, personal care, transportation, job training, and other services. Through key partnerships with Friendly House, Sage Metro, Elders in Action, Jewish Family and Child Services, and with active encouragement and support from the Commissioners of Multnomah County, more services and support is being provided to the LGBT community.
 According to the county, more than 4,300 LGBTQ adults in Oregon reach 65 each year.
 The Multnomah County Board of Commissioners voted unanimously on October 30, 2014, to establish an age-friendly action plan for the county, continuing its preparation for the significant increase in the senior population expected in the coming years. This follows the efforts of Portland.
 dating back to 2006 as a pioneer member of the World Health Organization's global network of age-friendly cities. In this Older Americans Act month of 2015, we appreciate, respect, and thank our older adults for being a national treasure and enriching our lives. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Hales, commissioners.
 Since 1968, as a result of the Older Americans Act, Elders in Action has been a partner with the City of Portland in promoting the well-being and interests of older adults through our personal advocate program and providing an avenue for older adults to voice their needs and concerns through our Commission of Community Elders and offering opportunities for meaningful and life-affirming civic engagement by volunteering with elders and participating in all our programs.
 For example, yesterday we completed our housing advocacy training. This is a project funded by the Meyer Memorial Trust. It brought community elders together in a series of five sessions to explore the issue of affordable housing.
 Every day we receive calls from older adults who cannot find affordable housing, who are being priced out of their apartments or living in unsafe environments. We wanted to explore the range of options available in our community and partnered with REACH CDC Northwest Pilot Project Welcome Home in this exploration.
 We took this group to the state legislature to speak with their representatives about the issue and concluded yesterday with 40 people on the Fair Housing Discrimination Tour, which looks at the history of housing in our community through the lens of race. In the future, we hope to bring some of these participants here so you may hear their stories. More recently, we have also partnered with the city, Portland State University, and other community partners in building a model age-friendly city.
 Special projects, current special projects, include a collaboration with Multnomah Public Library and the Port of Portland. They are interested in creating environments that are welcoming and keep older adults engaged in civic, social, and economic life. In just three years, Elders in Action will be having its 50th birthday.
 To ensure we stay relevant and adapt to meet the rapidly changing conditions of an aging and increasingly diverse community, we are starting an organizational change inquiry. We are working with the Nonprofit Association of Oregon to ensure our programs are welcoming and inclusive of the whole community for the next 50 years.
 We value our partnership with the city and our partners like NAYA, Urban League, IRCO, and feel these growing bonds will only make our collective services stronger in the future. More than ever, the services provided to older adults using the Older American Act funding is critical to enabling people, allowing people to age in place with dignity and good health. The well-being of older adults is indicative of the health of our community as a whole.
 Thank you for acknowledging this important act and for allowing me to speak on its behalf. Thank you. Mayor, thank you, and thanks to our honored guests. And as I was looking at the proclamation about get into the act and taking charge of your health, I'm reminded of a story about four years ago where I met the former Mr. Universe, Chuck Amato, who works for Commissioner Fritz, and we were celebrating his 50th anniversary of service to the Parks Bureau.
 So for 50 years, he was providing invaluable instruction to people, including older adults, about how to live a healthier life. And in the course of the celebration, he didn't use the words, get into the act, comma, Nick. But he said in so many words, take charge of your health. And I listened to him and then followed up with him, and I made some changes in my life, like this.
 diet, exercise, other things. And I think it extended the clock a little bit. And so I'm very grateful to him, and I'm reminded that we can all – that's a message that should resonate with all of us, is to take charge of our health, and it's not too late to make changes in our life that can give us a chance to live healthier and more productive lives. We deeply value the partnership with Elders in Action and with the county, and we are so grateful to have our spy in the county board of commissioners' office today.
 MS. Just blew his cover. MR. Who gives us real-time information on a regular basis what's going on over there. Thank you both. MS. Thank you all. MS. Thank you very much. MR. Good work. MR. Here's the proclamation. MR. Thank you. All right. Let's move on to the next item, which is another proclamation, 450.
 Proclaim the week of May 10 through 16, 2015 to be active transportation week in Portland. Commissioner Novick. Colleagues, speaking of getting into the act and taking charge of your health, this proclamation comes to us today because this next Sunday will mark the first Sunday Parkways of the Year in East Portland. Okay.
 Whereas Portland is a platinum bicycle-friendly city, and whereas bicycle transportation has been one of the leading motivations to get Portland commuters out of their cars, lowering single-commuter trips from 64% to 57% since the year 2000,
 And whereas Portland students bike to school at eight times the national average. And whereas Sunday Parkways, the Portland Bureau of Transportation, through Sunday Parkways, the Portland Bureau of Transportation seek to cultivate a community through the use of our city's largest public space to give every Portlander the opportunity to lead an active lifestyle, regardless of age, income, ability, or geographic location.
 And whereas, on May 10, 2015, the Portland Bureau of Transportation is hosting the first of five Sunday Parkways events of the year, presented by Kaiser Permanente. Live long and thrive.
 And whereas last year 108,900 Portland residents and visitors participated in Sunday Parkways, and whereas the fast-approaching summer weather is the perfect time for Portlanders of all ages to ride, roll, and stroll through our neighborhoods, now therefore I, Charlie Hales, Mayor of the City of Portland, Oregon, and the City of Rosas, do here proclaim the week of May 10th to 16th, 2015, to be Active Transportation Week in Portland, and encourage all residents to observe this week. Thank you, Commissioner.
 Yeah, well, I'll be out for Sunday Parkways this weekend. I hope everybody enjoys it. A bit more of the weather that we've been getting on weekends lately. It's been great. Thank you. Okay, let's move on to item 451. Thank you.
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University in the amount of 80,297 dollars for the Portland single-family weight study 2015-17 to determine weight of garbage for rate making purposes Second reading roll call fish. I know Vic. Hi Fritz. Hi hails for 52
 authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Portland State University for $35,000 for development of an evaluation plan to assess the work and effort of the Community and Police Relations Subcommittee. Come on up. We have a couple folks here to present briefly on this. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Who's going to begin? Okay.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, City Council. I'm Lieutenant Jeff Kerr with the Portland Police Bureau. And in November of 2014, City Council passed an ordinance that accepted a grant through the COPS office in the amount of $49,921 to develop an equity strategic plan and evaluation process.
 This grant will allow us to work collaboratively with the CPRC and with Portland State University in this development and evaluation process. And we are here today to ask you to authorize an intergovernmental agreement between the Portland Police Bureau and Portland State University. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 I'm Elle Weatheroy, the Equity and Diversity Program Manager for Portland Police Bureau. I started February 4th and I'm really glad to be here. Since starting, we have jumped right in with an assessment interviewing stakeholders, internal officer and senior leadership, met with city partners. We've also began the roadmap assessment process.
 analyzes the racial equity within the Bureau. Initially, we were going to be a part of Phase 3, but we have moved to Phase 1, one because of the Chief's values in creating an inclusive environment and addressing equity. But also, this information will inform our strategic plan and our evaluation plan.
 We have also resumed planning sessions for the officer training development and implementation, which would complete the baseline training on the institutional racism for the sworn staff, starting with command staff, sergeant, and now working on the officer training.
 We've also received a data request from the office of civil rights. This off this audit will provide an opportunity to incorporate best practices and meeting the needs of the language, excuse me, limited English proficiency community members. And so the office of equity and human rights has provided a lot of support and guidance in this piece. And we're looking to forward to developing a plan to better address.
 So there's a lot of work occurring and we have a lot more to do. And being strategic is critical in moving this work forward and to be able to start a position where we have the plan development support has been valuable. But even more valuable is having the support to develop the evaluation as a parallel process and not as an afterthought. So best practice says that the best plan has an evaluation plan incorporated.
 So as you will note, the grant project entails both the strategic plan and the evaluation plan with goals of creating an organizational transformation and improve bureau services to the community, strengthen partnerships and trust, and of course, increase diversity. So in order to get here, we want to be strategic. We want to create an inclusive and collaborative process.
 and create a plan that is practical and meaningful to help track my work. So to lead the evaluation plan process is Dr. Masami Nishishiba, and she will explain the plan in more depth. Welcome, Dr. Nishishiba. Nice to have you here. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Masami Nishishiba. I am the associate professor in public administration from Portland State University.
 So as Al explained, I am leading a team in developing an evaluation plan that would be attached to the strategic equity plan. So as Al mentioned, one of the important things to make the evaluation meaningful is to strategically incorporate that in the process of organizational development.
 And so PSU is in charge of evaluation plan, but I'm working very closely with LCPRC, another consultant who is leading the effort in developing equity plan and making sure that it is all coordinated.
 The other thing that we are paying special attention to is to not to make this evaluation plan a series of data collection, because oftentimes if we add on the data collection effort, that becomes a burden on the part of the organization, and it ended up not very useful.
 So the goal for us is to make sure that we capitalize on existing resources, capitalize on existing data, and make sure that we can utilize it.
 So far we have been conducting some series of interviews. We've been attending the CPLC meetings. There will be a series of discussions with the community members, together with Elle and others.
 We'll see how it goes. It has to be inclusive, so we may not come up with a clean-cut evaluation plan by the end of the grant period, but we will provide something that is useful that ELL can develop further.
 thank you all very much as your council recalls we created a single new position in the police bureau last year for equity manager and no other new positions in the police bureau last year and l is very capable of filling that new position so i think this is your first time here at the council meetings yes welcome questions for for this team thank you all very much thanks very much anyone else want to speak on this item mayor we have an amendment for this to add the emergency clause
 Okay. Is there any objection to adding the emergency clause? Then roll call to do that. We have a motion and a second for that. Motion. Second. And for the purpose of expediting this in the interests of public safety. Okay. Also noted. Thank you. Fish. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And then on the intergovernmental agreement itself, on the ordinance. Fish. Aye.
 No, Vic. Hi Fritz. I hails. All right. Okay one more item We'll take till we take a compassion break for the council and that is 453
 Authorize application to the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance for a grant in the amount of $2 million for the National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative Fiscal Year 2015 Competitive Grant to address unsubmitted sexual assault kits at the Portland Police Bureau. Commissioner Burke. Good morning, Chairman. Welcome. Thank you.
 Good morning. I'm George Burke. I'm the commander of the Detective Division, and I'm going to keep my comments very brief.
 Lieutenant Mahuna has a very strong understanding and grasp of the knowledge and information for this grant, and I'm going to let him talk about that. But I'd really like to start by saying that really without the leadership that Lieutenant Mahuna put to this program and this project, we wouldn't necessarily be sitting here today asking for this grant application and authorization. And I'd like to thank him and his team for coming forward and understanding and recognizing the national trends and taking that on without delay.
 us actually coming to him and asking for it. I think he had a lot of foresight in looking at trying to identify issues across the country and put Portland in front of it. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Lieutenant Mahuna. Great. Thank you. Morning, Mayor. I'm Lieutenant Peter Mahuna from the Portland Police Bureau. About a year ago, we began to notice a national trend of sexual assault kits that were seated in police evidence rooms being untested. That number...
 has been thrown on over 400,000 kits nationwide. We had no idea what our problem was. We knew that we had not submitted all of our kits, and so we took a proactive approach. We developed an auditing system, and we touched every kit that we had in our existence at that time. Our oldest kit went back to 1985, and we audited those all the way up until 2014. We had some 3,800 kits in our possession.
 After our audit was completed, we identified 1,931 kits that we had collected that had not been submitted to the crime lab for testing. There are various reasons why they had not been submitted. Some of them include the victim not wanting to proceed with the investigation, the identity of the suspect was not in question, and...
 And some of it was just detectives deciding whether or not this was going to be needed for trial in conjunction with the district attorney. So we became aware of a grant that was being issued by the Bureau of Justice. It was a $2 million grant that addressed this specific problem. And so we are applying for that grant today.
 We have in support of us today, we have Senior Deputy District Attorney Chris Ramers from the Multnomah County District Attorney's Office and Mackenzie Byram, who is a SANE nurse here in the city of Portland. Welcome. Welcome.
 Yeah, and Susan Lehman is here to talk about the project a little bit. She was instrumental in working and identifying what kits we had in our possession and putting together a system of identification so that as we move forward, we are able to avoid being in the position that we're in today, which I think is an extremely large part of this grant is how do we keep from being here in the future.
 Susan did a spectacular job of really drilling down into that data and putting some of that information out there for us. So, Susan, any comments for counsel?
 Good morning, Mayor Hales and city council members. We did an exhaustive search of these rape kits and keeping track of the data by establishing police reports that would carry forward about how the reviewers of the rape kits determined what their status would be.
 Thank you. Good work. Okay, do we have some other folks to speak as well? I think is that right? Yes Okay. Thank you all very much. Thank you Welcome Mayor Hales and commissioners. I'm Chris Ramers I'm a senior deputy district attorney in the Multnomah County DA's office And I supervise a unit that handles violent crimes and sexual assaults I hear today to
 Talk about the fact that this is a nationwide problem of untested sexual assault kits, not just Multnomah County. But over the years, the thinking on testing these kits has evolved. And just as one example, in the past, as Lieutenant Mahuna had spoken of, they might not test a kit or a kit might not be tested when the identity of the suspect or defendant was already known.
 However, the current thinking on this is, well, regardless of whether their identity is known or not, testing kits might help identify those types of suspects who have actually assaulted more than one person, and it may lead to prosecutions in cases where there are other victims of this same individual.
 Now, the DA's office wholeheartedly supports Portland Police Bureau's application for this grant. We realize that ultimately it will likely lead to other prosecutions that can bring closure and justice to sexual assault victims that are out there. District Attorney Underhill is committed to working not only with local law enforcement, but with state agencies to address the issues of coming up with strategies to avoid violence
 Well, first to eliminate the current backlog, but to avoid there being a reoccurring backlog of sexual assault kits. And we thank you for your time. Thank you. Welcome. Hi, Mayor Hales and Commissioners. I'm Mackenzie Byram. I'm a sexual assault nurse examiner and co-founder of Rapid Safe Investigation, which provides staffing to hospitals for forensic evidentiary exams.
 And I think that these exams, the patient is brought in and they can be very lengthy. The patient's documenting intimate details of the assault and having a very invasive exam to collect this evidence. It can be disheartening to hear that their kit may not be processed immediately, and certainly to find out that it may be one in the backlog of kits. I think that it's our responsibility to,
 the community members who are survivors of sexual assault, who, as you said, Mayor Hales, work against the pernicious trend of, in this case, backlogs nationwide, and address these kits. And so I know that all the SANE nurses that work with us are in full support of Portland Police Bureau's obtaining this grant. Thank you. Thank you both. Appreciate you being here. Anyone else want to speak on this item? Come on.
 Good morning, Commissioners. As you know in the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I'm very much glad to hear the last presenter's comments. I think what we need to review and agonize over a little bit is that we just heard that about 3,800 of our neighbors didn't get full and complete respect from the justice system. We can make up all kinds of excuses, but it really didn't happen.
 And so I hope that, especially Amanda Fritz as a nurse, when this $2 million comes forth, we'll make sure that outside the police department there's work to reach out, culturally competent work, to reach out to the women of color, the people of color, the trans folk who experienced sexual assaults and then had their rape kits shelved. That's what really happened here. And it's good that about $2 million may come from the federal government to try and rectify an injustice,
 But that injustice happened to individual people, individual victims. Some of those people, of course, had successful prosecutions, and their attacker might be in Oregon State Prison still. But I hope that the 80-some pages of PDF that cover this plan have direct outreach to people who may have been traumatized back in the 80s and not had significant justice. Also, I think we should note that
 I believe the Oregon legislature recently adjusted the law to help victims to create a longer window for people who were victimized years ago. And so...
 Well, I certainly want you to vote yes and get this grant in motion. I hope that a future agenda item I will be able to come up here and say thank you for seeing a more comprehensive and complete report about how some of these 3,800 victims are going to get culturally competent care from our community. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Anyone else? Then let's take a roll call vote, please, on the emergency ordinance.
 Bish? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? I very much appreciate the work of the Police Bureau on this and also the providers in the community. Thank you for being here to testify today. Commander Burke and Lieutenant Meyer, Lieutenant Mahuna, Susan and others have really worked hard on this, and it's important for us to own up, and we haven't been able to do what we should be doing. It's also important to recognize that we're ahead of the record,
 rest of the country in accepting responsibility for this and doing something about it. So I appreciate that very much. Aye. Hales. Well, thanks for the initiative in the Police Bureau, Lieutenant Mahona, and others who have made this a priority and our partners at the county. This is the right thing to do, and I'm glad that we're doing it. And speaking of those pernicious trends, crime is generally down in most American cities, including here, except in Portland for gang violence and sexual assault.
 and they're both up and that means we have an even greater challenge out there to make sure that we do bring people to justice Who commit these heinous crimes and this will help so thank you all for great work. Hi Okay. Now we I'm sorry. I Inadvertently moved too fast on 452 and failed to take testimony So if the council's and will indulge us I'll suspend the rules and return to testimony on 452. I
 Those people who signed up were Veronica Bernier. I think she may have left. Charles Johnson, Catherine Michelle, and Meryl Redditch. This is 452. Come on up, please. My apologies. Catherine and Meryl are here for something else. This is on the CPRC, right? No. This is the...
 The PSU. I think I signed the wrong sign-up sheet. And I followed after her. Community Police Relations Commission? No. Okay. Trees. Trees. All right. Well, we're going to take a break and come back to those in a few minutes. But, Charles, you were here on this item? Yeah, for the CPRC study. Yeah. I do want to point out that at times I'll be attending the Human Rights Commission at 4 o'clock, and at times there have been some concerns about,
 who's studying what and how. I think that we finally found a good resolution. We don't have Dan Handelman here and we don't have Joanne Hardesty here saying that this is flawed, like some other times we've proposed to partner through the HRC and to try and figure out the work of the CPRC. I do think that in this scope of police work and the money we're putting into this, I think we do need to contextually look and say we had...
 dozens of heavily armed men detonating explosives in downtown Portland on Friday. And how are we going to connect those citizens that witnessed that and experienced that and the pepper spray with the CPRC? There is some disconnect and disbelief among citizens in this town connecting with police regulatory mechanisms.
 The COAB, Community Oversight Advisory Board, will be meeting soon at Montevideo United Methodist Church. And I hope that, Mayor, especially since I appreciate your sincerity about getting a police department that only serves its citizens and never harms them, that you'll have good communication with these study people and make sure that we have effective outreach, especially to the people who are most distressed and feel most disturbed by the,
 Mistakes that happen in policing. Mistakes are going to happen. Sometimes you guys have to sign off on lawsuits that cost much more than this study. Ideally, this study will help reduce injury to people and financial liability for the city. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so that moves to second reading. And now I want to take a compassionate break for the council, maybe 30 minutes for lunch. Does that work? Come back at 1.10 p.m.
 What's your pleasure? Can the folks who are here to testify stay that long? I'm sorry about that, but I didn't think we could. No, they can stay. Okay. So let's, which item is that? 454, the next one.
 Okay, let's take 454. Oh, no, that's the spring supplemental budget. I'm sorry. No, I do want to wait and take the budget. The mistake I just made I would attribute to low blood sugar, and I'd like to go get some lunch. So we're going to take a break until 1 o'clock, and I hope you can stay that long. So council's going to recess until 1 p.m.
 Okay, we'll have the council come back to order, please. Thank you all for your patience. We just needed to take a break. And let's get back to the calendar in order, which means 4-54. Adopt the fiscal year 2014-15 spring supplemental budget and make other budget-related changes.
 So this is the second meeting, but I understand there's some council discussion in order. Thank you, Mayor. If I may propose an amendment, and if we could then take testimony in the amendment without discussing it so that I've got some folks who are here but have to get to a doctor's appointment.
 So my amendment, which is titled to Council Item 460, but it's not. It's Council Item 454. It's to add two limited-term positions and increase bureau expenses in the general fund for Portland Parks and Recreation by $22,500 for tree code implementation. It amends Exhibit 1 through 5 as appropriate. This additional appropriation will result in a decrease in general fund contingency.
 I will second the amendment. Okay. Then let's take testimony on the proposed amendment, and then I'll want to call up Andrew Scott and the budget staff to respond as well. So who do we have signed up? I did not set up a sign-up sheet for the amendment. The same folks who just came up before. Okay. Come on, Meryl. Minus one who had to go teach a class. All right. You're free to talk about police accountability, trees. Anything. You could have had two shots at us instead of just one, but here you are. EDC's economic development strategy, whatever you think. Okay.
 May I start? Please, Meryl. Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. My name is Meryl Redish. I reside at 1918, okay. I'm here on behalf of the Urban Forestry Commission. I serve as chair and I'm here to request that the council and Mayor Hales support two full-time positions that would be housed in urban forestry and here is why.
 The new tree code went into effect January 2, 2015, and the budget request that Commissioner Fritz and that was approved by you was a good step and provided the city forester and her staff with the resources to make excellent progress in all areas, especially customer service.
 Along with BDS staff, she has also worked to develop a new mitigation schedule, create training protocols, develop programmatic permit requirements, and develop communication materials for industry and the general public. After five months of tracking the new code, we see that additional personnel are absolutely required if we are to ensure the deliverables that were promised to the public.
 And those deliverables include providing excellent and prompt customer service, protecting large healthy trees, and guaranteeing a fair and equitable allocation of resources to all Portland residents. At present, the average daily tree tech workload is 24 hours, far more than two people can handle. In fact, since implementation happened, a third temporary person has worked nearly full time alongside the two permanent staff.
 in order to keep up with the demand. During this brief period, the workload has also been modest. The volume is expected to increase as more people learn about tree regulations, and summer typically sees increased building permit activity, and winter storms bring more tree emergencies, which easily triples the call volume. The other position, so that was the first position, tree tech, the other position will be at a supervisory level,
 with responsibilities that include overseeing the implementation of the new code, managing education and outreach staff, and leading in the development and execution of a new urban forest management plan. This position would also serve to implement the urban canopy goals and strategies defined in the Comp and Portland plans, watershed management, and climate action plan. I believe that by employing an additional person with strong science credentials,
 would help with effects of climate change and serve to integrate all of the other Bureau activities. I don't see that we have a picture of these three giant sequoia trees. I went out yesterday to a southeast Portland neighborhood and took a photo of three easily 80 to 100-foot giant sequoia trees, and I don't see that we have a picture of these three giant sequoia trees.
 The current code allows these trees to be removed, and much to my chagrin, the builder will pay a puny $1,200 per tree in lieu of mitigation fees.
 So one example of what the supervisory and this additional personnel staff could do was track and quantify the loss of canopy. And even with the new code, there are flaws in the code. We need to track and figure out where the corrections need to be made. And this is something that could be done with additional personnel.
 I'd say I finish by saying this is the time to increase the degree to which trees and their benefits are central to the habitual thinking and therefore the decision-making of all city planners. It's the time to improve upon the work that created such places as the central city's iconic park blocks and to ensure the equitable distribution of the urban forest and its benefits throughout the city for future generations. Thank you. Thank you. Welcome. Thank you.
 Hi, good afternoon. My name is Marianne Fitzgerald, and I'm the past president of Southwest Neighborhoods, a coalition of 17 neighborhood associations and three business associations in southwest Portland. I wanted to personally thank Mayor Hales for many of the back-to-basics proposals in the budget proposal issued yesterday. But today I'm here to advocate for one that was not in there, which is Commissioner Fritz's amendment in support of implementing the tree code.
 Sweeney has been concerned about the loss of trees due to infill development over the years, and we actually initiated the discussions that led to the adoption of the tree policy in 2011.
 Every tree that's removed impacts our neighborhood's sense of livability. New developments, especially in areas with large treed lots that result in fewer trees and more impervious surfaces, negatively impact stormwater in the most stormwater-constrained areas of the city. We need the city's technical assistance, particularly when dealing with trees that are down during the wind and ice storms and other natural disasters.
 Commissioner Fritz's proposal to fund two positions for implementing the tree code is needed to assure that people understand the new requirements and make it easy to comply. We're concerned that if residents don't understand the rules, don't get the help that they need quickly, they won't comply. We need these positions to educate the citizens to preserve and enhance our tree canopy citywide. Thank you. Thank you. If you need to go, Marianne, that's fine. Yes.
 My name is Mary McMurray. This is the first time I've spoken at a City Council meeting and I thank you for the opportunity. I'm a grandmother. My family, children and grandchildren live here in Portland. Working through my architectural color and design business, I followed my calling to make built environments more beautiful and livable. I've been fortunate to consult on the improvements of over 3,000 buildings of every description in Portland.
 but it isn't only the architectural treasures which make our place remarkable in all of the United States. Portland is famous for trees. I will never forget my first view of Portland from an airplane 25 years ago. It was so green, the whole city floating in a living, breathing oasis. From years of living in Manhattan and the California Bay Area, I was used to the grit and urban desert created by relentless paving and overdevelopment.
 I couldn't believe what I was seeing, but it only took a few days here to confirm that love at first sight was a real experience of big, amazing trees. Bird songs from tree dwellers that I'd never heard in a city before, green and glowing light through leaves patterning an old house. But we're not here for poetry today. Today we must take strong actions to protect and maintain our urban forest, which is falling tree by tree at an unprecedented speed.
 the explosion in property development has brought a surplus to the city budget last week a city official advocated hiring 33 new employees to speed up the permitting process for new buildings however the pace of growth is happening too fast for popular support every newspaper i read contains letters and articles expressing outrage on this subject
 such as this one, quote, it feels like the public in Portland is at the mercy of the developers and that whether we want the type of housing being created so rapidly is of no importance, unquote. Please note that the budget surplus is being created at the expense of trees. In my neighborhood, established trees on properties are clear cut by developers who pay only a few hundred dollars into the tree fund.
 However, the removal of established trees results in a net loss of stormwater absorption, loss of habitat for birds, and loss of the beauty we need to make life more than grinding survival. What is the real cost of losing a tree? The mitigation fees charged for tree removal must be raised above the cap of $1,200 to encourage smarter and more creative design in proposed developments without sacrificing trees.
 We need to fund more staff to carry out the work of urban forestry and implement the tree code. It's up to us to carry forward the legacy of citizens who had the foresight to plant a forest in what was then known as Stumptown.
 Thank you. Thanks for coming. I appreciate you just making your first trip here. I hope you come back. One quick note about the budget, by the way, just for your future reference. Although the amount of development going on does put a lot more money into our system development charge funds that do things like pay for new parks,
 The general fund surplus that we have mostly comes from the general business increase in Portland, business profits. It doesn't have very little to do with development and hotel, motel room taxes. So that's most of where this general fund surplus has come from. It's not really come from development, although, again, development is putting a lot of money in the bank for future parks and future transportation projects.
 Thank you. But let me also say as the Arts Commissioner, we welcome poetry as part of any testimony. That's always a good idea. Don't skimp on the poetry. Yeah, yeah. No, you should. Thank you very much. Okay, others that want to speak on this item?
 So let me call up Andrew and perhaps Ryan or Claudio as needed. As you were mentioning, there were some vacancies. I'm not sure how many vacancies there are, because this is not a question of whether we're going to enforce the tree code or not. The question is whether the Bureau needs additional funding for the six weeks remaining in this year to fund positions.
 and then we will debate and discuss whether the Bureau needs more positions and more funding for the next fiscal year budget. So what's the situation with respect to vacancies?
 So thank you, Mayor. Andrew Scott, City Budget Director. So we were asked to just sort of look at what the vacancy situation is within parks. And within City Nature, I believe there are about eight vacant positions in City Nature, which have yielded about $320,000 in savings. Now, those are not tree code positions per se. There are other positions within City Nature. But again, the tree code enforcement is located within that overall division. And I guess, Mayor, I would just...
 In general, and this is in the City Budget Office review of both the bump request and also the budget request, our major concern about the Tree Code program in general has been the rapid growth of the program and particularly the general fund subsidy. When looking at the original estimates when this was being drafted back in 2010,
 to the requested budget in 2015-16, we've seen about a 36% growth in the staff estimated to enforce the tree code and about a 350% growth in the general fund cost.
 of implementing the tree code. So, again, our recommendations, both in the bump and the budget, were that parks look to internal realignments and maybe at some of these vacancy savings or other places to deal with any short-term workloads. And we recommended that council take another look at the tree code and whether there are ways to simplify it in order to keep the overall implementation costs down. So if they have eight vacant positions right now, I'd like to hear a little bit more about what's being done to fill those positions and with whom. And then secondly, what's happened to that
 foregone payroll? Is it compensation set aside? Does it roll up in that
 part of the budget. I assume if they haven't spent the money, it's there. Where is it? I'm going to defer to Parks on the specifics about the positions. Again, we do know that those vacancies in City Nature generated some savings. Overall, the Parks Bureau requested and is receiving about $500,000 in compensation set aside in this budget, which again is within sort of the Parks Bureau allocation. But I think that shows that overall, the Parks
 They didn't, the salary savings that occurred in City Nature were being offset somewhere else from other activities. But again, I would need to defer to Parks on this. Andrew, the Mayor said the option is to take this up now or take this up during the regular budget or not take this up, I guess. So if we adopt this amendment, what would be the subsequent ask for the next fiscal year for one year of salary and benefits? I believe it's $270,000. Is that right, Commissioner? Yeah.
 So is there, I don't know if someone from Parks want to come tell us about the vacant positions and what the situation is there and then what's happened with Comp Set-Aside?
 Jeff Schaefer, Parks Finance Manager. So we have seven vacant positions. The eighth is actually one we cut in the spring bump. But there are seven vacant positions. And as a bureau, we are actually projecting that we may be over budget or very close to balancing. That's why it was critical that we added this into the spring bump. So those positions are...
 temporarily vacant and not being filled in order to help vacancy savings within the Bureau to help balance at the overall Bureau level, not just one department. Are those ongoing positions or limited term? They're all ongoing. So they roll up into the new year as vacant, right? Yes. So you have seven unfilled positions that are funded six weeks from now at the beginning of the new fiscal year. Correct.
 So I guess my plea, Commissioner, would be if that's the situation of the Bureau, if the Bureau's got seven unfilled positions, you know, should request compensation set aside if we need it. But if you intend to fill those two positions with more people to work on the tree code, they're already funded. You've got seven funded vacant positions, right? They're not intended to work on the tree code. Well, so what are they intended to do?
 They're intended to be – there are other departments within our City Nature Program that we're actually holding vacant right now because of other departments that we are overspending on the budget. Right, but they won't be overspending on July 1, right, because they're starting a new year. Correct. There's various parts of the tree code and the open forestry program.
 We're currently heavily dependent on community service assistance. So the two people who are working in the permit bureau on two different levels are assisted by community service assistance. They are not represented. They are temporary. They make $11 an hour to $13 an hour. And they are the people who are answering very technical, complicated questions about the tree code. And it would be...
 better to have a person who is compensated fairly, receives city benefits, who is full-time ongoing. Second of all, I've heard from many of my colleagues a request to do more policy work on the tree code. And the second position is to get started on that.
 Well, we can debate this for a while here. Thank you, Jeff. I just, my sense is if some other bureau, for example, I want the police bureau to do more in foot patrols, we can reclassify positions and reassign work in order to do that rather than hiring more police officers.
 My position would be if you've got seven vacant positions, if we need to reclassify some of those into higher salary categories in order to do the work, that would be my first choice. And that's a pretty significant number of vacant positions being held over budget after budget. And I just wanted to clarify that we're holding those only for the temporary short term because of revenue shortfalls and other areas within the Bureau.
 There's still dedicated frontline core positions such as like new acquisitions that we just brought on. We get O&M for those brand new natural areas that we buy. And then we may have a vacant position that we don't hire right away. We wait until 7-1 until we actually bring on that body to actually take care of that new service.
 service. Can I just seek a clarification on something? So I think the council is generally supportive of implementing the TRECO. The question is what does that mean and what's the right amount of staffing and what's the current challenge? If this amendment is not successful today, just so I understand next steps, what's the
 This issue comes back to us in the regular budget if Commissioner Fritz wants to put it on the table. And I take it from your comments that you're indicating that you'd want to know multiple strategies for funding a position if there's a case to be made. Correct. Both in terms of vacancy, existing vacancies, funding positions, and new money. And that would be part of our discussion through the regular budget. Correct. That would be my hope. Okay. Further questions for staff?
 Okay, then let's take a roll call on the amendment, please fish. I Saltzman no Novick I'm torn on this because Commissioner Fritz did warn us whatever it was a year or so ago that she thought that what we were allocating For implementation at the tree code was inadequate And I am one of the colleagues that have suggested making some modifications the actual tree code for one thing I was rather appalled to discover that I
 You have to seek a permit for pruning a branch in excess of one quarter of an inch in diameter. And that does ‑‑ I'm embarrassed to realize that I voted for the tree code without noticing that. And it seems like there are some modifications that need to be made. And Commissioner Fritz says that in order to make modifications, you need to know a policy person. I would hope that we could make some modifications without that.
 I mean, I think that if we adopted this amendment, we'd essentially be saying that we need to fund these positions in the next budget. So I'm reluctant to jump to that. We're in the middle of the budget process. So I'm going to vote no, but with the caveat that I think this should be a continuing discussion over the next few weeks. No. Fritz.
 Commissioner Novick, I very much appreciate that willingness to look at the big picture. Obviously, since we won't get these positions funded likely, we won't be able to do the policy work. I'm happy to have the continuing conversation as part of the budget process. I heartily dislike being the commissioner in charge of paying people $11 an hour. Thank you.
 I voted for the tree code, but I want to say this real clearly. If we overdid it in terms of the level of regulation, I'm very interested in calibrating it backwards to something that we can afford to do and that the public can understand. And if we're not there, then I'm prepared to go there. But I don't want to pre-fund more positions, particularly when we've got vacancies in the Bureau.
 Okay. Anything further on the spring bump itself? Anyone else want to testify on the remainder? No, we can't. It's second reading. So roll call on the spring bump itself. Fish? Thank you, Andrew, and your...
 You're moving around. I'm moving targets today. Thanks to you and your team for the excellent work that you do, bringing the council along on the budget. And, frankly, I was so impressed with the efficient way that we address the bump issues through work sessions that I'm pleased that we'll be having a work session now on the annual budget because I think that's an important innovation. Hi. Saltzman. Hi. Hi.
 Novick? Aye. Fritz? There are some very important items funded in this supplemental budget that I strongly support, particularly the extension of the women's shelter capacity to year-round and the marijuana permitting program in Oney. I'm glad to see that ladder in the mayor's ongoing budget for one-time budget for next year. I'm very glad the mayor has taken the lead on the off-road cycling master plan, and I wish you well with that process. Thank you.
 And I also very much appreciate the discussion that we've had and the commitment to have an ongoing one. Thank you.
 I proposed a budget yesterday, which we'll all be working on. I got to tell a story, which I think when we're talking about the credibility of government, you have to be able to say things again and again and again and for them always to be true. I was able to say and completely believe that this council has been consistently prudent and has followed good advice like we get from our independent council budget office.
 in how we manage people's money. And over the last three years of our work together, or two and a half years, three budgets, we have been able to show people that when we have extra money, we pay off debt or invest in basic infrastructure. Your leadership, Commissioner Fritz, on our new policy on spending one-time resources on capital investment, I think the public is watching us carefully, starting to believe that we mean it.
 And I think that's a really good improvement in the relationship between our government and the citizens at a time when maybe sometimes we are criticized for actions that don't even happen here, but might happen in Congress or someplace. So the more consistently clear and good managers we are.
 in how we manage people's money, I think the better the relationship with our citizens. And this smaller piece of work is just one more sign of that. So, Andrew, to you and your team, thank you, as always, for good counsel. Aye. Okay. We'll see more of you soon. All right. Let's do 455. All right.
 Grant a franchise to Quest Corporation doing business as CenturyLink QC for telecommunication services for a period of 10 years. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor and Commissioners. Jennifer Lee from the Office for Community Technology, Bureau of Revenue and Financial Services. This ordinance will provide a legal framework for CenturyLink QC to provide telecommunication services in Portland for 10 years.
 The city has been granting extensions of a temporary revocable permit to CenturyLink or its predecessors, US West or Quest, since 2001. In June 2001, Quest filed a lawsuit against the city, asserting that the city's policies and procedures for right-of-way management and compensation were preempted by federal law. This litigation ultimately concluded in the city's favor in a Ninth Circuit ruling in 2008.
 The proposed franchise will bring to a conclusion the 14 years of extensions while also achieving a modern franchise agreement. The franchise provides for stability and understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the parties for a 10-year period. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. We also have a representative from CenturyLink in the audience if you have any questions for the company. Great. Thank you very much. Questions for our representative from CenturyLink? Okay. Anyone else want to speak on this item? No.
 If not, then it passes a second reading. It will be on the council calendar next week for a second reading. It comes back June 10th. June 10th. Sorry. Okay. All right. Thank you. Item 456. Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with Multnomah County to establish a medical resource request system for regionally organized health care systems. Commissioner Novick. Thank you.
 Colleagues, Jenna will tell me if I have this more or less right. But generally, when we're responding to an emergency, you have sort of a hierarchy of who you ask for resources. And generally, people first come to the city, then you go to the county, then you go to the state.
 What we're doing here is proposing an IGA with Multnomah County that basically reflects the fact that when health care providers are requesting medical equipment, that's something we can't help them with. So rather than jumping through the hoop of asking us, they should ask the county. Is that more or less right, Jonna? That's exactly right. Anything further? Not unless there are questions. Yes.
 Thank you. Will you amend it to add other things that should go straight to the county? Bypass us. Why stop now? Was there a reason, Commissioner Novick, you omitted our regional government? Actually, I don't know if they're in the hierarchy, Jonna. That's an interesting question. No, they're not right now. I don't think they couldn't be, but...
 But they're kind of a strange animal in the national sphere of things, and sort of requesting resources is the policy that is set at a federal level, like by FEMA. If you need an elephant, you do go to them. That's understood. We've determined they're expendable. Is that what we're saying? Okay. Thank you, John. Thanks very much. Anyone else want to speak on this item? And it's an emergency ordinance, so let's take a roll call vote, please.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? That's an excellent description of what we're doing Commissioner and thank you General Papa and me for your testimony. Aye. Hales? Aye. Thank you. Okay 457. Authorize a contract with Tetra Tech for the natural hazard mitigation planning in the amount of $158,529. Mr. Novick?
 On this item, I'll be lazy and turn to John immediately. That's fine. So this is a contract with Tetra Tech to update the city's natural hazard mitigation plan. That's a plan that describes the city's natural hazard risks and vulnerability and then identifies and prioritizes projects to reduce the city's vulnerability over time.
 The Federal Emergency Management Agency again sets standards for the natural hazard mitigation plans and they review and approve plans that comply with the standards. It's important to have a FEMA approved plan because it makes you eligible for a lot of different kinds of grant funding. FEMA requires you to update the plan every five years, so our last update was in 2011.
 The majority of the plan update is also funded by FEMA grant. They awarded the city $266,000 earlier this fiscal year. So the majority of the money for this contract is coming from FEMA. We also use that money to hire a staff person, Danielle, who's here.
 The Bureau of BES, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, and the Office of Equity, I would add, were all partners in the grant application process, and they helped develop the scope of work. And I expect that almost all bureaus in the city will be in some way engaged in the plan update going forward. Thank you.
 The two things that I would like you to know about the plan update are one, that this will be the first of the city's natural hazard mitigation plans, and one, I believe one of the first in the country actually that will really use an equity lens to update our, use our natural hazard strategy. Equity is really an important consideration in natural hazard planning because disasters very disproportionately affect people who have fewer resources to begin with.
 And as an avenue of incorporating equity, this plan will have a much broader public engagement component than past plans. It will also use subject matter experts on the topic of inequity and disasters. And all our steering committee members will receive training on equity and institutional racism. Thank you.
 The other thing I want you to know about this plan is that we'll really focus on developing more strong, creative local strategies to mitigate our seismic risks, which we know are profound. And we'll incorporate the work of the city's unreinforced masonry building work group. And we'll have special outreach to business owners in Linton in the critical energy infrastructure hub. And it will result in a pullout plan just talking about Linton that I expect to bring back to you about December.
 Tetra Tech was chosen through a competitive RFP process, and they have done hundreds of similar plans for other jurisdictions. Thank you. Is a pullout plan the same as an evacuation plan? No, but we have one of those, too. Okay.
 Is Tetrashek an expert in equity? They're not. And for that reason, we've asked them to bring aboard subconsultants that are expert in equity. So far, they've identified one who is Dr. Himanshu Grover. He's a professor at the University of Washington whose work is entirely focused on the disproportionate impacts of
 of natural disasters on communities of color. And so he's studied extensively on that, and he'll be participating with the steering committee in helping to train them. I would hope to see that. I'm glad to hear that that's an emphasis, because my question is going to be what's changed in the last five years. We're still in an earthquake zone. We still have landslide hazards, which we've mapped multiple times before. So I'm very glad to hear that there's going to be more of an emphasis on equity, which we didn't do in the 2011 plan. Is
 Is there going to be an action plan and a list of items, a to-do list like the East Portland action plan? Because I'm really reluctant to continue doing more and more plans that then we don't have any implementation funding. I agree that it's important to have an implementation plan. But I'm not sure.
 So FEMA provides kind of a template for these plans, and in the past, and I think for most cities, the plan just kind of is filling out that template. It's important to meet that standard because those projects are then eligible for grant funding from FEMA, which certainly has fluctuated a lot if we look to the past, but occasionally that has funding available, even for big projects, for infrastructure projects.
 My hope is that coming out of an equity focus in the plan and engaging the community more broadly, that we may also identify strategies that are in accord with the Portland plan, with the city's update to the comp plan, with our climate change action plan, that will then become eligible for FEMA funding or that we realize we should prioritize and do regardless. So, yes, it will have an action plan. Thank you.
 commissioner novick on a somewhat unrelated note on friday we took some folks some vips on a tour of the new interstate portland water bureau operations building and we brought carmen merlo with us and we showed her all of the latest technology that's built into those kinds of buildings including the fact that in the event of an earthquake the building can actually shift about a foot
 and its footprint is – the way it's structured is it literally can slide over, and you can go to the perimeter of the building and see where it's been designed to move. And there's also some concrete walls and structures inside the building which are designed to take all the energy of a shock, and they will be destroyed in the process, but the building will survive. And I say this because –
 We're trying to find a date in late June where all of you can join me for the grand opening of the building. And I'd like to have, I feel very proud of this building. It's LEED Gold, following a policy that Commissioner Saltzman established. It's resilient. It's very frugal. Very little was spent on things like furnishings and other kinds of things. So we're looking for a date in late June that all my colleagues can join us for an opening. Very much look forward to that. Yeah, me too. That's great. Thank you, John. Thank you.
 Anyone else want to speak on this item? If not, then a roll call vote, please. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, 458. Vacate a portion of southeast Gideon Street east of southeast Milwaukee Avenue subject to certain conditions and reservations. Aye.
 Mr. Novick. Colleagues, the purpose of this item is to vacate a 1 foot by 618 foot strip of southeast Gideon, east of Milwaukee, to consolidate property for future development with the Port of Milwaukee Light Rail. TriMet, the petitioner, is currently proposing creative work studios and small retail spaces that require the extra width
 I should note that we've had extensive discussions in the past months with infill developers to see if we could design a number of skinny houses, very skinny houses. And those negotiations seem probably to go on but they've fallen through. And Sarah Johnson from PBOT is here to elaborate.
 Hi, thank you Commissioner Novick and Commissioners and Mayor Hills for your time today. So that pretty much explains it all. Thank you Commissioner Novick. And but if you have any additional questions, Jay Higgins from TriMet is also here with the developer that's working with them. Well yeah, I guess I have a question or two. Remind me what the zoning is on this site. I didn't think we've changed any of it yet.
 all right good afternoon mayor hales and commissioners jay higgins from tri-med tod program uh the zoning is currently eg1 on a portion of the site and then ig1 on the other part so it's split zoning along that long length so that's not a good zoning for skinny houses unfortunately not that was the chip we were kind of jumping the gun mayor yeah so this is that strip between the the new sidewalk and the trackway that's now gravel that
 Correct. Yeah, if you're down on Southeast Gideon Street, you can really clearly see the development parcel right there. We've been enjoying the new bikeway pretty frequently, so I've been a sidewalk supervisor in that neck of the woods. Excellent. So if we don't know exactly what the development scheme is going to be, why are we doing the street vacation now?
 Oh, no. So in 2012, TriMet put out an RFQ for developers to bring their suggestions. And through that competitive process, we received four proposals. We selected a developer, ReWorks, whose representative, Aaron Blake, is in the audience, if you'd like to talk to him.
 and we entered into exclusive negotiations. We just signed a DDA in March. So we have an actual development plan. He's proposing a four-story cargo texture project. So we'll be using recycled shipping containers in kind of a creative and unique way, which would provide for light industrial or creative office space with an active ground floor close to the station. Great. Thank you.
 Questions? I moved the – this is a hearing, so do we have to close the hearing and move? No, we haven't heard from everybody yet. So come on up, please. I wanted to add to that. Dee Walker, PBOT right-of-way. A lot of times vacations come up before development because the vacation process is so lengthy and cumbersome that the developers really try to get the vacation out of the way before they start their development. So you will be seeing vacations come before you that development hasn't come in yet. Okay.
 because they don't have time. They don't have time to do their development and the vacation, and sometimes the vacation is what they're counting on, so they need to know whether it's going to be vacated or not. So in this case, you know, the tournament hasn't come in for any permits, have they?
 No, just an early application meeting. Okay. I understand. But I just wanted to let you all know that that is very common, that the vacation is done before a development, so we can get that process done, and then they can move on with their development. Thank you. Appreciate that. Okay, anyone else want to speak on this item? Then I'll move to close the public hearing, and you'll return in with an ordinance, right? Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, 459.
 Vacate a portion of Northeast Vancouver Way south of Northeast Gertz Road subject to certain conditions and reservations. Roll call vote on a second reading. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Good job, Street Vacation Team. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, 450. 460. Aye.
 Except for 60 except park system development charge methodology update report for implementation and amend the applicable sections of city code as I mentioned to commissioner fritz yesterday I'd like personally a little bit more time with the city attorney to review a couple of criticisms of this. I'm Very supportive, but would like to set this over. There's no objection for second reading on the 20th of this month two weeks from today Okay
 So without objection, we'll continue that item for second meeting on the 20th, and we're adjourned. Okay.