Thank you.
 Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the May 13th meeting of the Portland City Council. Would you please call the roll? Fish? Here. Saltzman? Here. Novick? Here. Fritz? Here. Hales? Here. Welcome, everyone. We'll take communications items up front, and then we'll briefly convene as a budget committee. So let's take item 461, please.
 Request of Mary Ann Fitzgerald to address council regarding Bureau of Transportation, Bureau of Environmental Services, coordination, charter. Good morning.
 Good morning. Good morning. I've submitted the charter and my written comments to you, but I want to just talk from my heart for this one because I was so excited when I saw this charter. It was signed last September, the same day as the Constitution was signed in a historical context, but I think it has the similar potential in order to get the bureaus working together and working with the neighborhoods to resolve issues that seem unresolvable.
 But I also know that you need top management support in order to make these things work. I worked for government for 31 years, and I have seen at least three separate efforts of cross-program coordination fizzle because they did not have top management checking in.
 On the first page, it's got wonderful words in here, like both BES and PBOT will agree to coordinate on reassessing priorities to support more comprehensive program and project implementation. The purpose is to increase efficiency and effectiveness in supporting and implementing both bureaus' priorities while building lasting and improved working relationships across bureaus and improving livability in our neighborhoods. This is a win-win-win.
 So two months ago, I met with PBOT and BES staff, and we were talking about our favorite project, Southwest Capital Highway, between Multnomah Boulevard and Taylor's Ferry Road. And the team leaders at the meeting said, oh, perfect case study for this coordination charter. The issue is cost, a high cost of the stormwater program and the high cost of building the much-needed sidewalks and bike lanes.
 So we have high hopes that this kind of charter can help us resolve the issues of cost, work with the neighborhoods on design, and get this project built. But I know that it needs your support. So it says in here that the leadership team will check in twice yearly. I hope you check in with the leadership team and make sure that this continues. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mary Ann. Okay, next please. Thank you.
 462, a request of Floyd Jones to address council regarding Water Bureau budget. Good morning. Yes, so it is truly difficult to fathom that City Council would be considering this afternoon demolishing two of the city's most significant historical resources, two of the city's most significant water system resources at a price tag of $80 million.
 As you know, EPA does not require disconnecting or eliminating open reservoirs from the water system. They don't require demolishing historic structures. And as the Historic Landmark Commission member wrote to you, at the March 30th Historic Landmark Commission meeting, the Water Bureau admitted that they don't need the storage at Washington Park. As you should know, water demand has declined since 1988.
 and that the basically stable landslide, historic landslide area, will become destabilized by digging. And this was shared with me by a...
 geologist at PSU is now a consultant with the Water Bureau in 2012. He said, as long as they don't do any digging up there, everything's going to be fine. The Water Bureau further admitted that a new underground storage tank would likely not survive a major earthquake. So we're going to spend 80 million dollars for no public health benefit, degrade our system, create new and unique public health risks. I wrote to you in April
 outlining options for avoiding cutting and plugging up at Tabor and demolishing the Washington Park reservoirs. And that was subsequent to doing a public records request at the Oregon Health Authority. I've had the pleasure of working with water managers in Rochester, New York, where they have two older historic open reservoirs set in city parks. They have no intention now or any time in the future of
 eliminating those from their water system. They're 25 years older than ours. And the difference between why they got a deferral and we didn't is that they collaborated with the health department. They didn't use a surrogate to send a message that we really want to bury the reservoirs, which our Water Bureau did. They worked with them in collaboration. Their mayor got involved. They worked with the health authority. Their governor and their senator are both working on revising this
 poorly crafted rule. This afternoon, the Water Bureau is counting on your failure. They're counting on your failure to not have fully considered, have fully read all of the documentation and the comments submitted by the many who oppose these projects. Okay.
 In their rebuttal, they selectively ignore arguments. Radon, you're not going to read about that. FERC overestimating dam break inundation. They, in small and large ways, misrepresent the information that was presented in opposition. Even when it comes to their own documents, this is a final infrastructure master plan report. They suggest it's draft. It says draft, it's a final. I did a public records request asking if there was a final. This is it.
 So even on small points, they misrepresent. They don't discuss nitrification at all. They suggest that, oh, we only submitted information on an L.A. problem. They're already spending money on that.
 I just don't understand how you wrap up because you're wasting your time. So, you know, you really need to create an opportunity where all community stakeholders are seated at the table, as was outlined in a council resolution that said you should follow your own adopted public involvement principles. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay. Next person. Hey, Paul.
 Item 463, request of Jamie Partridge to address council regarding contingent worker task force. Good morning. Welcome. Morning. Mayor Hales, members of the council. I'm Jamie Partridge, and I'm here representing 15 Now and Portland Jobs with Justice. We want to thank you for agreeing to our request to...
 upgrade the fair wage policy and to pay a minimum of $15 an hour for all full-time city and contracted workers. And we look forward to your vote today to seal the deal. That leaves over 2,000 city workers, primarily parks and recreation, who are classified as casual or seasonal, who need to be upgraded to at least $15 an hour. There are also central city concern and transitional projects workers funded by the city who need the $15 upgrade.
 The money is available to bring these workers out of poverty. It's in the budget surplus, or you can tax the rich. The Portlanders clearly favor that. You resolved on February 18th to set up a contingent workers task force to establish a path to upgrade these casual or seasonal workers to $15. Apparently there's some dispute about who should be on this task force. On February 18th, many of you acknowledged the value of labor and community voices in this conversation, and we urge you to include...
 Laborers, 43, AFSCME, 189, Jobs with Justice, casual, seasonal workers, Central City Concerned Transition Projects workers. In the interests of transparency and democracy, we urge you not to set up an internal Parks Bureau only task force. As of May 1st, the City is further mandated to move these workers to $15. We encourage you to obey.
 The May 1st Stidler arbitration, which settled a longstanding grievance from Laborers 483, ordering the union to cease and desist assigning bargaining unit work to non-unit workers. These non-unit workers, the casual and seasonal workers, should be brought into the bargaining unit and paid bargaining unit wages. Again, the money is available. Put us on the task force and we'll show you where there's a will, there's a way.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks very much. Item 464, request of Zan Hamilton to address council regarding mid-block street painting ordinance. Good morning. Good morning. Mayor Hales, Commissioners Novick, Fritz, Saltzman, and Fish, thank you for the opportunity to speak in front of you this morning to lodge my support for the mid-block community repair ordinance currently making the conciliar rounds.
 My name is Ann Hamilton and I'm a resident of the large Cully neighborhood. As you're aware, Cully is a highly diverse neighborhood comprised of streets that lack sidewalks and improved rights of way, featuring many houses on large lots with property separating hedges and few neighborhood embellishments or community gathering areas. Except Cunnamux Park. Thank you, Commissioner Fritz. Thank you for that. We love that park. I've lived in my block in Cully which stretches from Northeast 57th to Northeast 60th for five years.
 When my family and I moved into our house, there were two small children on this large block, and now there are 14 between the ages of newborn and 10. I'm an event organizer by passion, and when I planned our block's first block party in 2013, I discovered that people who had been living on the block concurrently for 25 years or longer had never had occasion to meet. There was hardly a sense of community, and most neighbors didn't know each other's names.
 Our inaugural block party integrated games and food sharing to serve as introductions and community building opportunities. People came together to offer what skills or items they could toward the event and it was a blast. This year I became involved with City Repair, taking part in their many well-structured workshops geared towards participation in this year's village building conversions, affectionately known as the VBC. Interested in fostering the social capital on our block, I held meetings with neighbors about the improvements we could potentially make on our street.
 As neighbors now gravitate to the center of our block to meet, we decided that a fabulous and colorful design stretching down the street would showcase our community. From the Cully Association of Neighbors, I applied for and was awarded a mini grant to defray the cost of paint and other supplies for the project. However, we then discovered there is no permit for us to paint mid-block. Mayor Hales, I thank you for your support in the mid-90s while City Councillor of Mark Lakeman's community building projects, beginning with the Sherratt Square Endeavor.
 i have had the pleasure of working with greg graysmond from pbot and through pbot and city repair we're working in tandem to extend opportunities to neighborhoods like mine by creating a mid-block community repair ordinance the passage of this ordinance would allow for my neighborhood to engage in the place making and community building activities that we have excitedly designed and that we believe would best fit our block i would like to thank you in advance for your support in the timely passage of this ordinance soon to appear on your respective desk
 It would allow my elongated block of Wygant Street to work together towards creating a sense of place while strengthening our social capital within Cully. And our block party date is the 1st of August, and you're all invited. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much. Okay, one more, 465. Request of Mike Summers to address council regarding homeless issues. Mr. Summers? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 So we'll give him an opportunity to come back. Then let's move on to the consent calendar before our time's certain item. I don't believe we have any requests to take things off the consent calendar. Is that right? None now? Okay. Then let's vote on the consent calendar as printed.
 Bish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. OK. Time's certain. Let me, we're starting the regular council meeting now, so some of the basic rules and procedures here. If you're here to speak on a council item, please state your name for the record. We don't need your address. If you're a lobbyist, you need to let us know that under our city code. We typically allow citizens on items where testimony is taken to speak for three minutes.
 If we have time for that, and it doesn't look like that will be a problem this morning, please testify only to the matter at hand. And we ask that during council sessions, if you like what you're hearing from a fellow citizen, give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand. And if you don't, you're free to do the opposite. But please, let's not have vocal demonstrations in favor or against our fellow citizens' opinions in this room so they have the chance to express them.
 So that's and if you have council if you have handouts for the council Please give them to the council clerk and she'll distribute them to this
 So the first item this morning is actually where we actually reconvene momentarily as a budget committee. It's part of the formal process that we go through in the budget. There's obviously a lot of opportunities for citizens to testify on the proposed budget, and we have more of those coming up. But this morning's item, number 466, is simply the transmission of my proposed budget to the council, and that's what the clerk will read now, 466. Mayor's message to budget committee.
 So I'm convening the budget committee for the purpose of receiving the budget message. Committee members received copies of the budget document yesterday. This budget is the product of many months of work by city council members, by bureaus, by our citizen advisors, by our great budget office, and is now at the process, in the formal part of the process, of consideration by the city council.
 This budget reflects, I believe, Portland's priorities, and this council has been very clear about those priorities over the last few years. Basic services like streets, investing in affordable housing, making good on our commitment to public safety, and to changing the relationship between the police bureau and the community through how we deal with people suffering from mental illness, and investing in our kids.
 This budget reflects about $30.4 million of new funding for basic services, including over $19 million allocated to transportation projects, $6 million for affordable housing and homeless services, and remember that that $6 million proposed is on the budget.
 on top of more than $90 million already in the city budget for housing from all sources, for a total of nearly $100 million invested into housing. It's proposed to allocate about $9.6 million for public safety and emergency preparedness. That includes funds to renovate the Portland building, to retain 26 firefighter positions that were potentially going to be cut because of the downturn that we had two budgets ago,
 Over the last two years, as I mentioned, I've really tried to prioritize improving the relationship between the police bureau and the community. So investing in analysts to support the Department of Justice settlement with the city, investing in domestic violence intervention and gang enforcement further prioritize those efforts.
 I'm proposing that we invest about $4 million in our youth to expand the availability of parks programs and to make it free and available for more of our teenagers to engage in recreation instead of in pursuits we'd rather not them engage, to maintain funding for TriMet bus passes for young people in the city, summer internships, and a partnership with Concordia University to provide continuous support for children attending Fabian School in northeast Portland.
 I want to thank my colleagues on the council and everyone in the community for helping to shape this proposed budget. I want to see if there are any questions or comments from us as budget committee members before we return to being the city council. Questions or comments from council members, budget committee members? Okay. Then this meeting of the budget committee is continued to Tuesday, May 19th at 930 a.m. here in the city council chambers. And we will now reconvene as the city council. Thank you.
 So thank you, everyone. That's a formality that we are required to go through, and we made short work of it. Now we will move on to the next item, which is the consideration of the PDC budget. Yes. Since we're slightly ahead of time for the next time certain. We are. You want to take some count regular? Can I suggest that we do the second readings first? Yes.
 I think that's a fine idea. 483 is a second reading, for example. Yeah, let's do that because we may not have a quorum later for those. I think you're right. Let's do 483. 483, vacate a portion of Southeast Gideon Street east of Southeast Milwaukee Avenue subject to certain conditions and reservations. Roll call vote, please. Second reading. Fish? Aye. Aye.
 Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. We invite the auditor if she wants to come up. For 484? Yeah. Is she here? You've got a bunch of emergencies. I don't think she's here yet. Let's see, we can probably do 478, but I don't know if staff is in the room. He was. Bear with us folks, we have a time certain item for 10 o'clock and we're trying to not jump the gun on that.
 I don't know that we have the team here. We could take a 10-minute break. Yeah, I'm afraid we're going to have to do that. I think we're going to have to take a 10-minute break and return because the next item on our calendar is set for 10 o'clock sharp, and we don't want to start before that. So we will recess until 10 a.m. We're working too fast here this morning. And take up the next item.
 So that is 467. 467, council to convene as Portland Development Commission Budget Committee to receive the proposed budget. Okay, I'm now convening the Portland Development Commission Budget Committee. For purpose of receiving the budget message, budget committee members have received copies of this budget on Monday, May 11th, and request that Gina call the roll of the budget committee.
 Here. I'm sorry. Fritz? Here. Fish? Here. Saltzman? Absent. Novick? Here. Hales? Here. Carla, has there been a change in order? Because of the budget committee. Okay. Okay. All right. Then let me introduce Patrick Quinton and Chair Kelly to transmit the budget message. Good morning and welcome. Good morning. Good morning.
 Mayor Hales, Commissioners, I'm Tom Kelly, the Chair of the Portland Development Commission. Thank you for the opportunity to present PDC's proposed budget for fiscal year 2015-16. Last week, we presented our new five-year strategic plan and highlighted our focus on addressing the disparities in income and opportunity within the city. As promised, the budget before you is intended to deliver on the first year of our new plan.
 This budget, with $213 million in forecasted expenditures, supports the agency's aggressive efforts to promote healthy, complete neighborhoods, access to high-quality employment, equitable wealth creation opportunities, expanded civic networks and partnerships, and a more equitable, innovative, and financially sustainable PDC. In addition to its alignment with our new five-year strategic plan, the priorities of this proposed budget were established by the PDC Board and its board.
 at its board retreat last December and formed by the Central City and Neighborhood Budget Advisory Committees. Lastly, the budget and five-year forecast also reflect changes resulting from the six urban renewal area amendments. While immediate impacts to fiscal year 2015-2016 budget are minimal, the budget does reflect the near-term project priorities identified for the River District, North McAdam, and Central Eastside URAs. With that, I will turn it over to Mr. McAdam.
 This is over to Patrick.
 Do you? Good morning. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales. Commissioners, I'm also joined by Tony Barnes here, who's our budget officer, and so I'll walk through the budget. Our budget, obviously, is a fairly extensive budget. This is the presentation tries to kind of cover all the highlights, but certainly we can get into whatever detail you want, and Tony here is probably going to be the best person to get into detail, so he's up here to answer any questions.
 We present this to you today, and then we come back together again in two weeks to vote. So any questions and comments you have here today, if we can't answer them, we have time to get back to you. As our chair mentioned, this budget is the first budget that you'll see.
 the that begins to implement our new strategic plan so we so we you know it's broken down into funds as required by law but I'll present it according to the structure of the new strategic plan so you can see how our expenditures break down once again as as chair Kelly mentioned we are implementing also the budget impacts of the new urban renewal area amendments so we'll see we'll see that when we get to those urban renewal area sections of the presentation I'll point those out
 Equally important is that we're also this this continues to fund the obligations and commitments that we've made as part of our our Lentz and Old Town Chinatown action plans. And it is the first step towards a gateway action plan as well. And as is typically the case with our budgets, we have projects that that carry over from year to year. Sometimes the timing of projects is hard to predict.
 Some projects carry on for many years, but what you'll see here is a number of the big-ticket items that were in last year's budget have been carried forward into this upcoming year's budget, and obviously our hope is always to bring these projects to fruition. And some of these on the list, like our Daimler loan, will definitely pay out over the next year. We would hope to have some of the other items on this, like our investments in the Central East Side, happen in 15-16 as well.
 um just as a reminder um because over the past few months we've just we've talked a lot about spending priorities in various urban renewal areas and so this budget reflects a lot of those changes uh with the river district downtown waterfront we um there's been a reduction in in in uh an overall tax increment available to us
 We still are able to reach maximum indebtedness in the River District, but it's on a very more prescribed timeline. And so the priorities both in River District and the remaining funds in downtown Waterfront are really focused on a few priorities. Old Town Chinatown Action Plan is obviously at the top of the list, but we also are beginning to make progress on things like Centennial Mills and the post office. So you see those line items are more fully funded than they have been in the past.
 I've already mentioned the Lents action plan. You'll see in the Lents urban renewal area that that is more fully funded than in the past. Same is true of the Central East Side.
 Interstate is relatively unchanged from a budget perspective. You will see the affordable housing dollars that were moved forward as part of our discussion last year, but on the ground we are beginning progress on projects like the MLK Alberta project. And then obviously we have the elimination of –
 budget for the Waiyure, the Willamette Industrial Urban Renewal Area as well as the Education Urban Renewal Area which was closed down as a result of the budget amendments.
 So here is our, once again, when we walk through the budget at a high level, we talk about resources and we talk about expenditures. Resources and expenditures don't match because the resources we have on hand oftentimes exceed what we have forecasted for expenditures, and so you'll see that as well. We have just under $300 million in total resources left.
 available to us in the coming fiscal year. What this chart shows you is that the bulk of these resources actually are on hand. They come from debt proceeds of bonds that have already been issued. That's the big blue part of the pie chart here, about $180 million dollars.
 is money that's on hand. We can talk about that if you want. It's a dynamic that's been growing over the past few years as projects have not moved forward as quickly as we've hoped, but we've had the...
 the proceeds to move forward on those, and so they remain on hand. And then the other big part of our current resource base is what we call short-term debt. That really means that it's pay as you go. So we don't have to. This is what we expect to receive during the upcoming fiscal year, and it's available for us.
 to spend, and we don't have to, like I said, issue long-term debt. The long-term debt piece is just below that. It's about 7% of our resource base. So right now we're in this fortunate position that we really don't have to rely on any new debt, long-term debt, in order to cover the budget that we're proposing here. I would hope and expect over the next few years that we would begin to spend down this balance and then begin to have to borrow again. But that's really the position that we find ourselves in.
 On the proposed budget side, as I mentioned, as Chair mentioned, our proposed budget is about $213 million in proposed expenditures, so that obviously leaves a difference that we have in contingency, which is money that will roll over into future year budgets. If for some reason we have a need for additional expenditures beyond the $213 million, then we have that money to draw on if we need to.
 Very high-level categories in front of you, and the slides that come after this will break it down according to the categories in our strategic plan. But you see, still about half of the money that we have on hand that we propose to spend in the coming fiscal year is in the broad category of property redevelopment.
 When we get into the more detail, you'll see that's the bulk of that sits in a handful of projects. So it's both specific projects like the remaining dollars that were going to the county health building and things like that. But it's also in line items around commercial property redevelopment. So the Old Town Chinatown Action Plan.
 is largely budgeted through opportunity funds that we can put into specific projects. We're putting money currently into something like the Society Hotel or the Casket Building in Old Town. These are $6 million expenditures or numbers like that. Those add up to a fairly decent amount in our property redevelopment category. The other big category, obviously, is our set-aside to housing budget.
 There's a chart that will walk through the set-aside that I think you've seen now for the past few years. The percentage reflects the amount of our total budget, so it's not just TIFs, so the number is below 30 percent for that reason. It's also below because we spend more and less in certain years, and so every year the set-aside won't be 30 percent. It actually reflects the cumulative percentage of housing investments. Okay.
 So this is the housing set-aside table that I referenced. We've been showing you this now for a few years. It's a difficult slide to absorb in one sitting, but...
 Just a few things to point out. It's a cumulative number, the percentages. So when you look on the right-hand column, if you say, how are we tracking in terms of our set-aside and where are we ending up, you can see that in the 15-16 column, the third column there, that's where we'll be as a result of
 of our expenditures in affordable housing in the coming fiscal year. On the far right is where we're tracking. So you can see that, for example, in the River District through next year we'll be at 40%. By the end of this forecast, we'll be at 30%, 32%. That's largely the result of expenditures that occurred in preseason.
 in prior years that bumped the number up over 30%. In interstate, we're moving from 36% in this coming fiscal year up to 42% as a result of our $20 million increase.
 additional commitment. So that's how it all kind of works out. I'm happy to pause if people want to ask any questions about this. The last thing I'll say on this chart is at the bottom you can see the cumulative percentage which at the end of next fiscal year will be about 36% and it will trend down a little bit over the next five years but still be about 34% above the the overall city target.
 I do have a question about the North McAdam set-aside. The council's policy is 36% per the ordinance passed in 2011. Why does it reference 42% after a URA amendment? This is the result of the conversations that happened as part of that, that talked about the additional set-aside after five years. But the...
 Tony, you can correct me if I'm wrong here. The five-year forecast does not include any of the additional – does it include any additional set-aside amount above the 30? It does start climbing over. It's been last year. Right. For the forecast for 16-17, it says 51%. Right. It's above the set-aside target right now. And over the life of the district, it will average out to 42%. As you spend money on other things, right? Right.
 But once again, this is what we're looking at here, and I know that there's desire for future conversation on this. The requested budget is a 15-16 budget. That's what's in front of you. The forecast is simply that. It's a forecast, so it doesn't get approved. It just gives people a look ahead.
 When we get to North McAdam, what I would emphasize is we have the initial dollars in 15-16 and then the next big payment in 16-17 that get us to the $19 million to get parcel three done. So that's the near-term amount. And then looking out is when we, you know, it's really the next five to eight years where we have the remainder of the dollars to think about.
 So as I mentioned, when you take our budget and now restructure it according to the new strategic plan, and I just want to –
 Just as a caveat, just say this is the first year we're doing this. This is the first budget that we're presenting in this format. So we obviously do have a very heavily weighted budget allocation towards the first objective and the plan. But you can see that when you create an objective around healthy, complete neighborhoods,
 and you pull in all the work that we do, whether it's downtown or near downtown or in East Portland, it all falls into this big category now of healthy, complete neighborhoods. You can look at that in a positive way as that's exactly what we're about, and that's fundamentally what we should be spending our money on. Or you can say this is too much money going to one objective.
 I think part of this is just to get us thinking about it in this way and we can think definitionally about how we want to allocate the money. But as we currently spend our money now and as we currently define the objective, all the redevelopment money, all the commercial corridor work that all goes into this category. I can show you in the next slide, I think I have it. Well, a few slides up, I can break that down into more detail.
 But that's how this gets broken out now. Patrick, on this slide, where do you book the general fund support you receive for neighborhood economic development? Which of these categories does that fall within? So it's in a combination of the equitable wealth creation category,
 I think some of it goes into the access to high-quality employment, and then the remainder of it goes into 21st century networks. So the general fund work is not in the big green pie. That's all tax increment. Yeah. So this is stuff we're seeing for the first time, and we're trying to create new categories to fit the strategic objectives.
 My initial reaction to this slide is I have no idea what you're talking about. Yeah, so let me go ahead. So if this slide is intended to tell the public something about our new mission, I have no idea what it says. Let me go to the next few slides, if you don't mind, because we do have some tables to walk through this. So –
 So if you break each of these, so if you dig into each of these categories, and the numbers are still big, this walks through the five objectives. So the number that you had for health and complete neighborhoods, about $113, $114 million, you can see that it's almost exclusively tax increment.
 and it's roughly split between what we refer to as regional assets, but the big projects that I mentioned early on, Centennial Mills, Convention Center Hotel, Post Office, Union Station, those are big dollar projects.
 dollar amounts and then the work we do throughout our different neighborhood projects. So you can see they're listed. There are commercial loans, all the grants we make, the storefront grants, the pre-development grants, as well as all the transportation, the infrastructure investments that we make. So that's how that breaks down. Like I said, almost entirely tax increment funded projects.
 Just one second. So the million dollars, is that the federal money in the Union Station? Is that what's in that category on that one, Tony? It's related to the contract placeholder. Yeah, okay. So I think that's just non-TIF, but I think it's other public money.
 Next category down, you can see much smaller, the access to high-quality employment. You see a more even breakdown between TIF investments, non-TIF. The non-TIF, a lot of this is where the economic development, traded sector economic development general fund money goes. It also reflects some of the EOI money we get. That's federal money as well, but more of an even split there between TIF and non-TIF. And you can see the split between TIF.
 the work that we do working directly with the business community, more traded sector job growth, as well as the work we do around workforce development and helping connect people to the jobs in the traded sector companies that we're working with. Third category, wealth creation within communities of color. This one is –
 is a combination of the entrepreneurship work that we do that's largely general fund supported, as well as the small business development services that we provide, general fund supported. This would be where you would see the –
 The venture port money that flows through us as a result of general fund. And then the TIF funded loans that we make for businesses in our urban renewal areas. So that's how we get to that number there.
 The fourth objective, 21st Century Civic Networks Partnerships, as we've talked about in discussions around a strategic plan, this is, once again, somewhat of a new objective for us. And so from a funding perspective, there isn't a lot of money flowing into this at this point in time. I think some of that, it'll come as a result of initiatives that we undertake through this. But most of the money that you see in here is our MPI work. We believe this is fundamentally about creating partnerships
 community capacity so that we have partners at the neighborhood level who can develop the district plans and implement on the neighborhood level. And long term, that's what we're really building through this program. So that would be, in my mind, the first of a series of initiatives that would come out of this part of the strategic plan and money would follow as well.
 And the last category really relates to the operations of PDC. Some of this is just the pure staffing overhead, administrative operations, but there's also a fair amount in here around property management, management of our assets, of our loan portfolio, which carries a fair amount of expense associated with it as well, but also generates return for us as well. So that's the high level here. The last slide on this section is,
 in that big 71% category, healthy and complete neighborhoods,
 This is another way to look at it, which is here's how we're spending that money in that big part of the pie chart. Once again, $113 million is what we're talking about. You can see the breakdown by program, so very, very little spent on administration and business development. The bulk of the dollars are in property redevelopment, whether it's direct investments in redevelopment or
 loans and grants made to promote a redevelopment projects and then all the work that with investments that we make
 In public infrastructure, parks, public facilities, and transportation, that's how we get to that number. And then on the other side, you can see the breakdown. We call it by fund, but it also is by geography except for the bottom two funds. So you can see where the dollars within this budget category reside. The bulk of them are in...
 obviously River District, and then the Convention Center. Convention Center primarily because we still have the $20 million sitting in our budget, originally targeted to the renovation of the Coliseum, and then we have money targeted for the Convention Center Hotel. So those two URAs have the bulk of the dollars, but you can see the Gateway Interstate Lens also carry a fair amount of this budget as well.
 Next year when you do this, I'd like to see housing included as a part of healthy neighborhoods. Okay. Because I think that's a really interesting graphic that you just showed us. And to me, having affordable housing in neighborhoods is part of a healthy neighborhood. Yeah. So that would be – if you could just add that. Sure. Okay.
 We can do it on the left side, on the right side, because we don't know exactly where the dollars will flow in the coming fiscal year. On the housing side, we can certainly include it on the programmatic side of it. Yeah, that's what I was saying. Commissioner Fish, I just want to stop there. Does that help to provide that more information?
 Yeah, my only suggestion is as you fine-tune the alignment with the strategic plan, I think I have a basic rule of thumb is that there's like three or more commas in the descriptor. Right. And I think it's just easier to follow neighborhoods, operations, other things, than to load it up with all the values-based adjectives. Right, okay. It's hard to figure out what we're talking about. Okay.
 I have a further clarification question. How much is the total general fund that you get?
 I have a slide at the end of this to remind you where we're at on that. So what I want to do is then now walk through with one slide for each of our renewal area just to kind of remind people of the key priorities and the dollar amounts, where we are in terms of maximum debtedness. So River District, as I've mentioned, Old Town Chinatown action plan remains the largest priority within the district.
 Within the River District in the coming year, that's going to be through a lot of smaller projects, relatively smaller projects, and so we're already moving forward on that. But then River District also carries the large signature projects, and so we do have Centennial Mills that we're moving forward on, Union Station, which we continue to make investments, and then the post office, which –
 may not have significant expenditures in the coming fiscal year, but we probably will have far more clarity on how we're proceeding during this fiscal year. You can see, as a result, the River District expenditures are largely focused on property redevelopment, and then we have the housing set aside is about $15 million out of River District expenses.
 I won't go through all the details on the current state of the River District, but as you know, we shrunk the River District, still have the opportunity to reach maximum indebtedness. So you can see we're about $165 million away from reaching maximum indebtedness, and we have until 2021 to reach that.
 Next one is downtown waterfront. Downtown waterfront is a closed district, meaning we've passed the last day to issue debt. We continue to have dollars in downtown waterfront that either haven't been spent or recycled. So the total amount that you see in this fiscal year, coming fiscal year, which is roughly $8 million, is the result of that. And because we have...
 We have properties that we have purchased in downtown Waterfront as we dispose of those properties, and the real estate market improves. We actually do get substantial value back. So Thurton Taylor is a property that we recently sold. There's a hotel developed. That's money that flows back into downtown Waterfront so that we can reinvest in our projects. Right now –
 Once again, like River District, the main priorities for the money we have in downtown Waterfront is to support the Old Town Chinatown action plan. The two districts kind of gerrymandered themselves to cover the entire geography, so the money that goes into this action plan will come from one of those two districts. As I mentioned, we've reached maximum debt on this a long time ago, so this is one where we're slowly paying off the debt.
 Convention Center, once again, a closed district. We issued last bonds in 2013. That cash is part of the cash balance that I showed you at the beginning. We have two major line items in our budget there. One is the $20-plus million that we have left.
 in this budget we've actually moved it from a coliseum only line item to more of a rose quarter redevelopment line item it doesn't in any way change the availability of money but we wanted to just kind of open up the conversation about what would happen with that money and then we also have the four million dollars that is targeted to the contribution to the convention center hotel in this district and then there's a
 There's remaining set aside here of – what's the total left set aside? Is it more than $11.5 million? It's about 12 remaining percent. There's about $12 million total left through the end of the district left.
 for set aside and so housing I think may have one or two projects left to complete in the Convention Center District. Patrick, as we know, the Convention Center Hotel has been tied up in some litigation. There's been some recent press reports of apparently some negotiations between the plaintiff and Metro to put an end to that litigation.
 I assume whatever I've been reading is inaccurate or incomplete, but the question I have for you is, are any of the dollars that we've allocated for this project being discussed as part of any settlement of that lawsuit, or is our money completely outside of that discussion? Yes.
 Our money is completely outside of the conversation. Certainly when there's a conversation about properties that may be available for any kind of negotiation, people reference our property since we still own three or four of the major properties at that intersection. But our priorities are very clear with those properties. They –
 they all have substantial value. We expect to get full value for those properties and we expect to see development on those properties. So we're willing to talk with any party who wants to negotiate with us on those terms and if it happens that the plaintiff has those interests, then there could be a conversation. But beyond that, our properties have value and we expect to see outcomes on there that fit our strategic plan. Central Eastside,
 We've had a lot of conversations about Central East Side as part of the urban renewal area amendments, so we don't need to rehash all those. The longer-term priorities are listed here. The redevelopment along the light rail line, particularly the Clinton Triangle, is a priority. In the near term, the dollars that we have relate more toward our proposed –
 purchase of the ODOT blocks, which is moving along at a very deliberate pace with ODOT, but we expect to be able to complete that transaction. So the dollars we have would allow us to acquire those properties and then put those properties back out for redevelopment. We would hope that that would end up with a complete recycling of those dollars so that we have them for other purposes in the future.
 in the district or an investment that helps further redevelopment on the site. Longer term, we would have the resources in the expanded district to support redevelopment in the Clinton Triangle. We obviously have a lot of – there's a lot of activity on the Central East Side, a lot of business activities. There's a lot of small-scale redevelopment activity. We don't have significant dollars to –
 To invest in those projects, but where we can, we do put small amounts to work, whether it be through storefront grants, those kind of things, pre-development grants, or small-scale business loans. But for the most part, this district, the business activity in this district happens on its own, and that's, I think, a result of a lot of public investments over many, many years. North McAdam, as we talked about earlier, and we've talked about a lot over the past few months,
 The budget for North McAdam, if you look out the next five years, has pretty much been spoken for through all of our conversations with our partners, whether it be our affordable housing partners with Zidell, with PSU, and OHSU. So what you see in the near term in North McAdam budget is the money being set aside for the Parcel 3 project that we discussed, the affordable housing project project,
 money being set aside for the construction of bond and money beginning to be set aside for the completion of the greenway. Those really are the near-term priorities for the district, in addition to our initial investment in a project alongside PSU as well. There's a $2 million in funding.
 See this fiscal year, next fiscal year. But that's really the kind of universe of investments we're talking about. We have a little bit of money in opportunity fund line item. In the event that projects come along that need our support, that most likely would be on the Zydel property, but it could be elsewhere in the district. Okay.
 On interstate, there's interstate is obviously there's a lot happening in north and northeast Portland, a lot of investment activity happening. We view the role of our dollars and our investments to help achieve the objectives that we've laid out in a strategic plan that our community stakeholders have. So we're trying to be very strategic.
 activity that's happening on its own that the market is driving. We're trying to basically stay out of those transactions, not encourage further speculation or appreciation of property values, and we're trying to work directly on commercial corridors, making investments that benefit local businesses, working with businesses,
 with locally owned businesses, long-time property owners, and then some of the more strategic work is long corridors that we do think need some additional investment and help. So you may have seen that we're now ramping up conversations with stakeholders along Lombard about how we can turn Lombard into a more kind of integrated commercial corridor, but have it happen in a way that, once again, that –
 that supports the existing businesses and residents along that corridor. As I mentioned, we still have a significant amount of our $8 million loan to Daimler to disperse, so I'm assuming that will happen in this fiscal year.
 So I think what's fascinating about interstate is if you look at the bar chart here, you have this nice distribution of investments, and I think that really does reflect our ability to invest across a lot of different priority areas, and it's not simply focused on property redevelopment. There's a fair amount that goes into infrastructure, to working with the small business community, and we also obviously have a significant commitment to affordable housing in interstate.
 Lens Town Center, if you take the requested budget that we sent you in February and now look at the proposed budget, what you'll see is an increase of about $20 million over the next five years in our commercial property redevelopment line items. So I think it goes from 15 from February now to about 35 over the next five years.
 that's a reflection of as we completed the RFI for our properties in Lens Town Center, and we've selected the partners we're going to work with, and we've worked through their pro formas. We've now seen what it's going to take to move all these projects along, and so it's not $35 million total, but it is a significant investment on our part as well as the Portland Housing Bureau is also going to make a significant investment, so we're accelerating dollars there as well.
 But we have the resources to do it and it is the main priority in Lents and so it's exciting to think about putting that amount of money to work in Lents Town Center. We do have some other projects in Lents around, you can see the streetscape projects and other sidewalk and safety improvement projects.
 On Gateway, Gateway is unlike Lentz and Interstate. It actually is fairly resource constrained. So the total amount you see in this fiscal year is about $6 million, maybe $7 million.
 You can see the priorities that we have there. So we're making investment in the park that Parks Bureau is developing. We have about $3 million set aside for up to $3 million for the development of the site that we have adjacent to the park, and we're reviewing proposals on that. So those two projects alone will use a fair amount of the money that we have budgeted. But we also have – I just –
 signed an IGA with PBOT to do some streetscape work. So we have some other infrastructure investments as well that we plan to make in the coming year. We will probably be coming back to you this fiscal year with a more in-depth strategy for Gateway. I know the mayor has been spending a lot of time thinking about Gateway, what are the right set of activities that we can be engaged in to activate that neighborhood. And then we have our –
 Neighborhood prosperity and if your districts the dollar amount that is that goes into these districts is quite small and it actually Some of the districts haven't performed as well as we had projected from a tax increment perspective It's in some respects. It's it's it validates our selection of these districts and that and that these really are districts that that that that need Need the most attention
 And so we've supplemented the TIF with general fund dollars, with revenue sharing dollars that flow back to the city and to the county. That money flows into this, and then PDC has also supported it with our enterprise zone business development funds. I could spend all this time talking about everything that's going on across our MPI districts, but I think you've heard different stories about what's happening in Jade or Rosewood or in Cully. And so it's...
 It's very exciting work, and the money that we have barely covers the type of work they're doing. So it's always an issue trying to cobble together funds, and we're helping them fundraise privately as well to meet their needs. Commissioner Fritz, you asked for a recap on our general fund. This is –
 This is the total general fund support that we receive, which you can see is split between neighborhood, the neighborhood work we do, including EOI and the traded sector work that we do. We also receive pretty much every year an allocation for our small business loan fund that provides non-TIF working capital. The –
 The ongoing is basically the same as last year with the cost of living increase increase.
 We have the Southeast Works decision package added into this mix. I wasn't sure. I think there's some conversation about those that's happening, so that may also be added in as another decision package. We had our two decision packages not included in the mayor's proposed budget, so we've zeroed those out here. But basically, this is a status quo decision.
 general fund budget for us. And, you know, these are the kind of vital programs that we operate, so this represents, I think, an appropriate amount of support for the program. Where do you fund Shelley's position? Is it general fund or other?
 It's typically general fund. It typically comes out of the traded sector category. When we have projects that actually support work in our urban renewal areas, then some of our time can be paid for at a TIF, but a high percentage of it is general fund. Right.
 And that Southeast Works is one-time money? Yeah, it was one-time. It was last year was one-time money, and so it's once again one-time money. We need to keep tracking that. And then Vost, how much is that? It was $30,000. $30,000, right, because I think that was another glitch, so maybe we can see how we can make that ongoing. Yeah, I think because it was one-time, that's why it probably got lost in the shuffle. Was there a third that got lost or no? Village Market was added. Oh, the Village Market. Last year. Yeah.
 That was one time. Okay. Thank you. You're coming back in two weeks for us to adopt the budget. Coming back in one week for a hearing. One week of hearing, but yeah, in two weeks you vote as our budget committee on the budget. Yeah. Or just, yeah. So that's my overview of...
 of our budget, I'm happy to, we're happy to get into any questions about any of the, anything in the budget, anything in the the budget document itself. You know, by budget law, we, we present our budget, the document as these separate funds. So it's really our budget, like the city's, is basically a roll-up of all these legally separate funds. And so that's what you see in the document here. Happy to make any, to translate. I think you're used to seeing the URA budgets that appear in the back
 of the budget document beginning at page 109. That's the, I think, what you typically see from us in terms of a URA budget with resources up top, requirements below, and the line items in that format.
 and can you remind us where we are again in total staff positions you you went down from 134 in 1213 to 93 and 1415 where does this end up as proposed how many total positions a total of 95 positions 93 full-time into 95 is a number that we that we settled on and then we just bounce around we don't add fte but we might have vacancies and things like that so i don't know that we're
 We've been at 95 filled positions, but we have 95 positions. Right. So you're at the new normal? That's the new normal. That was our plan all along, and we're staying at 95 unless something magically changes, but I don't foresee that happening.
 Just a minor technical clarification. You are convened as the PDC Budget Committee today to receive the budget. You are not accepting it today. Right. We're receiving it. Patrick, I have a few questions and these are things I'd be happy to get follow-up from you. Because I think we're going to lose a quorum. We have a risk of losing a quorum in about an hour. So I want to make sure we get through the normal agenda.
 Number one, could I get an update on the Multnomah County Health Department headquarters? And the specific issue that I have is what is the timeline for some decision on that? Okay. Because I don't believe, since I was the sponsor of that particular budget item, that it was indefinite. Okay. So I understand they're on track to do something, provided they get the hype. But I'd like to know what the timeline is because –
 Again, the council did not make this an open-ended allocation, and we did throw in the dirt. That's number one. Number two, at what point in the process will we get an update on what's actually happening at Centennial Mills?
 We can do that anytime. So at some point, could you just, because you mentioned there's two things happening, could we get something, a follow-up just to let us know what phase are we tackling, what's happening, because we're likely to start hearing from people just asking what's going on and if we could get an update. Would you like, are you suggesting us come before council and get an update or individually get an update? I'd settle for an email that just tells me the moving pieces and then if we have any follow-up questions. But, yeah.
 we've been approached about some meetings just to get some additional information. And it would be helpful to know where we stand and where you are in your phasing and how much you're allocating to that project. Okay. On the two decision packages that were not funded in the mayor's proposed budget, I'd like to know a little bit more about those asks and how they fit within your overall, the new strategic plan.
 And, again, I'd settle for something in writing. Okay. And, you know, whether they're funded this year or if we have the luxury of budget surplus next year, we salt them. I just want to have a better understanding of how those two asks that weren't funded fit within your overall vision for the Bureau. Okay. Happy to do that. And, finally, if you had an extra $100,000 of general fund money
 for neighborhood economic development in the slide you showed us before. What would be your highest and best priority? You're asking to get back to you on that or you want me to answer off the cuff? I'm just curious. You have a bunch of very laudable things, but as between things like NPIs, loan funds, various kinds of things, I'm using this metaphorically. If you had the extra $100,000, what's your highest and best use?
 i'll give you my off-the-cuff answer i i'm sure there's folks uh back at pdc who would have a variety of answers um we could always use more support for the mpis that the existing mpis and then i think you recall that last year we we received general fund money to to to kind of help the lencetown center folks the old town and and the stakeholders in mok move move along an mpi path as well because we feel like that's a model that really does work um
 So those are fledgling efforts that are different stages, so I would probably want to continue to support that work. I don't think we have the capacity, given both our staff but also the funding constraints, to, like, MPIs everywhere. But I do think we have a good sense of the universe now that we really want to be operating in, and I would love to have more support for that. So we have the six MPIs, the two main streets that we continue to operate in, Alberta and St. John's,
 And, you know, I would love to see the same level of activity on MLK, Lansdowne Center, and Old Town. That's kind of capacity building. Yeah, the organizational capacity. As I mentioned, when we...
 put it into this objective four in our strategic plan. What we're saying is we can talk about it as business development, and I think it is business development. You can also talk about it as community development. But what it really is is growing the capacity to lead whatever. The J district folks, I think, are the best example right now, just how they talk about it. Like what we're doing here is creating the capacity to,
 to lead what's happening in our neighborhood? Because everybody now wants to be in the J district. There's going to be bus rapid transit and people moving in. Does a Pono and J district have the ability to be in the lead there? Because we think they should be in the lead, not us, not Metro, not planning. So that means capacity. That means adding staff. And so I would love to have the resources to help J8 and all the others get to that point where we're –
 helping them with their plans. One final comment. You've got a ton on your plate, and it seems like we just recently had that strategic plan conversation, and now you're trying to match the budget to the plan, and you're doing so with fewer resources. So I get that you're slammed. I would request, though, that we get the proposed budget at least a week before this hearing. That's fair. I think we all worked diligently to go through it yesterday, but it would be helpful if we had it a week before. Thank you.
 Other questions, comments, direction? Yeah, like Commissioner Fish, I'll rattle off a list of questions for you and answer the ones that you think you can at least preliminarily quickly and otherwise we'll hear offline. But one thing that CBO noted is that your history of spending budgeted resources varies significantly depending on category. Like over the last several years you've spent,
 a fairly small amount of money budgeted for business development, a somewhat greater amount, but still often much less than budgeted for property redevelopment. And then it sort of goes in a continuum to infrastructure, housing, and administration, where you spend the vast majority of what's budgeted. And CBO suggested that...
 Maybe we should look at shifting resources towards the categories where you seem better able to actually spend what's budgeted. So I'm just curious what your present sense impression reaction to that suggestion is. So this is a dynamic that we've been tracking for years, so it's not a new dynamic, I would say.
 I would respectively suggest that that's kind of misdiagnosis of the issue. I think it's the type of work that drives the timing of projects. So, you know, PBOT has a queue of projects for the next 30 years, right? So if there's money, put it together, you can move it forward. There's what happens on something like the post office or whatever. There's different variables at work. And so I've always my – I think we should –
 do what we do which is establish priorities by by outcomes by the type of work we're doing and do our best to move those along every type of project type of work is going to move on a different timeline and and and and to make decisions based on which ones we can get the money out the door most quickly i just think that's the wrong lens on it um
 But if the council and our board says we should be spending more on infrastructure because it's the right thing to do, then that's a different thing, right? That's an entirely legitimate way of talking about it. But the pace of investment, I think, is not the right lens to look at it because then you would never do the big private real estate. You'd never do them. And I don't think that's what anybody here would suggest.
 I mean, it's a smaller category, but in business development, the history is of spending significantly less than 50% of what's budgeted. It's hard money to get out because it's tax increment, so tax increment has to be spent in a very specific way that is oftentimes ill-suited to the needs of businesses. We budget. It's a pretty small amount of our budget, so if you look at the percentage, so it's not like we're, you know,
 preventing other projects from happening, but we budget, and you budget by URA, so I have, you know, legal funds. So if I'm going to have money available, I'm going to have it across each URA so that I'm ready wherever the business opportunity comes. And it almost typically doesn't come in every URA, so that impacts it. And then some years, yeah, we just aren't able to use it because of the mismatch. I can't do a working capital loan with TIF, right, or if I'm going to put money into a business project,
 it's got to go into tenant improvements. Well, that may not be what a business needs at that moment, or it might be that that's a real estate investment, not a business investment. So I would have the same thing. I would say, is it an appropriate amount to have? Are we missing out on any priorities as a result? But if we have money available for one moment, like Daimler, then I think we should keep doing it. I mean, the benefit of our people can –
 have different views on this philosophically, but the benefit of the way that we're funded versus the way the city is funded is that I can use the money next year. Right? So it's not like – and there's an end to it, as we all know. So at some point, the money is going to end. So it's not – we don't roll it over infinitely. So we have this finite period of time in which to spend the money –
 And if it happens this year, great, but the fact that we have the flexibility to do it next year, I think that allows us to take on the type of work that we take on, which is different than what other bureaus take on.
 There's fairly large contingency numbers in some of the URAs. Like for Central East Side, for 15-16, it's 6.5 million. For River District, it's 14.3 million. So what happens if that contingency money isn't actually needed for budgeted projects? I mean, does it – I
 Do you have the flexibility to spend that on other stuff without coming back to council, or does it necessarily come back to council to decide what to spend that amount on if it's not taken up? So we used – I'll answer the first half. Tony – I'll let Tony give the official answer. Contingency is basically a fund balance. We use the term contingency not like a construction project does. We use it as – it's a term that we use. What it really represents is the fund balance. So it's the money that –
 The resources that we have on hand that we don't have a forecasted use for in this coming fiscal year, so it rolls over to the next year. It is available in the event that we do need to be over budget, but we have very specific constraints on our ability to move things on the fly. Certain things would trigger us going back to our board or going back to council. So we don't have ultimate flexibility to move all that contingency back in without...
 getting approval on it. Right, and adding to that, some of the contingency is reserved for projects or programs that are forecast in the five-year forecast, so it's a rolling balance. And there are contingencies in those later years, but sometimes what contributes to those contingencies are...
 placeholders estimates for loan payoffs or potential property sales. And so they're somewhat contingent on those actually happening. But it may not exist. So some of the money that's in that contingency line may not actually exist. It's just that we forecast it as being paid off, as paying off this year. And if it doesn't, then it won't be there as well. But it's basically fund balance is what it is.
 So, I mean, is there an argument that we should be more specific about what we think that it might be spent on, given that it's not sort of the classic construction contingency? So if you look at our budget, I think one of the reasons why we do the forecast is that we show how the money flows through over the five-year period. So the contingency, if you look at the bottom of the contingency in any one urban middle area, will trend towards a much smaller number by the end of the five-year period than,
 right so that's what i would be worried about is if we just had this contingency and it wasn't ever going away or declining but the fact that we have contingency for this fiscal coming fiscal year doesn't necessarily mean that we don't have a use for it it it
 It could be in the, it's probably in the five-year forecast somewhere. So that's, and once again, I mean, the board and council have the ability to have a different philosophy, but we have, we do a longer look in our budgets because of the work we do. So we can, and if we were just year to year,
 and spent everything in our hands year to year, we wouldn't be able to take on long-term projects. So we do this five-year look, and we have the benefit of forecasting out five years with our dollars because it's more of a fixed revenue source as opposed to the city, which has to worry about whether revenues are going to go up or down. Okay, so just to be clear, when you see the contingencies declining in out years, does that mean that you are assuming that the contingency left over from the previous years does get spent on specific things?
 Yeah, it ties out. So the contingency number is down the bottom of one year, ends up being the fund balance starting point in the next column, and it works its way down. So it's more of an accounting mechanism than it is a true contingency like in a construction project. So want to get anything else on the table and try to move on soon because we're going to lose a few more minutes. If you have other questions, Commissioner, obviously I'm happy to take them offline and we'll get you answers. I was just curious whether the –
 Very popular storefront improvement grants survived your strategic plan. Do we still have those? Oh, yes, absolutely. Yes, they're obviously, yes, they are probably our most popular program, and they're an important part of the work we do in our neighbor commercial corridors. Okay, good. Great stuff. Okay, anything else that you want to get on the table now? Again, direct any further requests to Patrick before the public hearing.
 But at that point, then, I'm going to set that public hearing for May 20th at 6.30 p.m. here in Council Chambers and then adjourn this meeting of the PDC Budget Committee until then. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay. Thank you, Gina.
 We will now reconvene. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mayor, we Did we forget something? I always forget to do this. We have invited testimony. Oh, sorry. We did. We did forget that. I'm going to reconvene as the budget committee. Yes, we did have one person as invited testimony, I think. Yes. All right. We'll take the invited testimony and then continue the hearing to the 20th after that. So. Is Mr. Call? Mr. Call, come on up, please. Just Mr. Call. Welcome.
 Sorry, we didn't want to leave you hanging there. Thank you. My name is Nadal Call. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners, for giving me the opportunity to speak on the budget. I had the luxury of serving on the NED Leadership Group Budget Committee this last winter, and it learned a lot and it was very productive. I also serve on the board of the Gateway Area Business Association.
 And with that, one of the PDC programs that began last year was another committee that was set up to focus on the streetscape and create a vision plan for the Halsey-Weidler corridor. That group decided to formalize and eventually became a formal subcommittee of GABA.
 And three of us are now board members of GABA. So I tell you this to give an example of the fact that we are somewhere of a crossroads in the development of Gateway.
 and Gateway is merely an example of the potential that we have citywide. You know, the budget, of course, covered interstate and Lentz, and I'm going to focus a little bit on Gateway because that's where my efforts have been in the last year and a half. Gateway, like many of the other business districts, is in severe need of economic development, economic growth. In my opinion, you can't achieve that without also –
 communicating well and developing relationships with the community. And so the Halsey-Weidler Group also has many of the Neighborhood Association people on board. And it has been a real pleasure working with members of the PDC over the last year and a half. The effort and the resources that they've put in to our district is really an integral part of our growth.
 I also happen to be a property owner and a business owner on Halsey. And literally a week ago just received a DOS grant from PDC for further development of my property. And those storefront improvement grants that we've discussed, I'll be taking full advantage of that. And without those, I wouldn't be able to.
 to make the change within my own property, uh, won't be able to open more businesses. Uh, and, and I've shared a lot of these conversations with other, uh, business owners and property owners in the district. And, uh,
 I know there was a question earlier on regarding the usage of these programs and how sometimes it looks like they're not being utilized. And, you know, I think a lot of that has a lot more to do with the property owners maybe not necessarily understanding or historically not being willing. And I feel like there's just been a lot of change in the recent year or two in –
 the open-mindedness of property owners to actually work with City Council and the city organizations to actually help us develop our properties and our businesses and our neighborhoods. So I'm here in full support of the budget.
 Well, I just want to thank you and the other property owners that you've gotten engaged. I mean, we're really at a point of takeoff in Lentz because of advocacy from the neighborhood level, so it's really essential. I mean, if we're going to achieve that kind of takeoff and gateway over the next couple of years, your role is pretty important. Thank you. Mr. Kahl hosted Venture Portland and East Portland Business Leaders last week, and he's...
 He's too modest to say so, but he owns Furniture Plus on Halsey. He's a franchisee with other business interests, and we learned recently he's also now a filmmaker. And he and his brothers have expanded their business enterprises, so we're very grateful for their work. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate your help. Appreciate the opportunity. Thank you.
 Okay, so then again we will we will open the public hearing on May 20th at 6 30 p.m Here in council chambers on this proposed budget We will adjourn as the PDC Budget Committee and reconvenes the City Council and we will take up item number 478 I believe
 You had a sign-up sheet for public testimony. That was a mistake. So you're just eliminating it? That was a mistake. It's on the 20th. A mistake? Mm-hmm. That was my office that set out that sign-up sheet. Sorry. Okay. So let's move to 478.
 update city of Portland fair wage policies to establish a minimum wage of $15 per hour for employees working under covered service contracts. Good morning. Welcome to our team that are making some adjustments to this important council policy. Great. Thank you. Good morning, Josh Alper, Mayor Hill's office.
 As you remember, about a month, month and a half ago, council approved a $15 minimum wage plan. At that time, we knew there were going to be some tweaks to make it more clear. And so Betsy Ames has taken the lead on doing that, working with community stakeholders. And so what you have before you are those tweaks. I'll turn it over to Betsy just to walk through what they are.
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. My name is Betsy Ames. I'm with the Office of Management and Finance. As Josh mentioned earlier this year, Council passed a resolution, and that resolution directed OMF to amend the City of Portland's fair wage policy in City Code. It directed the Bureau of Human Resources to increase the pay of certain classified positions to at least $15 per hour, and it directed the Parks Commissioner to create a task force to assess appropriate compensation for seasonal recreational activities
 and apprenticeship work. I'm here today to present the amendments to Portland City Code Chapter 3.99 to implement the first of those directives. Anna Canwit, the city's HR director, has initiated the process for the second directive regarding city employees and budgeted positions within the classified service, and Commissioner Fritz is in the process of establishing the committee structure to implement the third directive.
 The ordinance before you today updates City Code to implement Council's direction to increase minimum wage rate to $15 per hour for janitorial services, security services, and parking garage attendant services under contracts covered by that chapter. The updates to the code language reflect the direction provided by Council earlier this year with further clarifications to be more precise about the timing of the annual cost of living increase and how that increase is determined.
 The ordinance acknowledges changes to the benefits environment including requirements under the Affordable Care Act and the City's sick time requirements and updates to code provisions to focus on the minimum wage rate of $15. The ordinance directs bureaus to amend or renew contracts as needed to be implemented with an effective date of July 1st of this year for all covered contracts and employees. The City has approximately 20 contracts for these services that will need to be amended in the next month and a half.
 The ordinance also clarifies that certain agreements are not covered by Chapter 3.99 to remove any ambiguities. As noted in the impact statement, bureaus need to have final code language in order to amend their contracts and determine the financial impacts of these changes. We believe the $900,000 included in the mayor's proposed budget is a good estimate of the total increase in costs. We will be able to determine the final costs once the amended contracts are finalized.
 Lastly, we have included an emergency clause in the ordinance in order to ensure that bureaus can amend the contracts to meet that July 1 implementation date and to provide bureaus time to work with the City Budget Office as soon as possible to finalize the costs so that they can be included in the adopted budget you'll be voting on later this year.
 Thank you. Thank you. We've got questions. A clarifying question. Under the now the directs numbers part C, council confirms that the stadium operating agreement, the intergovernment agreement with TriMet and the city of Portland for enhanced transit mail up.
 and the agreement with Downtown Clean and Safe are not covered by 399, which I agree with. What does it mean and directs bureaus to review and amend those agreements if necessary? I can speak to the stadium operating agreement. There's a reference to Chapter 3.99 in there, so we would need to amend that reference. And we've already initiated conversations with Peregrine about keeping –
 the wages that they have been paying for their seasonal part-time employees there at an even level and working on negotiating that before the start of the next calendar year. Thank you. Other questions, comments from the Council? We may have more at the end of the hearing, but thank you both, and we'll see who signed up to speak on this item. It looks like we have six people signed up, and the first three are Linda Spooner,
 Felicia Higgins and Ben, is that Ben Pickering? Come on up. Good morning. You may have left. Let's go with Hiram Asma. Good afternoon, Mayor, Hales, and Commissioners. My name is Linda Spohr, and I have been a security officer in the Portland building for five years. I am also a proud member of SEIU Local 49. I am literally here today because of you and my union, SEIU Local 49,
 I'm currently undergoing chemotherapy. And before security officers organized the SEIU Local 49 two years ago, all my wages would go to cover the medical expenses. As a minimum wage worker, security officers are accustomed to not expect any wage increases, let alone dream of affordable health care coverage.
 Without the City's commitment to using a union contractor, without you, the Mayor and Commissioners, supporting security officers during our first union contract bargaining, and without my union, I would not be able to afford the cost of my health care and I would not be alive today. As a union security officer, after taxes, I currently take home $1,560 a month.
 My utilities, including gas, water, electricity, cable, phone, and garbage service, cost me $570 a month. Each month I pay $109 for car insurance, $150 for my medicine, and we pay $1,100 for rent. And I want to point out that my husband and I only pay the $1,100 for rent because my daughter is our landlord. Market value rent for my home could easily be upwards to $1,700 a month.
 After paying for all my bills, I have a mere $439 left for food and other activities. If I was renting a house in Portland's expensive rental prices, I would not have anything to eat. So as you can see, I am very excited that the mayor and commissioners are taking this important step to raise the wages under the fair wage policy.
 The extra income would mean I would be able to afford a Christmas gift for my grandchild. I might even be able to afford to pay my daughter the full rental price. The city has proven that time and time again that they will step up for the working class in our community, from passing mandatory sick days to standing with security officers as we organize our union to improve standards.
 I would like to thank the Mayor for leading on this issue, the Commissioners for supporting the raise, and everyone else who has worked on this initiative. I appreciate you having me here and letting me share my stories. This raise is going to make an immediate, real, and meaningful impact on my family, my co-workers, and myself. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
 Mayor House, members of the Commission for the Record, my name is Felisa Hagans. I'm the political director of SKA Local 49, and I'm a registered lobbyist at the City of Portland.
 Our mission at SEAU Local 49 is to improve the lives of working families and we firmly believe that this initiative and this council has gone farther than many councils in the past to do exactly that. We applaud the city's work on their commitment to the $15 an hour and continuing to move forward.
 in the piece-by-piece way that the city actually can do. And today we had members here, as you saw, and we have about 200 members down in Salem trying to fight for this exact issues along with affordable sick days and fair wage policies and other really important things for working families. Thank you.
 You'll notice in the update to the fair wage policy that there's a provision that's been removed around health care costs. I'd like to address this directly with the council. It's incredibly important for our workers. Our expectation isn't that the city is going to move backwards in expecting contractors to provide affordable health care for their employees. We know that employer-based health care continues to be part of our health care system, even as we transition to the Affordable Care Act.
 However, when fair wage policies were designed and implemented throughout the metro region and other areas of the state, the cost of health care inflation was increasing roughly close to the pace of inflation.
 Decades happened, things changed, and medical inflation greatly outpaced the cost of inflation and was actually eating up large portions of the fair wage policy. And under the current fair wage policy, most of the health care that you could offer to a worker at that cost, the worker would not be able to uptake it.
 So before the security guard officers were organized, the security company you had was actually meeting the fair wage policy standards. However, as Linda just spoke to, their health care was still incredibly unaffordable for the individual worker.
 We believe by removing this provision of the fair wage policy and moving to contracting standards under your sustainability policy to be more thoughtful about how you're contracting with employers who provide health care and a secure retirement is the wave of the future. And best value contracting is the way that the city should move forward on that issue. Thank you.
 So we're in complete and firm support of the fair wage policy, and we look forward to all of the other updates that are coming. We know that this is the first step and that the next steps are going to be to look at the things that were left out of this policy as well as the other workers the city has.
 Thank you very much for your time, and I'm happy to answer any questions. You're happy with the health care provision? You're okay with it? Commissioner Pritchett, yes. It was actually our suggestion because it was just eating up so much of the wage that a lot of workers weren't making enough to take up both. Good point. Welcome. Thank you.
 Yeah, I'm Hiram Asimov. I'm a volunteer with 15 Now. I really think that the recent, you know, PDC budget proposal kind of brings to light a major factor as to why you need to raise to 15 at a bare minimum. We're talking about, Amanda asked the gentleman here, you know, so why is a housing not included? Right.
 for healthy complete neighborhoods um it's just my opinion as a Portlander that's kind of a big deal with healthy complete neighborhoods as affordable housing um when the rent going up skyrocketing left and right with people like Eric Crest developing division and other places all around Portland with these high rises and condos and whatnot rent's going to go up significantly over here in the next few years there's only so much you can do to stop that
 There are certain irresponsible developments that you can shut down. And there's others that will be within city codes that will occur and it's inevitable. You know, people are selling, people are moving in. The people moving in are not the native Portlanders. These are the people that we are here to request. The people who are currently employed by your, you know, by the city that you honor and respect their needs and their wishes, just like you respect people like Eric Kress.
 I'm quite frankly very distraught over what I heard about the Budget Committee. I mean, to think of housing as an afterthought when that should be, if not the main thought, one of the main thoughts of the Development Commission, it seems like we're not being represented by the right people. It seems like you're appointing people to these commissions.
 that are going to price us out of Portland. And that's just my opinion. Sir, just I appreciate your opinion, but as the person who has consistently fought for the 30% set-aside can just correct one maybe misimpression. Sure. That the PDC does not provide the housing services. It's a pass-through.
 So the dollars go to the Portland Housing Bureau and they show up on their budget and that's where they're spent. So I just want to be clear. We took housing out of PDC's plan and liberated it to do jobs and other things. So we can argue about where it shows up on a spreadsheet. But just to be clear, we have made a conscious decision that the Portland Housing Bureau directs those dollars, not PDC. So I just.
 I don't want form over substance. Okay, I got you. They are actually not the housing bureau. So the presentation sort of gave a false impression that they didn't care about housing, but actually they have been told by the previous city council, you don't do that.
 The Housing Bureau does that. So the money passes through PDC. Okay. So I did misunderstand that, but it's still not debatable that we are facing increasing skyrocketing rent, and that's going to happen no matter what. So you need to basically give your own employees a right way to stay in the city, which is being able to afford –
 where they live, not to mention the cost of health care that these lovely ladies are fighting for as well. I mean, there are so many components to 15 an hour now. This is kind of, in my personal opinion, a no-brainer, and it would behoove all five of you to vote unanimously. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Thanks, Linda. The last two who signed up are Charles Johnson and Joe Walsh. Come on up. I can go first.
 My name is Joe Walsh, and I represent Individuals for Justice. Congratulations. $15 an hour is a concession-level number. It's not a great number. It's $30,000 a year if you figure it out. I get more than that in my retirement. Think about that. I see your people working in this building, whether it be security or janitorial services,
 They are professional, even though the security and I disagree sometimes. But they are professional. I like them. The janitorial service is outstanding. But as you pat yourself on the back, I want you to think about what my shirt says. My shirt says $15 an hour for everyone. And that includes all the people that work for the parks. I know that's a huge problem for you, Amanda.
 However, it should be the goal of this city to make sure that anybody that's associated with the city, works for this city, or is represented by the unions in the city makes a minimum of $15 an hour. That should be the goal. And I get really angry when I hear people say, well, we don't have enough money, you know, we got all these –
 temporary people and casual people and what do we do with them and how do we pay them $15 an hour? The goal should be to pay them $15 an hour and then we figure it out. And I am really encouraged by you, Mayor, because it seems to me that every time you go down into the basement, you find a jar with more money. You found $12 million first and then you went down to the basement and you found $50 million first.
 Please go down again and take care of the parks people, the casual people. And we can all be proud of that. And we should be proud of that. And what you're doing is a good thing. Let me end with that as a positive. But it's a first step, small step. So pat yourself on the back gently and work to get the other people. If we pay people less than $15 an hour, I don't care what you call them, it's a shame.
 A shame. Thank you. Thank you. Good morning, Commissioner. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and I want to apologize for not being fully prepared. Next time I come up to talk to you about wages, I will have done a breakdown to talk about the presumption that with the large vacations that you can take over the course of a year, you maybe do only average about 40, 45 hours per week of work. And we're going to talk about your hourly wage and the level of benefits you get.
 and why you can't find the money to pay the hardworking people who save the lives of the homeless the police push around, $15 an hour at TPI, $15 an hour Central City Concern. You, with your poor policies, make it very difficult.
 for the Portland Mall people to pick up trash because in the city's brilliance, you can walk from here to Market Street in front of the extremely expensive, high property tax valued Wells Fargo building and there's no freaking public trash cans for five blocks. So...
 Pay more people $15 an hour to do it, not just these workers who have explained to you why it's fair and just for them to get $15, but all personnel working on primarily city-funded contracts and work towards a policy where even city contractors can,
 Businesses that have living wage policies, businesses that have no employees needing public assistance and food stamps get contracting preference for the city. As usually gets mentioned here, even though we've been trained to think of, oh, 15 is exorbitant, any economist worth anything can tell you that businesses seeking low wages have distorted the minimum wage since the 70s
 If minimum wage had kept pace with cost of living and productivity, minimum wage should really be around $20. So when we have this budget surplus and you do not adequately channel it to get everybody up to $15 an hour,
 You should feel a little uncomfortable walking in this building because the people you work with that are making less than $15 million would be morally justified to spit in your faces because that's what you're doing to them when you do not pay them $15 a hour. Find a way. I am a little bit disappointed, Mayor, that when you went down and found the $50 million jar in the basement...
 You didn't do a better job of allocating more of it to bringing the lowest paid city workers up to living wage. But I know that you're going to do, as Mr. Wall suggested, and find some more money in the basement jars or wherever it is and get these valuable, hardworking human beings up to a decent wage and set the trend so that people are paid enough that they can afford to live out in Rosewood or somewhere. Bye.
 thank you thank you very much okay further council discussion and let's take a roll call vote on the ordinance please fish mayor hales and commissioner salzman thank you for bringing this matter forward betsy ames and josh albert thank you for doing the staff work and and bringing us the tweaks i want to especially thank the rank and file folks of 15 now and the rank and file members of sciu who've been advocating and lobbying extensively on this issue
 And we've heard from many of you, and you've made a compelling argument. And as we heard today, this is just a first step, and it's a down payment on a larger agenda, but it's something that we can do and do right away. And I'm pleased that the council is taking this action. Aye. Saltzman? Well, I want to thank the mayor for his leadership and delivering on what he announced in his State of the City speech.
 And for Betsy Ames, Josh Alpert, Matt Grum of my office, we're working with Lisa Higgins and others of SEIU 49 and the $15 Now Coalition to make this moment finally here. And I agree that $15 seems like a lot to a lot of people, but as we saw in our State of the Housing report that was presented two weeks ago,
 $30,000 annual income will entitle you to rent exactly nothing in terms of a two-bedroom apartment in the city limits of Portland so we still have a long ways to go to boost to boost people's income levels this is a start it's a good start and it's money in people's pockets for our security janitorial and parking attendants and the few city employees that we're not making $15 an hour full time so
 It's a good step in the right direction, and I think, as my colleague just said, I regard it as a down payment. Aye. Novick. I simply echo what my colleagues have said. Congratulations to Commissioner Saltzman and the mayor and the members of 15 Now and Felisa, Josh, Betsy. And, again, as everybody has said, this is just a down payment. Aye. Fritz. Aye.
 I'm very glad to hear my colleagues talking in terms of this being a down payment. There aren't any more buckets of money in the basement, as far as I know. I think we've looked fairly thoroughly at this point.
 And so I'm going to be looking at my Bureau's budget requests in light of this ordinance and revising some of my requests to Council because it's not equitable that we pay part-time workers who are contracted workers much more than we pay our part-time workers in parks. We have workers in parks who make minimum wage. We have people doing the same work as others making $11 an hour, and it's not okay. So I think we do have a...
 a big challenge ahead of us and i think it needs to we need to start making that down payment for our parks workers in this current budget and i appreciate the mayor's commitment to partner with me on that um i thank you also commissioner saltzman for your leadership on this felisa hagen and the community partners uh joined by mark our wonderful janitor custodian here in the city hall and thank you so much for all of the work that you do very happy to be able to provide this benefit
 to our contracted workers and I'm hopeful that we can at least make a start with our season with our parks workers this budget thanks to Betsy too I
 Well, thank you all, and I'm really proud to be a member of this council, not just because I think we reflect the progressive values that are here in this room on this subject, and not just because we have great staff members like Josh and Betsy and Matt who not only do this work but are passionate about it, and we appreciate that about them, but because
 In a larger sense, I think this shows our understanding as a city that we're not passive passengers on a national ship that maybe is going somewhere we don't want to go. I've quoted over and over again from this appalling story in the New York Times last Sunday in which the statistic was pointed out that the bonus pool on Wall Street, just the bonus pool...
 just for people that work in financial services on one street in one city in this country, is twice the annual income of all the full-time workers in the United States working at minimum wage.
 That's appalling and it also makes you feel sort of hopeless like that's so bad. What hope do we have here? Well, I think Portland proves over and over again on lots of subjects whether it's the environment or Thinking about workers or thinking about affordable housing that we don't want to be a passive passenger on a on a trip We don't want to be on we are going to chart our own course and say no we're gonna actually try to do with our own tools what we can to craft a different kind of economy here and
 And this is a piece of that. And I think we've got a real record as a city that this is a part of, showing that we can do that. And we have to start with what we can do now.
 this month, next month, this year, next year, and keep doing the work together. But I'm very proud of our direction and our commitment, again, to not wait for even a progressive state government, much less a paralyzed federal government, to take the leadership on these things. We get to lead on these issues, and this is a great example of us as a community doing that. I'm very proud to vote aye. Thank you all.
 Okay. Thank you. So we're going to take testimony on some items in which we're not going to be able to act today because Commissioner Fritz and Commissioner Fish need to leave for a very important event. And we'll go ahead and take those items up, but we'll actually take action on them this afternoon. And we'll start with, I guess we'll do 479, 480, and 481 all together. So if you'd read those three, Carla. Okay.
 479, authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon State Police Criminal Investigations Division for the use of Oregon Department of Justice, Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Program grant funds to reimburse the state for drug interdiction efforts on behalf of the HIDTA interdiction team.
 479 accept a grant in the amount of $172,700 and appropriate $40,000 for fiscal year 2014-15 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon high-intensity drug trafficking areas program for sworn personnel overtime and program expenses for Portland interdiction efforts and 481
 accept a grant in the amount of $36,000 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program for program expenses for Portland Metro Gang Task Force interdiction efforts. Great. Thank you. Lieutenant Grant, Sergeant Bates, welcome. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Good morning, Mr. Mayor. Good morning, Commissioners. The ordinance is for $172,700 grant. $122,700 of that will be for the Portland Police Bureau interdiction team, and $50,000 of that will be a pass-through to OSP, who's part of that interdiction team.
 and we'll go into the IGA a little bit, but that's really for the fiscal years or the actual grant years of 2013, the current one of 2014, and for the 2015 grant of which we're requesting for this one as well. It is to facilitate the interdiction of narcotics in the Tri-County area.
 That team mainly focuses its efforts on the airport, train, bus, parcel, highway interdiction efforts, targeting drug trafficking organizations through coordinated efforts between the Portland Police Bureau and our federal and state partners.
 I'm not sure if everyone saw the news reports, but there were some pretty large amounts of, I think it was cocaine and heroin, interdicted this year thanks to those efforts. So some rather spectacular quantities, appalling quantities. Yeah, we seized this past year roughly 37,000 grams of heroin,
 and 34,000 grams of methamphetamine and 80,000 grams of cocaine this past year, up almost 500% in each one of those categories. Thank you. Questions from the council? Thank you.
 so uh is there still crack cocaine when you say cocaine are you referring to uh powder cocaine there the the the seizures of crack cocaine have have plummeted we only seized roughly 100 grams of crack cocaine last year right sorry to see the resurgence of methamphetamine i mean all these drugs do terrible damage to the people that are addicted to them but methamphetamine may be the worst it is terrible it absolutely is
 We're happy to see the production of methamphetamine move out of the city, but, yeah, the use of methamphetamine is still very high. Any other questions? Thank you both. Stand by. There may be some more. We'll take public testimony on all three of these items, and then, again, we won't be able to act on them until this afternoon. But, Lieutenant, did you want to add some things? I'm sorry. I believe I have Ordinance 481, which is the additional for the Metro Gang Task Force. Yes. Okay, good.
 My name is Mike Cranston, Lieutenant with the Tactical Operations Division, assigned to the Gang Enforcement Team and the Metro Gang Task Force. The ordinance is to accept a grant in the amount of $36,000 from the Oregon Department of Justice High Trafficking Area Program and for program expenses for the Portland Metro Gang Task Force efforts. The mission of the Metro Gang Task Force is to identify and target for prosecution criminal enterprise street gangs or groups responsible for drug trafficking, money laundering, or violent acts.
 in the Portland Metro area. The grant will assist with the ability of the Metro Gang Task Force to carry out its mission and will assist the Portland Police Bureau with the improvement of livability through the reduction of organized criminal gang activity and the provision of harm reduction through the limitation of illegal drug supply through these gangs. The Police Bureau applied for the Oregon HIDA grant in March of 2014 to support the Police Bureau and the Portland Metro Gang Task Force initiative
 which will assist in providing the means of investigation of violent street gang members who are involved in the distribution of controlled substances in the Portland area. We are notified that Oregon HIDA will grant the award of $36,000 to the Portland Metro Gang Task Force via the Portland Police Bureau and reimburse us for a maximum of $36,000 for the approval calendar year of 2015, and no match is required for this grant. Great. Thank you both. Thanks very much. Okay. Does anyone want to speak on these items? Stephen Entwistle.
 Come on up. Good morning, Mayor. Two commissioners. My name is Stephen Entwistle, a long-time Portland resident, 55 years, member of Individuals for Justice and founder of Healing Man Sanctuary. Also a whistleblower for Less Fortunate and helping 100 million friends. For the record, we're against this.
 Because it reminds me back in the early 1980s when Ronald Reagan started his ramp up of Nixon's, Richard Nixon's drug war. This is not a law enforcement issue, drugs. This is a health issue. Anytime you use law enforcement, you're going to have all sorts of problems. Haven't we had enough of this for the last 35 years?
 I mean, they got TV shows, they're all exciting, all the adrenaline and everything, and just, oh, you're such a good guy to get rid of these, you know, worthless vermin that are using these drugs. These are people. These people have families. These families have children, okay? Law enforcement is not the way to solve this, okay? Because it'll never be solved. This is just a way to...
 keep in place a Jim Crow system which feeds off of this. They feed off of this money. They feed off of this suffering. You even got people that are waiting with catcher's mitts to catch houses and children. But they don't want to change it. They want to keep it just the way it is. And unfortunately for them, people are starting to wake up.
 People are starting to wake up about the drug laws. They're starting to read books like Michelle Alexander's The New Jim Crow, which I recommend everybody should read before they make any decisions on any kind of drug policies whatsoever. Our prisons, we've got too many people. Why aren't we having like a parole to payroll program? I don't hear anybody talking about that.
 All I hear about is just people wanting to shove everybody out of the way so they can build in this, you know, we can make it pretty for billionaires. Okay. The billionaires already have it made. Okay. They know where they're going to go when there's an emergency. Okay. The rest of the folks don't. They're all on their own. Okay.
 Making Portland a beautiful place for billionaires to come and sit, where they have power in the parks, where they have gentrification in the neighborhoods, where they get rid of the other, is wrong. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Okay, then we'll... Oh, sorry. Didn't see you, Joe. Come on up. I know I'm small, but I'm growing. For the record, my name is Joe Rose. I represent Individuals for Justice. We get very nervous about these task forces.
 These police officers that specialize in gang enforcement or drug enforcement, we get nervous because what happens with these task forces or groups that break off from the police department and do something the majority of their time is they become isolated.
 and they become people that go to the street and then in their interpretation, if you look like a gang member, we're going to hassle you. So we get very nervous with these task forces. And I know these are grants, but it's money to pay for something that we get very nervous about. We would rather see the police department acknowledge that they have a problem
 and respond to that problem instead of setting up task forces, which gets to be very dictatorial. So that's our objection. We would like you to consider that and try to put in some provisions as the police commissioner to say, hey, you know,
 What is the definition that you're using for gang members? And my understanding is the definition is so general that the three of us could be considered gangs. Absolutely. Okay, that's our problem because when you specialize in these kinds of things, you become dictatorial and you become very anchored in your definition. Right.
 So we would rather see the general police department sit down and discuss these things and not just four or five guys that are hanging around and let's go kick some butts on the street. And that's what's happening. And you know that's happening. So put some restraints on these guys. Thank you very much.
 Good afternoon, Mayor, Commissioners. I have not been around for a while, but as I listen to Laquita Lanford, thank you, Mayor, about the funding that are funded and through, what my concerns are with that, if it gets approved, would be that I believe that we need more opportunity for people in the community of color to get help. Right.
 just not in the community of color, but as we know, where the high numbers for methamphetamine and heroin is a really big deal in our communities. Downtown, I see it every single day, and our youth, they really need help. Whether they're white, black, Asian, Latino, there's the help that is needed. The enforce of when, like Mr. Joe said about gangs, I was born in L.A.,
 And so ever since I've been in Portland, I cannot identify with a gang because I don't see Crips and I don't see blood. So when I see information on the record in the news about this is a gang-related activity, that is hard for me to distinguish. Because if I was in California, I would say I would know where to or where not to go. But in Portland, since January, we've had community violence.
 In our community, that is very shocking to any individual. So wherever it is that I'm at, I'm, as a person of color, have to be targeted by the police, which I have been recently. And the work that I do to help build and mend those relationships are very uncomfortable for myself. And so my concern is, or just want something is that we need help.
 And money with the police is not going to solve the help that the community needs. And when Commissioner Dan asked about crack cocaine, crack is whack. Not that many people smoke and crack anymore. So those people that have been smoking crack for the last 30 years, and my mother was a crack, she was addicted to crack for 20 years. My mom has been clean for 15 years, and she lives in miracles. And she's doing very well, and I'm very proud of my mother, and she needs extensive care.
 rehabilitation. So these conversations that we have with the money that are coming through our city every single day, there's opportunities for trade-in programs,
 apprenticeship to get these young men and young women the sustainable help that they need long term. Not to be in a rotating door of in and out of treatment centers on the block and then still end up smoking crack if that's what you want to call it or are picking their faces because they're addicted to meth and they mentally are unable to be in the right state of mind. So that's where there was concern but I just wanted to say that that
 That's the help that we really need in this city so that people can have sustainable lives, so that they can get back to reality of things. Thank you. Good morning, remaining commissioners. For the record, my name is Charles Johnson, and drug addiction and drug trafficking are no joke. The Portland police is a joke. Right now, on COIN News.
 There's a story about idiotic police officers complaining about being filmed. We were illegally recorded. So it's very difficult for us to have any faith in the Portland Police Department. I do have, as you know, your new chief and I have had some engagement, and I am still optimistic that there is a desire to make
 community responsive policing that respects everybody equally in this city. But when the news is reporting that a man named Mr. Shaw
 has been investigated by the Portland Police Department and referred to the district attorney because he records what the police do. I don't care what the circumstances are. That is a disgusting waste of money. That money should be going to this type of stuff that we're getting money from the Oregon State Police for, interdiction and prevention of drug trafficking. So while generally I recognize when we have these issues on the budget where
 It's important to get money from other sources into the Portland police budget so that we can keep people from being harmed by drugs and not just reduce supply, but also help people so there's less demand. But I don't really think that I can encourage any money to go through the police department when I'm meeting idiot things like Portland police officer Michael Honnell, H-O-N-L, and his business in the D.C.
 10400 block of Southeast Night Street, gets involved with burglary detective Douglas Halpin, and then they're complaining because a citizen named Shaw recorded them. I don't care what they were doing, if it was an undercover drug operation. Portland police officers have dangerous habits where they have very little public trust. I like some of the cops. I can deal with them, but
 Public perception is what we're talking about here. So go ahead and vote. Well, you won't be voting because of the quorum issue. But it's okay to take the grant. But Mayor, the Portland Police Association says
 And the lesser quality people there, I don't know if that includes Daryl Turner, their president, or not, but they are screwing up your efforts to have a police department that the people can believe in. So I hope that you will have a press conference with Officer Michael Honnell and Burglary Detective Douglas Halpin and get this crap cleared up so that the district attorney is not wasting time and money on this crap when we're trying to prevent people from being killed by methamphetamines or during trafficking of stuff like that. Thank you very much.
 OK, thank you all. Anyone else? OK, I will set these three items over for this afternoon, and we'll take up item 482. Thank you.
 482, authorize a contract with the lowest responsive bidder and provide payment for the construction components of the Road 10 MP 3.0 through 4.6 project at an estimated cost of $889,000. Welcome. Good morning. Good morning, Mayor Hales and commissioners.
 I'm David Peters with the Portland Water Bureau. I'm a principal engineer in the engineering services group, and I'm here with Scott Bryan, our project manager for this project. We're here to ask today for the ability to authorize a contract to the lowest responsive bidder for the improvements to Road 10 in the Bull Run watershed.
 The maintenance of the road system in the Bull Run Watershed has been in the responsibility of the Portland Water Bureau since the adoption of the Bull Run Watershed Management Unit Agreement in 2007. Road 10 is the primary route to the Portland Water Bureau facilities in the watershed. This project is part of a multi-year project to improve this primary route.
 There's many reasons why we want to improve this route. Operations and maintenance is a big one. Our employees are going in and out constantly. The safety of those employees is important, and this is also the emergency response route to anything that would happen up at our facilities. The rating of the Pavement Condition Index shows that this 1.6-mile portion of the road is in poor condition, and it requires reconstruction, repair, and resurfacing.
 Significant sections of the road through the project limits do not meet established standards for safe use by large equipment and regular use by our employees or employees from other agencies. The project includes multiple types of work, including road widening, reconstruction of failed segments of pavement, construction of retaining walls, culvert replacement, and paving and striping.
 We anticipate the work to start this July and be completed throughout late summer and early fall. The estimated cost for the construction of this work is $889,000 and has a moderate level of confidence. So this is a paved road, not a gravel road? It is a paved road, yes. Okay, questions? Questions?
 From the council? Commissioner Fish had to leave early, but he wanted to make sure we extend our thanks to both of you for your good work on this project. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good work. Okay. Anyone want to speak on this item? If not, then it passes second reading next week. Thank you both. Thank you. Okay. And then our final item for this morning is 484. Assess property for sidewalk repair for the Bureau of Maintenance. Come on up. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning.
 I'm Sherry Matias from the auditor's office. Bureau of Maintenance is running a little late, so I don't know if they're going to be able to make it. But this ordinance is for sidewalk repair on property that is required by the city. Any remonstrances have been pulled from this assessment and are not in this ordinance. Okay. And your reinforcements from PBOT have just arrived.
 I'm Mike Zeller. I'm one of the sidewalk inspectors at Sidewalks. Okay. Thank you both. Any questions about this particular assessment? Okay. Thanks very much. Does anyone want to speak on this item? Yes. We have three people signed up. Okay. Please come on up. Our Betty Kwan, Miriam Patterson, and Mr. Shendrick. Okay. Come on up, please. Bring up another chair for you there. Please, go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Miriam Patterson and I live in a 1922 house in Northeast 9th that is a land trust home. And I'm a single parent with two teenage boys.
 have been in very difficult financial circumstances for a long time due to being laid off, divorced, etc. At any rate,
 When I first moved into this land trust house, we had it looked at by an inspector recommended by the Portland Housing Center. And he said that there was a problem with the sewer line and we should have someone look at it. So we paid for a company...
 Steve McBee, I believe, to do a scope underground and see, and indeed there was a problem. And this was before we moved in, so the Sabin Community Land Trust agreed to share the cost of fixing it with my ex-husband and I prior to our moving in. But
 I got some...
 estimates that were higher and um they very much wanted to go with the cheapest um and so and i wasn't really in a position to do anything about that and just very much wanted to move into this home because otherwise there's no way that we could afford to raise our children in such a great location and you know large house in close in northeast um
 you know, by not owning the land, but owning the house. So we split the cost, but only a portion of it was fixed. It was sort of patched, I suppose. And that's 10 years ago now, and gradually the...
 the porch, the sidewalk, the steps, especially the sidewalk, have been subsiding worse and worse. And I didn't have money to deal with the sewer problem underneath that was causing the sidewalk problem. And I looked for all kinds of possible help, including...
 Sheree? Yes. Actually, we emailed. You were very helpful, by the way. I was looking to see were there any funds available to help someone to pay for a sewer issue who didn't have the money because it was impacting on the sidewalk, etc.?
 And I don't imagine it's that healthy. But apparently there wasn't funding. I live five blocks from the MLK interstate, not interstate, the MLK corridor. Right. And there are funds for senior citizens, but I'm not old enough yet, and it seems like there was no way that I could get help to deal with the underlying problems. So when I was cited for the sidewalk,
 I spoke with the inspector and I was told to contact the city auditor. So I looked into is there any way possible to not just pay the auditor,
 pave it over because the problem is underneath with the sewer and it's just going to have to be redone. But I wasn't able to get any help, and it was paved over, which is clearly safer. I'm not really objecting to the fact that it was paved. But I'm now given the bill of $3,500 to pay for it, and I still can't seem to locate any funds, any way to get help to pay for the underlying sewer problem that was the
 reason that the sidewalk has subsided. Thank you. Thank you. We'll see if we can get some answers for that. Thank you. Please. I'm Shedrick Wilkins, a government subsidized person who gets to shoot his mouth off because I was a veteran. Healthcare for me except dentistry costs absolutely nothing. I went in the military so I get a lot of things free. These pills don't cost me anything.
 On Christmas 2013, I threw up on the sidewalk. Sir, we're here on a sidewalk assessment. I know. I threw up on the sidewalk in downtown Portland. They spread it down with water. Right. Water. Now, I think germs come from – I have a Target employee, so little kids come in my store and throw up. And bleach water is a disinfectant. So bleach will disinfect something.
 I got dizzy. I spent... Are you subject to this sidewalk assessment? No, I just want the sidewalk sprayed off. Okay, well that's a separate matter. So we got to take up this particular question, which is charging people to fix their sidewalk in front of their house. That's what we're talking about here. Oh, I'm sorry. That's okay. That's all right. Mistakes happen. So you'll need to talk with us another time about that. So let's hear from you. Okay, I'm sorry. That's okay. No problem. These pills are free. Okay, that's good.
 okay nevermind welcome hi my name is michaela kelly and this is miss betty i am talking for her on her behalf for her property that's on milwaukee avenue she owns a small bookstore and then she lives on site behind her house and the city came out and they wanted to fix her repairs in front of her sidewalk
 She had people in the community that offered to help her fix the sidewalk. She doesn't know the city processes. She's from the Philippines. Her husband passed away with kidney failure, and so he was supporting her. He had a pension, so she was getting a pension, and she was running the bookstore after her husband passed. So she gets this bill. She authorized the...
 city to pay for the parking lot, or for the sidewalk to be repaired. She gave permission for them to fix it because she didn't want somebody in the community to just do it for her and not do it right. She wanted to make sure it was done right. She didn't know any of the legal processes or you know anything like that and so the city came out and they billed her two thousand dollars to do her sidewalk
 And she would normally be able to pay for it with her, the veteran's pension that she gets, but that got cut off. And she had an annual, her taxes last year was $1,900. She, the bill for the sidewalk is $2,000. And then she had a hearing or something, they reduced it to $1,800. And I guess I just want the city, I want you guys to know her situation.
 She's been living here. She's by herself. She doesn't have any family. She has no support anybody that is able to help her The people that are willing to help her are her neighbors, you know people in the community And so I just wanted to come to you guys let you guys know what's going on what the situation is And she's already received the bill for that project, right? She's got the bill the final inspection August 13th 2013 the final inspection was done. She got the assessment. She already had a
 I can't remember what the word is. Deferral? She already came to you guys one time, and it was reduced from $2,000 to $1,800. And then so I can't find where it is here. All right. Well, we'll get the staff back up in a minute and talk about both of these situations. I just wanted to know what her options are, you know, because I'm willing to help her, and hopefully you guys are willing to help her too. Okay.
 I don't know what our options are. It says on the paperwork that she, since you guys did the repairs, the City of Portland maintenance, including needed repairs, must be considered part property ownership. What does that mean? Well, it means it runs with the property. So the cost of the improvements now are attached to the value of the property from the city's standpoint. But what we'll do is when we get to the end of the year. What's a safe sidewalk?
 Okay, I'm going to leave because we're no longer having that conversation. These folks have to get a particular problem dealt with. So maybe if we could get staff to come back up for just a second. I know that payment installments, that would be an option. Right. You're asking, the bill is per annual?
 income for her taxes. I understand. So let's get the staff to come back up and just address the question of what options are there for low-income property owners, if any, for in a situation like this? Are there deferrals? Are there payment plans? What are the options? So let me thank you and get them to come back up, and we might also want them to spend some more time with you after the hearing. She doesn't get any type of government funding. She doesn't get any Social Security, any food stamps, anything like that. She doesn't have any government funding.
 But I know that people that do go get government help, they have, like, you know, they get the low based on what you make. You know, the bill is based on what you make. Right. And so that would be nice if that was some sort of option for her in her situation. Okay. Well, thank you. Thank you for coming. We'll get them to come back up and respond, and we might want them to follow up with you as well individually. Okay.
 Okay, anyone else want to testify? So then if you would come back up and just refresh our memories at the council about what, for either of these folks' situation, what are the options at this point in the assessment process?
 If any. So, property owners do have the option of financing the amount with us, but there is no other, like, senior deferral we used to have, but that's no longer a program going on with the state. That was a state program? It was a state program.
 Because I remember that. Yeah. They discontinued it. So they just ended that? The state just ended that program? They did. Huh. Okay. Do we have the option of recreating our own? I mean, not that we could do that today, but I'm saying, do we have that option? I'm not sure. That's definitely something to look into. Okay. So there's...
 That we can finance the costs of the improvements there this property like all the other properties in the In the area that got assessed or subject to that but paying it over time is at least one of the options They have a five or ten year option
 Okay. Any other suggestions? So I might want to ask you to meet with them individually, make sure they understand what those options are. I know it may not solve the whole problem and it just may string it out, but it nevertheless might make the sticker shock of getting a $2,000 or $3,000 bill at least something that's a little bit more manageable. What is our interest rate on financing? It's a 5.2% interest rate.
 And how long a repayment period do we offer? On a $2,000 loan, it would be up to five or ten years. So enough to make that a relatively modest annual amount. Okay. All right. Any other questions for staff? No.
 Then I'm going to close the hearing, and then this will come back as an ordinance. Is that right? Yes. Okay. But in the meantime, could you please meet with these folks and give them that information and those options? And with that, we're going to recess until 2 p.m. Thank you all. Are we ready? Yes. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to the afternoon session of the May 13th Portland City Council meeting. Would you please call the roll?
 Fish. Here. Saltzman. Here. Novick. Here. Fritz. Here. Hales. Here. We have a couple of items from this morning's calendar that we've got to deal with, and then we'll move on to the things that are actually scheduled for this afternoon. So bear with us, folks, while we dispose of a couple things.
 From this morning, let me just make the usual announcements here at the beginning of the meeting. Welcome, everybody. If you're here to testify on a council item this afternoon, please sign up on the sign-up sheet, which is either outside or now here in the room with our council clerk.
 If you're here to speak on a council calendar item, just state your name. You don't have to give us your address. If you're a lobbyist under the city's code, you're required to disclose that. You know who you are, so make sure you do disclose that. Please testify only to the matter at hand. If you have...
 handouts to present to the council on a calendar item, please give them to the council clerk. And again, as usual, we ask that people maintain decorum in this room. If you want to indicate support or opposition to your fellow citizens' point of view, feel free to give them a thumbs up or a wave of the hand, or if you
 really want to indicate disapproval, give them a thumbs down. But we ask that people not make vocal demonstrations of any kind in the council chambers. And we have to sometimes gavel the meeting closed to reinforce that point because it's really important that everyone's point of view be heard.
 So those are the rules of procedure. And if we could go back to the three items that were on the calendar this morning that have to be voted on now. We had the hearings, but we also have an amendment to one of them. So the first of them is item 479.
 Authorize an intergovernmental agreement with the Oregon State Police Criminal Investigations Division for the use of Oregon Department of Justice, Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Program grant funds to reimburse the state for drug interdiction efforts on behalf of the HIDTA interdiction team. Okay. Any council questions on that matter? Then roll call vote on 479. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick?
 Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay, 480, I believe there's an amendment. Accept a grant in the amount of $172,700 and appropriate $40,000 for fiscal year 2014-15 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program for sworn personnel overtime and program expenses for Portland interdiction efforts.
 Okay, so that's the language that was in the amendment. So do we have to move that amendment, or is it already? It says included. Yeah, we haven't. Is that right? Yeah, we haven't made a motion for the amendment to amend Directive B to add general fund information. Oh, I see. There it is. Okay, so can I have a motion, please, to add that amendment to the Directive B? Second? Second. Any discussion? Roll call on the amendment, please.
 Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. And on the amended ordinance. Fish. Aye. Saltzman. Aye. Fritz. Aye. Hales. Aye. Okay, and then finally the third ordinance, 481.
 except a grant in the amount of $36,000 from the Oregon Department of Justice and the Oregon High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program for program expenses for Portland Metro Gang Task Force interdiction efforts. Okay, any further council discussion about this? Then roll call, please.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Just a quick comment about all three of these. We hear testimony sometimes sort of on one side of an issue, and that kind of was the case this morning. The Portland Police Bureau is not spending much time or money on dealing with marijuana, but we do have a huge upsurge in the use of heroin in our city and a really terrible resurgence of the use of methamphetamine.
 And those are tragic addictions and we've got a lot of addicted people and some of them commit crimes and some of them are being supplied by gang members and gangs are fueling their operations, if you will, with a combination of human trafficking and drugs.
 And so far this year, I've lost track as of this week, but as of Monday, we've had 45 gang violence incidents so far this year and well over 300 shots fired in our neighborhoods, including shots going through people's bedroom windows who had nothing to do with gangs. So it's a serious problem. And drugs are not just a public health concern. We have this wonderful service coordination team, and we have Multnomah County doing all the great work that they're doing, but it's still a police matter.
 And I think sometimes we forget that it's still a police matter. So I just wanted to get those points on the record and thank the folks at the Police Bureau that are focusing on the human cost of the huge wave of drugs that we're dealing with and the fact that that's a major profit center for gangs that are still pretty serious in our city. Aye. Okay. Now let's move to the afternoon calendar and take the first item, 485.
 Consider proposal of the City of Portland Water Bureau for historic demolition review and the Bureau of Development Services staff and Portland Historic Landmarks Commission recommendation of approval for the demolition of 1894 Reservoir No. 3.
 1894 Reservoir No. 4, and the 1946 Weir Building, all contributing resources in the Washington Park Historic District at 2403 Southwest Jefferson Street, LU14-249689DM. Okay, I think our city attorney has some instructions for us at this point, right? Thank you. Good afternoon. Can you move over a little bit so we can see the city attorney? Yes.
 good afternoon um just to briefly summarize where we are the council held a hearing on april 23rd on this matter the record was held open for two successive seven day periods and closed on at 5 pm on may 7th and the evidentiary record has been closed since that time i understand this morning as part of item 462 the communication section of the agenda
 The council members heard some comments from Floyd Jones, ostensibly on the Water Bureau budget, but also primarily directed to the Washington Park Reservoir demo review that's before you. Since the evidentiary record is closed, my recommendation to you is that you disregard her testimony and make it explicit that you're going south. Hey, folks, folks, I'll clear this chamber if that happens again. That's what never happened to us.
 Maybe so, but I'll clear this chamber if that happens again. She's giving us legal information that we need to follow under state land use law. And depending on which side of the issue you're on at any given moment, you might like for us to follow state land use law. So please continue.
 The purpose of today's proceeding is for council discussion and deliberation. Any vote you take today should be tentative only, and we will bring this back at a future date for the adoption of findings and a final decision. Okay. Thank you. All right. So we're at the point, I believe, on this item where we're ready for council deliberation and a possible motion. Is that right? Any further questions for the staff or city attorney before we act? Okay.
 And if not, do I have a motion? I move that we approve the application of the Water Bureau. Second. No demo. Further discussion? Okay, you're done. You're done. You're done. We're adjourned and we'll be back in ten minutes. No demo. No demo. No demo. No demo. No demo. No demo.
 Okay, folks, we're going to reconvene in a minute. Again, I want to ask you to be respectful in this chamber. I really didn't appreciate what happened earlier. We like to continue. We're going to proceed, folks. You don't get to come in here and shout. Sorry, you don't. But we're going to proceed. Okay, council will come back to order. Without objection, I'm going to suspend the rules and reconvene and take up the motion that was on the table for item 485. Further discussion? Roll call.
 Fish. Aye. No. No. Salt. Aye. Novick. Aye. Fritz. Hales. Aye. Done. Thank you. We need to set a date. Aye. Hales. Aye. She's gone. Okay.
 Item 486, please. No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! Okay, we'll set findings for June 10th, is that right? June 10th, yeah. Okay. June 10th for findings? Yes, at what time? 10 a.m. 10 a.m.
 What time? 10 a.m. Oh, 2 p.m.? 10. 2 p.m.? June 10th? My name is June 10th at 2 p.m. 10 a.m.
 10? No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No.
 No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No
 Go ahead, Councilor Toome. Good afternoon, Councilmembers. I'm here on the proposed code change to City Council. This is an ordinance item that's related to the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement. No! No!
 So apparently you people don't care about police accountability? No! We're talking about police accountability right now. We're talking about police accountability.
 So, council members, I presented, I have a proposal on the proposed code change. I have a PowerPoint release.
 So, a little bit of background. We're talking about police accountability. That's very important. So, the Citizen Review Committee was created in 2001. There are 11 members of the CRC. The CRC members are appointed by city council.
 The CRC members serve on the police review board and on a rotating basis, and they also serve as an advisory body to the independent police review and the chief of police. We're not allowed to. It's a quasi-judicial land use appeal. No! No! No! No! No! No! No!
 Can we go ahead? Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo! Boo!
 No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No! No!
 No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
 Thank you very much. We'll let you start over in a minute. Thank you.
 Okay, Constantine, why don't you begin at the beginning? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Should I go away today or what do you prefer? Hang on, I don't think your microphone's on. Could you turn up Constantine's microphone? Yeah, go ahead.
 Go ahead. All right. Go ahead, Constantine. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So this is an item in front of council about the proposed code change to the citizen review committee and put together a PowerPoint display about the citizen review committee. So the citizen review committee was created in 2001.
 It has 11 members. The auditor recommends nominees to the City Council for appointment. They are three-year terms. The CRC members also serve as rotating members on the Police Review Board in use of force cases. The Citizen Review Committee serves as an advisory body to the Independent Police Review and the Chief of Police. So a little bit of background on city code provisions relating to the CRC.
 City Code 321-140 authorizes CRC to hear appeals of misconduct cases. Either a community member or a police officer dissatisfied with the outcome of investigated cases can submit a request for review or what we also call an appeal. CRC members receive the full investigative file prior to an appeal.
 A request for review consists of two hearings. A case file review, which is an opportunity for the Citizen Review Committee to assess the completeness and readiness of the completed investigation for an appeal. And an appeal hearing. The committee decides whether the decision by the Police Bureau fact finder is supported by the evidence. Currently, the Citizen Review Committee may request an additional investigation at either stage. Right now, that's at the discretion of either Internal Affairs or IPR. So...
 So the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement resolved litigation between the United States Department of Justice and the City of Portland. This was a complaint filed back in 2012 from an investigation started in 2011 that the Portland Police Bureau had engaged in a pattern and practice of unnecessary or unreasonable force during interactions with people experiencing mental illness. The Citizen Review Committee has mentioned several places of the agreement.
 City Council approved the agreement in December 2012. The agreement was made effective by Judge Michael Simon on August 29th, 2014. And then you'll be a Justice in that? All, so these are some of the changes that are part of the Department of Justice Settlement Agreement that involve the CRC. All administrative investigations of officer misconduct must occur within 180 days of receipt, which includes CRC appeals.
 Appeals to the citizen review committee should be resolved within 21 days, which would be a big change compared to the way things work right now. CRC members would serve on a rotating basis on the police review board, expansion of the CRC from 9 to 11 members, and the CRC may make one request for additional investigation during the appeal process, and that request may include multiple points of inquiry.
 So the need for code change is based on the case file review and the appeal hearing. So paragraph 121 of the settlement agreement talks about the 180 days. The current appeal process includes a waiting period of around 90 days. Paragraph 121 also talks about the 21 days that the CRC would have to conduct an appeal. The current best case scenario is about 60 days.
 The time to file an appeal would be reduced from 30 days to 14 days. Proposed changes would allow the case file review and appeal hearing to occur on the same day if the CRC believed investigation was complete. The proposed code change would require additional investigation by either IPR or IA and CRC voted to do so. That would not be at the discretion of either investigative entity.
 Can I ask you a question on that? What's the rationale for reducing the time to appeal from 30 to 14 days? So the... Thank you, everyone. Oh, thank you. So the appeal period is included within the 180 days. So currently, only about 10% of our appellants or community members who file a complaint request an appeal. So...
 As a way of compressing the timeline, we're making the proposed change that it would go to 14 days with a pretty expansive good cause clause. And your view is that doesn't prevent people from having a reasonable time? I don't think so. Just based on some of the research that we've done, it takes about 10 to 11 days for people to decide whether they want to file an appeal or not.
 So this slide talks about the appeals that we've had over the last four or five years. 2013 was a pretty active year. There were five appeals. The CDC historically challenges the police bureau's findings at least a third of the time, some years as much as 60%.
 We've had a relatively extensive public engagement process on this code change. It started in October 2014 where CRC members and IPR staff got together to come up with proposed code language that would meet the requirements of the Department of Justice settlement agreement as well as respect the community members who have engaged the city's complaint process.
 Draft language was put together and was presented in front of the CRC in January of 2015. February 13th, we sent notification to the COCL council offices and the public that's on our notification list. We heard some feedback from some COCL members that wanted additional time, so we decided to pull this item and set it for today. Which in retrospect may not have been the best of things.
 You know, democracy is a beautiful thing. Thank you so much. So do you have any questions on that? Maybe later. Thank you. Anything else you want to add now or maybe later? So I believe there are three members of the community who follow these issues who have requested an opportunity to speak on this issue. Okay, we'll let them speak and get you back up after that. We have Dan Handelman, Joe Walsh, Edith Gillis.
 We're calling public testimony for this item. Dan Handelman. Joe Walsh. Tell him he can testify now. And Eden Gillis. You can testify now, Mr. Walsh. Dan Handelman. We love you, Joe. Go ahead, ma'am. And then Mr. Walsh can follow you and Mr. Handelman after that. It's a really lost case.
 Okay, go ahead. Welcome. I'll go last. You want to go last? Okay. Dan, you want to go? Dan, go ahead. Sure, let me just hand in my testimony here. Mayor Hales and Commissioners, by the way, I don't cross picket lines and I don't, I'm not doing this disrespecting any of you or what you're doing. We came here to testify about this issue today, so I appreciate your devotion to the cause that you're here for. I just want to start by saying that.
 So Portland Copwatch extends thanks to the auditor. Oh, I also wanted to ask Mayor Hales if I might have an extra minute. Sure. Thank you. Portland Copwatch extends thanks to the auditor and the independent police. Oh, I'm Dan Handelman with Portland Copwatch. A little thrown. That's okay. We extend our thanks to the auditor and the independent police division for postponing the changes to the IPR ordinance from February until today. The delay gave a chance for members of the Community Oversight Advisory Board and others to ask questions, make suggestions, and come up with a much better product that you're considering. Thank you.
 We still have concerns about some of the proposed language and the reluctance of IPR and council to make bolder changes that would give Portman a truly independent civilian review board.
 Some of today's changes are supposed to get the Citizen Review Committee appeals process down to 21 days as listed in the DOJ agreement. The DOJ itself told CRC that if they need more time, that's acceptable. David Knight told CRC the 21 day timeline is just one line and a 77 page document and the DOJ would not bring the city to court for a lack of compliance if they take 45 days. And I have posted video of that on our YouTube page.
 Examining the changes, here's what we find. The first one, the IPR is narrowing to 14 days, the timeline for a person unsatisfied with the outcome of a complaint investigation to appeal the CRC. IPR's own analysis showed that people either file within a few days of receiving their disposition letter or wait until the end of the current 30-day period.
 The proposal from IPR allows the director to make exceptions, citing language barriers and physical or cognitive issues as reasons to accept a late filing. We'd hope the director would be allowed to set a longer timeframe more broadly, since many people need more than 14 days just to understand what the CRC is, find someone to assist them in filing their paperwork, and file the appeal.
 The next section, the ordinance now lumps the CRC's case file review and appeal hearing into one hearing. We'd strongly recommended that the words, a hearing consisting of, be removed from the revised ordinance so it would read, when the director receives and accepts a timely request for review, a case file review and appeal hearing shall be scheduled before the committee.
 Director Sevier appeared to have agreed to remove those four words at the April 21 community meeting. Instead, he added a new sentence that says, the case file review shall take place prior to the appeal hearing, either on the same day or on an earlier date. This takes care of our concern that someone will call foul if CRC votes to delay the appeal, though our proposal was less wordy and less confusing.
 That same section now says the Director will notify the CRC Executive Committee upon receipt of an appeal. This doesn't fully address our concern that under the old ordinance, the CRC Chair was to help schedule the hearings and was going to be cut out of the new one completely. By limiting the contact of CRC to notification of the appeal and not mentioning scheduling, this could take away CRC's ability to schedule its own hearings.
 The most important changes proposed to the CRC under the DOJ agreement grants them the authority to order further investigation. IPR originally left out language from the agreement which says they will not be limited in their one opportunity to ask for, say, just one photograph or one follow-up interview. The ordinance now appropriately says the request for investigation may include multiple areas of inquiry. This is a very huge deal for the community that the CRC is going to have the power to tell the city we need more investigation.
 Finally, IPR added a new section, which at first seemed unnecessary, but there's new language that I see that Commissioner Fritz apparently is proposing that says the CRC should decide when...
 they're going to hold the appeal hearing instead of just ordering them to vote to hold the appeal hearing. So we approve of the new proposed language that's very helpful. There will still be many instances where the CRC will not want to hold the appeal hearing on the same day as the case file review. This is how the system works now as a result of many years of trial and error and what has led to the separating of these two processes.
 We'd also suggested that IPR include a provision to explicitly allow CRC to recommend changes to the allegations as written. CRC has been able to do so a number of times, but has also been blocked from doing so because it seems to be up to whoever is interpreting the code.
 There are over a dozen other outstanding issues from the 2010 stakeholders group which need to be addressed. For instance, we would like to see council finish the work you started over a year and a half ago to give IPR the power to compel officer testimony, as well as change CRC's deferential standard rule of view and give CRC the explicit ability to hear shootings and deaths appeals. Thank you for your time. Questions? I've got some. Go ahead, Commissioner. Mr. Mayor, I would like to move here.
 I'd like to move the amendment so that others can testify. I'm glad that Mr. Handelman knew about it so that he was able to comment.
 The amendment is on 321.150 case file review, and it responds to Ms. Handelman's concern about not directing the committee on what to vote, but rather they shall vote on when to hold an appeal hearing. So new section D would say, if the committee agrees no further investigation and consideration of the evidence appears warranted, the committee shall vote on when to hold an appeal hearing. Okay.
 I'll second it for discussion. Commissioner Fritz, is this a friendly amendment? Has the auditor determined this is a friendly amendment? Yes, it was discussed with and worked out with Mr. Sevier. I also am interested in Mr. Handelman's other requested amendment to Section A to delete the words a hearing consisting of, which I believe is consistent with the discussion that we've had, is that there may be two separate hearings or there may not be.
 Yeah, I'm still trying to figure that one out, Dan. So what's the effect of how does it function after you remove those four words? Well, I think what it makes it clear that they're not going to have to be held at the same time. And my concern is that it's probably not going to come from the citizen because citizens over the years have –
 come to appreciate the way that the CRC has been holding their hearings more thoroughly and they don't seem to mind how long it's taking. So I'm afraid that might come from the police side that they're going to complain if CRC separates the appeal hearing and the case file review to two different days and say that they're in violation of the ordinance. And I understand the new sentence takes care of that but it's kind of just kind of confusing to say on the same day or an earlier date. It's very confusing
 temporarily, it doesn't make sense in the way we speak English to each other on a daily basis. But I think if you just take out those four words, you're going to have the same effect, and it will remove that concern.
 Okay, yeah, I see. So I haven't checked that one out with Mr. Severo, the auditor. I'd like to hear their response, but that is something that would be interesting having on. Well, do you want to make the motion or do you want to hear from Constantine first? We've got other folks that want to speak. So let's hold that aside and give you the chance to make that motion in a little while, but let's hear from the other citizens first. So please. Thank you, Dan. So welcome. Go ahead. My name is Joe Walsh. I represent Individuals for Justice.
 We concur with everything that Dan just said with Cop Watch, but we would also point out that unless the independent review board or whatever name you want to put on it, if the organization does not have total independence, all of this is fluff. That board that looks at the police department's behavior must be totally independent. Right.
 They must answer to no one except the citizens of this city, not to you, not to the police, not to any committee. They have to be independent. That means you have to set up some funding for them. You have to set up independent investigators. You have to set up...
 of funding and a place for them to meet outside of City Hall, away from you guys, as far as they can get away from the police department, and come down with realistic decisions, and then have subpoena power to punish.
 I know the people that have that right now, the chief of police and also the mayor. I would suggest you take that away from both of you. I don't think we do, Joe. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Please don't interrupt me because you break my chain of thought, and that's unfair. You want to comment later, I'm sure you have a comment. Okay. I'll check. Okay.
 All we're saying is whatever organization or institution or creation you come up with, what all these deals and things that are coming out of the Department of Justice, unless the independent review board is totally independent, like they just didn't know it. My God, a Republican governor in Newark, New Jersey, they are totally independent.
 And here, they advise. That's it. These organizations advise the chief of police. They advise the mayor. They are useless. And it's been shown to you over and over and over again. And you have to have investigations that even Joe Walsh looks at and says, that is an independent investigation. And right now, you don't have anything close to that.
 And I'm losing my voice. And I'm sure you're happy. Thank you. Thanks, Joe. Okay, welcome. Good afternoon. Hello. My name is Edith Gillis, and I am a citizen of Portland for over 35 years. And my deep concern is that we are defrauding our taxpayers and the voters and our public servants, and we're putting at risk the safety of our people.
 emergency personnel, et cetera, when we call something an independent police review when it's not independent. And what we need to do is to have it independent. Can you hear me? Yes. So I'm talking about an independent investigator and prosecutor. I'm talking about separate budget, separate location, separate staff, securing the evidence, subpoena powers, enforcement,
 and that when someone, when a police officer or a private mercenary or other organization is in the jurisdiction of the city of Portland, or anyone wearing anything like riot gear in the city of Portland, that if there's any death, if there's any injury of a civilian, if there's any allegation of police brutality or corruption, that person is held for investigation, and
 is held without pay and is not allowed to be taken our money. Too much of our tax dollars are being spent on not only a few bad apples, but on a system that rewards corruption and bullying of police officers by police officers and withholding information that you need to do your job properly.
 I'm wanting to have proper training that we do not have yet. And I'm wanting to also make sure that each of these are held accountable to the human rights and civil liberties of not only the police, but of the civilians.
 I do not want us to be having one where we're just kind of holding hands and everyone's afraid of the cops, and the cops and the police union get away with controlling what happens, and that important evidence of crimes have been destroyed or lost, that witnesses have been intimidated, and that good cops are forced out of the program. Thank you. Thanks very much.
 Okay, questions? Thank you all. Others that are going to sign up? Debbie Iona and Charles Johnson. Good afternoon. Hi. I'm Debbie Iona representing the League of Women Voters of Portland. Although the League has significant concerns about shortening the timeline for appeals, in light of the DOJ settlement agreement, we support the IPR proposed changes.
 The League was one of the many organizations and individuals raising concerns about the shortened timeline for appeals.
 As longtime observers of the Citizen Review Committee, we have seen firsthand what a positive difference the Case File Review and the Volunteer Advocates and Appeals Process Advisors have made in the quality of appeals and in the satisfaction expressed by appellants, whether or not their appeal is successful.
 They walk away feeling as if they've been heard and supported and that the CRC had the time and information needed to make a thoughtful decision. The proposed code change allows the case file review and appeal hearing to continue to be scheduled separately when necessary. This should help ensure that the CRC can continue to give due consideration to each case.
 It was encouraging to hear a DOJ representative state at a recent CRC meeting that they will not hold the city to the 21-day limit because they have come to understand that indeed more time is needed if we are to give the appellant time to prepare and give the CRC the ability to ensure the investigation is adequate.
 Furthermore, the Volunteer National Lawyers Guild advocates and the IPR-provided appeals process advisors need time to meet with appellants to help them understand the process and present their cases effectively. The League does not want to see quality sacrificed in the interest of expediting the process.
 We are concerned that the 14-day period to file an appeal may prevent worthy appellants from coming forward. The IPR should track concerns raised by appellants and be willing to consider amending the ordinance if 14 days proves to be a significant barrier.
 Finally, the League truly appreciates the efforts IPR Director Sevier has made by meeting with interested community members to discuss the proposed changes. We were especially pleased to observe his willingness to make revisions to the proposal after hearing from the public.
 CRC and COAB representatives and others. Thank you very much. Debbie, I just have a question. Yes. You regularly spoil us by giving us written testimony. Do you have a handout today or is that your testimony? I just came away from two weeks in California and just kind of pulled this together a couple hours ago. It was very clear, but I just wanted to make sure we weren't missing anything. No, sorry. I just, you know, sometimes you just have limits. I'll give you a pass here. Thanks a lot. Given that you're a volunteer, I think you can be excused for not always having written testimony.
 Thank you. Good afternoon, commissioners, and I appreciate Director Constantine Sevier's patience as some of my friends and neighbors expressed their extreme concern with wasteful city policy. I'm glad to see we're trying to make the CRC appeal process more friendly to our citizens and more efficient so that we can get quality police oversight.
 I think that Mr. Handlin addressed the minutia of these changes adequately, but when we look in the PDF, we see that Director Sevier even found a group called the Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center, with which, among other groups, to discuss these changes. And I really think that
 between Mr. Sevier and the Auditor General, there needs to be an honest, comprehensive report, perhaps facilitated by the LWV, the League of Women Voters,
 That really states what the people think about police accountability in Portland and what changes from the grassroots. Not inside the structure of the COAB or the settlement agreement or any of those things. But I think there are many excluded and minimized voices who have thoughtful things to contribute about what we could really do to make people believe that...
 we're moving towards stronger accountability and punishment for police misconduct. That's really the words we should be saying is the police and criminal justice is mostly a punitive system here. We really need to be talking about punishment for police wrongdoing. We know the wrongdoing happens and the punishment doesn't happen. Paid vacations happen.
 And I'm hoping that Mr. Hanlon will incorporate that in some of his cop watch reporting. And I think it's also a good thing for you to look for, Mayor. How many hours of more than $15 an hour police time is wasted because police engage in misconduct, get sidelined for vacations, get paid after wrongdoing? And it's unfortunate that we can't address this issue strictly as a human rights and civil rights issue, that we have to remember that.
 Part of the reason you guys are even in motion is because the United States of America Department of Justice had to investigate you, found a pattern of wrongdoing. And the other reason is dollars. The city has cops that are not good cops that do deliberately wrong things, get found liable in civil trials, and taxpayer dollars has to go to the injured parties.
 Our goal should be zero, not just zero spending on that kind of thing, but zero injury to our fellow citizens and neighbors in Portland. So I hope that along with these minutiae that were well addressed by Mr. Handelman, these changes, that we won't lose. The biggest focus is to bad cops out, do something about the crazy arbitration system that lets them come back and...
 a target of zero police misconduct and zero payouts. Thank you. Thanks. And just glad you raised the question about Portland Opportunities Industrialization Center. It's got probably the strangest name of any nonprofit in the city. It's actually a nonprofit organization
 As you may know, I'd urge you to take a look at the website if you haven't seen what they do, but they actually focus on at-risk use. They provide outreach to gang members and potential gang members. They run the Rosemary Anderson High School, and one of the reasons why I think it's really excellent that the auditor consulted POIC about the police bureau is that they had to deal with a massive police response there in December of last year when three of their students were shot on the sidewalk outside of the school, including one of my interns from my office.
 So they've had a lot of experience with the police bureau, sort of both sides of the issue. And although their name is really strange, they're so in contact with the community that's most at risk that
 in terms of the relationship with the police bureau. So I'm glad you brought them up. And I appreciate your clarifying that, because I think many people would have rather seen the documentation include interaction with Rosemary Anderson School staff and students. They do other things. They have gang outreach workers, and they do job training for particularly kids of color. And thanks for holding your remarks until I was finished. Thanks. Okay, others?
 That's all who signed up. So I think it would be good to get the auditor and Mr. Sevier back up, and also to take up the question of the amendment that you were posing, Commissioner Fritz. So I guess the first question I would have is your response to some of the criticisms or constructive criticisms and suggestions that Mr. Handelman made, and then also this other potential amendment that's been mentioned.
 So on, I guess I'll take the amendment first. On 321.150, on
 Subparagraph A, I have no objection to removing a hearing consisting of. That's something that came up during the public feedback period and that was something I committed to removing and just kind of made it into this draft. I don't think it makes a huge substantive difference because hearings can be multiple days.
 as you folks are well aware of. But I think if there's any possible impediment to members of the public accessing this or causing confusion among community members, particularly volunteers, I am more than willing to do that. Okay. Great. Good. Thank you.
 Thank you. Auditor, Caballero, any other comments that you'd like to make at this point? Yeah, the one comment that I would like to make is the fear that if IPR is doing the scheduling for the hearings, that somehow we're going to cut the CRC out. We want those hearings to go forward. We are focused on people who walk in and file complaints and investigating those complaints, and so it—
 is in our best interest. It's in the civilian oversight system's best interest that we are coordinating closely with the volunteers of the Citizen Review Committee. And so I don't interpret the language of this text in a way that construes any sort of authority to the Independent Police Review Division that was raised during the public testimony. Okay.
 okay and and just uh one other thing um you know the appeal process ipr crc it doesn't belong to me it doesn't belong to the auditor this this is an
 system that's been built over the last 20 years. It belongs to all of us. And one of the commitments that this auditor and our office has made, particularly during this particular code change process, is trying to make it as open as possible of talking to anybody and everybody. And we've gotten some really good feedback that we're able to incorporate in this. And it's been a learning experience for us as well. And it's been so positive, the response that we've gotten from community members, is that
 For basic, from the beginning of this, starting this month, the rest of the summer, we're going to try to do an IPR info session talking about police accountability issues. And during the feedback that we heard from community members, a lot of people were talking about the future and wanting to engage in proactive change of not waiting for Baltimore or Ferguson or whatever to happen here, but for us to be ahead of the curve because we are Portland and we are a progressive society, I believe.
 So May 27th is going to be the first one, and we're going to have that in Portland building. June's is going to be at the Charles Jordan Center up in North Portland in July and August. And we're going to try to have different themes, and it's not going to be me with my awesome PowerPoint. It's just going to be us sitting around as equals. I think staff has a role to participate, but I think this is really an opportunity for members of the public to participate and find out what we're actually doing right now and if there are gaps.
 and if there are things that we can do better that we, you know, learn from members of the public and if there is something that needs to be legislated or something like that put together. I really like Mr. Johnson's point of putting together some sort of report or something, like at the end of the summer of saying, okay, this is what we heard from members of the public and providing that to the public at large.
 Thank you. So then I move the requested amendment to section A to delete the words a hearing consisted of from the first sentence. Second. Okay. So further discussion on including that amendment, then a roll call on including that second amendment. Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. And did we act on the first amendment or just put it on the table? So let's act on the first one as well, please.
 Fish? Aye. Saltzman? Aye. Novick? Aye. Fritz? Aye. Hales? Aye. Okay. Any further council discussion on this item?
 And I'm just looking back to see it is not an emergency ordinance, right? No, it is not. Not an emergency ordinance? It's not. I would like to make a comment. First of all, it was an awesome PowerPoint that you just presented, and it's fortunate that you had that written work. Obviously, you had already briefed all the council offices ahead of time, so it wasn't any of it was news to us, but because you had the PowerPoint, people at home were able to read what was up on the screen, even though they may not have been able to hear what you said. Okay.
 Second, I've been involved in several independent police review co-changes over my six and a bit years on the council, and often the amount of anger that's expressed at these hearings has been directed at you and your staff, although I was really disappointed.
 I'm disheartened that people could not hear your presentation. I am glad that this time there's so much more consensus that you worked with the community, that with our new auditor in charge, there's a renewed confidence in the independence of the process. And so I really commend you to have folks...
 Mr. Handelman and Ms. Iona coming to say that although they're still concerned about the timeline, they support what you've done is a tremendous achievement. So thank you very much. Thank you, ma'am. Thank you both. Thank you. So this will come back for second reading next week. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Let's move into the final item this afternoon, which is 487. Thank you.
 Support entering the project development phase of the Powell Division Transit and Development Project, an authorized letter to Metro stating commitment to provide transportation system development charge funds towards the transit project. Commissioner Novick. Thank you, Baron colleagues. I'd like to first thank Metro for the Community Planning and Development Grant that funded city staff participation in the planning process for this Powell Division Transit and Development Project.
 I also want to thank the following community members who provided valuable direction to the project's planning process. Judith Mowry of the Office of Equity and Human Rights, Kem Marks and Lori Boyson of the Division Midway Alliance, Rahi Reddy of APANO in the Jade District, Vivian Satterfield of Opal Environmental Justice, David Wong of APANO, and Dr. Lisa Bates of Portland State University.
 This is largely a transit project, but fortunately when we do this transit project, we will also improve safety along Inner Powell and Outer Division. We were reminded again this week of the safety issues on Powell with the tragic crash involving the bicyclists at 26th and Powell. We've long known that crossing and safety improvements along Powell Boulevard could significantly improve safety for everyone sharing the road, whether you're driving, walking, or biking.
 And Director Treat and I are committed to reaching our Vision Zero goals to move towards zero traffic-related fatalities and serious injuries. The need for safer and faster access to transit and faster, more reliable transit service, especially to jobs and school, is particularly prevalent in the Inner Powell Outer Division corridor. The corridor now includes some of the highest ridership in the entire TriMet system. The number four bus and division is over 9,000 trips a day. The number nine bus and Powell is over 8,700 trips per day.
 Preliminary estimates indicate that the possible bus rapid transit line along Powell Division might have average weekly day line riders of between 24,000 and 28,000 people, which would generate, I mean, some of those would be shifted from existing lines. But the preliminary estimates indicate that in the neighborhood of 6,000 new average trips would be added to the TriMet system. This project would complement.
 The East – the hope for implementation of the outer Powell conceptual design plan and the safety improvements involved there, our efforts to improve safety in 122nd, and hopefully TriVet will also add frequent service. These are all priority projects identified in the East Portland in motion five-year strategy in the East Portland Action Plan. Supporting the Powell Division Transit Development Project also reinforces elements of our comprehensive plan update.
 We are pleased that PBOT actually has some SDC funds that we're prepared to commit towards this project. Our SDC funds will leverage federal and regional funds towards improving transit access to educational employment opportunities, among other things, at PCC, PSU, OHSU, and Mount Hood Community College. Throughout the planning process, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability has been developing a land use vision and action plan to help guide and support future development and community building activities along the corridor.
 We want to be sure that this project actually serves existing members of the community and doesn't simply lead to gentrification. We, of course, very much hope that the legislature will give us some new tools to prevent gentrification. We also are confident the community benefits agreements, local hiring, and hiring of minority and women-owned contracting companies during this actual project will be of great value to the community.
 Because the steering committee includes community partners and citizen representatives, displacement mitigation tools like these have been prioritized throughout the planning process, strengthening the relationships with community members along the corridor. I'll now ask Leah Treat, Director of the Bureau of Transportation, to share more details on this project. Thank you, Mayor and Commissioners. Again, I am Leah Treat, the Director of the Portland Bureau of Transportation.
 So I'm pleased today to be bringing to you the Powell Division Transit and Development Project. It's a high capacity transit project on the Powell Division corridor and will connect downtown Portland to Gresham. So we're here today to ask for your support to advance the project from the planning phase into its next phase of project development.
 I have the honor of representing the City of Portland on the steering committee alongside our agency partners, elected officials and community partners. Although Commissioner Novick is our official representative appointed by the Mayor, I have been participating on his behalf. Planning for the project has been a collaborative effort involving the Bureau of Transportation, the Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, Metro, TriMet, ODOT, Multnomah County and the City of Gresham.
 And this partnership is a reflection of the multi-jurisdictional nature of the PAL Division project corridor, and it includes street segments belonging to Portland, Gresham, Multnomah County, and the state of Oregon. Metro is leading the region's effort to plan the project, and TriMet is leading the design process. TriMet would also operate the new service.
 Given their significant roles, we have invited Brian Mongberg, Metro's Planning Project Manager, and Alan Lato, TriMet's Director of Planning and Policy, to share more of the details of the project with you today. The PAL Division project includes three of the city's high crash corridors at PAL 82nd and Division, and these streets have experienced high demand from pedestrians and cyclists and people accessing transit.
 So this project presents a really good opportunity for us to move forward on our Vision Zero goals and improve safety along these high-crash corridors. The High Capacity Transit Project also ties into our Portland Progress Goals and is identified as connecting Portlanders to economic opportunities. And with that, I'm going to turn it over to Brian to share more about the project. Good afternoon. We're very pleased to give you an update on the project.
 This project's corridor does connect downtown Portland to southeast Portland, east Portland, the city of Gresham, with a vision to connect downtown to Mount Hood Community College near the eastern boundary of our region. And there's a lot of opportunity to connect a number of major destinations in the corridor. Just to highlight why we are moving forward with this project,
 This was identified as one of two priority quarters out of the regional transportation plan, including Southwest Corridor and the Powell Division Corridor, those highlighted in green from the regional high-capacity transit plan. And as we've talked about, this is a quarter where a lot of people are riding transit every single day. There's a lot of line ridership, a lot of growth on the 4 and the 9, and a real opportunity to connect to existing investments in the orange line, the green line, and the blue line.
 And just as an example of that, right in the middle of the corridor at the intersection of 82nd and Division, there's over 18,000 on-offs a week at that site, which, to put in context, is enough people to nearly fill up the Timbers soccer stadium. A lot of activity and a lot of people engaging in this project and engaging transit in our corridor.
 So when we're working on the transit project, we're very focused on making sure that we build a project that can save time for people riding it, providing for a comfortable and safe trip, and importantly, connecting the places we care about. As we've discussed, we've been really focused on developing the economic development strategy around this site, leveraging so much work the city of Portland has already put in places like the Portland-Milwaukee line, Foster Powell, the Jade District, and East Portland.
 And as we've talked about, there's been an emerging theme for the education corridor, recognizing that this project can leverage investments in Portland State, Oregon Health Sciences University, with the significant investment Portland Community College has put at 82nd and Division and Monahood Community College campus. The two largest high schools in the state of Oregon are in our corridor at David Douglas and Reynolds High School and several other high schools. There's a lot of students transferring between all of these educational institutions.
 And we've also been working closely with the efforts that Portland Development Commission and the City of Portland have had around the Neighborhood Prosperity Initiative, and in particular the Jade District and Division Midway. And when we put those together with this Emerging Action Plan, this project has really been focused on supporting the uniqueness of the communities along the corridor, providing amenities that really improve the neighborhood, and importantly a real focus on supporting equitable development. So just to briefly summarize the project –
 This is two-fold, both a transit and development project. In this planning phase, we've been focused on developing a vision around the route and the stations and supporting projects for the transit. And the City of Portland has been leading the effort in partnership with the City of Gresham for a development strategy, and we've been working together to define a series of actions and projects that can really help support the areas we'd like to see change and the areas the community would like to see remain stable. Thank you.
 And with that, we've really focused on the notion that everything is done in partnership. Metro has been leading the steering committee where the community and agency have been coming together to identify shared issues, finding common ground. And with that agreement, we look to pursue and collaborate on funding. And that agreement and that effort working together in partnership really has provided a lot of value and opportunity to bring needed investments in the corridor.
 And as an example of that, we've been holding a lot of community-based workshops in the corridor over the last year and a half. And that has included both geographically specific as well as culturally and multilingual engagement. Also working closely with high school students in the corridor and local businesses. We've also had a focus in a series of workshop discussions around equitable development. Our website and our work with the community has developed an equitable development resource kit that
 And the emerging action plan the city has been developing has focused on housing, economic development, and real projects and policies that can support the communities in conjunction with the transit investment. And also just want to acknowledge the online efforts and what we learned from the comprehensive plan and the online map app that was so successful. We've had a similar effort on this project. Just this spring we had over 1,500 comments online and a lot of engagement online as well as in person.
 As an example of that, I just wanted to share a quote from one of the community members we've engaged who said, thank you for having me speak for our Tongan community at the steering committee and very much appreciate the ink time. I will share...
 with my sewing class today, and the word of mouth will spread faster than the high-speed internet at Metro. The Tongan community will know we've been heard. And Collini did speak with our steering committee in March, and we've engaged many groups along the corridor to hear where they would like to see the investments.
 And so what that has meant is our steering committee has partnered community and business organizations. The steering committee is a little unique. We have 22 members, and we've taken a triple bottom line approach. So in addition to elected officials and the neighborhood communities, we've had representatives of social, environmental, and economic interests on the corridor. It's been a real delight to work with a very broad group to really build a vision for the corridor. Thank you.
 We developed goals around transportation, well-being, equity, and efficiency. Really important to really focus on how this can really support the community and equity goals. And where we are with the project is we have developed a vision for a new bus rapid transit project that would run on InterPowell in Portland, connecting to Division, to Gresham, and to Mont hood Community College,
 We're still working through some planning decisions about the actual route. There's been a strong interest on 82nd as being the route, but we're doing some additional design work on that. And also refining some choices in Gresham. So finally, just want to highlight some of the collaboration. One has been partnership with the philanthropic community and been doing a grant based on art and placemaking along the corridor, partnering with the Jade and Division Midway District.
 Been also working very closely with the Jade District. Their visioning process identified over the last year four key opportunities around traffic improvements, 82nd and division, and a community space and green space. We're excited to say that that led to a metro transit-oriented development purchase for the former furniture store site right at 82nd and division, right next to Portland Community College.
 And what that's led to is a partnership with APANO to have that as a multicultural space as we've worked together to define a vision for future housing on the site. And for those of you who attended the event last week to kick off this site, it was a really exciting event with a lot of community participation. It's been a great partnership to look at those kinds of investments parallel to the transit investment. Thank you.
 And just want to acknowledge there's a continued interest to actually site the station on the campus of Mount Hood Community College, which is significant. Their district does encompass much of East Portland and many students. So we've had an exciting partnership with the college, and we're actually at the board tonight to discuss the project with them. So that's a brief overview, and I want to transition to Alan Lato, who's going to talk a little bit more about the project. Thanks, Brian. Hi.
 We're very excited about the opportunity to develop this project. As you've heard, there are a number of transit riders in this corridor, of course, but it's a real opportunity to bring what is effectively a new mode to the region to improve even more so that experience for existing riders and to attract new riders in this corridor and to support the aspirations of the communities along the way, both in Portland and in the city of Gresham.
 It's a real opportunity to bring that improvement in a way that is, brings it in a relatively quick manner and really considers all of the needs and aspirations that can go into this kind of a project to improve transit in this set of the corridor. What I'm going to do here is talk just a little bit more about nuts and bolts as well, and Brian if you could go to the next slide there.
 In terms of timing, you've heard already that we've spent several years understanding and learning as much as we can, connecting with people in the community and understanding what the interests are and what the needs are to try to get to the big picture idea of what this improvement should be. Then what we do is we start to move into this next stage of project development and beyond that brings that from a conceptual idea and the promise to how we actually deliver that promise
 and ultimately go into construction and opening the service and running it for the very long term. There will be lots more to work on for that, but for right now, maybe if you go to the next one,
 This next step is what FTA calls project development. And the term isn't as important as just understanding that it's taking what's a conceptual idea and putting a little bit more shape to it so that we can do that important analysis of the benefits and the potential impacts and how to mitigate some of those impacts as part of the project.
 And that's what you see, the ability for us to work on the preliminary engineering, planning for the funding for the ultimate construction of the project, and on the environmental work. All of this is to essentially get into the queue, the pipeline for FTA, to be able to work with our federal partners to have them help us do this project.
 It's part of what's called a small starts program, which has certain limits to it, but also has a lot of advantages in terms of being a simpler, faster, and easier to implement kind of program than what we had to do to do, for instance, the Orange Line that's going to be opening up in September. It allows us to bring the benefits this decade, hopefully, rather than a decade from now.
 And I know you've heard some about what bus rapid transit is, but just as a reminder for you and for those who are listening today,
 It's a whole range of improvements, most of which we have bits and pieces of around the region, so exclusive bus lanes like we have in downtown are leading to some of the bridges. Specialized vehicles, though, and larger stations, great information at those stations, connections to different places and different lines throughout the corridor.
 And the ability to really do something special with this corridor that we haven't done anywhere else in the region.
 We also have the great opportunity, unfortunately we're not first with this one, but we have the opportunity to learn from some of the great successes and mistakes that have happened in other parts of the country. So learning from a Cleveland Health line or a Los Angeles Orange line and other places that really understand now what you can do with bus rapid transit and how to make it work as well as possible.
 And I also want to emphasize that we have a real opportunity. We've set it up right this time where we're talking about the corridor, the capital improvements to the corridor, and the service to this one Powell Division corridor at the same time that we're talking about the vision for the transit network as a whole. So it's not just one line. It's how it connects in with all the entire system so that people can make those important connections to educational opportunities, job opportunities, daily needs, etc.
 health care, all of the things that people need on a day-by-day and week-by-week basis, and not just travel in a single corridor but travel throughout East Portland, East County, the rest of the region.
 And as part of that, to make sure that we're doing that, we've been doing what we call the service enhancement plans or the future of transit work to develop the vision for what that future network looks like and how it connects with this project. And so you can see a few of the things that we've been hearing on the east side. Requests for more coverage, especially for north-south service in areas that we don't have, either improvements or new lines.
 Service more often earlier and later than we do today. Connecting with employment areas, enhancing access to education, healthy food and services that are places in East Portland but are not convenient to every corridor. And of course, part of this project and partnerships throughout the region to try to improve access to transit in a safe and responsible way.
 All right, thank you, Brian and Alan. We'll talk a little bit about the City of Portland's funding for the project. PBOT is able to help advance the project into project development with a financial contribution from our SDC funds. We're estimating spending roughly $2 million in SDCs toward project development, and those funds would count towards the region's match of a future federal small starts grant of perhaps $75 million
 It will be a great opportunity for us to leverage our SDC funds towards the project. And additional SDC funds are available for the project should it continue to advance into final design and construction. Do you want to move? Oh, yeah. Sorry. I don't know if you guys had that on your screen or not, but there's a snapshot of the – sorry about that. We've got it. Is it up? There. Yeah. What's the next slide?
 You want me to leave the financials up for you for a little bit? Yes, please. Okay, you can leave them back while I talk. So we've already funded capital investments in the corridor. PBOT, ODOT and TriMet all have safety and ped bike access projects that are currently funded in the corridor. And there's over $47 million allocated in East Portland alone to the E-PIM, East Portland In Motion Plan, implementation by the city and other agencies between 2012 and 2018.
 Portland and Gresham are developing land use visions and action plans to complement the BRT project.
 Portland's action plan will focus on coordinating internally to better promote affordable housing and housing preservation and economic development. The Bureau of Planning and Sustainability is working with the Portland Housing Bureau and the Portland Development Commission to find opportunities for joint or coordinated actions. And BPS will have a proposed draft this summer with review time before it goes to the PSC and ultimately the City Council in the fall. Thank you.
 we can move ahead is that okay on the slides that's just you've already seen that one if you want to go to the last one so pivot supports the project and we're very happy with the direction that it is headed and we are very supportive of the region's effort to move into project development with the fta
 And that concludes our remarks, and we're happy to take questions from the council. So actually, oops, put that back up if you would. I was going to ask you a question about that. And that is in the portion between I-205 and...
 Cesar Chavez there, you show still two alternative routes. Is that because you're still at that penultimate phase before you select the locally preferred alternative? You're still weighing both of those options about whether it's what, 60th or 82nd? It's 82nd and 50 and 52nd. And 82nd really rose to the top for people in their preferred route, but we're also concerned about timing.
 And timing and moving the, being able to move the bus through quickly on a BRT route. And I think there are possible issues on 82nd and timing, if I remember correctly. As you know, the intersections of 82nd Powell and 82nd Division are exceptionally challenging. And so while...
 There's certainly a lot of support for 82nd. We're doing our due diligence to make sure that we can travel through there and make the connections that people expect in a timely manner. What's the alternative? Right now, what you see on there is either 50th or 52nd. But then doesn't that take you to the high-crush corridor on Division? That seems like that's even more challenging than 82nd. They both have real issues to work through, which is why we haven't quite settled on a single way to approach it.
 The point of project development is once you have the mode and the general alignment is to follow up with those details so that we all collectively agree that, yes, this, whatever it is, is the best way to move forward in terms of the benefit of the project and the benefit of the other needs around the project. Have you looked at instead of turning on 80-second, turning on 100-second or 120-second?
 The real pearl here, if we think about what we're trying to connect to, is PCC Southeast, which is at 82nd and Division, and the Jade District, which is very interested in having access at 82nd.
 From somebody without a technical background, it seems like that even with the challenges at the intersections with division and Powell, that 82nd is going to be more feasible than division. I certainly would not tell you that's not true. We just haven't gotten to a consensus around the table that that's exactly what we need to do.
 And how is that decision made? We go to the steering committee, which is made up as Brian described it, and describe the technical issues and kind of how that feeds in with the aspirations of the project itself, and then collectively make that decision. And who makes that decision? The steering committee makes a recommendation. Does the council sign off on that?
 uh... formally i think you all not not at each stage they'll correct me if i'm wrongly uh... on the lp a stage we do right right when we get to the lp a which kind of up you know so i've only preferred alternative which brings all of those into one package and describes what the project ought to be then yes you do take a formal the republic hearing at that point yes thank you that's actually i'm i'm glad you're asking those questions commissioner fritz uh...
 as i'm i think you may have been here i certainly was in a previous service through this phase of the process and it's really important that the project team obviously they hear from commissioner novick frequently and it's really important that they hear from the whole council so that's why this kind of a check-in is really important so that they understand where we call
 corporately are coming from, and I have some notes I want to make sure I get some things into the record for you as well, but I think it's sort of this is a chance to capture the sense of the council about some of these issues that might affect your decision-making rather than have you make a decision that we don't like and have to try to go backwards. So it's really important that we have this kind of open discussion now.
 Having been to PCC on 82nd down Division, I would find it difficult to figure out how to have rapid bus service down the narrower lanes past Franklin High School along some of the intersections, and plus with all the parking in the apartments that are being built on that. My recommendation is that you strongly look at the 82nd alternative. Thank you.
 So let me make some comments as well. I know we're going to take public testimony, and this is something I think the whole council ought to provide some reinforcement to Commissioner Novick and to the project team on.
 I believe it remains the philosophy and the policy of the Portland City Council present company included that when it comes to a set of decisions like this, that the pedestrian and the transit rider are the first class passenger in the system. We accommodate bicycles and that transit effectiveness trumps traffic operations.
 It was true before, true now. I hope it's always true.
 So, when it comes right down to the choices of is this a better transit project that will allow more people to get to where they want to go on time to get to their child's daycare or get to work or get and traffic moves automobile, single occupancy automobile traffic moves a little more slowly. I believe it's still our corporate philosophy as a city that that's the right choice.
 And I think we've demonstrated that recently in the decisions about the Foster streetscape plan, which is a traffic calming humanizing project for what it will be like at street level on Foster. And so.
 That would perhaps mean that things like if we have to jurisdictionally transfer portions of 82nd to the city in order to get to the design that you think is best, I suspect not just the commissioner in charge of transportation but others on the council would be willing to take up the question of maybe just partial jurisdictional transfer of portions of 82nd in order to get the transit project that you believe would be the best one.
 So again, it's at the risk of maybe stating the obvious. Those aren't original thoughts in this room. But I think it's really important that if that is still the approach we want you to take, that we speak clearly about that. And again, these are big investments. They're around for a really long time. They shape the growth of the city. And so we really want to get it right. Thank you.
 another set of instructions I want to make sure that we express and it's actually not so much to you as to ourselves in my opinion on the last transit project the city of Portland was was slow to get our piece of the work done that is we're about to open a billion dollar light rail line where we still have station areas zoned industrial
 So we are working on our comp plan now. It's really important, I believe, that we synchronize the work on the comp plan with the work on this.
 this transit project so in soccer terms we run to where the ball is going and have the land use pattern in place at least as a parentheses on the land use plan pending approval of the project that once the project is funded, then this zoning is in effect not that zoning anymore so that we don't have strip mall zoning on walkable urbanism transit. Okay.
 so I think all those things again are stating the obvious but I believe that it's a good chance for all of us to weigh in on those things that that's the set of instructions that Commissioner Novick is expressing from not just himself but from all of us those are very helpful reminders thank you
 Mayor, actually, before we get to public testimony, we have a number of illustrious steering committee members here who are, in fact, so illustrious that I'm sure that Commissioner Fritz will agree that there's no way that the city council will ever disagree with any recommendation they might make. So, with your permission, I'd like to call up Metro Councilor Bob Stacey, Rahi Reddy, a Pono board member, J District steering committee member, and resident along the corridor, and Trell Anderson, Director of Community Development, Housing, and Catholic Charities to kick us off. Good afternoon. Good afternoon.
 Councillor? Mr. Mayor, members of the Council, um, first of all, I'm Bob Stacey, Metro Councillor. I'm the co-chair of the steering committee along with my colleague, uh, Shirley Craddock, who represents the eastern part of this corridor.
 I'm going to depart from my prepared remarks to thank each of you members of the council who just spoke and to thank Mr. Saltzman as well. You're giving great direction, and I saw Mr. Lato from TriMet writing it down. I saw Director Treat writing it down, and I'll remind Brian Monberg from our staff to make notes as well. I have to say I heartily concur with the observations the mayor made about priority for transit, pedestrians,
 and transit riders about Commissioner Fritz's observation, essentially, that this entire corridor alignment is a high-crash corridor, is replete with high-crash locations. And Commissioner Novick, for grounding this discussion in a reminder about Sunday night's terrible accident, terrible crash, that once again demonstrates the real danger of the current design and operation of these very large traffic facilities.
 As the Commissioner said, Commissioner Novick said, this is a great transportation project and a great opportunity to grow the 17,000 riders in this corridor now with thousands more, with better, more efficient, speedier, safer transit. It's also an opportunity to make those streets safer for the people riding and accessing transit and just plain crossing the street or traveling along it. In addition to a great transit project,
 We have a great steering committee. You know, TriMet has a standard operating procedure, has in the TriMet Metro and the partners in these corridor projects of identifying the usual governmental suspects, bringing them together, myself included, and making decisions about how to allocate resources. Okay.
 This time, we involved the community that we're trying to represent. We all believe that we do our best to represent the views and wishes.
 of the community but here we made sure as you can see by some of my colleagues at the table and others who are in the audience that we've engaged the educational institutions you'll hear from president howard of south the southeast campus of pcc the the mount hood community college is represented on our board or on our steering committee the division midway and j district
 NPI districts are represented as is Southeast Uplift, East Portland Neighbors, as is East Portland Action Plan, OPAL, Public Health and Active Transportation Advocates,
 and transit dependent users of the transportation system all on our steering committee all helping us discern what this community that will be served by a great transit project needs and it was those community members who raised an issue that wasn't on our starting agenda equity and displacement avoidance to the top line of what we hope to accomplish in this project we want economic development and prosperity in this quarter we also want
 and intend to have strategies to avoid involuntary displacement of businesses and current residents as a result of that growth and opportunity.
 We have a real intergovernmental partnership here and Brian Monberg and your Director of Transportation, Ms. Treat, have already spoken to many of the aspects of that, the mutual funding strategies. I'm really proud of the effort our transit-oriented development team played in securing this 100% corner on Division 82nd, which I hope also is the alignment we select, although I'm studiously neutral on the subject as chair, co-chair.
 We got that furniture building, discount furniture. It's a great, lively place overnight thanks to APANO. It's a current tenant. And we've used planning rent resources to make sure that your very talented planning and transportation staff as well as Gresham's are assisting at an even higher level in this work. So thanks to that work by all these staff and the steering committee, we're on target.
 to move into this phase of project design and deliver the region's first high-capacity bus rapid transit service.
 by the fall of 2020. That's my goal. It's a little more than five years away. It's entirely achievable if we keep our sights on it. So I encourage respectfully the Council to move forward with Metro, TriMet, Gresham and ODOT into that design phase by taking the actions requested by your Transportation Commissioner today. Thank you.
 Thank you, Commissioner Novick, for your invitation to speak. And good afternoon, Mayor Hales and Commissioner Fritz, Commissioner Saltzman. My name is Rahi Reddy. I live in the Powell Division Transit project area. And I'm also here to – and I'm also a member of the Jade District Community Project with APANO, as well as serving on the Powell Division Steering Committee.
 I'm here to express my support for the City's endorsement of the Powell Division Transit and Development Project. I'm also here to emphasize to you just how important it is that we ensure that low-income communities, and especially families of color, benefit from the public dollars invested in this effort.
 and to urge you to continue to engage these impacted communities in the planning and implementation phases of the project as well. As you very well know, and please, you all know this, but bear with me, East Portland is home to over 35% of the city's population with a concentration of residents of color, many of whom who are immigrants.
 You also know it's home to 37% of our K-12 youth and a third of its elderly population. So a truly multi-generational region. And almost 41% of these families in our corridor live on less than $42,000 a year for a family of four.
 In the Jade District alone, we consider, you know, I'm biased, but we consider the Jade the heart of this project, the heart of the corridor. It may be shown on the map as well. But just in, you know, these families in the heart of this corridor, for our community, 50% of our families earn less than $42,000 a year for a family of four. A third of our children and 40% of our seniors live in poverty.
 And I say this just we all know these statistics, but it's important to reemphasize them in the context of this project and the impacts it will have. According to the Oregon Office of Economic Analysis, East Portland is also home to the highest concentration of low-wage workers in the region. These are workers who work in food service, custodial, landscape, and low-wage health care.
 So it's no surprise to you that we see this project not just as a standalone effort to improve bus service, which is important and critical, but also as an opportunity to use our tax dollars to leverage smart community economic development that can uplift the most vulnerable workers in Portland. And with such a high concentration of youth in this region, really an opportunity to positively engage today Portland's future workforce.
 So good economic development to us and to you as city leaders, as you've said before in other instances, means investing dollars to not only make improvements to our streets,
 but to make sure that the workers who are improving those streets are from the community, are in unions and in careers that, future careers that started with the Powell Division work but last a lifetime. So those investments go beyond just the work that they do on the Powell Division project. So there's clear equity strategies that we believe can instill this type of comprehensive equity
 development. Community benefit agreements have been raised earlier today. So community benefit
 community benefit agreements on all work done in the corridor with strong local hire policy that encourages hiring of community workers into union construction careers and a robust recruitment of minority contractors. Transit project dollars should also be used to support local training programs, great partnership with PCC Southeast among other community colleges in our district to help our youth enter into transit careers, maybe future transit plans
 planners, but really looking at transit jobs that are family-sustaining jobs. And the other piece we really think is important to continue the investment that you all are making is permanent jobs created in the transit corridor, including those that service transit stations, so maintenance, custodial workers, adjacent retail and landscaping work that happens for the permanent stations should be quality union or family wage jobs.
 And ultimately, we need to have a place in this conversation to really build community stabilization. We all know what are some of the unintended consequences of transit development, kind of referred to before as some of the mistakes other places have made,
 But we really need to ensure we have policies that help renters and low-income homeowners to stay in their homes. And one of the strategies that we would love, and I want to say thank you to Metro and Councillor Stacey for raising this issue of a community advisory team. I served on this committee and it really makes a difference when you have a diversity of stakeholders that are weighing in on these decisions. And so we urge you to continue to
 a citizens advisory committee beyond the end of our term here. That includes residents and businesses and stakeholder organizations located along the alignment as well.
 And I just want to share with you this idea of improvements for the communities that live there. It was a big topic of conversation for us at the steering committee. So last summer, as part of my APANO Jade work, you know, I knocked on doors and talked to residents in the Jade District along 84th Avenue. And I met a young man. He's 19 years old. He grew up in the district.
 He was at the time in community college hoping to work, build a career eventually after he graduates in the IT sector. And he coaches his little brother and other community kids in a soccer team and soccer program. You know, basically volunteers. There's no program there. But he really loves living in this community. And he is, you know, living in his family home, the home he grew up in with his mom, his dad, siblings, grandparents.
 And I talked to him about the Jade work, and I talked to him about the Powell Division upgrade and how exciting it was. And he wants safe streets. He wants better lighting. He wants his little brother to be able to walk to Harrison Park School safely every day. But he also really wants to keep his family home. And he said to me that he worried that having all of these basic improvements means being unable to afford to stay in his home.
 Now, if we can't assure him that he deserves all of those things that families on the west side of 82nd have, safe streets, lighting, kids walking to school, my kid one of them, without losing everything,
 then I don't know what we're doing this for. So we want smart future workers like him to continue to invest in his neighborhood, be able to see his family prosper without the
 the worry of being pushed out. I know that's the kind of Portland I want to live in. So thank you, Commissioner Novick and Mayor Hales and Director Treat for your leadership in making this project a true win for communities. I look forward to further investment of your time, your ideas, and Portland's resources to ensure community members
 Continue to give voice and direction on this project. What a great model We could be on that map as a great model for other cities in the rest of the country. So thank you so much Good afternoon, mr. Mayor City council members. Thank you for this opportunity My name is Trell Anderson
 I'm here to support the resolution to enter into the project development phase of the Powell Division Transit and Development Project. I live in the corridor. My kids attend school in the corridor. I'm a bike rider and transit user in the corridor. And I'm the Director of Housing and Community Development at Catholic Charities, and I'm serving as a member of Metro's Steering Committee.
 Catholic Charities is a major stakeholder in this corridor, serving people open-heartedly from all communities who are low income and in need.
 We are culturally responsive in providing immigration legal services, refugee resettlement, pregnancy and new family support, and licensed adoption services. Our culturally specific services through El Programa Hispano serve 15,000 Latino community members annually, including anti-poverty programs, school-based programs, and Project Unica, which serves women fleeing domestic violence and sexual assault.
 We own property within the Powell Division Corridor Planning Area, including offices and affordable housing communities. In addition, El Program Espano is headquartered in downtown Gresham. Our clients frequently rely on public transportation and infrastructure to access services, education, jobs, and their support networks.
 I'd like to go a little bit more specifically here and advocate that it is especially the children who live in our properties at 27th and Powell, many who are from refugee families, would benefit from the project components being proposed here.
 They attend school at Hossford Middle and Cleveland High School and overcome the real dangers of crossing Highway 26 two to four times a day, risking both life and limb, as sadly witnessed from Sunday's accident.
 Frankly, this is an equity issue. When low-income kids are prevented safe routes to school, it hampers their access to education, limiting their opportunity to better-paying employment, and as you know, these are critical pathways out of poverty. Through the resident services that we provide, we emphasize and support school attendance, high school completion, college enrollment, and
 We have graduating seniors this year who would benefit significantly from bus rapid transit to Portland State, and Mount Hood, and Portland Community Colleges. We ask for your help here by entering into the project development phase as recommended, and by working collaboratively with the county, metro, ODOT on safety access issues that impact low income communities and communities of color.
 Kudos to the Metro staff and council members for robust process to gather input. Very early on we identified equity as a priority for our planning effort. There are many racially diverse and low income communities within this planning corridor. And I'm hoping that we take a serious stand on our values of diversity and equity through the project development phase. I second Rahi's recommendation here for an ongoing advisory committee regarding equity.
 Please consider a yes vote to enter into the project development phase, joining the formal request to seek FTA funding, and advancing the good work that has been completed so far. Thank you. Thank you. Questions? Thank you all very much. Is there more invited testimony?
 There is, and if we can, there's four other steering committee members here, and if we could try to squeeze all of them up in the space normally reserved for three. We have Duncan Wong, Director of Development and Communications of APANO, Jessica Howard, President of the PCC Southeast Campus, Lori Boyson, Executive Director of the Division Midway Alliance, and Vivian Satterfield, Associate Director of Opal Environmental Justice.
 And while they're sitting down, I have to say that although I love all these organizations, Laurie, I've always particularly loved the name Division Midway Alliance because it kind of sounds like you won the Second World War. Okay. Well, good afternoon, and thank you again for this opportunity, and thank you for all the support the city and Metro have offered us throughout the process. My name is Duncan Huang. I'm the program director of the Jade District at APANO.
 I'm also a resident, so I both live and work in the district. So this community is very dear to my heart. Upon and the Jade District have had a substantial history of community engagement, both on this project and in general throughout the district. Just this spring, we convened about 100 people at Fubon to talk about the Power Division BRT project.
 opportunity was done in three languages, so Chinese, Vietnamese, and English. And there was really overwhelming support for the BRT and having it on 82nd. I think there was a lot of apprehension, though, around the potential interruption of business and also security.
 effects of gentrification and displacement. I think I just read somewhere that in Cleveland, Cleveland saw a 10 to 30 percent bump in property values along their BRT. So I think that's a real threat that our community will be facing. And this project is just really important for our community because we want to connect people to school and work, but we want to make sure that we have the opportunity to stay and enjoy those benefits.
 and we also want to make sure that it's not just about transit. It's really, as Rahi said, an economic development opportunity. I was on that same canvas that Rahi was talking about as well, and I talked to someone that was a grandma that lived in the neighborhood for 30 years, and her son goes to community college, and I think their main priority was really walkability and safety. It's not just enough to have...
 a transit line, but we need the infrastructure around it so that people can go from their neighborhood to a bus stop to where they need to go. So I think that really does require significant investment beyond just the transit line. And, you know, last year we also had
 a traffic fatality on Valentine's Day. A 78-year-old community elder was killed walking across 85th and Division. So I think the need for this walkability and safety component is incredibly vital for the district, and I think the BRT project could really help leverage resources to address that. So on behalf of the district, I'd really like to offer our support for the BRT process, and particularly for the 82nd alignment. Thank you.
 Good afternoon. Mr. Mayor and members of the council, I'm Jessica Howard and I'm the campus president of Portland Community College Southeast Campus, which is located at 82nd and Division.
 I also am very privileged to be able to serve on this steering committee for this project. And so thank you for allowing me to speak. I must say it's a little hard to do it when everyone who's come before you has made most of your points. However, what I'd like to offer to you are three things, I think, that make this particular project really extraordinary. Okay.
 One is the area itself. This region of Portland has been historically underserved, and it certainly perceives that it has been historically underserved. To engage the community, to ask it to think in terms of a vision for the future, makes this project far more than about transportation. It really is about...
 not just getting from point A to point B or getting to connect to a point of opportunity, but it's about placemaking and it's about community and it's about generations of people into the future.
 And it's about dealing with the threat of gentrification and what we want to do right. And so I think that the stakes are very high in this region of the city. And I think that the opportunity to do good is very great. So that makes this project extraordinary in my mind, number one. Number two is this project.
 Planning process has been tremendous. I am actually relatively new to Portland. I haven't been here yet three years So I come from a different state that state is Texas. It couldn't be more different I
 But, and so I've never seen a process this inclusive, this respectful, this collaborative. It's been tremendous. It's been an amazing opportunity to see really everyone have a voice. And it's just been incredibly thoughtful. And I can't commend the process itself enough. There's been wide engagement and lots and lots of folks participating.
 basically supporting views of youth, the views of business, and the views of various cultural communities. So it's been just really, really solid. So I must say that makes this extraordinary. The last thing I'll say, and this may be no surprise, is that I really do view this. You've seen the image already of this being an education corridor, this concept.
 And I think that that makes this extraordinary too, because it's about two very large community colleges, Mount Hood and Portland Community College, being connected on this line, but also the entire innovation quadrant, so-called, of Southeast Portland with OHSU and PSU, and also the PCC Climb Center, which is the incumbent worker training center,
 is also connected to the very western point of this proposed BRT line. All of these things make this, I think, truly an education corridor. Also, note that assuming that 82nd is the north-south point,
 on the line, any person who comes to the PCC campus is connected up to the free PCC shuttle service, which runs through all of PCC, connecting anyone from southeast Portland to locations as far away as the Rock Creek campus, which, as you know, is 27 miles away. It's quite far. And so that is a huge, again, connecting point in terms of how all this would flow forward.
 As you may be aware, the PCC Southeast campus has undergone a huge change in the last two years because the community college, as a result of the huge bond that we passed in 2008, put a lot of money and a lot of investment into the location. So now that campus serves almost 12,000 students. It's expected to serve twice that number and is poised to do so.
 On the site of this particular campus is a small business development center. Unlike other campuses at PCC, notably Rock Creek, which has Intel in the backyard, we don't have one great big industry in that area. In fact, what you see are a tremendous number of small businesses. So having that resource there, I think, is huge.
 So all of those things to say, I think this is an extraordinary project, and I really hope that you will support its work going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mayor Hales, commissioners. Thank you so much for inviting me to come speak today.
 challenging to think of what else I can add on to a lot of what's been said. But for the record, my name is Vivian Satterfield. I work for Opal Environmental Justice Oregon. I'm a steering committee member. I happen to also be a Foster Powell resident. I live just a block and a half off of Powell. And I
 I don't have a driver's license, so I get around by bike and transit primarily, and I'm a budding new motorcyclist, which is really exciting. So all that to say that this is a project I really care about because it affects me, it affects my community, it affects people I care about, and I work along the corridor as well.
 I did want to thank Commissioner Novick for your work up until this point, and Director Treat's considerable time investment as well. The comments throughout the process really sets the tone for how we can expect to work together, and we greatly appreciate that.
 So again, just underscoring a lot of the comments that have come before, we really have an opportunity here to create a healthy and better connected community with opportunities for prosperity. At OPWL, we really do talk about transportation as access to opportunity, and I think we have a unique opportunity here, especially connecting a lot of the education components, cultural components of the Jade District as well, and moreover, just creating transit opportunities for folks who are quite frankly really struggling in the area.
 So the key priority is to ensure people prosper and that we, again, have strong anti-displacement strategies and tools. I think we've all learned lessons from the past. We're in our region similar in transportation investments, particularly high-capacity transit.
 when not paired with robust and substantial anti-displacement tools, however unintentionally, does result in or lead to gentrification and displacement. So, you know, we continue to talk about housing in a primary transportation project, but I think it would be naive to not recognize the sort of investment that's being made in this area and how that's going to impact, you know, a variety of sectors and issues.
 So housing does have to be addressed separately. We need affordable housing by design and economic prosperity through living wage jobs in the corridor. I've said it in many community spaces, but I do strongly believe that housing is a community right. So housing production associated with transit investments is a right.
 So, yes, again, this is a transportation project with more access to things, and I have heard a lot of concerns in the community about what our local bus service will look like as well, so that's something that I'll be tracking carefully along with our Bus Riders Unite group as we move forward. It's also a development project, however, that can really undercut some of these conceptual benefits which should go to the community. If the folks who live there now can't take advantage of it in the future, we will have failed at our jobs.
 I do want to encourage council to support the resolution that's in front of you today and to continue to track the community stabilization recommendations that the steering committee members have been putting forward through implementation of this project. And, you know, obviously we're working on getting more tools in our toolbox to ensure that we've got more things that we can do around housing, but we really can't afford to wait.
 especially with the recent housing report. I'm just starting to dig through it. But just even seeing the visualization of the maps and seeing what sort of housing availability is being made in my community. I became a first-time homeowner, and, you know, my parents are immigrants, and that's...
 I'm living their dream of not having to go through the struggles that they did at my age. I'm doing far better than they ever did. And I want to make sure that that opportunity here in Portland, and I'm not a native Portlander either, I want to make sure that opportunity that I've been able to take and to have my piece of some kind of pie is going to be able to be afforded to other folks as well. It's real. It's tangible. And that's why we're being aggressive about it, quite frankly. So thank you so much for your support.
 Good afternoon. Welcome. Thank you very much, and thank you, Mayor and Councilmembers. I'm Lori Boyce, and I'm the District Manager for the Division Midway Alliance for Community Improvement, and this is driving me crazy. We're going to replace it this year, so. I also live near the corridor, and I work along the corridor. I am part of the Steering Committee. I'm also part of EPAP and the Economic Development Subcommittee at EPAP.
 I want to thank Commissioner Novick especially for the work that he put into this project from the outset, and recognizing he didn't have the capacity in bringing Director Treat in when he was unable to attend was absolutely beneficial to us all. I urge you to please adopt the project development phase of this joint jurisdictional Powell Division Bus Rapid Transit Project.
 The work that we've been doing has just been incredible. I can't, I really don't feel like I can add a lot to what's been already said. I would like to speak a bit about my experience with the steering committee.
 I think one of the things that I found the most impressive was the collaborative nature and the cooperation that all of these organizations and jurisdictions brought together. We were able to create productive and new partnerships that we've been able to move forward to help build capacity in our communities. With the placemaking grants that Brian spoke about earlier, Jade and Division Midway have been able to,
 engage our community in a way that I haven't seen before now and it just thrills me.
 We also, with an eye on equity, like-minded organizations joined together to establish community stabilization tools that we can use as we move forward to prevent displacement of our community members and the businesses as well. We worked with the various jurisdictions involved to establish a list of tools that we thought would be useful
 feasible and we've spoken to the Citizens Advisory Committee and Vivian mentioned a bit about the no reduction in existing local transit service that we're our goal. We also are working on developing a robust construction mitigation program for local small businesses and we're working with
 PDC, Portland Bureau of Planning and Sustainability, City of Gresham, to establish a cooperative and collaborative process. I've always kind of viewed our city as we're like a spider web. We all work together, we have our little areas, but if you touch this spider over here, if you touch this web and mess it over here, it's going to affect it over here. And we have to keep that in mind, and this process has been really good for that.
 My hope is that when we finish this process, that we have a robust bus rapid transit system on the Powell Division line that serves as a moniker for other municipalities to turn to, and I urge council to move us forward in this effort. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you all. Okay, any other steering committee members here, Commissioner? And if not, are there some other folks that want to speak on this item? No one else signed up.
 I have a question, Mayor, to the Commissioner in Charge. I understand from the materials that the city's contribution would be the $2 million in systems development charges, among other things. For this next phase, yes. For this next phase. And I guess I just wanted to ask a technical question about...
 You and the director typically have the discretion to allocate SDCs as you deem fit, right? And is the difference here that we as a council are agreeing that that would be the city's contribution to this collaborative project? I think in a word, yes. Leah, do you have anything to add to that? It's unusual for the council to vote on a question of allocating SDCs.
 I think I understand the answer. I just want to make sure I proceed. Another purpose of the resolution is to authorize city staff to prepare an IGA with Metro, which will then come back to us. No, I actually like the fact that we're given the whole menu, but I just wanted to procedurally understand where we stand.
 The STC my understanding of the STC's commissioner is there is an approved list from Council and this project they This is on the approved STC list if we were to try to create a new project to fund out of STC's we would have to come back to council to amend the list and
 If I have that correct. But, I mean, since this is on the list, this is something normally we'd be able to do, as the Commissioner said. However, we've chosen to bring this resolution, including reference to the SDCs, to Council. And, in effect, what we're doing is memorializing the commitment. That is, in part, our financial contribution to this collective enterprise. Okay. Correct. Sorry. Thank you. Okay. Further discussion before we take action on the resolution?
 If not, then roll call vote on the resolution, please. Fish? Well, I'm very pleased to support this. This is the last official action I will take before I witness my daughter's graduation. And I'm pleased that it is in such a happy occasion with such a robust collaborative effort. And I want to thank the commissioner in charge and the director for their good work, all of our partners, and all the people who have testified. And I'm very pleased today to support this effort. Aye. Thank you.
 Thank you for the work of the steering committee and everybody else, Commissioner Novick and everybody in the Bureau of Transportation. And I'm sure planning and sustainability is involved in this too, up to their ears. So good work. It's a great, thoughtful planning process. It reminds me of my
 my young days when I served on the Westside Light Rail Citizen Advisory Committee and how we figured out things like, you know, to do a tunnel or not at the zoo, things like that. So you're grappling with, you know, issues that are very similar, but I think with a new special emphasis on displacement of people and on affordable housing as considerations. And I like, you know, how it impacts existing transit riders, too. I think that's going to be very important, how this project works.
 messes up with the needs of people that are only going a few blocks as opposed to a couple miles. So I think this is great. I think this is the first bus rail transit project in this, well not state of Oregon but certainly city of Portland and I like Mr. Stacey's comments about it and how we maybe have learned from other jurisdictions and we will build upon that experience that other jurisdictions have had so I'm sure we'll do a great job and we just need to piece together the funding and
 to do it so please support it hi novik this is an extremely exciting project i mean i asked leah to stand in for me as our official steering committee representative but i still make it to as many meetings as i can and i think you can see why i mean the extent of community involvement and the excitement and initiative of people of every organization involved is spectacular and i mean
 Transit done right, particularly transit in underserved communities, can be a very powerful tool. I mean, if we can make it easier for people to get from place to place, if we can make it easier for people to save money by not having to use their car all the time, if we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that is building the world we want to live in. And this is a very exciting project.
 Not only because a few years ago I read that the mayor of Bogota, Colombia, had developed bus rapid transit and transformed the city. So I've always wanted to do a bus rapid transit project, but for all those other reasons. Hi. Friends. Well, it's really terrific that this first bus rapid transit project is going to East Portland and indeed is interjurisdictional, going all the way out to Gresham and looking at all of the key areas.
 Pearls along the way and so I very much appreciate that and also the testimony we heard here today the collaborative spirit in which it's being done It's I'm kind of envious as a resident of deep southwest But this one is going to move a lot faster than any kind of bus driver transits or anything else on barber And so I again, I think that's entirely appropriate given the needs in East Portland and the spirit which we're working on this. So
 So thank you very much, Commissioner, for bringing it to council so that we can all affirm. Thank you, Mayor, for affirming that, indeed, we do prioritize transit and pedestrians and that that is the highest priority for our investment. So I appreciate your investment of system development charges in this. Aye. Mayor, may I interrupt? I just embarrassed myself by neglecting to thank Andrea Valderrama and my staff, who has worked tirelessly on this issue. Thank you.
 Thank you all. I've been excited about this project for a while. Having heard this set of presentations, I'm even more excited. It's really an impressive project, and it's so well-founded.
 in the community and in the geography. One of my favorite transit projects that I've been involved in was the airport light rail line because it was scheduled to go into this kind of planning process in 2009 and we opened it in 2001. But that's because we as a community and with our partners decided to move quickly on an affordable project that we could actually do.
 And that's what you're about here. And in fact, the Small Starts Program didn't exist at that time. But this is exactly the kind of project that it was created to support, is when a community has its act together, has a great project, it's affordable, and can move quickly.
 so and that one actually i was thinking about the contrast the public involvement process for that project consisted of two public meetings because there were only two neighborhood associations affected sumner and park rose and basically the public involvement process was do you want a station or not and where would you like it and it was really really pretty simple and the answer was yes they did want a station and they knew exactly where they wanted it and that's what they got but this one's much more complex i mean it's two jurisdictions it's dozens of neighborhoods
 And yet you've done such a great job of bringing people in to the project. Secondly, you've done such a great job about thinking about equity and community uplift from the beginning. That's ironically the name of the district coalition for the neighborhoods here, Southeast Uplift. But we don't have to worry about uplifting real estate values in southeast Portland anymore. But we do have to worry about uplifting the people that live there and who would like to stay there. And so those points have been made really eloquently. And finally...
 Just thinking about two other meetings that I have this week that apply so directly to this. I was at the Metropolitan Workforce Alliance yesterday, all these folks that are working together to try to get young people into the trades because construction is booming and the workforce is aging. And we've got all these young people, particularly young people of color, that we want to say, get into the trades. It's a great option.
 Maybe you need two years at PCC in order to qualify if you really want to be a welder, but here's how you do that. And so there's this huge need to make those connections. And on Saturday, along with a lot of other people that would be happy to do this, are going to be out at Franklin High School to celebrate their $100 million renovation.
 including the kind of space that enables the young people there to learn those trades. And I guess it just hadn't dawned on me until this hearing the amazing number of students that there are going to be along this line. You probably added it up, but Mount Hood Community College, David Douglas High School, PCC, Franklin, Cleveland, Klein, OHSU, and PSU, that's got to be 50,000, 60,000 students.
 even today, much less what it's going to be when those institutions continue to grow. And to connect all those kids to opportunity, to connect all those communities to the small businesses along this line, it really is an exciting project. And, Councillor Stacey, I loved your earnest response
 consistence on the timeline let's get this built quickly let's make sure that our planners are moving as quickly as you have to make sure that we do have the land-use plan in place to support this project that'll be one of my to-do list and commitments from from this discussion but very well done so far this is going to be another great Portland success story and I thank you all for queuing it up for the whole community aye and we're adjourned thank you
 Well...